[{"Title":"Silent Movies Have Belated Last Laugh","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"39 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" F. W Murnau works are rare things - he made very few compared to other directors of his day, and many of those he did make have been lost. The reason he made so few can perhaps be understood by watching The Last Laugh. Like Chaplin, Kubrick and Leone, the effort that went into a single picture was the same effort another director might spread across ten. Nosferatu, his famous Dracula story, is great, and i hear his Faust and Sunrise are also things to behold - but many regard The Last Laugh as his masterwork, and also one of the greatest movies of all time. Lillian Gish once said that she never approved of the talkies - she felt that silents were starting to create a whole new art form. She was right, but the proof of this can not be seen in the work of Griffith, who was her frequent collaborator, and who she probably was thinking about when she made this statement - but in the work of German director F. W Murnau.D. W Griffith is usually shunned for his stance on racial issues and praised for his abilities as an influential film artist. I believe he doesn't deserve this praise - and this movie is why. Not only was Griffith about as subtle as a migraine, but watching a Griffith silent, you get more words than images. There's a title card telling you what is about to happen in every image before it does. The images themselves are almost unnecessary - his style is more literary than cinematic. The difference between watching Griffith's Intolerance and watching F. W Murnau's The Last Laugh is like the difference between watching a silent comedy by Hal Roach and one by Charlie Chaplin. The latter of each pair (Murnau and Chaplin) were visualists and artists, using few words, constructing beauty and high emotion through seemingly simple situations (a tramp who discovers a lost child, or a hotel doorman who loses his job, which is the basis of The Last Laugh).Silent directors strove to and were praised for their ability to tell stories through images alone, as much as possible, and this is one of the reasons silent cinema reached its pinnacle in F. W Murnau's The Last Laugh - which tells the story of a proud hotel doorman (Emil Jennings), who, after many years of service, is demoted from his position to a mens' bathroom attendant. Murnau tells an incredibly sensitive and human tale, showing how much the job meant to him by having him go to work instead of going to his daughter's wedding. He shows how the position made him respected in his neighbourhood, and how he could not face the neighbourhood without his doorman's uniform. And he tells the story almost entirely through images.There are no title cards telling us what the images are - they are allowed to speak for themselves. The few words used are worked in through letters and signs. Many silent directors cheated and used title cards to explain the images, but only in this movie did the art form of silent movies, which Lillian Gish refers to, take shape.I was amazed at the level of depth and emotional complexity that Murnau was capable of conveying without resorting to title cards (or their equivalent in talkies, the voice-over). This movie is also notable for its brilliant use of expressionism, and the first brilliant use of a tracking shot. In Murnau's The Last Laugh, silent movies metaphorically were given movement, and learned to run. "},{"Title":"A classic movie from the silent era that is well worth hunting out","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"31 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Warning - Possible spoilers lie within.This is the first silent movie I have watched in its entirety, having previously found myself becoming restless and distracted, I normally find them quite difficult to watch. I came across the Criterion edition of the movie in a large collection of Laserdiscs that I purchased recently, and decided to give it a try. I was speechless. 'The Last Laugh' (or 'The Last Man', as its translation would lead you to believe, is a touching story from director F.W. Murnau about an un-named Hotel Porter & Doorman (played excellently by Emil Jannings) who, through no fault of his own, is demoted to Lavatory attendant, and we hereby watch as his life collapses around him. It's an incredibly emotional story - during his downfall, as his friends and family mock him, Jannings' depressed, hunched-over figure can be painfully sad to watch. I found myself filling up in the scene when he finally hands his beloved porter's uniform over to the night watchman.A landmark in the era of silent films, Murnau used some very clever camera tricks (such as smearing vaseline on the camera lens for 'dream' sequences). It was also one of the first films to use a completely free moving camera with no tripod, testimony to the success of this can be seen immediately in the first scene as the film starts. There are also no title cards in the film. Nor are they needed - The story is carried perfectly by the actors and on no occasion do you feel that you don't know what is going on.I won't give anything away here, but there are some people that may feel the ending is a little out of place - However, I had grown so fond on Jannings' character that in a way, I was relieved to see the film move on from the final scene where he is sat hunched on the seat in the washroom - and for him to finally have 'The Last Laugh' so to speak o)If you have any interest in old cinema, and have not seen this, or just fancy a change from all of the samey Hollywood flicks being churned out right now, I suggest you hunt out a copy right away. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A Distinctive Classic","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This classic is distinctive in several respects.  The expressionistic style and creative camera work, along with a noteworthy leading performance by Emil Jannings, turn a simple story into a thought-provoking experience.  It is also very interesting for its almost complete lack of title cards, demonstrating how a skilled practitioner of the art of silent cinema can convey all kinds of attitudes and emotions without employing dialogue of any kind.The actual story is very simple.  Jannings portrays a doorman at a fine hotel, who takes enormous pride in his position, his work, and especially his uniform.  One day the hotel manager passes by, misunderstands what he sees, and decides that the doorman is too old for the job.  The next day, a new doorman takes his place, and he is relegated to working in the washroom.  The rest of the film then shows the effect of this change on the doorman and on the way that others view him and treat him.  The plot developments themselves are conveyed efficiently and succinctly, so that the emphasis is on the feelings and perceptions of the characters.  The acting, camera work, and settings are all used very carefully to emphasize the changes that take place inside Jannings' character and in the attitudes of others towards him as a result of his demotion.  These changes are often very (deliberately) exaggerated, and there are times when they honestly strain credibility a bit too much.  And it is not always easy to watch the doorman's anguish, but it gives you plenty to think about - part of his suffering comes from the foolish attitudes of others, but much of it also comes from his own over-dependence on his position for his happiness.  It is remarkable how much is expressed without even using title cards - there is just one in the entire movie, a note that introduces the last part of the film, when further developments occur that introduce a new set of themes.The Last Laugh is worth seeing for anyone who likes silent films, for its thought-provoking story and perhaps even more so for its creative and masterful use of silent film techniques.  "},{"Title":"Not Murnau's best, but a damn fine film anyway","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" F.W Murnau is best known for his expressionistic horror movies, such as 'Nosferatu' and the excellent 'Faust'. This movie is somewhat different from those, as it's a more personal and down to earth sort of tale. Still, despite this not being a member of the horror genre; Murnau's style still allows for much of the great visuals that made his horror movies great. The story itself has definite horror elements, which although they don't involve vampires or the devil; are arguably more frightening, as it dictates and event that could well happen to anyone. The film tackles the idea of 'downfall', and as the prologue states; one can be a prince one day, but what is he tomorrow? This tale is told through the story of a hotel porter that has worked hard all his life but loses his job through incredible bad luck when the manager catches him taking a break. Heartbroken and humiliated, our hero is offered another job; but it only allows for his humiliation to continue, as the job is that of a lowly bathroom attendant. We then follow his struggle as he comes to terms with his loss and the reaction of his family and neighbours.F.W. Murnau uses no story cards for this silent film, which shows his flair for storytelling. Imagining some of today's 'great' filmmakers telling a story without dialogue is preposterous, but Murnau shows his prowess by doing just that, and doing it down to a fine art. People often cite 'Citizen Kane' for being the film that took storytelling to the next level, and although it did do that; surely some of the credit has to go to F.W. Murnau. This film features what is perhaps the first ever fantasy sequence, a sequence that is, of course, a favourite of today's cinema. Murnau's technical mastery is also shown in many other sequences, including one in particular that sees a scene appear in the middle of a letter. It's quite unbelievable that this was made over eighty years ago, just due to the amazing work on show in the film.The film falls down a bit towards the end, because of an ill-advised twist. This was put upon F.W. Murnau by the studio releasing the film, who wanted a happy ending. This is just another example of a studio spoiling a great movie, and even before I saw that piece of information in the trivia section for this movie; it was evident to me that it isn't the way that Murnau wanted to take the story from the way it almost appeared to be tacked on to the end of the film. Still, the hour and ten minutes running up the ending are almost as good as silent cinema gets, and in spite of the studio's best efforts to ruin it; The Last Laugh stands tall as on of Murnau's finest films. "},{"Title":"Silent Classic, well worth seeing","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT! F W Murnau (1888 - 1931) was one of the masters of early German cinema, and two or three of his films have every right to be included in any top 100 selection of all time both Nosferatu (1992) and Sunrise (1929) are remarkable artistic achievements, which still hold the viewer today. Immediately behind these is The Last Laugh, which was produced as something akin to a calling card by Murnau and his studio UFA, and which duly created a stir when it was exhibited overseas. So successful was the film that both star and director were offered American studio contracts.If Nosferatu's subtitle is 'a symphony of horror' and Sunrise's 'a song of two humans', then The Last Laugh is more of a concerto, a three movement showcase for the larger-than-life presence of legendary German actor Emil Jannings. Jannings, who also worked for Murnau in such productions as Faust (1926) and specialised in towering figures such as Peter the Great, Henry VIII, Louis XVI, Danton and Othello on screen, often balanced precariously between inspirational character acting and outrageous ham. In the present film he plays an unnamed hotel porter - a character that's miles away from the grand historical personages he regularly portrayed. Self-important and proud, he is chief doorman at the Hotel Atlantic (itself a superbly realised set, which anticipates the studio-fabricated glories of Sunrise) until, on the excuse of a perceived infirmity, he is abruptly demoted, humiliated and given a much more lowly position as a lavatory attendant. For most of its length The Last Laugh is a tragedy, its pathos made all the greater by the fact that contemporary audiences were only too used to associating Jannings on screen with great and powerful men. More than this, his tragedy could only be a German story, wrote the critic Lotte Eisner as it could only happen in a country where the uniform (as it was at the time the film was made) was more than God. The porter's grand uniform is seen as source of power, as evinced by the respect he receives from his friends and neighbours. Once stripped of status, he just as quickly loses his dignity and suffers collapse.   Jannings gives a marvellous, if characteristically ripe, performance as the old man, ranging from magniloquence to humbleness, and from trauma to ironic exultation. Much of this is achieved in the emphatic silent manner, familiar from cinema of this period, but Jannings was a great enough actor to reveal character just as effectively through the slope of his shoulders or the mere bend of a leg. His porter is an unforgettable creation, whose downfall and recovery stays in the mind long after the film is finished, and 80 years after it was completed.  If that wasn't enough, then The Last Laugh also demonstrates a technical brilliance that marks it out as one of the greatest films of its day. Murnau and his cameraman, the legendary Karl Freund, worked together to come up with what they called 'the unchained camera' - a cinema which liberated the image through a succession of dollys, tracking movements, dialectical montage, close-ups as well as some experimental set ups, which can still astonish today. From the very first shot of the film (a stunning image, taken from inside of a lift before the camera descends out in the lobby of the hotel) it announces its visual audacity, which reaches its celebrated zenith during the porter's drunken celebration of his niece's wedding where Freund uses avant-garde POV shots, taken with the camera strapped to his chest, before progressing onto the porter's dream shot crazily, through lenses smeared with Vaseline. The Last Laugh is also noticeable for an almost complete absence of intertitles, revealing Murnau's predilection for creating 'pure cinema', free of all distraction. American producers and directors were fascinated by the results, and perplexed as to how some of the effects had been achieved. Viewers today, used to Industrial Light and Magic, are more likely to have their curiosity exercised by the last act of the film, which marks a sudden departure from the source, Gogol's The Overcoat. After an hour of deepening tragedy, we are told by the film that Here the story should really end for, in real life, the forlorn old man would have little to look forward to but death. The author took pity on him and has provided a quite improbable epilogue. Jannings suggested an end to the film that was accepted, and which still surprises audiences. It has attracted critical discussion almost as much as does the similarly disorientating end does in The Cabinet Of Dr Caligari (aka Das Kabinett des Doktor Caligari, 1920), also scripted by Carl Meyer in a sudden turnabout, the ex-doorman inherits all the wealth of an eccentric millionaire who dies in his lavatory, and departs the hotel in triumphant luxury. How one accepts the end of the film is a matter of preference. As an inversion of natural expectations, through an outrageous deus ex machina, it certainly works as ironic commentary on all that has gone before. There's an element of wishful thinking about closing events even suggests a dream sequence, which would be an apt closure given what we have already experienced in the film. Some critics have seen the ending as a deliberate parody of a 'happy ending' or even as a metaphor for the money due to the struggling UFA studio from the talent-sharing deal with American studios. However interpreted, the old man's timely fortune remains a satisfying conclusion to a film which, without some last injection of hope into the narrative, ran the risk of being too dour. The original German title to the film was Der Letzte Mann ('The Last Man'), which was changed for the English language release, as another film already existed with this name. The original German title, with its connotation of the least of men, puts the emphasis squarely back on the main part of the film - surely Murnau and Meyer's principal intention. The Last Laugh remains one of the most important films of the silent screen, a testimony to several major talents working at the height of their powers, and in the newly restored DVD reissue it can be highly recommended.   "},{"Title":"A great classic that conveys a dark world view","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just viewed this film on the pristine Kino video release, having seen a poorish print years ago.One of the great classics of the German silent cinema, hugely influential, this true work of art not only displays the seemingly limitless resources of the UFA studios, but dares to break constantly with convention, particularly by being a pure film and dispensing with intertitles, but most spectacularly in its use of the subjective camera--creating as far as I know, the first sustained use of point of view in the history of movies, which had hitherto shown us action objectively, as it were the spectator had always merely observed, as in a third person narrative.  Even Griffith and Bitzer's trucking shots, while including us in the action, did not represent another character's point of view.  Well, after the Last Laugh, P.O.V. turns up again and again.  (See Abel Gance's Napoleon.)   Today the technique is common (necessary!).  The most famous shots in Der Letzte Mann include the drunken swaying of the room seen through the Doorman's bleary eyes (cinematographer Karl Freund seated in a large swing and pushed back and forth); the opening shot coming down into the lobby by elevator and exiting the gate; and the astonishing vision of the hotel toppling in slow motion over on the poor doorman after his demotion.  And can you believe that first night cityscape with the driving rain was all constructed and shot INDOORS?However, I must say there is an unfortunate message in this drama, that of the merciless German stereotype fawning before authority and deriding weakness--humiliating the powerless, admiring, almost worshiping the powerful.  This is shown by the doorman's vanity and puffed-up self-image, which hinges, it seems, on a splendid uniform and the deference it alone inspires.  Position is everything to him, his family, employers, hotel guests and neighbors.  This is a shallow world, indeed, a social mentality that I can imagine, without straining too much, easily leading in a few brief years straight to the all-too-successful Gestapo!  (I would add that the ending seems to contradict this, but the ending must be discounted; it is a sheer fantasy, tacked on, really unrelated to the rest of the film and completely out of character.)   "},{"Title":"Visceral","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" People seem compelled to speak in superlative-terms when talking about the great directors; which film is their greatest, which ones are underrated, etc. But this is a film so simple in its themes, so modest in its methods, that it doesn't lend itself to these labels very easily.Nosferatu was revolutionary, but based on intensity, something that doesn't age very well. Other directors took up this notion of visual intensity (Leni, Boese) but structuralized it, and created the real German Horror masterpieces (Waxworks, Golem). Murnau's discovery came later, with this film. That film narrative wasn't something that you followed linearly, but something you become immersed in. The lack of title-cards is not a gimmick, but a conscious decision not to interrupt the flow of this immersion. Reading is rational (hearing, slightly less so) and prevents this from taking place.Add a Gogolian tale of aging and dignity, and Murnau makes magic. This is what touching and moving films should be like.4 out of 5 - An excellent film "},{"Title":"German triumph","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although the Golden Twenties of German cinema, a golden age corresponding approximately to the era from the making of The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari in 1919 to Hitler's absorption of the German film industry for the purposes of the Nazi regime, has come to be widely associated in public consciousness with the grotesque, the mystical and the fantastic of German Expressionism, indeed with such iconic figures to spearhead it as Nosferatu, the Somnabulist, Dr. Caligari, Mephisto and the Golem, all of them having their roots in the folklore or a fantastic reimagined past, there was also a more realistic, if no less tragic, depiction of a middle-class present with a focus on a psychological, as opposed to metaphysical, aspect.By 1924 the acceptance of the Dawes Plan by Germany had lulled the German Republic into a sense of economic stability that was to last until the stock market crash in 1929. It was that same stability that most hurt the German film industry, as the Dawes Plan imposed the reduction of all exports, leaving many independent production companies without foreign markets for their product. In the years to come Hollywood would seize this unique financial opportunity to break down its only European rival, but before major box-office flops like Fritz Lang's epic rendition of Die Nibelungen (1924) and Metropolis (1927) and FW Murnau's Faust (1926) would bring UFA to its proverbial knees in debt to German banks, little films like The Last Laugh (1924) and Varieté (1925) were the toast of the town in both sides of the Atlantic.Emil Jannings plays an aging hotel porter who takes great pride and pleasure in his job and especially the lavish uniform that comes with it. In the miserable middle-class neighborhood he lives, being able to wake up in the morning and go to work dressed like in such a prestigious uniform is like being a general. That is until a younger man is hired in his place and he's demoted to the, undignified in his mind, job of lavatory attendant. Not bearing to lose face back home with gossiping neighbors and relatives, the old porter steals back his uniform and returns home as if nothing happened, the uniform a symbol not only of his social status but also of purpose in life.What is most striking about The Last Laugh is the way Murnau externalizes the psychological in a grand, theatric way that could only work on stage and in silent cinema. Watch for example the look of pure anguish and horror in Janning's face when he's asked to turn in his uniform, stripping it off like he's being skinned alive. Recoiling without it into a state of defeat and abandonment like a man stripped of his own identity, with nothing to live for.Obsessed with artistic control and exercising complete authority over the minutest details of lighting and décor, German directors pushed for an increasingly studio-bound cinema to the point that UFA in the years between 1919 and 1927 became the best equipped movie studio in the western world. The Last Laugh is no exception. The facades of apartment blocks in the background with light slanting over them, the low-class neighborhood, the busy street in front of the hotel, all of them replicated in great detail within studio limits. It's within this geography that Murnau transposes Jannings' internal world. As is proper for the inward journey of the self the protagonist faces, the aging porter starts at the busy front of the hotel only to find himself exiled in the dark bowels of the basement where he remains hidden, that is until the film's tacked-on happy ending.The only false note in an otherwise perfect film is the happy ending Murnau and scriptwriter Carl Mayer (of Caligari fame) were forced to devise by UFA executives anxious for the box office success of their movie. It's not that it doesn't work because such a tragic tale precludes a happy ending, after all one of the most memorable endings in all cinema is that of Capra's It's a Wonderful Life and it doesn't get any more saccharine than that, but because it happens in such a tacked-on deus-ex-machina fashion that it feels like a complete cop-out. It's lame now and it was lame then and Murnau no doubt understood that as he flashes a title card (the only title card in the film) more or less apologizing that that's how the movie would've ended if I didn't have a boss to keep happy so here's a they-lived-happily-ever-after epilogue, take it with a pinch of salt or ignore it altogether. It's noteworthy however that it's not pure schmaltzy tripe. It feels as though Murnau is taking a perverse, vulgar pleasure in delivering what was asked of him.Exceptionally photographed, with a modern feel to Murnau's camera-work that places it well ahead of its time compared to other silents, a great example of purely visual storytelling without the cumbersome crutches of the title cards, The Last Laugh stands not only as a triumph of Weimar cinema but as masterpiece almost 100 years later. "},{"Title":"Citizen Kane of its time","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The camera work and the sets in this film where so breathtaking and powerful that they changed the film language forever. It is in many ways the Citizen Kane of its time.It was so revolutionary that Hollywood (Fox) tried desperately to get Murnau to work for them and teach them how to do all these things (which he did some years later). The main revolutionary thing was the fluidity of the camera (or the unchanged camera, as it was called). There was no steady cam at this time, but still they managed to strap the camera to the body of the cameraman without getting a shaky pictures.The set is just amazing. It is difficult to believe that this is not a real city. All the special effects help also to make this believable (special effects that are still today astonishing and believable).The makeup is also great. Emil Jannings was only 40 years old when he made this film but he really looks like an old man (and acts like one too).But the greatest thing about this film is how much Murnau manages to say with out the help of inter titles. This is visual storytelling at it's best.Murnau had come a long way from Nosferatu but he still had a long way to go and a lot to teach us before his untimely death. The Last Laugh is not only one of his best films, it is also most likely his most important one, and one of the most important films in film history. "},{"Title":"uniform vs identity","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There can be no doubt that costumes were highly important in The Last Laugh. The topic was actually build upon a costume anywise. The doorman's uniform was a symbol for prestige, high-honor, the key to be well treated in every situation. He was giving extreme importance to his outlook while he was working as a doorman. We saw this when he was twisting his mustache in front of the hotel. Not only him but also his family and his neighbors even show great respect to his uniform as well. Neighbors stop patting their carpets not to spread dust on his uniform, men bow and take out their hats when he passes by, at home niece's mother sews the button of the uniform with great care... It seems that by doing all this, they are appreciating the prestige the costume has brought to their lives and in a way showing appreciation by keeping it in perfect shape. Last Laugh there wasn't much of a contrast in terms of colors. The contrast was in terms of the different treatment the doorman received after his job loss. It was clear that after the loss of his job, nobody was friendly to him anymore. Also the contrast between the rich and the poor was underlined. There was a parallel editing of the ex-doorman drinking his soup in the toilet and the rich people having their dinner at the hotel's restaurant.There were lots of dolly ins and outs, tracking movements, dialectical montage, close-ups and parallel editing in it. Dollies are often used in shocking situations. It is used when the ex-doorman's relative sees him working at the toilet. As it is a shocking situation, camera dollies-in very fast to the woman's horrified face. The same function of dolly-in occurs when the ex-doorman comes to the hotel in the morning and sees from far away the new doorman. It is a fast dolly as well. With these unexpected dollies, the audience is always kept tense knowing that the reality may strike at any moment. Dialectical montage is seen quite a lot of times as well. It occurs when the doorman looks left and then we see the wedding dress. Therefore we understand that it is the dress he is looking.  On the whole doorman's uniform seems to be controlling his life and that he is blindly obeying what the uniform brings to him. In this way, he is like a citizen unquestioning the authority of the government. Finally, Last Laugh is a classics which have influenced and will continue to influence other artistic works through generations.   "}{"Title":"Masterful","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Der Letzte Mann is nothing short of the epitome of viewing pleasure.  Beautifully shot, the urban landscape in which a noble doorman earns his keep (and humanity) is throughout dream-like, infused with a decidedly ethereal quality. Added to a magical visual backdrop is a haunting musical score, highlighted by sweeping cello chords which cut straight to the heart. With regard to prominent themes, the picture speaks volumes about the fragility of human existence and, specifically, human dignity.  The shallow and arbitrary nature of a society bent predominantly on the acquisition and elevation of pecuniary wealth, as well as the perseverance of the individual through it all, is illustrated masterfully through both the zenith and nadir of the doorman's existence, as documented in this truly excellent work of the interwar period.  "},{"Title":"personification of inter-war Germany","Date":"30 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" More than anything, F.W. Murnau's movie Der letzte Mann (The Last Laugh in English) seems to be a metaphor for inter-war Germany. Much like how the doorman (Emil Jannings) gets demoted to washroom attendant, Germany went through something similar in the wake of WWI the reparations demanded by the Allied Powers destroyed the country economically, which unfortunately led to Hitler's rise to power. In fact, the cynical end of the movie -- in which the doorman inherits a bunch of money -- seems to foretell the worst kind of salvation that Germany could have (which it eventually did). To be certain, Jannings gladly starred in Nazi propaganda movies, while Georg John (who plays the night watchman here), got sent to the Łódź Ghetto, where he died in 1941.But even ignoring that, this exercise in expressionism is a masterpiece beyond description. The lack of inter-titles is especially eye-opening, forcing all concentration on the action. Murnau followed up Nosferatu with the same sorts of surreal imagery, going one step further this time. He later had a great achievement with Faust - Eine Deutsche Volkssage. All of these are definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"An expression of cinema in its purest form.","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" F.W. Murnau often spoke of his belief in pure cinema. The capacity to tell a story visually without the need for words. The Last Laugh is probably the closest he came to achieving this ideal. It is a film of exquisite beauty that tells an incredibly moving story without the use of inter-title cards or dialogue to propel it. Well, there is one which the studio inflicted upon Murnau when it ordered the addition of a rather misplaced happy ending. Something I shall come to later. The tale is a simple but painful one. An ageing, pompous porter at a high class hotel (Emil Jannings) finds his World falling apart when he is demoted to the position of lavatory attendant. Stripped of his grand doorman's uniform and his pride, the porters life disintegrates as the humiliation of his new, lesser position dawns on him. Feeling unable to return to his home in such shame, he steals the uniform which means so much to him (and gives him an inflated sense of his own importance) and then proceeds to live a lie with his family and his neighbours by wearing it to and from work each day. Of course, such secrets can't stay hidden forever and eventually the awful truth is discovered. Returning to his apartment that evening he endures the mockery of those neighbours he once strode proudly amongst and, most heartbreakingly of all, he is coldly rebuked by his family for the shame he has heaped upon them. By this time he is near cataclysmic and he returns to the hotel to finally return his uniform as a broken man. This is where Murnau originally ended his tragic tale. And rightly so. The final images of a harrowed Jannings curled up motionless in a darkened lavatory fittingly capture the bleak reality of mans expendability and downward emotional spiral brought about by (false) pride. Yet the film does not end here. The studio insisted on a happy ending. As it is, the final fifteen minutes of the film completely jar with everything before. We learn through the films sole inter-title that the porter is left a vast inheritance by an eccentric millionaire who died in his arms and what follows is a sequence of opulent decadence as the now gentleman porter dines and entertains at the very hotel where he was previously employed. It's an unfortunate way to close the film and completely unnecessary. For what Murnau presents us with in those crucial seventy minutes of the porters tragedy is up there amongst his best work. Of course Jannings is massive in the central role. The non-use of dialogue meant that he had to convey every thought and every emotion with sensitivity and clarity. His transformation over the course of the film from a wide shouldered, straight-backed almost militaristic figure to a decrepit, shuffling, wild eyed old man is a testament to his talents as well as the make up department. Yet, it is the stunning expressionist camera-work which dominates this film. Beautifully designed and lit sets are seeming haunted by the use of moving cameras that roll through the shadows and windows and across apartment blocks whilst cameraman Karl Freund strapped his camera to his chest in order to achieve the films revolutionary POV shots. Similarly, the use of multiple and smeared lenses add a wonderful sense of of distortion to the films innovative dream sequence as well as an ingenious hangover sequence also. All in all, this is another fine achievement by one of the very few genuine geniuses of cinema. The studio imposed ending may jar more than slightly and some might find the story at worst a little weak or insignificant, but The Last Laugh is a film designed as an expression of Murnau's belief in imagery as a storytelling form. Something he achieves with undeniable success. "},{"Title":"A Poignant Self-Analysis of a Class Society","Date":"31 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" F.W. Murnau's The Last Laugh was the climax of Kammerspiel with its outstanding cinematography, composition and naturalist acting. However, due to the director's remarkable production of the darker variant, the film is often mistaken as a masterpiece of expressionism. As an entirety, the film works as a perfect expression of the mentality and mood that prevailed in Germany between WWI and WWII. The injustice and gloomy atmosphere which finally led to Hitler's rise to power. The film was written by Carl Mayer who was not only the father of Kammerspiel but has also often been considered as the most prominent filmic author in the Weimar Republic. Mayer's scripts are literate film poems, all of which are characterized by profound but yet simple psychological structure. For Mayer, film was, first of all, meant to give form to primitive passions. Moreover, Murnau's unique ability to think and feel directly in images gives the film a poetic dimension which drills down into the depths of the human soul.The protagonist of The Last Laugh is a respectable doorman who enjoys great appreciation at home and neighborhood. On one day, however, he gets a discount to a lavatory cleaner, and experiences a poignant social humiliation. Unfortunately, he is unable to accept the situation and, therefore, sinks into the dim abyss of self-loathe. The scene in which the protagonist loses his job, represented by the doorman coat, tears the viewer's heart apart with its authentic emotion of despair, submission and loss. He becomes a living dead, so to speak. In fact, all the action built around the coat highlights the ever-worsening existence of the protagonist -- on both social and existential levels.Already in the beginning, Murnau defines the contrasts of the class society, commonly for Kammerspiel, through the visual polarization of architecture the glowing skyscrapers and the luxury hotel (where the doorman works) meet the gruesome aesthetics of the bleak block where the poor live in misery. The latter is definitely a milieu of deceit and exploitation whereas the former consists of elements -- the elevator and the revolving door -- which enable the hectic lifestyle of the hotel's quests. As a matter of fact, the revolving door becomes a fantastic visual motif of the film. It's the quick doorway of the class society which, at random, let's people inside while leaving others outside. It is made very certain that at any moment any one, who has once got in, can, in future, be thrown out.When it comes to progressive cinematography, The Last Laugh was a marvelous achievement. Total mobilization of the camera was presented for the first time on the screen hence the film had a tremendous influence on Hollywood cinema. The camera tracks, pans and heels all being. This not only creates brilliant narrative but also makes it possible for the spectator to observe reality from various vantage points. Specifically, the film was revolutionary because the subjective perspective was transformed to the camera-work. Yet, technique is never self-deliberate for it is constantly related to the film's theme of humiliation. During long takes, the camera shares the experience of social abasement with the protagonist. It goes through the emotions of shame and guilt. The camera might even displace the protagonist if Emil Jannings wasn't so outstanding and superb in his performance. As a genre or avantgardist movement, Kammerspiel produced a great amount of touching and progressive films with minimalist settings even if it never reached the aesthetic level of German Expressionism. Nonetheless, visually speaking, Murnau depicts humiliation, pride and shame in an utterly beautiful fashion. To my mind, Murnau even achieves to give the visual form for Marx's idea of the relation between work and human consciousness. And, in this sense, The Last Laugh is a poignant analysis of hierarchy in the class society, and a study on the significance and loss of social status -- its authoritarian and destructive impact on both the community and the psyche of the individual. At its heart, The Last Laugh is a portrayal of a man's slow and painful process of abasement, sinking lower and lower. "},{"Title":"Kammerspiel masterpiece","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Switching from expressionism to kammerspiel was only for the best for F.W. Murnau. Turning from pure fiction to reality, the director and his cinematographer Freund introduced, quite revolutionarily, moving camera (and also POV-shots) and abandoned intertitles. Intertitles do often kill film's dynamics, and Noseratu, which is apparently the most famous Murnau's title, was in a way spoiled by texts of all kinds. To abandon intertitles completely was an obvious decision, but difficult to realize and demanding a great skill. Murnau did a brilliant job there isn't a sequence or a shot which is hard to get despite no lines heard or seen and no explanation given.Admirably, even from external difficulties Murnau managed to benefit. I mean the ending forced by the movie producers. Murnau had to obey; but he made an obviously unrealistic farce instead of regular happy ending, and also preceded it with a sardonic commentary. As a result, the final sequence underlines picture's message the second change of protagonist (now to a tux and a top hat) is not a random detail. Furthermore, it's not Hollywood-like idealism we feel here, but a hysterics, some desperate hope. We can even suppose that everything after the only intertitle with Murnau's commentary is a dream, protagonist's insane fantasy.Funny enough, this forced ending not only gave an additional dimension to Der Letzte Mann, but also would be used as a narrative technique on its own right by other filmmakers see Scorsese's Taxi Driver and Kusturica's Underground, both featuring corresponding unrealistic epilogues. "},{"Title":"Almost neo-realistic in its poignancy","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" F.W. Murnau, along with compatriot Fritz Lang, was and remains one of the most influential German directors of all time, his surviving work &#150; including 'Nosferatu, eine Symphonie des Grauens (1922),' 'Faust (1926)' and 'Sunrise (1927)' the latter of which I have regrettably not seen yet &#150; continuing to inspire new generations of film-goers and filmmakers more than eighty years later. In 1924, Murnau released what it often held as one of his masterpieces, 'The Last Laugh' though the director's original title was 'The Last Man'. However, in no small part due to the interference of Universum Film (UFA) Studio, I must admit that I found this effort to be slightly underwhelming, an unfortunate result for a motion picture that I had felt sure I'd adore. Frequent collaborator Emil Jannings is undoubtedly the star of the film, occupying almost the entire screen time, and playing the character about whom the story revolves. Performing with a passion that transcends the technical boundaries of the silent film, Jannings gives a truly heart-breaking performance that is worth the price of admission alone.'The Last Laugh' was the newest addition to a short-lived movement of film-making known as Kammerspiel, or chamber-drama, which often concerned itself with the lives of the working-class, and rarely used intertitles to create spoken dialogue or narration. I found myself likening the style to that of the Italin neo-realism movement, if only for showing an average, not-particularly-important man overwhelmed by the cruelty of upper-class society. However, several scenes diverge from this mould, most specifically a dizzying, wondrous dream sequence, and a tacked-on optimistic ending imposed by the commercially-insecure studio. Though it was not the first film to exploit a moving camera, I've rarely seen a silent film making better use of the technique. The camera, with no small thanks to cinematographer Karl Freund who went on to work on such American films 'All Quiet on the Western Front (1930)' and 'Key Largo (1947)', swoops gracefully through Murnau's specially-constructed sets, an effect that is both invigorating and captivating. In one ingenious sequence, the camera even passes through a glass window to achieve a close-up of our protagonist.Hints of German Expressionism in which Murnau had dabbled in previous years are also easily noticeable, most notably in the entrancing dream sequence, in which a feverish hand-held camera captures Emil Jannings fancifully holding a hefty trunk high above his head, hurling it an impossible distance into the air and then catching it again with an outstretched arm. Also worth mentioning is a brief scene in which the downcast hotel porter, ashamed at having lost his prestigious job, imagines the tall building collapsing on top of him, representative of the enormous pressure that he feels has been thrust upon his life and respectability. The sneering collection of low-life gossipers, each sporting ridiculous sly grins of mischievous satisfaction, have a tendency to get annoying after a while, and I'd much rather be spending that time with Jannings' warm, kind and quietly proud hotel porter, even if his happy ending introduced with an openly sardonic intertitle side-note from the director is more of a crushing disappointment than anything else. "},{"Title":"Murnau's Best","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1920s Germany, a hotel doorman takes great pride in both his job and the grand uniform that denotes his position. The uniform earns him the unquestioning respect of his neighbours, so when he is demoted through no fault of his own to the lowly position of lavatory attendant, the doorman is devastated. Stealing the uniform that once was his, he makes a sad attempt to fool his neighbours into thinking he still manages the door of the prestigious Atlantic Hotel but, before long, the truth is uncovered, and the respect they once paid him quickly dissolves.The Last Laugh stands as one of the finest creations of a remarkable director, F.W. Murnau, whose credits include Nosferatu, Faust and Sunrise. Filmed without use of subtitles &#x96; and to appreciate what an astounding achievement this is, try imagining a dramatic film made without any form of dialogue today &#x96; Murnau crafts a beautiful, compelling and tragic tale that stands as both testimony to his undoubted skills and to the artistic heights to which silent cinema often aspired.The venerated German actor Emil Jannings was only 40 when he took on the role of the unnamed porter, and yet a combination of Waldemar Jabs painstaking make-up and Jannings' own ability to convey his character's heartache in simple ways, such as the stoop of his shoulders or a bent leg, means he gives a towering performance that never threatens, however, to overshadow the story being told.The story revolves as much around the grandiose uniform Jannings wears as it does the man. A symbol of the contemporary German importance attached to uniforms and their unavoidably militaristic connotations, the uniform is portrayed as making the man &#x96; and it is only the contentious ending that spins the message that it is not uniforms but compassion and kindness that make men great &#x96; not only through the respect he receives from all around him, but in the transformation the porter undergoes whenever he is parted from it. From a ramrod-backed creature of magnificence, with elaborately arranged hair and whiskers, he turns into a fumbling old man with bowed back and shaking hands. In the hands of a lesser actor, the demands of this transformation may have descended into cheap caricature, but Jannings never lets us lose sight of the proud man lurking within the bowed and beaten body.Karl Freund's camera-work is a revelation in this film, right from the opening shot as we descend with the lift into the foyer of the opulent Atlantic hotel. Numerous tricks are used without drawing attention to their use and thus distracting the viewer from the tragedy that is taking place the drunken POV shot (achieved by strapping the camera to Freund's chest) in Jannings' flat after his niece's wedding reception; the blurred fantasy sequences (themselves a breakthrough in film narrative) achieved by smearing Vaseline onto the camera lens, and the use of dialectic montage and dolly shots, were all groundbreaking techniques never before used, but copied forevermore.Murnau directs the film with the assurance of a man at the top of his form &#x96; where he would arguably remain until his tragically early death &#x96; and the care taken with this film is evident throughout every shot. This is why Murnau made relatively few films in an era when many directors churned them out at a rate of a dozen or more per year. The degree of a director's conscientiousness is always evident on the screen, and it is always a pleasure to view a Murnau film, because it is clear that his commitment to his work was always second to none. "},{"Title":"Touching,deserves to be watched.","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" At first, I wasn't very excited about watching this movie, since I am from a DTS sound's and colorful movie's generation. But well, if I got used to watch black and white movies, why not the mute ones? My father recommended me to watch this movie, so, in the night of a rainy Wednesday, I was decided to follow his recommendation.''Der Letzte Mann'' is a touching and sad story. It's about a doorman who works at the Atlantic city hotel, and is very proud and satisfied with his position at work, until one day, he has been replaced as doorman, going to work as a washroom attendant. What makes the movie sad, is when he starts to be humiliated by the people he know, included his family.Also his sadness,makes you wanna cry.I was all sad, thinking that the movie would end with this tragical plot, but it finished in a very nice way Thanks to his humiliating new job, the doorman becomes a millionaire. A very wealth man dies at the bathroom, and the person who is going to have all his money as an inheritance, is the one who will be close to him when he dies; lucky for the doorman, was him who was there. ) "},{"Title":"On Timothy Brock's new original score","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie. It was such a simple story, shot so brilliantly and true so true to human nature. Composer Timothy Brock has composed and recorded a new score to this film and it is great. Cello is the doorman's instrument, it brings his character to life. And hearing how the solo cello is weaved in and out through the score is quite a pleasurable experience. "},{"Title":"Comes short and does not fulfill its potential","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Der letzte Mann or The Last Man is a German movie from over 90 years ago and it was directed by Friedrich Wilhelm Murnau/Plumpe, one of the country's most known directors from that era, probably you could replace country by world. The lead actor is Emil Jannings, five years before his Oscar win and as so many other times, he plays a character who is considerably older than he was at that time. Aging makeup was already a thing back then. The film is silent (if you hear a soundtrack, it was added later)and in black-and-white. Jannings plays a doorman at a hotel, who is down on his look for most of the film. Or is he really? This is mostly a drama and runs for 90 minutes in the restored version I watched. Still, it's tough for me to take it serious as such with Jannings' over-the-top face expressions basically from start to finish. Then again, this was a common problem back then. People tried to make up for the lack of sound by these comically expressions that just did never leave a good impact for me. Also this film may have needed more intertitles to understand exactly what is going on in all scenes. In my opinion, the material was not (good) enough for 90 minutes here. Not among Murnau's best. Not recommended. "}{"Title":"A genius and pioneering film","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From the very first shots of this movie, my friend and I were just in awe of the way Murnau uses the camera to set up his situation. There's an intimacy to it, he brings us close to the characters. Also the way he uses the angles and straight lines of the windows, doors and buildings to frame his shots impresses us immediately with the dehumanizing nature of the city much as it did in his Oscar Winning American film Sunrise A Song of Two Humans. As if the impressive direction and photography weren't enough to distinguish this as one of the most impressive films I've seen from the early 20s, the whole affair is anchored by a brilliant performance from Emil Jannings. He plays a man who is retired from his position as a hotel doorman and demoted to the washroom, which leads to a sort of nervous breakdown imaginatively filmed and a fetishistic attachment to the uniform of his former office.This isn't a plot heavy film or a drama heavy film, basically it's a character study. It's remarkable for the fact that there are no dialog title cards, and only 2 or 3 informational title cards relating to various events and anchored to specific informational devices interior to the film (e.g. we see the boss' letter telling him of his demotion). The quality of the acting not only from Jannings but from the entire cast (perhaps with the exception of a broadly played gossip woman) we see very natural performances that you often don't in silent films.Of the 3 films I've seen by Murnau, this film impressed me the most. It doesn't have the melodramatic elements that make Sunrise a bit more predictable, and it doesn't have the languid pace that slows Nosferatu for me. It reminds me in some ways of the films I've seen from the 30s by Jean Renoir -- there's this fantastic way that the camera follow the actors around on the streets, pulling ahead of them momentarily and then allowing the main actor to zip through the frame while it focuses on incidental details. I'm thinking specifically of the scene where Jannings escapes after stealing back the uniform, but there are several scenes along these lines.Essentially I saw this film as a message of hope, interestingly couched with an explanation from the film-makers that in reality it would not have ended happily. It's too easy to see this card, one of as I said only 2 or 3 in the entire film and the only one that's not tied to a specific device, as Murnau's way of eating his cake and having it too. Is there a touch of the ending from this movie, with the two former bums riding off together, that comes to mind when you see Wilder's Some Like It Hot? Or has this been filtered by way of Mssrs. Lubitsch and Renoir et al? Either way I would describe the movie overall as purely cinematic, miles and miles beyond normal film-making techniques and taste of the early 20s and even arguably of today. "},{"Title":"Another Amazing Performance by Emil Jannings!","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" No wonder Emil Jannings was given the first Best Actor Oscar for his performance in 'The Last Command' (1929) and 'The Way of All Flesh' (1929). He was an amazing actor with an extraordinary range of emotion and character, being at times in this film poignant, humorous, bombastic, but mostly touching, tender and sad-- all so artistically expressed here in the days of silent and 'mime' cinema.Without the distraction of intertitles, this is the 'pure cinema' that displays all the greatness of silent film. It tells a tiny, slight and simple story with the innovative camera work focusing on a hotel porter being demoted to a men's room attendant due to his old age.As noted by others, the heavy reliance on intertitles to tell the story and telegraph meanings of scenes to follow, so overly used by D. W. Griffith, especially in 'Intolerance,' (1916), and by John Ford in 'The Iron Horse' (1924) really affect the flow and momentum of their films. In 'The Last Laugh,' however, there's nothing to distract you from being drawn into the visual magic of the camera work and the subtle, expressive gestures and movements of Jannings as he changes from the proud, erect doorman to the hunched and enfeebled Toilet Waiter.We don't have to think it's just the Germans' love of a uniform that's going on here. The uniform is a symbol of the work-persona of a career job and that once the job can no longer be performed, due to the ravages of time, we can only work at simpler tasks; yet, there is still the desire for self respect and dignity in doing one's work that keeps us going. Unfortunately for the porter, who is jeered by his friends and neighbors, he struggles in vain to maintain any shred of dignity and meaning in his life, but finally can not, and so he is ready to (literally) curl up and die, defeated by time, as we all one day must be defeated also.Too much of a downer for the German studio, a 'happy, happy' ending was tacked on to pep up the box office receipts. When this epilogue starts the movie does a 180 degree about face, and you think, What have they done to my movie? It's ruined! Then you start thinking that like many modern films, the hero at the real end of the movie will wake up to find that his happy reprieve was just a dream, as, for example, in many films such as in 'Brazil' (1985) '12 Monkeys' (1995), and the latest one 'The Descent' (2005).It doesn't happen. They even changed the title from 'The Last (or Least) Man' to 'The Last Laugh' to punctuate the happy ending. Well, so what. We have to be thankful to be able to watch and relish such an artistic and skillful acting job by one of the great actors of world cinema, shot in revolutionary style by Karl Freund, with fantastic direction by F. W. Murnau, and sets by Edgar G. Ulmer. I'd give it a 10, except that the final dining sequence is too long, broad and too starkly contrastive to what has come before. Jannings tries to make it as if he's remembering his experiences and grateful for his new life by helping those who now walk in his old shoes, but this angle is overshadowed by the shocking juxtapositioning of the epilogue itself. This is a movie that cries out for a 'Director's Cut'! Too bad we won't get one. I give it a 9 and half. "},{"Title":"silent German cinema with the depth of great literature, but the passion of great film-making","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Last Laugh may not necessarily be F.W. Murnau's greatest piece of cinema as a director; that claim would probably go to Sunrise, or depending on the mood Nosferatu. But it is an attempt at presenting a side of reality that is not very sympathetic, yet at the same time takes has a lot of heart in its core. Murnau and writer Carl Meyer make very clear what it is about this one specific man, in relation to his job, his co-workers, his close living quarters with his fellow tenants, and how dignity can be the make or break factor in living a worthwhile life. Emil Jannings plays this man, and his total embodiment- nevermind performance- of the character of the porter, who gets stripped of his long, long-standing duties, as well as his impressionable uniform, is one big factor in making The Last Laugh as deep as it is. In terms of its essential story elements it's reminiscent of one of those working-class tragic tales out of 19th century Russian literature, or even from Dickens. But Murnau and Mayer make it specifically a story of dignity and a sense of entitlement as a double-edged sword, and that society is not very much one to turn the other cheek and not have a laugh at someone else's expense.Simply put, the porter comes into work one day, and without any notice is told that his work as, essentially, the doorman to the Atlantic (a posh restaurant/hotel), will no longer be needed, and is downsized to being the washroom attendant in the downstairs bathroom. This crushes his ego and his spirit, and the uniform, which they strip away from him, becomes an immense point of merit, bringing it home with him still on (in one of the best scenes in the film, as Murnau glides his camera across quickly the lobby as the porter runs past the sleeping bellhops), even during a night-long wedding celebration. He continues this into the next morning, however showing signs that he's already being mentally worn down to a nub. The woman who helps mend his uniform comes by to pay him a visit, thinking that he's still the doorman. It's someone else (a great, brief iris shot of the new doorman), and she suddenly sees a peek at him, horrified, as is he naturally to see her seeing himself in such a lowly position. Once word spreads in the tenement, it's one large notch lower when the porter heads back to his home, uniform still in tow.There will be much read into, as it would be if it were a short story, to the symbolism of the uniform. I think it's not just a sign of status, but something that keeps this man's own mental stability and sense of self-worth- not just in a job position sense but in a kind of existential way too (if existentialism is what I think it is)- and at his old age and lack of family or many friends is what at the least marks him as a total shlub. There's no middle ground in Mayer/Murnau's vision of society, and it's one of the more thought-provoking aspects to see the nature of the people living his tenement, and how they react to the porter's fall from grace (only one, the newlywed, shows some genuine sadness for what he's lost), and how they're not very much different from those who frequent the restroom the porter has to work at like a dog. And yet, there is at this point a complete reversal of fortune, literally and figuratively, for the porter, as he becomes a millionaire by the other side of the coin of luck that tossed into that low-level job in the first place. It ends on an ironically hopeful note, as he becomes like a jovial Santa Claus off duty, giving out money this way and that (not least of which to the new washroom attendant, in a very funny and poignant scene).There is a level of cynicism however right in the one true-blue inter title in the film (it was studio pressure, not Murnau's original intention, to have the 'happy' ending), but it works in showing how the more important thing, not riches but dignity, becomes restored in spades. It's meant to be, after so much time spent in the bottomless pit of despair that the ex-doorman has been in, a big reprieve, and it is, yet it doesn't come off as being too cheap because of Murnau and Meyer still staying true to a certain reality in this environment. This has come after, of course, Murnau has emptied himself of many incredibly innovative cinematic tricks. In The Last Laugh there are many memorable sequences; there's a dream, for example, with what might be the first hand-held camera, as it glides shakily and blurry-like past some people at a table. Or that there are the many instances of the point of view, by Karl Freund's unyielding camera movements, provoking the audience to feel the tension and inform the sense of moral dread, and in the most expressionist move in making the environment itself as an element dwarfing the characters (both the Atlantic and the tenement- the latter in one long, fantastic shot showing from night to day- are the key ones).On the technical side of things, The Last Laugh, as what could be considered something of an anomaly, benefits from not having the usual inter-titles popping in at every other dialog exchange. By doing this, there's nothing in the way of something close to pure expression of cinema through pantomime, music, and mood through editing and the camera, and Murnau, Mayer, Freund and Jannings combine to make one of the greatest of silent films. "},{"Title":"Innovative, marvelous, unforgettable legend of early cinema! A masterpiece!","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are lots of films that have been made in the last 110 years of cinema. Most of them are made with certain goals. Some aim at sheer entertainment; some at conveying morals; some are made in educational purposes; some are vehicles for stars; yet some of them attempt to spread art. There are, however, films that serve most of these goals. An example of the film which combines all prestigious aspects of cinema is, without any doubt, THE LAST LAUGH (1924) by a master F.W. Murnau. It is a film that a lot of people consider one of the most artistic films ever made. Although its content may seem sad and its silent form dated, there are very few people who do not find this movie worth seeing. Here, it seems significant to state that it is one of the few silents that have been watched and admired not only by silent movie fans but foremost by people who are not knowledgeable of silent cinema and who are not keen on it whatsoever. Is there some magical spell that Murnau and his cast put into this film more than 80 years ago that it does not seem to fade? Here are some of the factors that make the film highly recommended.First of all, THE LAST LAUGH is the film which could boast the very innovative movement of the camera, a great invention of Murnau and cameraman Karl Freund. It does not only move leftwards and rightwards but also forward and backwards. The best example is the famous final shot of the main character (Emil Jannings) leaving the hotel in which he has had such extreme experiences. As he gives money to the people in the row waving him goodbye, the camera beautifully moves together with the movement of Jannings. This was really something extraordinary for the 1920s, people were particularly astonished by the camera possibilities and the film was a smashing success. Therefore, even now, thanks to this aspect, the film does not seem as dated as other films from the early 1920s (we must keep in mind that this was 1924 and silents were less developed than the later ones with Garbo, for instance). Secondly, the film differs from most other silents in another aspect. While many films from 1910s and 1920s had subtitles as to what is being said by particular characters, THE LAST LAUGH does not have them. Everything is so beautifully conveyed by the players that it seems to be absolutely unnecessary to have it written what they say. Jannings gives a marvelous performance as a humiliated man, deprived of everything, even his dignity, who had to replace his honorable position of a luxurious hotel Porter with a guardian of its toilet. It is difficult to express it fully with words but when you look at Jannings, there is such a feeling that you can read his mind. I had this impression throughout the whole movie. Others also play very well but it is Jannings who is in the main role, who is given most time on screen and whose portrayal is the most memorable. I haven't seen THE LAST COMMAND (1928) but it is undeniable that his role in LAST LAUGH was a milestone of his career. Moreover, he is an absolute model of male silent performance.The whole content is also not much dated. The main idea of what happened to the Porter of the Atlantic Hotel is pretty universal. Who knows what the future will bring? Therefore, it was easy to feel empathy with the main character for the 1920s audiences and it is still possible for us. Perhaps, you may consider my opinion exaggerated, but I think that Murnau made his film everlasting partly thanks to this very content. How can a viewer skip the empathy with the poor old man when he reads a letter that fires him or when the gossip spreads to his district? The dreams that he has even more intensify the tragedy that takes place around him and in his mind. The additional final 15 minutes that show events which, unfortunately, never take place in life, appear to be the result of the author's compassion with the main character. They are, indeed, unreal but HIGHLY ENJOYABLE. That is the quintessential of the whole art that Murnau's is and its peak of entertainment. But it is caused by one more important advantage of the whole film, particularly these final 15 minutes.The film's perfect flaw is humor. Although the content is quite saddening, the film is full of very amusing moments. Who can forget the Porter's last visit to the toilet or his facial expression while sitting at the table in his new role? I also loved the whole sequence of his niece's (Maly Delschaft) wedding. It was the last chance for him to wear a uniform, which was so honorable in the eyes of people. WONDERFUL IN NO WAY DATED HUMOR that still serves its purpose.Finally, music by Giuseppe Becce! That is something that makes you thrilled throughout. I have to admit that when I saw THE LAST LAUGH for the first time, I was glad that it is a silent film. It was destined to be made in the 1920s since dialog would destroy its whole magic together with gorgeous music that provides a viewer with marvelous experience. Although there was a remake of the film in the 1950s, it never deserved the attention of the original.To sum up, THE LAST LAUGH (1924) is a marvelous innovation for its time and still an unforgettable experience for the present generation audience. Everyone, no matter if keen on old films or not, will find something great in it. Definitely a great masterpiece, a legend of early cinema, and a must on the list of 10 all - time best movies! 10/10! "},{"Title":"It'll knock you flat!","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had to watch this in film class, and it completely blew me away. It is still on my mind, a couple of days later. The very tragic story of the vanity filled porter who looses his uniform and thereby his social status and respect hurts almost every second, even up to the wonderfully ironic ending. Emil Jannings plays the poor porter astonishingly well, and you genuinely feel with this man who, due to his own pride and the views of society, looses all dignity. Even though he is definitely saved by the bell, one cannot help feeling that his could really happen. Moving to the extreme, this one will knock you flat. Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"One of the great German silent films.","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Last Laugh played alot lighter than Murnau's Faust or Nosferatu, but is wonderful. The cinematography was revolutionary for it's time and made the storytelling more and more enjoyable. One particular sequence has the main character drunk and this is illustrated by having him and the camera wheeled back and fourth on the same dolly. Emil Jannings delivers a brilliant performance while not uttering a word. No wonder he went on to be named Actor of the Year in 1925. An enjoyable little film and a must for those studying film history. "},{"Title":"A moody, moving masterpiece by Murnau","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Last Laugh (titled 'The Last Man' in German, which probably warrants a discussion in itself) is a beautiful, emotional film, taking the viewer from the touching to the abjectly depressing to the excessively jovial. As many have pointed out, that last step is a little disjointed.**SPOILERS - although you should watch this movie for sheer enjoyment, not to be surprised by the ending!***Emil Jannings gives a superb performance as an unnamed doorman for the Atlantic hotel. The movie opens with some fine camerawork - descending into the hotel lobby, crossing the floor, and watching the doorman escort guests to and from taxis under an Atlantic umbrella to protect them from the pouring rain, which is shown through the revolving door. The energy, poise, grace, and magnanimousness of the doorman is thus shown in the context of his environment an immediate suggestion of the symbiosis of this man's pleasure and this man's job.Then, something goes wrong. The porter who should be there to help take the bags from the taxi driver and carry them to the lobby isn't there. The doorman calls for him but he's nowhere to be found. So the doorman steps beyond his call of duty, and carries a heavy steamer trunk into the lobby. Unfortunately, he is old, and this leaves him sore and out of breath, so he takes a break. The young hotel manager notices this break, makes some hasty notes in his little notepad, and the next day, the doorman has lost his job - because, we are to assume, the manager thinks him too old to be an effective doorman anymore. However, the hotel has arranged for their oldest employee of all to be retired to a home, so the doorman can inherit that job - here Murnau gives the audience some time to appreciate the (former) doorman's shock, horror, misery, and utter defeat due only to losing his beloved job. It is only after a few minutes of this that his new position is revealed the rather demeaning labours of a bathroom attendant.The old man steals his old, beloved doorman's uniform and wears it home, saying nothing to his wife, daughter, brand new son-in-law, or nosey neighbours about what has happened, and pretending to still be the same jovial doorman. The next day, his wife decides to bring him lunch at work, and there she discovers the truth. There also is one of the most memorable shots of the film, though the purpose of its nature is unclear to me... To get to the men's room from the main concourse of the hotel, there is a double glass door, a short downward stairway, and then a double tinted glass door; a porter informs Jannings' character that someone is here to see him, so he emerges from the lower doors just as his wife has her face pressed against the upper doors... and in an extremely quick shot, Murnau's camera moves with lightning speed towards the wife's shocked face, pressed against the glass. I'll hazard a guess that Murnau didn't have faith in his actress' ability to convey the necessary shock and horror, because the wiser choice to display these things to the audience would be an acting-oriented shot, rather than this one it SCARES the audience, with its sudden, fast-approaching vision of a wrinkled woman making a contorted face!Anyway, the wife rushes home and tells the daughter. The nosey neighbour (who was always nice to the old man before) overhears and immediately starts a chain of gossip that reaches everyone in the apartment complex. I could digress here and question what Murnau is implying about women or old wives or even apartment building culture, but that's best saved for another time. Suffice to say when the old man comes home, the entire neighbourhood laughs at him, and his own family seems embarrassed to be seen with him before they rush him inside hoping nobody sees. They then stand sternly - albeit with hurt expressions, too - before him, as if they were a tribunal. Most viewers assume that his family's reaction is due to the fact that he now holds such a dishonourable job, not worthy of respect, and fully worthy of the neighbours' laughter. I can't help but wonder if in fact they're more upset that he lied to them, not trusting the family's solidarity and ability to work through hardships. At any rate, he does not know how to deal with them so he returns to the hotel to sleep in the washroom, in a scene which is complemented perfectly by the music and the soft focus to create one of the most heartbreaking moments I've ever seen on film.Then the ONLY intertitle of the film - there is no dialogue whatsoever, which I found a remarkable testament to the fine acting and directing - interrupts the most moving scene and declares that, although the film should end here, the author took pity on the character and gave him a (highly unlikely) happy ending. We then see the happy ending a wealthy old bachelor died suddenly while washing his hands in the old man's bathroom, and his will stipulated that his entire fortune go to the person in whose arms he died - as it happens, the old man. (This complex bit of plot is revealed in shots of the newspapers the hotel guests are laughing uncontrollably over - somewhat odd, as it doesn't seem that funny to me.) The film concludes with a drawn-out scene of the old man feasting heartily in the hotel restaurant and allowing his friend the night watchman to join in, then tipping all the hotel staff (except his replacement as doorman) and letting a beggar ride off in the carriage with him and the watchman.Though the final portion of the film is stylistically in keeping with the first part, it is a bizarre, sudden, and very large digression from what had been a continually downward-moving story. From the utmost dregs of the unjust, sad, and pathetic, a sudden unprecedented intertitle lifts us into the utterly joyous and ideal. Cruel, mocking laughter is wholly replaced by well how about that, isn't that swell laughter, and for the first time, the old man doesn't stagger from the hotel in darkness at the end of a long day's work, but leaves it joyously, in a carriage, laughing, at midday. The main ideas of the film clearly carry through the interruption, but it's impossible not to be a little miffed by the suddenness of it all. It's also strange that absolutely no visual suggestion of the old man's family occurs after the intertitle - they have absolutely nothing to do with the happy ending, and whether or not they can be forgiven is absolutely not addressed.Nonetheless, Murnau has crafted a moving and beautiful film, perfectly accentuated both by his highly accomplished cinematic style (the drunken scenes are wonderfully realistic, by the way) and by Emil Jannings' utterly sympathetic and believable performance as the doorman. Questions aside, I gave The Last Laugh 10/10 (more than I gave Nosferatu) and sincerely hope more people see it. "},{"Title":"A Study of Vanity and Cruelty of Mankind","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Emil Jannings is the doorman of Atlantic Hotel. He is proud of his   uniform and function, and respected by his community. Based on his age,   the manager of the hotel decides to change his function to toilet   cleaner. This apparently simple action is enough to destroy him as a   human being. He loses his self-respect and the respect of his neighbors   and friends. This outstanding movie is another masterpiece of Murnau.   It is an authentic study of the vanity and cruelty of mankind. The lack   of respect to the elders is also expressed marvelously in this   fantastic film. The performance of the great Emil Janning is   astonishing. All the plot is based on his character and expressions. I   regret only the last part of the plot, where the suffering character   gets a surprisingly heritage and becomes 'the last laugh' of the title   of the movie. But anyway, this is a remarkable movie. My vote is ten. "},{"Title":"Here, the story should really end","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In the 1920s silent cinema was becoming ever more elaborate and literary. While visual means of storytelling were getting ever more sophisticated, the frequency and length of title cards was also on the up, often adding words where they weren't strictly necessary. This 1924 effort to create a picture entirely without intertitles (bar one at the beginning and one at the end) ought to be a real breath of fresh air, no? Well, director F.W. Murnau was certainly a talented enough fellow to pull off such a thing, in theory at least.Of course, your story can't be too complex &#x96; not everything can be explained visually. The Last Man is a simple tale of man enjoys job, man loses job, man mopes about a bit, man inherit fortune and has last laugh. Murnau himself later pointed out that the story is absurd because a washroom attendant (which said man subsequently becomes) would make more money than a doorman. This may be true, but at least the narrative goes to lengths to show the drop in status that the hero suffers. Much is made of the military-style uniform that doormen wear, and the being made redundant is made to look like the degradation of an army officer. The ironic reversal of fortune in the final reel seems both tacked on and dragged out too long. It would be fairly neat if it was just shown to happen, but instead the point is laboured into banality.But even with such a trite storyline, a silent picture without intertitles isn't necessarily easy. So what does Murnau do? He cheats. When Emil Jannings gets the news about his job, he is told in a letter which we see in close-up, which really amounts to the same thing as a title card of someone saying it. This shouldn't have been much of a distraction, but rather than just showing the letter we get words blurring back and forth across the screen, hammering the point home. And throughout the picture Murnau is continually showing off with technique, employing every cheap trick-shot the mechanics of the day allowed, as if that makes up for the lack of text. The bit where the old man dreams of throwing a trunk up and catching it might actually be quite funny, if it wasn't shot through some blurry filter with a wobbly camera. It's a pity because Murnau could be such a wonderful image-maker when he didn't get too absorbed in technical showmanship.Perhaps the worthy talents of lead actor Emil Jannings can help to salvage something of value. Unfortunately this giant of German cinema has one of his hammy turns in The Last Man, and his acting is just as exaggerated as Murnau's formal excess. His caricatured facial expressions and waddling walk are great for comedy, but when he gives that stupid doleful expression when his niece finds him working in the toilets it makes the scene unintentionally funny. Still, it's not all bad. For this performance Jannings has one of those elaborate moustache/sideburn combos which makes his mouth almost invisible, and this encourages him to emote more through his eyes and body language. There's a very touching moment where he sits by the basins drinking his soup.I suppose the fact that Murnau's other pictures are just as wordy as was the norm at that time ought to serve as a warning that he was not necessarily the best man to conduct such an experiment. There were around this time a number of directors who did make good pictures with very sparse intertitles, including Murnau's studio-mates Fritz Lang and G.W. Pabst, or King Vidor in Hollywood. None of these attempted a picture without subtitles, instead recognising them as a necessary burden, using them when needed but keeping them to a minimum. And their late silent pictures are far more satisfying than this corny and overwrought bit of self-indulgence. "},{"Title":"Incredible Silent Drama","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Last Laugh tells a simple, yet heartbreakingly tragic tale (that ends disappointingly upbeat, but lets look at the film's positives).The film tells the story of a hotel doorman who, because of his old age, is brought down to the ranks of being just a bathroom attendant. The way this is all presented is incredibly powerful, with no use of intertitles, some of the most beautiful camera-work and directing I've ever seen (thanks to the brilliant director, F.W. Murnau), and a smashingly powerful performance by Emil Jannings.It is all dazzling to look at, since Murnau's lens is jam packed with creativity, movement, and beauty. Murnau almost makes the city seem alive, just like he did in the later 1927 classic Sunrise. In some ways, this actually makes The Last Laugh a sort of prequel to Sunrise (not story wise, but cinematic wise). "}{"Title":"A silent film without dialog cards.","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The interesting thing about The Last Laugh is that it was shot without dialog cards. We never hear (or read) what the characters are saying. That distinction goes to how we see the characters react. The story is also really good and you really end up feeling sorry for the hotel doorman (Emil Jannings). He's didn't do anything but it's all based on a misunderstanding. And he therefore is demoted. FW Murnau really knew how to tell a emotional film, as we can see here. Emotion is the only thing that drives this movie. All the parts of the movie can be seen on the character's face. We don't need cue cards for this movie. If you're interested in Murnau or how he did this than check it out. "},{"Title":"An example of Murnau at his best","Date":"11 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" F.W. Murnau didn't have a typical storyline - he could do pure Gothic horror as in Nosferatu, social commentary as in Phantom, fantasy with a religious theme as in Faust, and the redemption of love as in Sunrise. What ties Murnau's work together is its imagery. He excelled at it as few directors ever did. The Last Laugh is a tale about an older man who is proud of his position as doorman at a prominent German hotel. One night he has had to carry some heavy luggage as part of his duties and he takes a break. As luck would have it, his supervisor sees him taking this short rest and assumes the worst. The next day the old man is reassigned to the job of washroom attendant. He does his best to hide his change of position from his friends, but they find out anyway. To make matters worse, they assume he's always been lying about his job and that he has thus always been a washroom attendant. At this point you might wonder - why exactly is this film named The Last Laugh? There is a somewhat tacked on ending that is the foundation of the film's title. I won't spoil it for you. "},{"Title":"Underrated Gem","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's by F. W. Murnau, which means it's forever overshadowed by Sunrise (among film buffs) and Nosferatu (often among film novices). I think it's the best thing he ever directed, though, and one of the best films ever made. It gets lumped in with the rest of German Expressionism because of Murnau's association with that movement, but really it belongs to another genre entirely called Kammerspielfilm, or chamber drama. Whereas the Expressionist films were saturated with complex symbolism (and consequently tended to rely on intertitled narration), The Last Laugh tells a plain and unadorned story about a typical working-class man and, revolutionary in silent movie history, does so with virtually no intertitle narration for the entire 100 minute duration. The result is an engrossing film that showcases both the powerful acting performances (particularly protagonist Emil Jannings) and the state-of-the-art cinematography techniques Murnau was pioneering at the time. I recommend it to anyoneEveryone should look for the Kino edition with a restored version of the original through-composed score. I've seen others with newer music but none of them have been nearly as effective. "},{"Title":"Let the Camera Be Free","Date":"11 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An aging doorman (Emil Jannings), after being fired from his prestigious job at a luxurious Hotel is forced to face the scorn of his friends, neighbors and society.Emil Jannings is the star of this film, but the clear star is the camera. This film, told with the unchained camera, astonished audiences in its day and remains impressive now. There is a lack of intertitles, with the story told through expressions and angles, with a camera that moves through a revolving door, an elevator, and more.The making of documentary on the Kino disc is amazing, as it shows you how makeup and hair were key to this, with Jannings being only 40. More impressive? The cut-outs, model cars, and forced perspective. You will never believe all the work that went into the background and how much you think you see that really is not there.Apparently the film has an anti-militarism message, stressing the importance of uniform (or the false belief of its importance). I would never have made that conclusion, but would the critics and historians lie? "},{"Title":"Hailed at the time of its release as the finest film ever made.","Date":"11 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film is among the finest achievements of the silent cinema. The old doorman (Emil Jannings) of a luxury hotel is demoted to the job of lavatory attendant, but comes into a fortune and gets his revenge.The Last Laugh is an ironic silent anecdote, made important by its virtual abandonment of dialogue and the whole-hearted adoption of a freewheeling camera technique which gives some thrilling dramatic effects. The film is the most famous example of the short-lived Kammerspiel or chamber-drama genre. The set was built entirely within a studio, unusual for director F.W. Murnau, who preferred to shoot on location. "},{"Title":"Amazing...","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Fridriech Willhem Murnau was a German director who flourished in the late 1920s, mostly for his post-expressionistic mise-en-scene, and his complete reliance on visual storytelling, a concept that a later visual director, Alfred Hitchcock, labeled pure cinema. This film, the Last Laugh, was made in '24, just before his next success and the film which still keeps him alive, Sunrise. The Last Laugh tells the story of a hotel clerk who is demoted to lavatory attendant, because of his infirmity. As brilliantly portrayed by silent actor Emil Jannings, this hotel clerk takes pride in wearing his military uniform and going to work everyday, and has reached a clichéd level of glory and respect amongst his neighbors. When he loses this position, he sees his whole word being destroyed. The noirish photography implies not only the influence of German expressionism, but also of such great filmmakers as Lang, Griffith and Dryer, all of them directors who had an impact on later European art-house filmmakers such as Bergman, Rosselini and Reed. The overrated value we attach to appearances and the way people are judged by what they are wearing is the center of this movie. Emancipating from the mainstream American way of movie-making at the time, Murnau does more than simply telling the story in a way that involves the audience's emotions; his mise-en-scene is always subjective, as if the camera was in the mind of his protagonist. In that sense, not only is he able to include the hero's dreams and fantasies in the story, but also portray the realistic scenery as perceived by Janning's view bright and shining at the first part of the story, while our hero is still enjoying his position as hotel clerk, dark and threatening in the second part, as the hero's situational development leads him to a more pessimistic view of life. Perhaps Murnau was not aware of it at the time, but the manner in which he balanced his direction, constantly alternating between fantasy and reality, formed a landmark of a film, possibly the greatest of the whole silent era, equal to such silent films as Metropolis, The Passion of Joan of Arcand The Lodger. This conscious disregard for realistic mainstream movie-making and the emphasis on subjective experience also originated and inspired yet another European filmmaker, who, even though lived much later and based his visual techniques on surrealism and neo-realism, founded his art completely on the intrinsic emotional impression of reality, just as Murnau did in this film. His name has Federico Fellini. "},{"Title":"Peripheral viewpoint....WARNING potential spoiler..","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The side characters of this film are interesting. Specifically his family's reaction, and more importantly the Night watchman and the Bathroom attendant who replaces him.    It was a nice touch having the night watchman be his companion at dinner, rather than his wife or daughter. Just desserts I think. And the attendant he gives dignity and human contact to is also a good touch.    A classic that epitomizes those who are born good, and when fortune smiles at them shares such bounty with those who might otherwise never know such kindness. "},{"Title":"No subtitles needed","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When a silent film can express everything with its pictures,it does not need any subtitles.That's the tour de force that der letzte Mann achievesthe only indications are a letter and a newspaper.The movie has been completely restored and its version,unlike other classics of the era such as Metropolis is complete .This is not Murnau's most palatable work,if we compare it with sunrise Nosferatu or Tabu,but it shares with the three mentioned works this guilty feeling that will pursue Murnau all his life.Du weisst nicht was du morgens bist is the morality of a movie that looks like a bitter fablebecause this is primarily a pessimistic workwhat,only his uniform could provide the old man with respectability and admiration.Once he's relegated to obscure works in the bathroom of his Atlantic hotel,is it possible that the man does not exist anymore?What 's tragic is less the lost prestige than what the others will think of it.So the last,lonely and wretched one steals out of the hotel and tries to go home the same waybut the news is leaking out and pretty soon he begins the laughing stock of his block.Only the night watchman  takes pity on him and this Good Samaritan covers him with his coat.Murnau has filmed an epilogue which ,he insists,could not happen in real lifehow many directors would be honest today to tell such a thing during the screening of his film?This epilogue is at first sight as depressing as the rest of the screenplay,when we see Jannings stuffing himself with food it's only when he goes downstairs ,in the bathroom where he meets his substitute who is the reflection of what he was before.Then he understands that only the human being matters.What a symbol when he lets a tramp sit besides him when he's leaving the hotel!Murnau's directing is stunning as ever the hotel,bubbling with excitement,the poor buildings where the porter lives and where we often see the people behind the windows like in a puppet theatre;Jannings completely drunk,acting as he if were still the important porter of the Grand Hotel,his whistle in his hand;then a dreamlike sequence where he carries tons of luggage as he had turned into some kind of Hercules.Another must from the silent era.Remake by Harald Braun in 1955 ,but the hero takes a back seat to..a young gorgeous heroine played by Romy Schneider. "},{"Title":"Essence of Silent Art","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First of all, this is a silent film (created before sound took over as its own montage). If you can't sit still for silent films, then just don't bother watching it. For those of you who are more interested in the aesthetics of German Expressionism during the 1920s, please keep reading.This film brilliantly develops a parallel between the misfortunes of the Old Man and the typical German psyche during post-WWI. Murnau presents the Collective Dream of the German People through the change of events for the main character. Many of the main elements include greed, inflated prosperity, basking in glory, pride in the uniform and the nakedness once the uniform is removed.Personally, I liked how Murnau symbolizes how the German nation was pushed to the washroom in humiliation after the Treaty of Versailles, just how the Old Man is. In short, it focuses on how were are in the minds of others and how we think we are to others.Most contemporary viewers might think this film was overdone. There's too much mania, too much depression, and too much indulgence. Yet, this is exactly what Murnau wanted to happen; the film wasn't created to please audiences, although the ending was changed for importing purposes. Altogether, this film is all about the imagery, editing, and rich acting gestures of the actors. It definitely is a must see for film nuts. "},{"Title":"an intelligent film","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I came to know of the Murnau's film because the band I am in performed live during a presentation of the film at my university.  We were the live soundtrack (the original sound was muted).  We practiced for weeks following the movie in mute.  (It wasn't until the end I watched the film in one sitting with its original music)  What a lovely film!  And the music we played fit in so well with the hotel porter's emotions. "}{"Title":"An enduring classic","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie in 1928 in a small movie house in Brooklyn. that played a lot of second-run foreign movies.  I thought it was amazing.  I thought about it often in the next 24 years and then saw it on television in 1952. It was still incisive and devastatingly well acted.  Recently, I re-watched it with my 39-year-old grandson who also loved it.All the rest I could say has been said by the other reviewers.  My message is, young or old, if you have any sense of irony, watch this movie.  "},{"Title":"The last laugh?","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  (Warning The following discusses this films plot in detail. If you're like me and don't want to know too much about a film before you see it then you'd better skip this).I was presently surprised by this silent movie. This is one of those films I heard about probably over 13 years ago and it finally crossed my path just last year. I also disagree with people who say the ending of this movie is a cop out or unnecessary. Without it we don't get a complete picture of the hotel doorman's character. We would only see before his defeat when everything is going his way and then during his defeat and immediately after it.Even after he wins (inherits a fortune) he's still a kind man. We know this from the added ending. He has no ill will toward the hotel where he was employed. He dines there (again after he's won), gives generous tips and is cordial to everyone, including those who put him in his previous predicament. The doorman was left with an extremely large sum of money. He could just as easily use his new found money and influence to fire everyone he didn't like at the hotel. Wouldn't most people? How many people do you know who are not only poor losers but also poor winners too? Not this doorman. He's a kind person before and after. Look and see for yourself.This movie probably only has two possible valid endings The one used and maybe one where the doorman is left defeated but shows that he survives. The later is good, but if you need an ending by say...Friday, then what was added was very clever.Also, the new music is excellent and actually adds to the narrative. As Semih says in a previous User Comment (8/1/2000) the cello is the doorman's instrument and it's true it is.Out of only three F.W.Murnau silent films I've seen Sunrise (1928), and Tabu (1929) were the others, I believe The Last Laugh is his best. And it's now one of my favorite silent films.  "},{"Title":"So moving its absurd","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This really is the perfect film. Each shot is handcrafted like a sonnet and equally mysterious. The sets are grand and daring and emil jannings brings the role of the porter to life with so much poignancy that every movement seems fitting, no matter how over the top. Every film fan should be forced to watch this movie or they havent truly lived. "},{"Title":"Solid proof of true genius","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The last laugh (as it is known in the English speaking world) stands alongside Birth of a nation, Battleship Potemkin and Citizen Kane as one of the most innovative and influential movies of all time. One viewing of this film, and no sane person could deny that Murnau is the king of German cinema, and perhaps the greatest of them all! "},{"Title":"The perfect movie","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Definitely the most polished and powerful of Murnau's movies. In my opinion, easily the best silent movie I have ever seen. This movie is almost purely visual, the few pieces of expository writing are worked into the film cleverly via papers and letters rather than bluntly cleaving the action. Murnau takes a situation that should seem trivial and turns it into high tragedy. Yet the movie still contains some incredibly funny scenes. In terms of plot, acting, sets, and cinematography, the Last Man seems light-years ahead of its time. Watch it for its own merits and to see where silent cinema could have gone if talkies hadn't come along. "},{"Title":"Room at the Bottom","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This classic silent film about the proud old Atlantic hotel doorman who is demoted to bathroom attendant due to his advancing years certainly lives up to its reputation as, The crowning achievement of the German expressionist movement. Director F.W. Murnau and storyteller Carl Mayer tell the story in pure visual style - there are no title cards to help with dialogue, and none are necessary. Without language to translate, silent films were universally understood. The piece is superbly photographed by Karl Freund and equally superbly performed by lead actor Emil Jannings.The film was an immediate worldwide critical and financial success, with high placement in the 1925 New York Times and Film Daily polls, at #2 and #5 respectively. Moreover, the Motion Picture Magazine had Der letzte Mann (as The Last Laugh) beat out its Hollywood competition as Best Picture of 1925, with Mr. Jannings receiving the equivalent Best Actor prize. The nightmare of growing old and unneeded is so forcefully conveyed, filmmakers included an inappropriate, theme-busting ending; but, even this arguable lapse in storytelling judgment is brilliantly done.********* Der letzte Mann (12/23/24) F.W. Murnau ~ Emil Jannings, Hans Unterkircher, Maly Delschaft, Georg John "},{"Title":"A review Der Letzte Mann (1924)","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Der Letzte Mann (1924) ** out of **** Directed by F.W Murnau With Emil Jannings Technically creative Murnau piece about Jannings being tortured and humiliated by anyone when is fired of his job. Count with first rate camera work which shows that big talent of one of the most important directors of all time. Jannings is excellent in his role but the story is quickly forced to an unrealistic and disappointing ending. Named for much - but not for all - as one of the greatest silents of all time. Just one with some highlights but not as incredible as much said; Not the best Murnau. "},{"Title":"exceptional film but perhaps a cop out at the end","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was an excellent German silent film about an old man whose life and pride were his job as a door man at a big city hotel. Unfortunately, he was getting too old for some aspects of the job and his boss callously moved him from the fancy uniform job of greeting hotel guests to being a washroom attendant. The man, Emil Jannings, was broken but tried to pretend to his wife and neighbors that he STILL was the door man--though this ruse was soon discovered.So far, I loved the film. It was obviously a movie that was the result of both the growing Socialist movement across Europe and German dissatisfaction over their ruined economy (though it was only to get worse in the following years). The film was an obvious but not preachy attempt to change attitudes and society.However, when Jannings was at his lowest, the film abruptly took the happy way out--even pointing this out on a title card. The old guy is the unexpected recipient of an millionaire's fortune and he and the older hotel security guard are shown living it up. This is fun to watch, but greatly diminishes the film's impact. "},{"Title":"The Last Laugh","Date":"20 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From director F.W. Murnau (Nosferatu, a Symphony of Horrors, Sunrise), this German silent film was one in the book listing the 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, I knew nothing about the plot or title meaning, but I was keen. Basically this film tells the story of a respected, experienced and happy Hotel Doorman (Emil Jannings), he is proud of his position at the famous Atlantic Hotel, with his responsibilities, and dressed in his fancy decorated general-like uniform. One busy rainy night he takes a short break, having carried heavy a suitcase from the wet weather, and he is seen by his Manager (Hans Unterkircher) not performing his duties in that short time, so the next day the Doorman arrives for work and is surprised to see another man in his place, he has been replaced. The Doorman learns that he has been demoted and reassigned to the less strenuous but ultimately degrading position of washroom attendant, but this decision is also because he is considered too old and not the best image to represent the hotel. He tries to hide this demotion and new position from friends and family, but eventually he is discovered, he feels dire shame, his friends think he has been lying about having his former position the whole time, taunting him, while his family shun him due to their shame. The Doorman has no choice but to continue this job, despite feeling great grief, and he uses the bathroom he works in to sleep in, but he finds kindness in the Night Watchman (Georg John) who gives his a coat to cover himself with, but he continues to fall deeper into despair. The only title card that appears at this point says that in real life the story would end with the old man dying in sadness, but the story takes an improbable turn. The Doorman inherits a fortune from a Mexican millionaire, who died in his arms in the bathroom, he later returns to the hotel he worked a happy man to dine with great amounts of food, he is joined by the Night Watchman. The final moments of the film see The Doorman respected once again, now as a rich and valued man, he and the Night Watchman get ready to leave in their horse and carriage, and they are approached by a beggar who asks for money or food, and taking pity on him the men allow him to ride with them in the carriage. Also starring Maly Delschaft as The Doorman's Daughter, Max Hiller as the Daughter's Fiancé, Emilie Kurz as the Fiancé's Aunt, Olaf Storm as as Young Guest and Emmy Wyda as a Thin Neighbor. I suppose the title meaning is to do with the slightly unfathomable and not fully explained happy ending, this was put in on insistence by the producer, probably so audiences would not complain, this could easily be seen as a dream sequence. The film is filled with great black and white imagery, including city backgrounds and hotel interiors, good costumes, Jannings is a wonderful character to sympathise with, and there is no need for any written dialogue because all the visual emotions grab you, a fantastic classic silent drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"Well, there's this doorman, see...","Date":"16 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Yep. It's about a doorman. A fat, pompous doorman. A doorman that, because he's getting old, get's demoted to Washroom Attendent. Then he does washroom things. Sounds dry, but it's not.Emil Jannings play the lead (did I mention, doorman?). He carries the entire film in a masterful silent performance. Truly silent; not one dialog card in the entire movie.Direction, camera-work and lighting are all excellent.Could've been a masterpiece if not for a ridiculous deus ex machina ending. Not just a didn't see that coming ending, but a ending that is just absurd enough to ruin the integral mood of the first 80 minutes.If you like classic silents you should check this out. But you will leave unsatisfied if you want an emotional payoff. "}{"Title":"Snatching defeat from the jaws of Victory...","Date":"26 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Emil Jannings, who played Mephisto to the proverbial hilt in Murnau's FAUST, scores yet again as Herr Doormann in THE LAST LAUGH. He manages to convey a sincere, touching dignity that his ultimate fall from grace makes all the more poignant. (At one point, seeing a little girl being bullied by other Dead End kids, he sends them on their way and graciously gives her a small bag of candy. No sooner has he exited the shot than the Dead Enders are back, descending on her with her little bag of goodies like a pack of vultures. It's this kind of small, sensitive touch throughout that helps make his final fate all the more telling.) But that's not all Murnau's mobile movie-making technique was light years ahead of what anyone else was doing at the time, and it's this improvised improvement that helps make THE LAST LAUGH one of the greatest silents ever lensed. With that single stroke of brilliance, THE LAST LAUGH advances the art of cinematography. (Much has been made of hand-held rigs with gyroscopic mounts, but one need only see THE LAST LAUGH to realize that there's more than one way to skin a cat.) The one glaring fault is, of course, the deus ex machina- the epilogue that Murnau was instructed to tack on to the end (which I didn't know- but had suspected- until I read about it here on the IMDb). More than improbable, it's downright stupid, and singlehandedly undercuts everything that has come before it (in terms of story). Even so, THE LAST LAUGH is still must-see film-making for anyone who takes film-making seriously. It's absolutely brilliant. "},{"Title":"The Last Laugh","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Last Laugh, The (1924) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Emil Jennings plays a proud and honored doorman at a lavished hotel but soon his world is turned upside down into humiliation when he is demoted, because of his age, to working in the bathroom shining shoes. There's no doubt this is one of the most beautiful looking films ever made but it might also be one of the most depressing ever made. There were countless times during the film that I wanted to turn it off simply because it was too depressing watching this older man lose everything he loved. The beauty of the film comes from cinematographer Karl Fruend who once again shows why he was the master in his field. The incredibly haunting shots really adds to the depression felt by the lead character and the use of superimposed images just add a haunting figure to the entire film. Jennings performance has to rank as one of the greatest from any era as he really nails the proud side of this character as well as the torture and humiliation. The scene where his beloved jacket is ripped off of him is incredibly sad and the way the actor plays trying to steal it back is just as sad. The title pretty much gives away the twist at the end of the film but it's also worth noting that Murnau had this ending forced on him by the studio. One could certainly debate that it wasn't needed and it ruined the film but after so much depression I didn't mind it too much. It makes for some cute scenes and moments but I guess each viewer will debate on if it was needed. Murnau was already a genius at this point in his career and he'd go onto making even better films, which just shows how incredible he was. The most noted thing about this film is that Murnau doesn't use intertitles to tell the story. A few notes are shown but outside of that this is as silent as a silent film can get and to me it just proves that a master filmmaker and a great actor don't need words to get emotions across. "},{"Title":"Such a powerful striking movie!","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is such a great- and even better told story. It features normal average persons who get in some realistic difficulties and struggle with life. You can just feel how heartbroken the old man is after loosing his job and the respect he had among the community because of his uniform. Yeah, uniforms were still a that big thing at that time. The movie especially does a good job with showing the contrasts between the 'two worlds', of money and respectability and poor and being just considered average, or even less. It makes Der Letzte Mann such a powerful and effective movie!I love it when a silent movie doesn't use too many or hardly any title cards. Just let the images tell the story. It takes a great director to do this but F.W. Murnau was obviously one of the best, not just of his time but of all time!The movie is filled with some greatly made and looking memorable sequences, such as a couple of great dream-like- and surrealistic sequences. In those sequences it becomes once all the more obvious how great of a director F.W. Murnau was.The movie is filled and even more uplifted by its fantastic camera-work! I love it when old movies use early movement-effects and pans and zooms, though obviously the movie doesn't use this all the time. Especially the beginning is memorable, when the movie opens with one of the first ever hand-held camera shots. It's different from the normal usual static camera-work from the '20's and '30's. But also the lighting of the movie is absolutely phenomenal. It gives the movie such a good, warm and effective powerful look. The same goes for the fast and nimble editing and compositions, that make the story flow extremely well. Old movies normally feel distant because of the old fashioned style and look. But not this one!The movie was obviously mostly shot at studios and the street sets look like they were made out of cardboard (which they most likely also were) but that is all part of the charm of these expressionistic German movies from the '20's, such as also Metropolis, Das Cabinet des Dr. Caligari and Faust.The make-up effects are perhaps an underrated aspect of the movie. I mean it's not a 'make-up' movie, such as Nosferatu, eine Symphonie des Grauens or Faust (both also directed by F.W. Murnau by the way) but remember that Emil Jannings was in his early 40's during this movie, though he truly looked like he was in his 60's or so. So some really effective and convincing make-up effects here! If you didn't knew any better you would just think that this movie had a 60 year old playing the main character.A great, powerful- but also beautiful movie experience, from F.W. Murnau!10/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}]