[{"Title":"The Lost Film","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"38 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In this 1925 silent era film, a Professor Challenger (Wallace Beery) leads a group of British explorers to South America, to prove to the civilized world that there exists a land of living prehistoric creatures. What the explorers find is exactly that ... a rugged Amazon plateau inhabited by all kinds of dinosaurs. It's a wonderful film concept befitting Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's adventure novel. The dinosaurs were brought to cinematic life via stop-motion animation, the first time that the then new technique had been applied, on such a grand cinematic scale. For its visuals alone, The Lost World is an important film.The problem I have is not with the film, but with the way the film has been mishandled in the eighty years since it was released. Much of the original film was lost or cut out, a sad commentary on the way our culture has underestimated the value of silent films. Recently, the film has been at least partially restored. That, in turn, has led to confusion as to the extent to which the film being watched reflects the original.My understanding is that there is or was (1) an original full length version, no longer available; (2) a thirty-two minute version shown as a short film; (3) a sixty-three minute original DVD version; and (4) a ninety minute restored, extended DVD version complete with soundtrack and commentary. None of these versions are exactly alike, and there may be other versions as well.The version I watched was on DVD, and was sixty-three minutes in length; there was no soundtrack, no commentary. Since this version is vastly different from the original, and different from other versions, a conventional critique would be unfair. All that I can do is to make a couple of general observations.The special effects were impressive for their time. But what I most liked was the film's sense of three-dimensional scale, as shown in many scenes, the tree bridge to the plateau, for example, or the rope ladder hanging down the side of the cliff with a person climbing down. Such scenes convey a sense of distance and height, important to any physical adventure or risk. What I found disconcerting was the scenes of dinosaurs detached from the characters. Most of the time, but not always, these dinosaur scenes were shown from the POV that would be optimal for the cinematic viewer, rather than from the POV of the characters. In other words, the dinosaurs were usually shown out of context to the film's narrative.The Lost World (1925) is an important contribution to early cinema. Although the film may be somewhat tedious to watch and technically crude by today's standards, depending on version, the film will most surely be appreciated by film historians and by technicians interested in the evolution of cinematic special effects. "},{"Title":"The newly restored version is as good as it gets.","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"24 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The new version released by Image Entertainment is simply the best you're going to get on this film. The image quality is excellent, a few lines & scratches here and there, but much, much better than the old worn and edited prints that have been circulating for who knows how long. The first scene you see is newly restored, giving a look at Gladys and Malone and why she won't marry him (in the old version we never saw this, instead it started out at the London Record Journal office). And there is so much more, expanding on scenes, scenes I had no idea about, and the soundtrack by the Alloy Orchestra is superb. A truly great experience, finally an acceptable version. "},{"Title":"The Grandaddy of All Giant Monster Movies","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"22 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  ***WARNING SOME SPOILERS*** This is the one that started it all, before King Kong, Beast From 20,000 Fathoms, Godzilla, Jurassic Park, etc.  Nearly eighty years ago, this ambitious silent film was unleashed on an astonished public, the story adapted from the famous novel by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.  Although there had been silent short subjects featuring prehistoric animals before, The Lost World was the first full-length feature to introduce the concept of such outsized monsters invading a major metropolis.  Today, such a plot seems terribly cliched, but it's unfair to judge The Lost World by modern standards- technically or artistically.  In fact, if imitation is indeed the sincerest form of flattery, this original version of the Lost World should be blushing from the attention! Willis O'Brien (who had produced many short animated subjects previously) was the primary resource behind Lost World without his expertise and participation, the movie would likely never have been completed, or even considered.  The film's producers rightly figured audiences would want to see the film primarily for the prehistoric animals, so the human cast took a supporting role.  O'Brien and his crew went above and beyond Doyle's story, populating the Lost World with seemingly dozens of creatures, (only a few are mentioned in the novel).  The inclusion of more dinosaurs allowed the film to feature them as the primary menaces, instead of the novel's plot of tribal warfare between natives and ape-men.  Except for stuntman Bull Montana as the villainous missing link inexplicably traveling in conjunction with a chimpanzee, this portion of the novel was excluded from the film.The film varies somewhat from Doyle's novel a group of intrepid explorers accompany the volatile Professor Challenger (Wallace Beery) to a plateau in the jungles of South America.  Beery's Challenger is probably the most interesting character in the film.  He's a man driven by his convictions and unwilling to back down on his arguments. In several ways, he can be seen as a precursor to King Kong's Carl Denham.  Lewis Stone as Sir John Roxton provides the only real subtlety of character, an older man in love with the sole woman of the expedition, Paula White (Bessie Love). Roxton sees his chances for romance fade as Paula falls for Ed Malone (Lloyd Hughes) a younger man who hopes to make his career as a journalist on the expedition. Roxton first conveys dismay at the budding romance, then resignation as he chivalrously bows out of this romantic triangle.  It's an unexpected touch of subtlety in a film that is geared towards drama and conflict.Inevitably- because of this emphasis on the special effects- this romantic subplot seems intrusive.  If only the film could have sustained such human interaction, or managed to evoke some compassion in audiences. Sadly, though the effects themselves are quite startling, the pacing and direction of The Lost World are merely serviceable. O'Brien and his crew worked wonders to create the dinosaurs and volcano eruption, but the technical wizardry is let down by the workmanlike, unimaginative direction of Harry Hoyt, who seems completely disconnected to the possibilities inherent in such a plot. Unlike King Kong, which wisely built up suspense and tension when introducing the prehistoric denizens of Skull Island, the dinosaurs in Lost World appear abruptly and without context. The brontosaurus, for instance, is first seen grazing sedately through a simple cut away from the live action, and is not shown in scale with the players until later, almost as an afterthought.  The Allosaurus that stalks into the nighttime camp, contrarily, is well handled.  With its eyes eerily reflecting the glow of the campfire like a jungle cat's, the dinosaur advances from the darkness towards the explorers.  Even here, however, the suspense is dissipated by the fact we've already seen the Allosaurus (or another like it) attacking first a Trachodon, then a Triceratops, so its appearance in the camp is less of a shock. (Its attack, as well, is too brief).As for the effects themselves, it is obvious that there were many technical bugs that O'Brien worked to improve upon during production the results are mixed.  Sometimes the animation of the monsters is smooth, (most notably with the Brontosaurus running amok in London) but in earlier scenes it is obvious much of the stop motion was shot using two or even three frame exposures between moving the models.  This gives the animation an uneven look, and it's odd that these more primitive scenes survived into the final version.  It's also strange that a Brontosaurus was selected to be loose in the finale, especially since this sequence wasn't included in the novel. Unlike Kong, the dinosaur doesn't have much motivation other than lumber through the streets.  Even the collapse of Tower Bridge seems anticlimactic rather than a spectacle highlight.  People are injured, but the dinosaur provides little intentional menace.  Had the filmmakers substituted a flesh-eating Allosaurus as the captive that broke loose (as shown in the posters for the film!) it would have provided far more of a threat.  (Hmmm, sounds a lot like ANOTHER `Lost World made 72 years later!)The Lost World has recently been re-released on DVD in a beautifully restored (and much extended) print, culled from several sources.  Most of this restored footage is of the human drama, but there are a few significant dinosaur scenes, as well.  There is more footage of the dinosaur stampede, and it appears some of the existing animation was replaced by a different `take' of the same scene featured in earlier releases.  On the whole, The Lost World is one of the more interesting silent films-- mostly because one can see some of the seeds of King Kong being sown here, seven years before. This version of the Lost World, while perhaps not a true classic like King Kong, nonetheless has its moments.  If you're curious about the birth and development of stop-motion, or see what inspired the more recent Jurassic Park films, I'd recommend visiting this Lost World again. "},{"Title":"Old-Fashioned But Still Very Entertaining","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"21 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Although the existing versions all have missing portions, and although the film is obviously old-fashioned in several respects, the original The Lost World is still a fine film and very entertaining.  It has an exciting and interesting story with some good characters and acting, and the dinosaur action, terrific for its time, is still quite watchable.Besides the adventure story about dinosaurs and other prehistoric creatures, there is also some decent human drama with a few interesting characters.  The earnest young journalist out to prove himself, the bad-tempered but brilliant scientist, the devoted daughter searching for her missing father, and the rest, are all slightly exaggerated, but most also contain some real substance.  There is a good cast to bring these characters to life.Naturally, the animals are the big stars, and although the special effects do not compare with what is done today, the dinosaur action is still creative, entertaining and worth watching.  There are also some good shots of live animals living in the Amazon area where the expedition takes place.This is certainly recommended for those who enjoy silent films.  It would also be interesting viewing for those who are more used to modern films of the genre - you'll see a lot of the ideas that were later used in films that are more familiar today.  "},{"Title":"Years ahead of its time","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"20 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" More than 80 years after its release, the first adaptation of The Lost World remains as one of the most influential silent films ever, due to Willis O'Brien pioneer advances in the field of special effects, as it showcases the first time stop motion animation was used to create creatures on a feature length film. These innovation was of huge importance for this and future films, and earned Willis O'Brien and his dinosaurs a place in history as an iconic image in film history, only surpassed by another of O'Brien's creations King Kong.Based on Arthur Conan Doyle's novel of the same name, The Lost World is the tale of Prof. Challenger's (Wallace Beery) epic quest looking for the living dinosaurs who supposedly live in the deep Amazonic jungle, according to the journal of his fellow explorer Maple White, who disappeared in his last exploration. Maple's daughter, Paula (Bessie Love) joins the expedition looking for her missing father, as well as Sir John Roxton (Lewis Stone), an experienced hunter friend of Challenger. Prof. Summerlee (Arthur Hoyt) goes as well, hoping to prove that Challenger is a fraud, and finally, reporter Edward Malone (Lloyd Hughes) joins the expedition, hoping to prove his girlfriend Gladys (Alma Bennet) that he is brave enough to face death.Cleverly adapted by Broadway playwright Marion Fairfax (who also adapted in 1922 another of Conan Doyle's works, Sherlock Holmes), the film is an excellent mix of action and adventure that even when it's not entirely faithful to the novel, keeps the spirit of wonder and fascination with the unknown. From the obsessive Challenger to the incredulous Summerlee, every character is very detailed and for the most part well constructed, giving each one of them a defined personality and a certain degree depth absent in many silent films.However, the film's best remembered characteristic is the incredible special effects by Willis O'Brien, who after mastering his craft in short films got his first work in The Lost World and changed special effects forever. His imagery is very vivid, and very detailed considering the limited resources he had. Sadly, Harry O. Hoyt's direction takes zero advantage of Fairfax's story and O'Brien's effects, and delivers a simplistic and unoriginal work that adds nothing to the whole work and seems to let the cast and crew do their job. It's not a bad direction as a whole, but it feels uninterested on the many possibilities a film like this posses.The cast is quite effective, and really does a great job with what they have, starting with legendary Wallace Beery, who as Prof. Challenger delivers one of the best performances in a silent film. Without the aid of sound, Beery shows a wide range of emotions in his complex character and is great in both drama and comedy. Lloyd Hughes is very good as the cowardly Malone, and showcases a talent for comedy as well as a romantic figure, as his character shows interest in Paula White, played by Bessie Love, who makes a fine counterpart to Hughes and delivers a natural, and fresh performance. Lewis Stone completes the cast and his dignified performance as Sir John Roxton is very effective.It's safe to say that The Lost World owes more to O'Brien and Fairfax than to O'Hoyt, and that probably with a more experienced director the film would had been even better. However, the film's real problem has nothing to do with the way it was made, but with the way it was preserved during most of its history. Nowadays there is not a complete version of the movie, most home video versions are of the 64 minutes version, while one (Image) is of a 93 minutes reconstruction. And while probably that version is the closest we can be to the original runtime of the film, it sadly has modernized the dialogs, to the point that some lines are rewritten to fit our modern standards.Hopefully, one day we'll be able to see The Lost World as it was intended to be, but meanwhile, we can still appreciate the enormous importance of its amazing special effects, and how it forecasts films like Jurassic Park in many ways. This epic tale of action, adventure and horror has probably not seen a better adaptation than this, the movie that set everything for the arrival of King Kong and changed special effects for ever. 8/10 "},{"Title":"First and one of the best versions of this story","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This first, silent version of The Lost World is the best one for dinosaur fans as it has more dinosaurs in it than any other. I have two VHS copies of this, an hour long version and the restored copy, which lasts for about 100 minutes.Professor Challenger leads a party into an uncharted part of the Amazon where prehistoric monsters still live. When there, they explore the land and see the many dinosaurs that roam it. They then decide to try and capture one of these alive and bring it back to London! They manage this and bring back a Brontosaurus, but it escapes and goes on the rampage through London, brings down Tower Bridge and then escapes down the Thames.The stop-motion dinosaurs are done excellently by Willis O'Brien and also include Allosaurus, Tricertops and Pteranodon.The cast includes Wallace Beery as Chellenger, Bessie Love and Lewis Stone.This movie is a must see, especially if you are a fan of dinosaur movies like myself. Excellent.Rating 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The story has been remade so many times very few people know of the original, and the best, in fact I had not even heard of it until I found a copy in my dads huge collection of old video tapes, and I decided I might as well watch it, what else to do, in the end it ended up being one of the best films I had everseen. Filled with amazing power, and the best visual effects that I have seen in any film from the thirties, much less the twenties. It also has some wonderful performances by its hole cast, and is expertly directed, in almost a Spielberg way, with the talent of Alfred Hitchcock. No matter how against watching old movies you are, you should watch this masterpiece, I have watched it over and over again, it never gets old.If you enjoyed The Lost World, you might also like, On the Waterfront, Its a Wonderful Life, and Jurasic Park. "},{"Title":"The Dawn of O'Brien...and Stop-Motion Animagic","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Willis O'Brien made some early shorts utilizing his unique concept of special effects, but it was this film, The Lost World, that made his vision first come to life so to speak.  O'Brien makes the lost world full of dinosaurs that seemingly do everything.  They eat, fight, move, and generally live on screen.  The film is a fairly good adaption of Doyle's book, with Doyle even having a cameo in the film.  A raging professor named Professor Challenger, played with gusto by Wallace Beery, says that dinosaurs live on a plateau somewhere off in the Amazon.  He is disbelieved by all concerned, and he, with the help and support of a rich adventurer, a cynical zoologist, a newsman, and a daughter of a lost professor on a previous journey, sets out to  prove that dinosaurs do indeed exist on Earth still.  The film has a nice, quick pace and is very entertaining.  Beery, Lewis Stone, and Bessie Love all do fine jobs acting.  The film has a new marvelous score to go with its silent action.  Best of all...the film boasts the special effects of O'Brien's genius.  A fine, fine film. "},{"Title":"Pretty Awesome for Its Time","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This was the first movie I ever taped when I got my first VCR back in the 1980's. I saw it was going to be on at 300 a.m., so I decided to try the programming to see it it worked. It did. I was so excited. The movie is so much fun. It has Wallace Beery as a borderline madman scientist leading an expedition to a far off island to find dinosaurs. There is a subplot of a reporter who is trying to talk him into letting him go along. There are scenes where Professor Challenger (Beery) chases and assaults this man because he hates reporters. Of course, we all know the story. They do bring back a dinosaur and it gets loose (ala King Kong) and leaves a path of destruction. The special effects are like Claymation, but one could only wonder how exciting and impressive these things were in their time. As a period piece, I urge people to see this. There are full length prints of it, not just the one some have commented on, which only shows the dinosaur scenes. If you have an open mind, you will have a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Before King Kong, there was The Lost World!","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Hello and welcome to my first review. Let me start by saying that the movie is not worth watching unless you see the IMAGE DVD version. Any other version is missing half of the movie and has bad image quality and incorrect tints. For those of you who are unfamiliar with movies from the 20's, this is a silent film which means there is a musical track playing throughout the film to match what is going on and in some cases sound effects. As far as tints go, unless everything was done in studio where the lighting and other effects could be controlled, the technology at the time only allowed for filming during the day so different tints were used so show that it was daytime/nighttime, indoors/outdoors, and other events. Since the actors did not have dialog in silent films, they had to over act a bit to show you what is happening. Inter-titles(written speech/narration) cuts in and out of the film. Let it be known that this means that you have to pay very close attention to a silent film to fully enjoy and understand it.The movie was made in 1925 and runs 93 minutes. The restoration involves the combining of 8 versions from around the world to give you the most complete version possible making this film one of the best restorations as of yet. The IMAGE DVD contains two musical scores, outtakes, audio commentary, and a reproduction of the original souvenir program in print where the insert is contained. I don't want to give anything away from the movie but I will just say that this is the first of the large monster movies and is the framework for any other movie of this kind without question not to mention that this movie is a masterpiece. Watch it a few times before you make your judgment and you will see how great it is. "}{"Title":"Historically entertaining movie","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Lost World (1925) D Harry O. Hoyt. Bessie Love, Lewis Stone, Wallace Beery, Lloyd Hughes, Alma Bennett, Arthur Hoyt, Margaret McWade. The special effects film of its time, a story based on the novel by Arthur Conan Doyle about an expedition to a lost world where dinosaurs rule. The version I watched was the most complete (running 93 minutes). Being a silent film, the actual plot is hard to follow but the special effects are terrific for a 77-year-old dinosaur movie. The most complete version was compiled from 8 different sources; that probably explains why the film seems very choppy and incomplete. All in all, a historically entertaining movie and certainly recommended to silent film buffs. RATING 7 out of 10. Not rated.  "},{"Title":"Very impressive for an oldie!","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I guess I'm sort of out of my league discussing this movie as I'm not a silent film fan and know absolutely nothing about silent films.Still I'm going for it because this movie was good. I liked Jurassic Park and similar movies. And, of course, those had better effects. But what blew my mind was how GOOD the effects were in this movie made 70 years before Jurassic Park. I've seen worse stop-motion animation on movies made 30 years or more after this one (The Beast From 20,000 Fathoms and Jason & the Argonauts come to mind).I never read Doyle's book and don't know if it's true to the story, but I liked the idea of the dinosaur being brought back to London and getting loose. (I like those types of movies where the big beast gets loose and wrecks things...Godzilla, Beast from 20,000 Fathoms, Reign of Fire, etc.) For all the technical aspects of this movie, you'll need to check out the other reviewers. But from a purely watching for enjoyment standpoint, I have to recommend this movie even if it is silent (although the disc I have has a pleasant audio accompaniment).To sum it up, this movie is not just for silent movie buffs. I really think the average person will enjoy it. I did. "},{"Title":"Greatly enjoyed this great Silent Film","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Always enjoyed the silent films and how actors were able to show their real talents by acting from head to toe with no sound at all, except the piano player in the movie house. This film starred some great Classic actors, Wallace Berry, Lewis Stone(Sir John Paxton), and Besie Love, (Miss Paula White),The Barefoot Contessa,'54, and many more. I could hardly believe the special effects that were created in this film, I never expected to see Dinosours and prehistoric animals with movement in the year 1925. All I can say, this picture must have been a great success years ago, however, this film at times made me think about King Kong and how Kong escaped and almost destroyed New York City. If you love to watch what people enjoyed in the 1920's, this is worth viewing. "},{"Title":"Quite Impressive for a Silent","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is the movie that got me interesting in the art of film making. It's the first and adaptation of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's classic tale. And in my opinion, the most faithful in keeping with the spirit of the story. The technical achievements of the movie are the most fascinating aspect of this movie though. Not only predating computers by a huge margin, but also predating the Dunn Optical Printer which became a standard in motion picture effects departments. The stop-motion scenes are quite lifelike, if not entirely believable. It also ranks with Jurassic Park in it's scientific accuracy, based on the knowledge of prehistoric life at the time. Occasionally, the animated dinosaurs step ahead of their time, traveling in family groups and herds. The story structure itself in this film is choppy, even in the restored length. However it is still very enjoyable and worth viewing at the very least as a curiosity piece. "},{"Title":"A classic adventure tale","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Lost World 1925 is a great film.It's a classic. I'm 14 years old writing this review.Not much teenagers watch silent movies, but I do. I'm familiar with The Lost World 1960 and The Lost World 2001,both of which I enjoyed. I always wanted to see the first film version of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's classic tale. This film has likable characters and of course, a likable storyline with a good dose of humour. The dinosaurs are good for their time. We see Brontosaurus(or Apatosaurus as it is known now)Allosaurus,Triceratops,Tyrannosaurus Rex and more. Wallace Beery plays a good George Challenger,and all the other actors too. Accompaynying Challenger is, Paula White, John Roxton,Edward Malone and Sumerlee. The ending is also great.They bring a brontosaurus back to London and it runs amok, it also destroys Tower Bridge. This film is considered influential on films like King Kong and Jurassic Park both of which are brilliant. Although, this film has had so many versions.The one I bought runs for 63 minutes.I was hoping to get to one that runs for 93 minutes.My verdict of this film 4 stars out of 5 stars, ****/***** "},{"Title":"Excellent Classic Silent Sci-Fi Willis O'Brien was a genius!","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is an awesome movie. It is the best & original Classic Film Version of The Lost World. Based on Sr. Arthur Conan Doyle's Novel by the same name. Which was about Dinosaurs & Prehistoric Creatures still alive in the upper reaches of the Amazon in South America. The film version is pretty much the same but to bring the dinosaurs to life is a whole other story. That job went to Special Effects Pioneer Willis H. O'Brien who would later gain world wide recognition with his ground breaking Stop-Motion Animation in The Classic King Kong (1933). Known to the modern world as The Godfather Of Stop-Motion Animation. O'Brien was a true pioneer. He brought Dinosaurs to life in an earlier Silent Movie Short called The Ghost Of Slumber Mountain (1917). His earlier Silent Movie Shorts when he first conceived the idea were corky & primitive but still entertaining today. His early starting projects for Edison used Clay Animation. Movie Film Shorts The Dinosaur And The Missing Link A Prehistoric Tragety (1915), R.F.D. 10,000 B.C. (1916), & Prehistoric Poultry (1916). Later projects the first & bigger project would not use clay. Metal Skeletons connected by Wooden or Metal Ball & Socket Joints. Very movable & flexible. Made to hold a one frame pose for an exposure to be slightly changed to the next & next. The Lost World (1925) I think was O'Brien's best work most of it except for few jerky Dino Animation Sequences. I don't even think that was O'Brien's Stop-Motion. Fred Jackman helped out with animation. Which he did the jerky animation scenes u see. Marcel Delgado who constructed the dinosaur models did an excellent job. The movie is a Masterpiece of early Special Effects I especially like when the Brotosaurus escapes the cage & breaks loose terrorizing the streets of London that is very memorable. The movie is in my Top 10 Favorite Films of all time. Check it out if you haven't already you Stop-Motion Fans & Dinosaur Movie Fans. I just recently got the Image Entertainment DVD Version which restores more then 50% more of the film which originally was 100 some mins. Now they have 92 mins.& has some extra features. I also have the Lumivision DVD of the 64 min. version that has trailer & those early Edison Clay Animation Shorts & 1 other Clay thing about Dinosaurs that O'Brien didn't do though like The Edison ones. Last it has Still Galleries & Notes by Ray Harryhausen plus one last thing Promotion Piece about The Lost World Puzzle. I would advise both but buy the Image Entertainment DVD Version though if you wanna really enjoy the film. "},{"Title":"Still by far the best film titled 'The Lost World'.","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A group of explorers find themselves stranded on a plateau where prehistoric beasts still live, cut off from the rest of the planet's evolution.This is still the best adaptation of Conan Doyle's gripping novel.  It may be silent but the characters are exactly how they were envisaged in the book, the dinosaurs are well-made and there is barely a dull moment.  The first film of this genre to really attract attention is still one of the highlights. "},{"Title":"THE BEST DARNED DINOSAUR MOVIE EVER!!!!!!!!!","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  OK, mabe only second best behind a certain Speilberg movie, but the first real classic. The first big-bugget (for the time) special effects movie, the first dinosaur movie and one of my favorites, one of my most prized possesions is a FULLY RESTORED 135-MINUTE VERSION! for everyone who wants to see the restored version, keep watching TCM and keep a vcr handy with some blank tapes.  "},{"Title":"At least as good as the 1950's Godzilla movies","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm not a fan of silent movies - that said, the restored version I saw was decent.  The dinosaurs were at least as realistic if not more than the Japanese monster movies of the 1950s and 60s.  In fact, the close ups of the dino eyes in Lost World looked *exactly* like the eyes of Godzilla, Mothra, et al. I find the silent movie format tiresome but this was great to see as a curiosity piece.  The audiences of 1925 must have been thrilled to see dinosaurs come alive on the screen like this. "},{"Title":"Fun for film history buffs.","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Modern audience members won't exactly be scared or thrilled by the living, breathing dinosaurs in this 75 plus year old classic.  They will see a visually amazing silent classic.  THE LOST WORLD tells of an exhibition that finds mammoth dinosaurs on a plateau in the Amazon.  A brontosaurus is brought back to London.   Willis O'Brien's stop-motion animation is rather fluid, (as compared to the short animated comedies he made around 1918)  There are also neat uses of matte work, rear screen and double exposures. The recent DVD re-issue of LOST WORLD is a keeper.  It even has LOST WORLD animation out-takes with single frames of O'Brien and his assistant accidently caught on film.  Requied viewing for the student of cinematic special effects.    "}{"Title":"Good silent, even if it is chopped up.","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film has long been one of my favorite silent movies, even though it was butchered in the early 1930's so that a lot of the film was just dinosaurs clashing. There were still a lot of human scenes, but there were also some plot holes. Even though, it is still a very good film, and much better than the remakes of it. The version that you see on TCM (Turner Classic Movies) is the tinted version with the inter-titles as stills, with special scenes at the end showing lost parts of the film (presented as stills also), short films by Willis O'Brian, and a promo for the original release. However, the version I like most is a certain video release in which the whole movie is tinted orange, with the original inter-titles, and it really is silent (there is no music), so it's more original than the TCM version. But any way you see it, it still is a very good film. "},{"Title":"It's the Stop Motion, Stupid","Date":"9 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Explorer Professor Challenger is taking quite a beating in the London press thanks to his claim that living dinosaurs exist in the far reaches of the Amazon. Newspaper reporter Edward Malone learns that this claim originates from a diary given to him by fellow explorer Maple White's daughter, Paula. Malone's paper funds an expedition to rescue Maple White, who has been marooned at the top of a high plateau. Joined by renowned hunter John Roxton, and others, the group goes to South America, where they do indeed find a plateau inhabited by pre-historic creatures, one of which they even manage to bring back to London with them.I like that they go to SA instead of Africa.The story is boring.and there's actually a guy in a bad monkey suit, but the movie is all about the stop motion dinosaurs. Still cool to watch them nearly 100 years later! And bronty in central London is spectacular! Also notable for one of only 5 films Arthur Conan Doyle appears in. "},{"Title":"King Dino","Date":"30 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Last weekend I attended a screening of Harry Hoyt's THE LOST WORLD that offered the one- hour version. The quality of the image was great and the score was performed live. And I only had the obvious reference of it Willis H. O'Brien, who was responsible for the special effects in KING KONG (the original 1933 version certainly), worked here, doing the stop-motion material as well. I'm pretty sure I'll write *King Kong* a whole lot more in this commentary since this is similar to Kong in many ways. I was actually very surprised because of that fact; I, certainly, expected similarity to Kong but really nothing more than something technical oriented. Actually, I would say THE LOST WORLD is pretty much KING KONG. It doesn't have, however, a very iconic character (nor a sad ending); after all, it isn't titled after the name of a specific creature (here we have dinosaurs of all kinds). But don't let this confuse you dear reader since Lost World does features iconic scenes. In other words, the dinosaur here (the one that suffers a similar denouement to the one Kong had) doesn't climbs a famous London building, equivalent to New York's Empire State (yes, this film, or better said, the last part of it is set in London, England), but we do enjoy a really wonderful scene featuring the dinosaur at a London landmark. Needless to say, this was made eight years before Kong. THE LOST WORLD is one of those films that are worth watching not just because they were influential. I mean, this is so much FUN! Unlike many films of this kind, it never hesitates when it comes to show you its main attraction (the dinosaurs of course) &#x96; we get to watch lots of fights between them (great and fun material) and some heart as well (there's a crazy ape- man too). I'm willing to seek the DVD of it and hopefully I get to watch the full (or just longer) version. Meanwhile, this one-hour piece was a blast and a perfect Saturday night movie! Watch it, even if it's the online version that IMDb is offering now for free. *Watched it on 25 August, 2012 "},{"Title":"The First Real Dinosaur Movie","Date":"3 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Long before Steven Spielberg's Jurassic Park The Lost World astonished audiences by releasing dinosaurs to rampage around Southern California, co-directors Harry O. Hoyt and William Dowling had beaten them to the punch with their 1925, black and white silent movie dinosaur saga The Lost World where a brontosaurus creates havoc in metropolitan London. In truth, the silent film The Lost World qualifies as the first live-action dinosaur epic. The ingenious filmmakers blended shots of actual flesh-and-blood actors with scenes of model dinosaurs tromping through the jungle by means of the static matte and the traveling matte so that both appear to be interacting at the same time. The first special effects guru, Willis O'Brien, paved the way for future classics with his pioneering efforts in stop-motion animation with which he achieved greater and more enduring success in 1933 with King Kong. Although time has not been kind to it, The Lost World still ranks as the best adaptation of author A. Conan Doyle's science fiction novella. Incidentally, this is the same Doyle who wrote the Sherlock Holmes mysteries. Until David Shepard of Film Preservation Associates restored The Lost World, this landmark opus has been shown in prints that eliminated about a third of its actual length. The egregious public domain versions average about an hour, while the Image DVD restoration boasts 93 minutes. Experts have estimated that the original running time of the film was about ten minutes longer that this restored version. Again, the claim to fame here is that The Lost World not only beat the Jurassic Park sequel to the punch, but it also predated the seminal Japanese monster flick Godzilla as well as King Kong. Everybody who has produced a fictional dinosaur film owes a debt of gratitude to Hoyt and Dowling as well as O'Brien and his behind-the-scenes collaborator, Mexican sculptor Marcel Delgado, who carved the miniature dinosaurs for him. Ironically, during the production of The Lost World, the suits at First National Studios didn't believe that O'Brien's ground-breaking technical innovations would fare as well as they did. Mind you, this wasn't the first time that O'Brien played around with miniature dinosaurs. O'Brien engineered the effects for the 1918 film The Ghost of Slumber Mountain, that some would argue was the original feature-length dinosaur movie. Reportedly, not only did Doyle see a print of The Lost World but he also liked it! According to the archivists at Turner Classic Movies, The Lost World was the first in-flight movie, shown on an Imperial Airways flight in a converted Handley-Page bomber from London, UK, to Paris, France, in April 1925. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly -- Okay.","Date":"11 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I hadn't been expecting much, so it came as a pleasant surprise to find this was a rather well-done flick. Instead of Annie the Dinosaur, I got King Kong in nascent form. The guy doing the special effects, Willis O'Brien seemed to be developing his craft here. The dinosaurs, while obviously models moving in stop motion, are not cartoons but realistic models. If a giant Allosaurus is about to attack, he whips his lizard-like tail around, just as the Ymir did in 20,000 Miles to Earth. They copied a lot of this stuff for the 1950s monster movies.And the plot! I don't know how closely in adheres to Conan-Doyle's novel, but in The Lost World we see laid bare the structure -- the armature, as it were -- of a dozen later movies, beginning with King Kong. How's this for a plot structure? A hardy handful of explorers and adventurers travel to an exotic land, dragging a beautiful young woman along. There, they discover dangerous creatures of monstrous size, prehistoric and alien. They manage to capture one of the beasts and take it back alive to the Big City, but it escapes and runs wild through the streets, smashing buildings, knocking over landmarks, eating people, and parking illegally in handicapped zones.That's what happens here, only instead of a giant ape or some ill-formed and befanged organism from outer space, it's a brontosaurus.The effects are really sophisticated for their time, 1925. And though the science may be pure hokum, still the adventure is an exciting one. What's missing here is the death of the monster, and the pathos of King Kong's death, who, after all, died for love, just like the rest of us. This dinosaur simple rumbles onto Tower Bridge. The bridge collapses under its weight and the creature swims to the sea and presumably freedom. Just as well. There is no record of a brontosaurus ever having harmed a human being before. This one was simply taken from its natural environment and presented with the overwhelming temptation to do so. Live and let live, I say. If you don't bother THEM, they don't bother YOU. Unlike, may I say, certain forms of spyware and the purveyors of male enhancement products.The acting is of the period and not worth much attention.This version of The Lost World is shorter than the 1960 Irwin Allen version and I enjoyed it more. In the latter, real lizards and crocodilians, dressed in fake horns and blown up to giant size, actually fought and tore pieces of flesh from each other. These models fight too but nothing is being wounded or killed for our pleasure. There's always the knowledge that what we're watching is what was known at the time as fake photography. Not bad. And not just not bad per se, but not bad because in watching it we seem to be witnessing the birth of an entire genre of films. Willis O'Brien was to pass the baton to Ray Harryhausen, who would carry on with the stop-motion work until obliterated by time and the advent of computer-generated images of the kind we see in Jurassic Park. "},{"Title":"More Dinosaur Fights than You Can Shake an Allosaurus at","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is the best film version of a wonderful book. Both were nearly lost to history - the movie through a series of bizarre accidents, the novel through neglect Arthur Conan Doyle's most famous character seems to have made the reading world impervious to his ghost and adventure stories, which I think (and he agreed) are generally better written and more interesting than the detective stuff.Okay, sure, they reduced the tribe of evil Neanderthals to a single specimen with a chimpanzee accomplice - but he's pretty scary. And yeah, that means they abandoned the gag about Professor Challenger looking like one of them. And yes, the aboriginal tribe is entirely absent. But then again, they gave us a Brontosaurus leaping from Tower Bridge, and a carnivorous biped that seems determined to depopulate the entire plateau by himself this Allosaurus eats a Triceratops, a Pterodactyl, and a couple of things I couldn't identify, and even tries his luck on a Brontosaurus before it falls off a cliff. The animation isn't exactly KING KONG caliber - some of the dinosaurs look like rough clay, with no scale tone to the flesh, and some of them are remarkably stick-like, but it was early yet, and much of it is very good. Plus there is more actual saurian conflict than in any other dinosaur movie I've ever seen. And I've seen a few.Wallace Beery is a Challenger for the ages, seeming to have strutted directly from Doyle's novels - there's no need for sound when the performances are this gigantic. Bessie Love gives her usual embodiment of demure sweetness, Lloyd Hughes is a fine if somewhat stiff male ingénue, and the great Bull Montana prepares for his FLASH GORDON Monkey Man role by here playing, um, Ape Man. Unfortunately for posterity, the movie contains a blackface performance of a comically cowardly character named - yes - Zambo. Zambo's best friend is a Rhesus monkey. Hey, it was 1925. At least this version, unlike Irwin Allen's later disaster, didn't kill any lizards... although a couple of bears do tear each other up for our amusement.Also features Lewis Stone, perhaps the only old man to actually die of a heart attack while yelling at kids to get off his lawn. "},{"Title":"Great Silent","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Loved the story line. Photography good for the era. This is one of the better silent films because it had many dialog cards. I would recommend this one to everybody. If you liked the first talky version of Lost World or the original King Kong you will like this.This is the story of a scientist who returns from an expedition from the Amazon with a wild story about finding living dinosaurs is meet with ridicule by both the scientific world and the press. Trying to raise people and money for another expedition to rescue a member who had been cut off and left behind, he finds himself with a very unlikely crew. After arriving they themselves become stranded. See the movie to find out if they get rescued or not. "},{"Title":"I love it! It just gets better every time you see it!","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Lost World is beautifully crafted and perfect! Just perfect! Lewis Stone is perfectly cast as the hero who goes to the island on a rescue mission, only to be attacked by legions of dinosaurs! The dinosaurs look beautiful, and the stop motion animation is simply marvellous! Lewis Stone is certainly in a different role to Judge Hardy, but he pulls it off well! The effects are to die for, and the script is perfect! The inter titles explain everything well, but the acting is just so great that they are not even necessary! It is just perfect! While it not be as grand as films like Jurassic Park once you see it in its full historical context, you see just how brilliant it really is! "},{"Title":"Bring on the mastodons!","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Having viewed The Lost World today for the first time, the predominant thing that struck me was the number of scenes that bore a similarity to ones in the original screen version of King Kong. However Kong was released almost eight years later in 1933, which makes me curious as to how much an influence The Lost World might have been on one of my favorite movies of all time.For starters, you've got the principal character Professor Challenger (Wallace Beery), who's convinced prehistoric dinosaurs exist in a section of the Amazon based on a notebook left behind by another adventurer, Maple White. White's daughter Paula (Bessie Love) survived an expedition there, though her father never returned. Challenger seeks funding to locate the missing White and prove that such creatures exist, but it would help if he wasn't such a nut. He goes completely berserk while making a presentation at the university when Edward Malone (Lloyd Hughes) reveals his identity as a newspaper reporter. Later he engages Malone in fisticuffs when the young man appears at his home to inquire about joining the expedition. Fortunately Malone has an agenda that appeals to Challenger, offering the financial backing of the London Record Journal in return for exclusive rights to the story.Other members of the Amazon bound group include Miss White, Sir John Roxton (Lewis Stone), and Professor Summerlee (Arthur Hoyt). Roxton fancies himself a love match for Miss Paula, but the age disparity makes that more than a long shot as the young lady's reaction suggests.The early stages of the trip offer a nice look at Amazonian wildlife, ranging from a jaguar and boa to a tree traveling sloth and a pair of adult spectacle bears that look more like cubs than the full grown animals they're said to be. Soon enough though upon arrival at the plateau where the original expedition traveled, dinosaurs make their appearance in quick succession. Heralded by a pterodactyl's appearance first, we're soon treated to brontosaurus, allosaurus and triceratops. For it's early use in movie history, the stop motion photography employed offers surprisingly adequate results. Considering that the film is eighty years old, it earns my appreciation for pioneering such a landmark technology.For me, the movie offers what I'm sure are some unintentionally funny moments. There's a scene when a brontosaurus prepares to do battle with an allosaur, and curls it's upper lip in a manner that would do Elvis Presley proud. Somewhat later, one of the camp orderlies throws a flaming branch at an allosaur making a night time raid, catching it in his mouth to resemble it's smoking a cigar. And is it just me, or did reporter Malone bear an uncanny resemblance to Charlie Sheen? It's my understanding that versions of the movie exist in varying lengths; the one I saw came in at just under an hour. As other posters have noted, there is a disjointed feel between scenes that cut quickly from expedition members to those of dinosaurs. My copy also offered an incessant upbeat piano soundtrack that didn't change tempo throughout the entire movie, somewhat disconcerting for those intervals of intense drama requiring a more somber or even a threatening tone.King Kong fans will sit up and take notice of some amazing similarities between the films. A log bridge connecting sections of the Amazon plateau is knocked down, this time by a brontosaurus. Later, when another bronto falls off a cliff into a mud pool, Professor Challenger has the bright idea of capturing it and bringing it back to London. Once there, the animal escapes to create havoc in the city as fleeing crowds run for their lives. Too big and bulky to climb anything resembling the Empire State Building, it does the next best thing by falling through and collapsing the Tower Bridge. "},{"Title":"Heroes, Romance, Snarling Dinosaurs, and a Scheming Ape-Man","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Audiences have become much more sophisticated since the 1925 release of The Lost World, so dialog like `I've asked Professor Summerlee to marry us. He used to be a minister you know,' and visualizing a cross-Atlantic sea voyage by showing a cartoon ship moving jerkily across a cheesy map of the western hemisphere, now draw affectionate laughter.  But as sophisticated as we've all become, we're still able to enjoy The Lost World because we haven't lost our sense of wonder, which this film plays directly to.  This film has all the elements of a grand adventure, even if we are no longer able to accept it as such.  There are still several touches that can move us, such as the antics of Jocko, the superbly trained monkey who plays the intrepid explorers' animal companion, and the facial expressions of the stop-motion dinosaurs, which often reminded me of the snarls of my own cocker spaniel. Even the Brontosaurus run amok on the streets of Victorian London was so detailed it put me in mind of the ferret my wife and I have been pet sitting for the last week.  Actually, I'm not sure which of them causes more chaos when he gets loose.  Though many things in this flick seem ridiculous by today's standards, including wrestler Bull Montana dressed in a very bad monkey suit as the sinister scheming Ape Man, more often than not they just add to the fun.  For instance, apparently to lend verisimilitude, a real chimpanzee plays the Ape Man's companion.  Now you and I both know that the chimpanzee is an Old World Ape and not native to South America.  But we also know that pterodactyls and triceratops don't live in Brazil, either, so why sweat the chimp?This movie was a huge hit and absolutely state-of-the-art when it was released in 1925 and while much of it no longer works, a great deal of it does.Footnote I saw The Lost World on August 1st, 2003, 78 years after its first release.  It was shown as part of the Silent Film Society of Chicago's Silent Summer Film Festival.  There was live musical accompaniment provided by Dennis James on the Gateway Theatre's Mighty Pipe Organ, and the 28 piece Lincolnwood Chamber Orchestra, directed by Philip Simmons.  The Gateway Theatre hasn't been operated as a movie theater on a regular basis since I was a kid.  I used to go and see movies like Goldfinger, Bullitt, and Hooper.  The last movie I saw there was City Heat, with Clint Eastwood and Burt Reynolds.  It's a grand old theater built in 1930, though only partially restored.  In a way, being converted into the Copernicus Cultural and Civic Center twenty years ago saved it, as it would probably have been multiplexed to remain commercially viable otherwise.  We sat in the second row of the balcony, which I recall was usually closed when I went there as a kid.  Not only did going there bring back a flood of memories for me, it brought in a flood of people!  The movie had to be delayed 20 minutes or so to allow all the folks to get in. This giant movie palace was rockin' with almost 2,000 moviegoers at $15 a head!  I ran into many old friends I hadn't seen in years, including the self-styled 'Ed Wood of the 90s', movie director David 'The Rock' Nelson, who was his usual enthusiastic self.  He gave me a flyer for his latest horror epic, Frankenstein vs. Sodom Insane, a copy of which he told me he'd sent to former President George Bush.Just for the pure fun of it I give this an 8 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"A must see for silent buffs","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a real treat for me. I finally saw the film in what is believed to be its entirety. A group of three dedicated men, armed with only determination, a copy of the orignal script, and Conan Doyle's book, (plus a lot of money) researched the long-cold trail to travel around the world seeking bits and pieces of the surviving prints of this timeless and irreplaceable film. They managed to piece together what is probably the best effort at film restoration ever attempted, in order to bring this classic back to the screen again. I hope they work on 'London at Midnight' with Lon Chaney next. Anyway, this film is a true gem for silent buffs. A wonderful story with melodramatics, damsels in distress and state-of-the-art (for 1925) stop-motion animated dinosaurs keeps this film in the genre of true cinematic history. Even a short cameo by Arthur Conan Doyle, silent but compelling, sends chills down the spine. If you can see it, go for it. And kudos to the dedicated men who worked so hard to bring it back to us. It's a far better effort than Spielberg's turkey, believe me. "},{"Title":"Marvellous Adaptation.","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There isn't a whole lot that I can add to what has been said previously.For a film of this era,it is really first rate.The dinosaurs are marvellous-you can even see them inhale and exhale,And Beery IS Doyle's Professor Challenger-brave,bold,outlandish,arrogant,and insightful and compassionate.A must see. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest classics","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A film both truly innovative and highly engaging....Its one of the greatest films of the era and earned its ranking in the annals of film history. Amazingly good acting by Bassie Love and Hughes....A great example of cinematography from the Roaring Twenties.   The most dramatic and artistic and best era of Hollywood.   "},{"Title":"Very Good for its time","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was one of the first big, exotic adventure films, and is still better than any of its remakes.  Its based on the Sir Arthur Conan Doyle book, and is not related to the recent Steven Spielberg Lost World, which is based on a book by Michael Crichton.  The dialogue is silly to the point of being hilarious, but this is in part due to the fact that its a silent film; long complex dialogue can't be flashed on the screen.  Furthermore, when you think about it, much of the writing in today films is worse(The 1997 Lost World isn't exactly a stunning work of drama), a thought which is really sad.  The special effects, created by the Willis O'Brian, who did the effects for King Kong, were easily the best of the time.  They seem even better when you consider that many years after this film, dinosaurs and monsters where men dressed in suits or lizards attacking scale sets.  I recently saw the 1992 version of this film and found it quite amusing that the dinosaurs in it where much less convincing than those in original, almost 70 years earlier.  This film was in many ways the predecessor of all the travel, adventure, monster, and sci-fi films.  If you watch Spielberg's Lost World, you'll note that it borrows many ideas from this film.  "},{"Title":"Historically interesting and fun","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The restoration of this film to its current 91-minute length was certainly worthwhile.  Little or none of the additions are filler; they are of good quality and help the story line.  The plot and dialogue are still a mere shadow of Arthur Conan Doyle's book, which remains one of the most enjoyable SF/adventure novels ever written (and possibly Doyle's most engrossing work); but a better adaptation at the time would have been very surprising, and none has ever been made.  The female lead character, played by the delightful Bessie Love, is foreign to the original novel yet works very well; the other characters are surprisingly faithful to the book, likeable, and not nearly as dated or stilted as could be expected for the era.  I enjoyed viewing it with both the more-or-less-original piano score and the modern orchestral score.  Those who are impressed with the dinosaurs as special effects should also consider that in 1925, scientists knew far less about dinosaurs than we do now.  The visual conception was not only as good as movie viewers of the time could ask for - I suspect it probably would also have impressed a 1925 paleontologist.  All in all, this is a film for film buffs, and of course no competition for Spielberg - but darned good just the same.   "},{"Title":"Brilliant work.","Date":"14 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I love silent films, and I have really enjoyed this one. But, that's not the point. Now, I was a really small fragments of this film as a kid, and I keep asked myself, where can I find this film? thanks to internet, I found it, and it was really a pleasure. The film is based upon Arthur Conan Doyle's famous novel, which was adapted more than once, but I think this version is the best. I also think that it presents a complete realization about a subject that is acceptable and attractive even today.It is a story about an island, past this world, a large plateau in South America that is filled with dinosaurs and all other prehistoric things. And it was founded by fierce professor Challenger (played by brilliant Wallace Beery), who returns with the expedition to do research and document.From my perspective, the movie ending is very significant in the history of cinema. Challenger brought a large Brontosaurus in London which escapes and started a riot in the town. And remember, this was before King Kong and Godzilla. King Kong and Godzilla, eat your heart out, Brontosaurus beat you to it! The special effects, for which I think that they were of great importance, were very good, that stop motion was always cool. Oh, and there's also the first usage of combination of animated and live-motion picture material. Awesome... Now, today there are not a lot of people who would watch silent films, but for those who are fans and who enjoy it, don't miss this. "},{"Title":"No, not the Jurassic Park film!","Date":"19 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The 1925 film called The Lost World is often mistaken for Steven Spielberg's 1997 sequel to Jurassic Park, but in reality, it is a film all to it's own. Surely it involves dinosaurs and jungle like environment, but i is a completely different film.This film is amazing for it's time. The special effects done on the dinosaurs is awesome, and some of the earliest stop motion special effects to date. The dinosaurs are also cool, how they devour the humans, and make life miserable in the town they are attacking. For an early science fiction film, this is one of the best, and deserves to be treated with more recognition. It's just as exciting as any other science fiction film, even though it is a silent film.If you want a cool science fiction film that is as old as a fossil, I recommend this film. It's got great action and story, and has as much pep as some of the science fiction films of today. "},{"Title":"Dated but enjoyable first version based on a story by Arthur Conan Doyle","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The film deals about Professor paleontologist Challenger(Wallace Beery), an eccentric scientist. The London Record Journal publicizes  ¨Famous zoologist returns from South America without proofs of strange tale , Challenger a well-known author and scientist, has returned to London with a strange tale of Mammoth, Pteradoctyls and other prehistoric monsters, roaming at large somewhere on the upper reaches of the Amazon. Unfortunately for the Professor's reputation for veracity, he refuses to give the exact location of his alleged discoveries and still more unfortunately, the photographs in his possession are so badly damaged when the Professor's canoe is said to have been evidenced ¨. Challenger leads a British expedition to the Amazon in 1912, a motley group formed by the journalist Ed Malone (Lloyd Hughes), Paula White (Bessie Love), adventurer Roxton (Lewis Stone) . The mixed characters in search for a fantastic and remote plateau where the prehistoric beasts still exist confronting adventures and other risks .In the Amazons , the journalist writes the following  ¨I will not bore those whom this narrative may reach by account of our voyage. Eventually we found ourselves in that no-man's-land which is formed by the half-defined frontiers between Peru, Brazil and Colombia, The sealed map promised Challenger to not open until we arrived here is only a blank page. Excepting a miracle, our expedition seems to have come to a premature end ¨. Later on, Ed Malone writes to Mr. McArdle  ¨It is just three weeks since we sent back the canoes and tonight we are camping at the base of the great plateau upon which Maple White was marooned . Challenger has guided us to this spot, and proved that the plateau is a fact, but we have no reason to believe that any monsters are roaming about up there. In Fact, I don't think ¨ . After that, the expedition find themselves confronted by dinosaurs, Brontosaurs, Alosaurs, among them. Then 'The Record-Journal' publishes  ¨Explorers reach the last outpost of civilization searching for Lost World may not be heard from again for months¨.This classic, first and silent version is a stupendous story of adventure and romance. The tale provides sweeping and exciting entertainment . The action scenes blend creatures and humans more seamlessly than ever before in silent cinema and has some nice battles between prehistoric animals. Surviving Brontosaurs,Triceratops, Dinosaurs,Alosaurs, Pterodactyls are the true stars , rise to the occasion to amuse in an otherwise dated and old movie. The fantastic beasts are stunningly made by Willis H O'Brien -the master of Ray Harryhausen- as researcher and technical director and sets and architecture by Milton. Furthermore, photographs by Arthur Edeson, being well directed by Harry Hoyt.Other adaptation about this story based upon novel by Arthur Conan Doyle are the following  1960 by Irwin Allen with Claude Rains,Michael Rennie and Jill St. John, 1992 by Timothy Bond with John Rhys Davies and David Warner, 1997 by Steven Spielberg with Richard Attemborough, Sam Neill, Jeff Goldblum, 2002 by Stuart Orme with Bob Hoskins, Peter Falk and James Fox. "},{"Title":"Great guns we can't get back!","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Here it is, the granddaddy of all Lost World genre movies. Many have been made since this one. But this is the one that almost all others pay homage to, if not outright steal from. This is the one that first set the bar way back in 1925. And amazingly, though many have tried, few have matched or exceeded the storytelling potential first mined in this movie. The original clocked in at 106 minutes or so, the version I own from runs 93 minutes and is considered the most complete. The cut down version of 60 or so minutes is not recommended.I watch this movie for historical enjoyment, not to watch it with the expectation of watching a great movie. It is not because this is a silent movie (there are several silent films I think are great), it is simply that the story lags in places and is a little loose in others. Even with that caveat, this is an amazing movie. According to the original 1925 souvenir program, 'It took six times longer to produce this picture than any other production in film history, for it was more than seven years from its inception to completion. It is in this spirit, of this movie as a pioneering accomplishment of imagination, that I enjoy it so much.The movie is based on a book written by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. The book is great fun and is well worth reading. Much of the spirit of the book is present in the movie. For the movie a female character and a romantic triangle are introduced. I can't think of any Lost World type movies that have failed to include a female love interest, it is that compelling and necessary in this genre. However, in this movie, the love triangle is tepid and somewhat dull. I suspect some of the lost footage is tied to the trading post scene, where a love ballad is supposed to be sung. Maybe that footage would have helped deepen the romantic triangle. I doubt it. But if the love story falls flat, the characters of Challenger and Roxton are perfectly cast, perhaps never since equaled. The constant and hilarious bickering between Challenger and Summerlee, one of the delights of the book, is at least represented in this movie.But it is the stop motion dinosaurs that justifiably make this movie famous. So many movies have failed to come even close to the bar set by these dinosaurs. This is their coming out party in a major film. They look great, as if they jumped out of one of the fabulous paintings of Charles R. Knight. They are active, quick and powerful. They fight and kill with gusto and ferocity! These dinosaurs are true tyrant lizards, unapologetic masters of their world. And at the end, with the brontosaurus swimming out to sea, we know that the true primordial can never be contained or tamed.The setting for the movie is a wonderful combination of paintings, miniatures and actual jungle footage. And there is so much setting to play with - an inaccessible, forgotten land, intricate caves, skulking man-apes, primitive tribes (in the book, not the movie), lost explorers, volcanoes which threaten to destroy everything, and of course, the hope that something could be brought back.This is a must see movie for all fans of the lost world genre. Who would not want to venture off into this primeval lost world? When Challenger calls out for volunteers, I want to jump up and shout, Sign me up! "},{"Title":"When the big rains come next month, we might float your rat out","Date":"4 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Lost World is a wonderfully entertaining film which incorporates stop motion techniques to bring the dinosaurs of the movie to life in a manner that is really incredible for the time. This movie really is a showcase for special effects in the setting of a big monster adventure movie. With large outdoor sets and big monsters, this film feels more like King Kong or later films with effects by Ray Harryhausen than most of the contemporary silent films.The story revolves around a group of adventurer-scientists who go on a mission to rescue a fellow scientist and prove that there are still dinosaurs living in the Amazon long after they are thought to have been extinct. Once there, they capture one of the dinosaurs and return to London with it, with results that might remind one of a much later dinosaur film. A side story of a romance adds to the plot.But it is the dinosaurs that make this movie. The special effects are incredible and, in my view, hold up today as much as any computer generated imagery. This is a great adventure story, skillfully put on film and years ahead of its time.I highly recommend it for anyone who likes dinosaurs and monsters. "}{"Title":"Jurassic Start","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This was the first screen adaptation of the Sir Arthur Conan Doyle story of prehistoric creatures still alive on a remote Amazon plateau. An expedition is lead (sic) by Professor Challenger and consists of a newspaper reporter, a big-game hunter, and his servant as well as the daughter of the plateau's discoverer, who is still stranded in this uncharted land. After a long journey, the group finds the prehistoric land and encounters all kinds of remarkable plants, dinosaurs, and ape-like men, according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis.Arthur Conan Doyle's The Lost World makes its impressive movie debut; the creatures, characters, and situations continue to be imitated, with no end in sight. Oddly enough, this silent version is a case where the original is not the greatest. Herein, the creatures and humans are not scripted, directed, or edited to full advantage; at times, it seems as if the characters are watching a dinosaur movie. More interaction between dinosaur and human was difficult, but possible; a similar lack of contact between apeman and human is inexplicable.The possibilities lost in this outing would be found, to the extreme, in King Kong (1933); a film which makes excellent use of Willis O'Brien's extraordinary stop motion animation effects. That film certainly takes fuller advantage of human/animal interaction.The Lost World adds Bessie Love (as Paula White), to up the expedition's romance level. Ms. Love's character wasn't even in the original novel; so, it's an understandably weak addition. However, she helps adventurer Lewis Stone (as John Roxton) give the film's best performance; as his longing for Love is just about the only interesting non-creature element. Wallace Beery (as Professor Challenger) and Lloyd Hughes (as Edward Malone) are good, as the film's other leading players.Unfortunately, the film includes not only explicit, but also implicit racially insensitive and inaccurate images. ******* The Lost World (2/2/25) Harry O. Hoyt ~ Wallace Beery, Lewis Stone, Lloyd Hughes, Bessie Love "},{"Title":"An amazing film","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is the first film of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's tale and significant for two reasons.First, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle appears in the film and, since he died five years after it was released, it may be the only chance you have to see the creator of Sherlock Holmes.Secondly, it was the first significant use of stop-motion animation in a major motion picture. The Allosaurus (I was really surprised they didn't use T-Rex), and the brontosaurus and the other dinosaurs were three-dimensional and really seemed alive. Amazing for 1925.Sure, it is a silent film, but it had a King Kong/Jurassic Park story that was fascinating. They actually brought a brontosaurus back to London. It went swimming down the Thames at the end and I imagine is currently seen in Loch Ness.The film features Oscar Nominee Bessie Love; Oscar nominee Lewis Stone, who was nominated in an Oscar winning film, The Patriot, which has been lost; Oscar winner Wallace Beery (The Champ, The Big House); and professional wrestler Bull Montana as an ape man.A true classic! "},{"Title":"Still the best adaptation","Date":"1 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Willis O. Brien's special effects are still surprisingly good and way ahead of the 1960 version even if he was to perfect them further in King Kong (for which this film feels almost like a dress rehearsal at times), giving the film an epic scale in the volcanic eruption and stampede sequences, while Wallace Beery is a perfect choice for Professor Challenger, embodying the gruff, belligerent nature of the character to a tee. There are changes to the novel &#150; not only is Bessie Love brought along on the expedition to search for her lost father (with none of the comic relief chauvinism from Challenger found in the 1960 version) but the pterodactyl that terrifies the streets of London has been changed to a lumbering Brontosaurus, which is certainly a change for the better &#150; but then Doyle's book is rather light on plot to begin with. The dinosaurs aren't as well integrated into the story as you might hope &#150; usually it's cutaways to herds of dinosaurs in their natural habitat &#150; and the racial stereotyping from Jules Cowles' blackface routine as 'Zambo' is painfully embarrassing and horribly unfunny (sample dialogue on seeing campfire smoke from the plateau That means our folks is still alive. It may mean dat some of those cannibules dat drop dat rock down on us yistiddy am cookin' 'em in dar stew-pot!). But it's hard not to like a film with dialogue like What are you thinking of, Paula &#150; in this lost world of ours? or Challenger's immortal My brontosaurus has escaped! Keep off the streets &#150; until I recapture it! and where our hero's rival for his girl back home's affections is called Percy Bumberry! "},{"Title":"The LOST WORLD (1925) returns on DVD","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Made in my grandfather's time, the 1925 Lost World returns in a complete 90 minute version --- and delivers much greater entertainment value and finer animation than expected.Don't be afraid of renting a silent movie. This one has an excellent musical score and sound effects, and the picture is bright and crisp. The story is very good, the acting excellent, the actors and actresses have real star quality.The jungle animals --- particularly the dinosaurs -- is some of the best ever. The question is not whether a 1925 film can stand up to today's standards, it's whether the computer animated dinosaurs of Peter Jackson and Steven Spielberg can measure up to either the 1925 excellence of LOST WORLD or the 1933 excellence of KING KONG. The answer is that Jackson and Spielberg's dinosaurs looked pretty silly whether compared to these great films or not. The difference is that real men of vision and talent were all over Hollywood back then, and today's limp-spined wannabees don't fill their shadow.It cost us 55 cents each to enjoy LOST WORLD, compared to $8.00 to suffer the agony of Peter Jackson's foolish King Kong remake. No wonder Jackson's movie was stone cold dead in 7 weeks while Lost World returns fresh and new after 80 years. "},{"Title":"A supreme adventure from the mind of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, and featuring among the finest special effects of the silent era","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It was just one week ago that I started and completed reading Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's 'The Lost World,' his stunning 1912 account of an expedition that discovers prehistoric life on an isolated South American plateau. The novel massively boosted my opinion of the great author &#150; even after having read his entire collection of fascinating Sherlock Holmes stories (which took me a good six months) &#150; and 'The Lost World' now ranks among my all-time favourites. There are, of course, countless film adaptations of the story, and, wasting no time, I quickly tracked down the very first of them &#150; an old and rather battered VHS tape of 'The Lost World (1925),' directed by Harry O. Hoyt and featuring probably the finest visuals effects of its time.We are all, no doubt, completely aware of the great Professor Challenger (Wallace Beery), the bulky, quick-tempered scientist who arranges an expedition to discover the prehistoric plateau. The film's main character is clumsy London Gazette journalist Edward E. Malone (Lloyd Hughes), who is desperate for an adventure. Prof. Summerlee (Arthur Hoyt) is reserved and skeptical, and often becomes engaged in childish bickering with Professor Challenger over the authenticity of his fantastic claims. There is also the famed hunter Sir John Roxton (Lewis Stone), who is a flawless shot with the rifle and is never afraid to step into the very jaws of peril. Notably, Arthur Conan Doyle's original novel was very scarce on female characters &#150; the only substantial example being Gladys Hungerford (played here by Alma Bennett), Malone's selfish fiancé who refuses to marry him unless he becomes a real man. To counter this gender imbalance, screenwriter Marion Fairfax added Miss Paula White (Bessie Love), the adventurous daughter of Maple White, the doomed explorer who originally stumbled upon the plateau. This addition also allows for a (rather predictable) love story, since it's completely unreasonable for young Malone to conclude the film as a single man.Before I launch any further into my review of the film, it is worth noting that, over time, many portions of 'The Lost World' have gone missing. Whilst it originally ran at 106 minutes, the version that I watched was little over an hour in length, which is significant in that my main complaint with the film was how rushed it all seemed. Fortunately, more complete restorations are now available, and, in 2004, an incomplete tinted/toned/hand-coloured nitrate 35mm print of the original version was uncovered. Hopefully, as soon as I get my hands on a more definitive copy of 'The Lost World,' I'll be better able to appreciate it. In any case, the remainder of my review will, of course, concern only the shortened version.Without a doubt, it is the special effects that are the film's main assets. Willis H. O'Brien was largely responsible for the excellent stop-motion animation of the dinosaurs, and the experience was undoubtedly an essential warm-up for the iconic effects to be found in 'King Kong (1933),' directed by Merian C. Cooper and Ernest B. Schoedsack. The latter film was also certainly influenced by 'The Lost World' in several other ways, including the general Lost World theme and the destructive escape of the captured beast into a bustling city (notably, Steven Spielberg also pays tribute to this film in his underrated 1997 effort, 'The Lost World Jurassic Park,' in which a Tyrannosaurus Rex escapes in San Diego). For this film, it is a Brontosaurus which wreaks havoc across London, a substantial departure from Conan Doyle's story (where it is merely a Pterodactyl).Up until the point where we get our first glimpse of the mighty dinosaurs, I had decided that the film was a very loyal adaptation. The opening scenes in London were very well handled, and served wonderfully to introduce all the characters and their intricacies. After an impressive canoe trip through the danger-ridden Amazon jungle, the enthusiastic adventurers ascend onto the plateau via a felled tree trunk, and this is excellently done, with no small thanks to some clever model work. However, despite the special effects, it is apparent that Hoyt was not overly experienced with creating suspense and wonder, the one thing that made Cooper and Schoedsack's 'King Kong' so memorable. There is no steady build-up towards our first sight of the mighty Brontosaurus; we merely cut to it out of nowhere, and you can't help but feel that the director is doing O'Brien's excellent work a disservice.Most of the scenes involving the dinosaurs are exciting to watch &#150; particularly a nighttime assault from a hungry Allosaurus &#150; but there just isn't enough interaction between the humans and the dinosaurs for it to be magnificent, though I'm aware that technical restrictions would most certainly have played a part in this. With the story focusing largely on the dinosaur, the plot completely excludes Doyle's primitive human population on the plateau, and there are only two of the dreaded ape-man Missing Links (Bull Montana, accompanied by a young chimpanzee). When the five adventurers suddenly discovered a means of escaping the plateau, I was convinced that it must be too soon for that, though, once again, this poor pacing might be attributed to the wealth of missing footage. Nevertheless, though the film as a whole might not be described as masterful, the visuals effects are nothing but, and its Jurassic creations are more than enough reason to give 'The Lost World' a try. "},{"Title":"One of the better adaptations of the tale.","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" And the first of its kind too. The first movie made of Arthur Conan Doyle's Lost World story, and the first motion picture ever to use stop motion animation. Over all this is a wonderful flick. The sets and staging are all well done, costumes and makeup are far better than average, the photography is very well done, and the acting is for the most part first rate. I thought Lewis Stone particularly impressive as Sir John Roxton. Stone had a way of coming across as natural, which thing seems a refreshing oddity in older movies like this when over the top was thought to be a requirement. Wallace Beery's Prof. Challenger is also extremely well done. Bessie Love isn't my idea, being familiar with the tale, of the Paula White character. Other than that everyone else seems to fit their roles right well. But it was the stop motion, the sets, and the makeup that awed me. The ape men LOOKED like ape men, and not some guy in a gorilla suit. These were all of such better quality than, say, the majority of movies of a similar ilk from the 40s, 50's, 60's and even into the 70's. Lots of talent in these areas, making the film just that much more worth watching. And then there is that added advantage of it being a silent. The question of sound quality is, well, mute. "},{"Title":"This review is based ONLY on the severely truncated version that is a little over an hour long!","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This film really made me feel wistful. You see, the original version of this film was about 50% longer and I really would like to see what some idiots chose to remove from the original print. This is especially true for the very end, as the film ends way too abruptly and it looks like there MUST have been a lot more to this movie. As it was, the film was way too choppy and I'll one day look for a more complete version.The movie is a masterpiece for 1920s stop-motion photography. Willis O'Brien, who later became famous for this type of filming in 1933's KING KONG, was also the guy responsible for bringing to life the dinosaurs in this film. The overall effect really isn't that much different than a decade later--as both films are wonderful for the time. Sure, it's possible to make them seem almost 100% real today, but for the 20s and 30s, this was amazing stuff.The plot involves a crazed anthropologist (Wallace Beery) who insists that there is a land filled with living dinosaurs in South America and he wants to mount a return expedition to find a colleague who was stranded there. Though scoffed at by other professors, he is able to get funding and convince others to come with him. Once there, they find pretty much what you'd expect they'd find (except that there are some African creatures here as well--oh, well, if they can have dinosaurs, why not chimps?!). The only surprise is that they bring back a live Brontosaurus and it pretty much does a King Kong-type escape at the end and runs amok in London, not New York. And, while all this doesn't seem very original, remember that KING KONG was second--this was the first film of its type and so it deserves a lot of kudos and recognition for its place in film history. "},{"Title":"The Original Creature Feature","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Before King Kong scaled the Empire State Building, Godzilla stalked the streets of Tokyo and Spielberg's T-Rex gobbled up that lawyer, a brontosaurus in The Lost World swam down the Thames river. As well as containing the prototypes of the over-sized beasties that would come to populate other movies of this sort, The Lost World features other characters typical of this genre, including a scientist committed to the point of madness in his quest for some mysterious creature, a reporter or writer who tags along out of curiosity and a plucky young woman (often searching for a father who went missing on a similar excursion). Of course the human beings in such movies are usually of secondary interest (with the exception of the great Fay Wray), so the real question here is, how well do The Lost World's dinosaurs and the twenties stop motion special effects hold up? The answer is, surprisingly well. Perhaps the animals would have looked fake in Technicolor, but they are quite impressive in black and white, especially the predatory allosauruses (although they are rather cute in close up when they fastidiously lick their digits after a particularly juicy chunk of flesh or snarl like Elvis Presley.) The only complaint I had about this movie was the abrupt jumping from one plot point to another&#151;the young male and female leads who seem barely acquainted are all of a sudden engaged by the middle of the movie. After reading other comments, however, I realized that these problems were probably due to my viewing a shortened version, 63 minute version of this film. If possible, try to find the full 93 minute version. "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Lost World (1925) *** 1/2 (out of 4) A scientist alerts the world that dinosaurs are alive and well in the Amazon so an expedition goes in search of them. It's rather amazing at how well this film stands up even after two remakes and countless other rip offs. Let's not even get started at how much King Kong ripped off from this movie as this one here is pretty much the exact same story except Kong, of course, featured a huge ape. The special effects here still hold up very well considering their age. I can't help but wonder what it would have been like in 1925 seeing these for the first time. I've heard reports that people were running out of the theater in fear and I can certainly see this happening. The performances aren't that great and the story could have been done a lot better but there's no denying the magic that can be found here. There are currently a couple different versions of this out there. One runs nearly 85-minutes and another one running under 70-minutes, which can be found on many public domain releases. I personally prefer the shorter version but opinions differ on the two. "},{"Title":"not a great plot, but some stunning visuals (for a B movie anyway) and state-of-the-art special effects","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Harry Hoyt's The Lost World is about as thriving an adventure picture one might try to find in the silent film world of 1925. This doesn't mean that the film overall is an incredible landmark, only in part and only there on the technical side of things. But where it does succeed is taking a sense of bewilderment and danger with an unknown world- as one would find in print ala Arthur Conan Doyle's text- and transform it into something as 3-D as possible for the period. It's flaws are mostly in continuity and unnecessary plot points (or, actually, points that could make for a more compelling adventure movie, had it been longer or more focused in B-movie terms). One might wonder why there's even a love interest angle between Paula White (lovely and most-oft scared or in good-mode crying Bessie Love) and the news reporter in the midst of all of the mayhem in the jungle. Or what the deal is with that ape-man who meddles in the escape attempts- one of those classic cliffhanger moments- even as it is cheerfully campy. And given how primitive some of the production design is, it's a wonder they were able to get the actors and the models in the same shots! But when it does work it's classic dinosaur excitement, even when going past 80 years time. As the first stop-motion techniques used, it is extraordinary, just to see a fight between a gnarling brontosaurus and a small T-Rex-ish dinosaur, and preceding King Kong by eight years (and with many of the same crew including O'Brian especially) there's a sad quality to the dinosaurs like said brontosaurus as it wiggles all bruised and in tar at the bed of the mountain. Just seeing the stegosauroses all on the move in packs, or the first sudden image of the pterodactyl, is thrilling. It's crude and not without some jagged timing due to the nature of how silent film (when not properly restored like the DVD I watched), yet there's never a dull moment once the action starts rolling around; only Wallace Beery can add to the fun as his reaction shots as 'Challenger' are as classic as the dinos themselves. And the climax, like Kong, saves it from losing its focus once leaving the island. Only this time, as opposed to Cooper's film, we jump right away to the monster let loose in the city with a string of infamous images.It goes without saying that there's some irony in seeing the sequence put to music that was also used in the 'romantic' moments of Barry Lyndon. But Hoyt and company's success is like that of a new model of a hybrid-car; you're getting something you're used to, like a pot-boiler of a tale tuned with a little more class and spunk, and made fresh with stuff that's new and out-there. Parts may look typical and even slow, but it's also alive in ways that many CGI action films of today (Eragon I'm looking at you) fall flat completely in comparison. "}{"Title":"It's Only Half a Movie","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I taped The Lost World off of Turner Classic Movies, and I presume their copy is similar to those available at rental outlets. As I watched I was enthralled by the special effects, but the plot confused me to the point of annoyance. After the movie, the TCM host announced that the 65-minute version we'd just seen was only half the original length and that the film been butchered in the 1930s to essentially only the special effects scenes. Then a series of stills were shown and the plot-holes verbally filled.Butchery is an understatement. The film as a cohesive story has been ruined. Its only interest now (at least this version) is for film historians and the like. A tragedy.  "},{"Title":"That King Kong Style!","Date":"19 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The first film adaptation of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's classic novel about a land where prehistoric creatures still roam.This early film is a great blend of humor and science fiction. On the one hand we have a pretty good humorous romance (I do not want to say romantic comedy) of a young woman who wants her suitor to do something daring... and we shall see how this leads to some wild escapades.But the movie is much better known as the work of Willis O'Brien, who also created King Kong. The talent is evident here, especially once we see the T-Rex loose in the city. If O'Brien had a successor, it was of course Ray Harryhausen. And even more than in King Kong, we can see here the sort of thing that Harryhausen would make famous decades later. "},{"Title":"An amazing and groundbreaking classic.","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Any film buff with half a brain who has seen this film will appreciate its place as one of the most important special effects films of all time. It baffles me the rating stands at a mere 7.1 on this site. While not a masterpiece in every sense of the word (the dinosaurs are far more compelling than the humans), this 1925 gem was single-handedly responsible for pioneering stop-motion animation and inspired countless filmmakers to pursue their dreams well after the film's release. Factoring in the film's outdated stereotypes and racism into one's opinion of how it holds up today is pathetic and pointless! It's hard to say how things would have been different and what rate visual effects would have evolved had this not been made. Willis O'Brien refined the methods he used on TLW for King Kong a mere 8 years later, a classic which owes its special effects, story, and legacy to The Lost World. The craftsmanship and wonder that TLW displays is beyond comparison; no lost world movie since has given such an epic display of prehistoric life. Remarkable. See the restored edition if possible! "},{"Title":"Oh Give Me  A Home, Where The Brontosaurus Roam","Date":"8 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If I could write in my review that the 1960 version of The Lost World was in need of a remake with computer generated dinosaurs from Jurassic Park, than certainly it would hold true for this silent version from 1925. It doesn't detract however from the fact that audiences marveled at this one in the theaters during that year.When talkies arrived no one would have ever cast Wallace Beery as Arthur Conan Doyle's Professor George Challenger. Beery is unrecognizable beneath that bushy head and heavy beard. Claude Rains from 1960 was definitely Conan Doyle's idea of Challenger. Beery has gotten possession of a diary from Bessie Love's father who was marooned on a plateau in the still unexplored areas of the Amazon tributary headwaters. He claims through that diary that dinosaurs roam that area only to be met with derision. In fact Beery's special almost pathological hate is reserved for the press.But through the press, Edward Hughes's newspaper, an expedition is financed and it consists of Beery, Hughes, Love, Lewis Stone as a celebrated big game hunter and Arthur Hoyt who is Challenger's scientific rival and chief critic.The animated special effects are state of the art in 1925 and are pretty good even today. The plateau is all that the diary claims and more. Beery and company even bring back a large souvenir from the place and it wreaks as much havoc on London as King Kong did in New York. Wouldn't be surprised if Meriam C. Cooper and Ernest Schoedsack got their idea for King Kong from the Lost World.The Lost World is ancient and dated, but still good viewing. "},{"Title":"The Grandaddy of all monster films","Date":"24 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If 'King Kong' is seen as the Daddy of all monster films, then the earlier - 1925 - Willis H O'Brian creation 'The Lost World' must surely be seen as the Grandaddy of them all. Although not the first time that stop-motion photography had been used in cinema history (I think that award goes to a long forgotten, and rarely seen, series of animations about Gertie the Dinosaur), this was certainly the first time that such a technique featured in a major feature film. This film is now doing the rounds of the West of England with a new score composed by JJ Garden of The Scissor Sisters, and I caught a showing of it at my local cinema, The Curzon in Clevedon, tonight.The film has undoubtedly dated, and has a plot line through which a full sized T-Rex could be driven (although this has more to do with the fact that the film has been so chopped and messed about with over the years that it, I would imagine, bares little resemblance to the original released version all those years back). There are character that seem to appear from nowhere - including what appears to be a blacked-up native in the Brazilian section (not the apeman, although he/it seems an odd addition to the film!), and some of the acting - most notably Bessie Love - definitely belongs to another era. Having said all that the effects still impress at times, and the influence this film had on all subsequent monster films, from the aforementioned King Kong through the monster films of the 1950s right up and beyond Jurassic Park etc can be seen in every jagged movement the dinosaurs make! At one point a dinosaur sticks his tongue out and my thoughts immediately went to the Alien series of films - I would doubt that any film before or since has such a lasting influence on the history of cinema.One point on the music. JJ Garden has composed a score consisting of electronic keyboard effects etc, which sounds amazing inside the auditorium, and occasionally illuminates the film to a degree, but personally I found it rather grating after a while and I wished for a little more variety and humour. Still, a small price to pay to be able to see such an important piece of cinema history in the way it was meant to be seen, on a big screen with a large crowd etc! "},{"Title":"Making the mould","Date":"5 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Even through the distance of nearly 100 years, and cinematic developments which include sound, colour, and CGI, it is easy to see the impact which the 1922 The Lost World would have had on the movie-going public.The whole phenomenon of moving pictures was still new and, without warning, the genius of Willis O'Brien puts on screen moving dinosaurs - living, breathing creatures which have been extinct for millions of years. How can this be? We know the answer to that now, and we also know that O'Brien's art has almost been squeezed out by the greater photographic reality of the computer. But, d'you know, O'Brien's work still stacks up.One has to look at it in the context of its era, of course - a monochrome silent film from 1922 - but it is masterful artistry, and groundbreaking technically. For anyone who purports to have a yen for special effects movies, this is compulsory viewing. "},{"Title":"David Jeffers for SIFFblog.com","Date":"15 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Monday November 16, 7pm, The Paramount, SeattleGreat guns! We can't get back! We're prisoners - -  A tenacious newspaper reporter fights for a spot on the controversial jungle expedition of a rogue academic. Based on the diary of his lost colleague Maple White, Professor Challenger (Wallace Beery) is determined to prove that dinosaurs exist on the plateau of a remote South American mountaintop. White's daughter Paula (Bessie Love) and renowned explored Sir John Roxton (Lewis Stone) travel along as observers, with hopes of finding the girl's father.Based on the Edwardian adventure novel of Sir. Arthur Conan Doyle, First National Pictures' The Lost World (1925) is an early example of the special-effects blockbuster in its truest sense. The star-studded cast featured radiant 1922 WAMPAS Baby Star Love, popular kind-hearted Hollywood villain Beery and the paternally sympathetic Stone. Legendary cameraman and Fairbanks favorite, Arthur Edeson shot the live action scenes, but the picture's most significant contributions belong to the ground-breaking, experimental animation of special-effects pioneer Willis O'Brien. "},{"Title":"a very nice little piece of film-making from the 1920s","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I suppose it is pretty hard to judge this film in the present day, for I have to judge it as a silent film. Being the fact that this is the first and only silent film I've ever seen, I have to imagine myself living back in 1925, when nobody knew of any such thing as a soundtrack. I had to watch The Lost World twice before I finally got the whole thing down in my head and my opinion became final. I had to get use to the film first before I could judge it, seeing as how up until now, all movies I'd seen had sounds and voices. The Lost World is a primitive, outdated film, but once you learn to ignore the never-changing tone of the music, the fact that you have to read the dialogue (and the fact that only PART of the dialogue is presented before you), The Lost World is actually one of the better science fiction films there is out there. And believe it or not, it opened up a new genre and started many new ideas that would be followed for years to come and are still followed today.The Lost World was the very first film to use the magnificent art of stop-motion animation to create its creatures which no longer exist. Since CGI would not come for decades more, the effects are very convincing. They aren't as fluid-like and flawless as the groundbreaking effects in King Kong eight years later. Some stop-motion shots weren't perfect, for example, when a brontosaurus picks a tree out of the ground and throws it into the bushes. The movement of the tree was much too fast. But there is absolutely nothing about that that can divert an audience's entertainment, if the audience can adjust to a silent film. And if they know what a good movie is, then they can. Because it's a silent film, it has background music. Yet, this music never changes in tone. It is almost cheery and nowdays, that would probably not work out well in a film such as this. But seeing as how it is over eighty years old, it works out greatly and blends in with everything perfectly. There is a particular moment in the film where two dinosaurs engage in a battle, and the music is cheery and repeating, yet it seems to blend in perfectly and suits the environment seeing as how there are no sound effects to add to it.Also presented before us in The Lost World is a fairly detailed and realistic story with very few underdeveloped elements. One of those that could have gotten more development is the supporting characters that joined our leading actors and leading lady on the expedition to the Lost World. I had to watch the movie twice to recognize all of the characters and get them down. Again, nothing wrong with that seeing as how this film is very ancient. But the plot is very original and is so original, it's been remade countless times over and over again. Character development of our main characters is pretty good. Not what we'd expect from a film today, but we can learn about our characters and decide whether to like them or to hate them. Even though relatively little of their lines are shown in the intertitles, we learn about the characters' personality and there are many moments of the film which are frightening, dramatic, or even intentionally hilarious.The Lost World is a significant silent film. It's earned its place as a popular silent film, a movie to be preserved in the Library of Congress, and almost holds out today as much as it did before. Yes, the era of films with soundtracks has since overpowered the era of silent films and I'm afraid that very few people have the patience to look at films like these anymore and respect them as the masterpieces that some of them are. This film has been remade so many times in versions with soundtracks, but this is by far, the best of them all. "},{"Title":"Landmark Film!","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Unfortunately, The Lost World exists in many versions. The version that I watched ran 68 minutes and in sepia tone. There's still enough of the story to appreciate what the full length version might have been.Naturally the best part of the film is animator Willis O'Brien's wonderful prehistoric creatures, brought to life by a system known as stop motion photography. It must have been amazing for 1925 audiences to see these creatures appear so life like.The story has Professor Challenger (Wallace Beery) returning from the jungles of South America with tales of living prehistoric creatures. Naturally nobody believes him. His real purpose is to form an expedition to return to the jungle and obtain proof of the existence of these creatures.Sir John Roxtom (Lewis Stone), a world famous hunter agrees to join along with Professor Summerlee (Arthur Hoyt), ambitious reporter Edward Malone (Lloyd Hughes) and Paula White (Bessie Love), whose father was left behind in the previous expedition.They go into the jungle and arrive at an elevated plateau which they scale and arrive to see a full grown brontosaurus. Several other creatures emerge and battles ensue between them. During a battle with a Tyrannasaurus Rex, the brontosaurus falls from the plateau to the jungle below and manages to survive. All the while a romance is developing between Malone and Paula, much to the chagrin of Roxton.The group, cut off from below, manages to escape the plateau, by means of a rope ladder carried up the slope by Paula's pet monkey Jocko. Despite the efforts of an Ape Man (Bull Montana), the group descends to safety. Challenger then announces that he plans to bring the injured brontosaurus to London for exhibition.In London, as you would expect, the brontosaurus breaks loose and............................The special effects hold up well today, a testament to Willis O'Brien's work. The scene of the brontosaurus ravaging London are excellent. The battles in the jungle between the various species are equally riveting. There were apparently some racial overtones involving a black porter but these are not apparent in the version that I saw. The love of Sir John for Paula is only suggested and not developed. Also, the scenes of raising and transporting the brontosaurus to London (if there were such scenes) are missing.If the story seems familiar, it was remade in 1933 as King Kong. Also several remakes of the Lost World, as well as as a TV series have been made.A landmark film. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good movie, but don't expect it to hold up!","Date":"19 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie, I'm not going to lie. I really enjoyed the terrible, albeit costly and lavishly done special effects and the cheesy, all too predictable romantic yarn thrown in there. I have a lot of experience watching movies of all ages and types, and I don't make the mistake of comparing silent movies to talkies, since the dramatic form of the motion picture simply works better with sound. Therefore, judging this movie on its own merits and within the confines of silent cinema, it's a really solid adventure flick, good for the whole family. It definitely is dated and would seem really silly to most people coming in to it expecting an action film. Still, if you can put up with it, then have fun! "}{"Title":"Jurrasic Park 2","Date":"3 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Due to Jeff Goldblum's smugness and a very poor script, The Lost World is one of Stephen Spielberg's weakest movies, featuring action sequences that last too long, too many characters to mention, and an underused Arliss Howard. Luckily someone in 1925 made a great film also called The Lost World, so you should probably watch that one instead.In what I think is the British Natural History museum, a professor has announced that he's found a hard to access plateaux that still holds a full eco-system of dinosaurs. Fed up with everyone pointing and laughing at him, the professor states that he's heading back there to rescue someone he had to leave behind. He recruits the daughter of the missing man, a cynical scientist, a big game hunter, a guy in blacked up make up called, worryingly, Zambo, and very reluctantly, a journalist (after the two of them have a good old punch up). They also have some other guy and a monkey tag along too.They get to the plateaux pretty quickly, and just in time to see a Pteradactyl flying around, so they know they're at the right place. There's also some kind of monkey man up there who doesn't like the look of these strangers and tries to crush them with a rock (the make up for this guy is top class, considering the age of this film). Eventually, they do get up there, only for a Brontosaurus to come along and ruin their only route out.What follows thereafter is a brilliant parade of stop motion dinosaurs chowing down on each other and trying to eat the cast, while the cast are stalked by monkey man and try and figure out how to escape. For example, an Allosaur attacks a Tricerotops and gets gored for his trouble, only for another Allosaur to come along, attack the Tricerotops, then grab a Pteradactyl out of the sky and eat that too! That's good stuff right there man. There's also a post-volcanic eruption scene full of dinosaurs that must have been some spectacle back in the day.It's a very short film (just over an hour, although now I see that I've watched an edited version) and worth a look for those interested in the old dinosaur movies, or to see what a special effects extravaganza from the twenties looks like. I liked it immensely. You might too. The stop motion stuff isn't too far from what Brett Piper does these days to be honest. Also, the professor reminded me of Brian Blessed.Or you can go watch the Hunger Games or whatever. I don't care. "},{"Title":"The Lost World","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Lost World is incredibly ahead of its time being a mid 20's silent film with loads of creativity and well done animation. I'm still a little baffled as how the creators managed to make these dinosaurs seem so real on grainy footage. There are a ton of fight scenes between different types of dinosaurs that portrayed them pretty well to their potential ancient characters. The storyline was pretty good, dull at times, I just wish they would have added more dialogue and shortened up the duration of the readings. I found most of the characters unlikeable especially Malone and the professor but they weren't bad enough to make me dislike the film. Going into the movie I thought the plot was going to center around the humans and dinosaurs so I found it interesting and kind of cool to see that they added some buffoon type natives and an evil ape creature. I can definitely see how this movie set up for classics like King Kong and Jurassic Park. If you have the patience for an older silent film I really recommend The Lost World. "},{"Title":"The granddaddy of dinosaur movies - mostly of historical value today","Date":"24 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I won't do a plot synopsis since this movie is so well known. The story of THE LOST WORLD was certainly very daring for its time, and has led to such books and films as KING KONG, GODZILLA, JURASSIC PARK, etc. In that sense this movie is groundbreaking. The stop-motion animation certainly must have impressed audiences in 1925. Today...well, it was great for 1925! The script is very basic and a bit cheesy at times (you just know that the single guy and single girl are going to fall in love even though there's really not much of a relationship to speak of), and the acting is adequate (although I must say that Bessie Love's I'm scared expressions in her close-ups get tiresome). I really don't have a lot to say about this one - my header pretty much sums it up. SCORE 6/10 "},{"Title":"An Amazing Piece of Monster-Movie History and a Time Capsule of the scientists of the Early 1900s understanding of Dinosaurs","Date":"21 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I wrote this at age 19, and I am 20 now that I am re-posting it. Here is my review of it This film was quite interesting. I was impressed with the use of footage of humans and the stop-motion dinosaurs. However, there are many things that I need to mention. In elementary school, I was en expert in modern biology and prehistoric life. I, like everyone else, also understand basic geography. In the note of basic geography and modern biology, I noticed that the film is set in South America, yet African chimpanzees make several appearances. I also should mention that the main characters are British, but the characters occasionally use Southern American grammar. Now, the subject of prehistoric creatures, which dominate this film. The antagonist of the film is not the Tyrannosaurus Rex, as most dinosaur films they usually are. Neither is the Allosaurus, which appears the most throughout this film. Instead, a long-neck is the greatest villain. This Brontosaurus, (now known as an Apatosaurus) is wounded in a fight with an Allosaurus, and almost dies. Still alive, the heroes take it to London, but this leaf eater viciously attacks the town and swims away. The T-Rex is shown being able to use it's arms to catch prey. However, this isn't possible because it's arm's only have 2 fingers and are the size of an average man's arm. The T-Rex and Allosaurids are shown standing vertically, when they really would have stood horizontally. Knowing all of this by age 9, I found this film to be utterly hilarious being 10 years older (now). Without this film, there would have never been the beautiful 2005 version of King Kong. The Bronto/Apatosaurus is comparable to the great ape and his captivity in New York. I still enjoyed this historic piece of film. Possibly due to all of these excessive inaccuracies. The 1925 version of The Lost World is a film that should never go missing from our classic monster film library. "},{"Title":"Stupendously adventurous.","Date":"17 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Thing with this movie is that we'll most likely never get to see it as it was original intended and released as during its initial theatrical release. There are several different prints of this movie available, all variating heavily in its running time. Now days there are versions available that combine as many sequences as possible from all of these different prints that have emerged over the past decades but its still minutes short of its original theatrical released version. Therefor we'll most likely never be able to judge to movie for what it original was but the long put back together versions of the movie should give us a fair and decent enough impression of what the movie was supposed to be like.For its time this movie obviously was a big movie experience. It's the first ever movie to use stop-motion effects for its creatures. It must have really impressed audiences back then to see all of these use dinosaurs walking around on the screen and fighting and interacting and all of that. Before there was King Kong there was The Lost World and there is no denying that the movie because of its effects remains an historically important and revolutionary one. It was like Jurassic Park for the '20's. You can tell in some of the sequences that the techniques used are still far away from perfection in this movie but still watching stop-motion is always an impressive and extremely delicate and detailed thing, even in this 1925 movie and you just can't help to have some enormous respect for it. Its effects and concept help to make this movie a very entertaining one, especially for its time. But this is also one of the problems for the movie. Basically all this movie is a bunch of people in the Amazon encountering a whole bunch of different prehistoric creatures. There is not really much story to it all, though I'm sure that the original Arthur Conan Doyle novel this movie was based on had some more depth and story and character development to it all.Thing I also don't like about this movie is its use of title cards, especially during its first half. I don't know if this was purely due to the restored longer version of this movie that I watched but the movie extendedly used title cards for its dialog and to explain what was happening all. It's sort of annoying when a silent movie does this too much, as this movie does. When you have a good director and good enough actors there really is no use for an extended use of title cards. You can let the all of the images and expressions of the actors speak for themselves and while watching this movie you can't help but wonder if most of these title cards were even needed in the movie. You could perfectly follow and understand the story without them, I would say.But well, all this doesn't matter that much though. This movie could obviously made purely for entertainment purposes and was supposed to impress with its new revolutionary techniques and its overwhelming images. You can pretty much forget about the story and simply enjoy this movie for its entertainment, though its of course hard to still please todays modern audience with this movie.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The challenger","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The silent version of THE LOST WORLD is an important action outing, and an important adaptation of the novel; if the plot line manages to get a bit muddy (--it's true that I have seen a short version of the flick &#x85;--), though basically simple, there is a sense of excitement that makes for the movie's interest. Anyway, one shouldn't expect too much&#x97;so that he can enjoy the little that exists. Wallace Beery plays Challenger, but there's no characterization in this flick. For an action movie, it has too many inserts. In a movie in which there's too little of everything (--action, plot line, characterizations &#x85;--), the only thing in excess are the inserts.In the shortened version I have seen, the flick was incomprehensible and incoherent, chaotic; but, even that aside, it looks clumsy and unsatisfying. Now I will utter the truly nasty thing--though made only a few years before KONG, it looks so much older &#x85;. (--But then, a few good Sci&#x97;Fi flicks made 'only 8 yrs before' STAR WARS are, of course, no challengers to Lucas' saga &#x85;.--) "},{"Title":"Hard to judge, impossible to dislike","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  <B> Warning MILD spoilers ahead. </B>I watched this film on the Lumivision DVD release, to give you an idea of the version I had at hand. 91 minutes, tinted color, lots of extras.The DVD itself is mostly a good effort, except that the commentary is presented in text on still images. I would have preferred a running commentary. That's my only gripe about it. The transfer is mostly good (though not the best it could be - after watching </I>The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari</I> I know what to expect of a digital remaster of that era) with slight graininess on the 35 mm. reels and <B>a lot</B> of it when watching the 16 mm. ones. And the extras are superb <I>Prehistoric Poultry</I> and the rest of the excerpts are dead ringers for <I>The Flintstones</I>. Very entertaining, indeed.The movie is very hard to judge, though. Even with the stills of the missing scenes, the pacing is ruined, the plot is contrived, and the action is severed. Not a fault of the film, but of the cutting that had to be done in order to preserve the film in 5 35 mm. reels. It's impossible to follow the action when our heroes are in the island. At one time you see them in the jungle, the next time they are inside a cave with no way out. So it's impossible to judge the plot from the pieces of film we are given.On the other hand, it is clear that Michael Crichton only had to look at this film once to steal the plot for his own The Lost World. Or was it a remake? I don't know, but I don't think so. What I know is that, genetical experiments aside, this movie sets the basis for both Spielberg's works. Only with better acting by the humans, and stiffy acting by the dinosaurs.I wonder, what would happen if we could see the entire film? Would our opinions be different? I cannot cast a higher vote than 8 for this movie, but I feel it deserves more. Without the missing scenes, though, it is impossible to know. "},{"Title":"Very good, but out of date...","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Personally, I found this movie to be very interesting and I am certain that it was a big hit in 1925!  But, unless you have an interest in the archives, this will fall short of the more modern versions.  On the other hand, if you DO have an interest in the archives, then this is a must see! In which case, you have GOT to check out the brilliant animation (unbelievable for 1925)! "},{"Title":"Buy both DVD's of this film...","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Why both? Because there are advantages to both. The Lumivision DVD has the best score for this film. It is appropriate for all scenes. It has drama and suspense. The DVD has three stop motion shorts by Willis O'Brien, the trailer from the UCLA archives, a promotional film about the rare Lost World puzzle, a unique still frame library, and more short films by O'Brien for Edison Studios. This is the 65 minute version which cuts right to the point why you even want to watch this-Dinosaur scenes. Now if I may discuss with you the Image DVD. This is not the full complete version ever. This was made from lost footage in the Czech Republic. We have two inappropriate orchestral scores you can choose from, the dullest commentary ever put to DVD, a less crisp transfer than the Lumivision print, and a ridiculous cover art graphic using Spielberg's Lost World Logo font. On the back of the package is a Velociraptor from Jurassic Park!! Let me tell you why the commentary is dull. Roy Pilot, author of The Annotated Lost World book, repeats everything out of his book, in the liner notes of the dvd, with sometimes ten minutes of silence in between scenes. But, ultimately the reasons to own this are the exclusive extras thirteen minutes of O'Brien outtakes, lobby card art, reproduction of the original program book, and stills not included on the Lumivision disc. No one cares about this movie but Lost World fans. Now all the extras are here, we've seen the missing footage (mainly drama and some jungle footage). Please no more restored editions. "},{"Title":"Early SFX-driven movie","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Although many claim that the modern dumbing-down of modern blockbuster's started in the 1970s with Jaws and Star Wars, you only have to look at the days of early feature length silent film to see the current trend of spectacle over all else. It seems things come full circle eventually.The Lost World is important in film history as it was the first to use stop-motion animation in order to bring creatures to life on-screen. King Kong further advanced this technique several years later, but is much more successful at bringing character to it's creatures and also at integrating the effects into the story. This is possibly one of the weakest elements of The Lost World. It is easy to imagine just how impressive the sight of apparently moving dinosaur's may have been, and the adventure/romance plot is typical of much of the late Victorian fiction - of course the plot is taken from Conan Doyle's novel. However, unlike in King Kong, the technology wasn't quite ready to include humans in the same scene as one of the monsters and so there is little direct interaction. Indeed the dinosaur scenes come at pretty much random intervals. The film is visually flat, obvious indoor sets and the camera is completely static throughout. The acting is typical of the era, based largely on caricature. There's even a man in a monkey suit! Despite the film's short running time (although I understand there is a longer, restored edition now) it soon becomes quite tedious, only livening up at the London-based ending.Interesting viewing, particularly those interested in the history of special effects and spectacle cinema - It's influence can certainly be seen in almost all the monster / dinosaur films since. As a narrative, however the film is slow and often tedious. "}{"Title":"Not that good today but still a classic","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" An expedition led by Professor Challenger (Wallace Berry) ventures into an uncharted area of the Amazon and encounter dinosaurs. They capture one and try to bring it back to London. It breaks loose and proceeds to tear apart London (including London Bridge!).The plot is old (even by 1925 standards) and this movie is more than a little boring--but it's worth seeing just for the incredible stop-motion animation. Sure, it looks primitive today but I've always had a fondness for stop-motion--I've never really liked CGI (it looks too perfect and the monsters have no personality). The dinosaur footage is just great and the fights look very realistic (and are pretty bloody for its time). And they also throw in a fierce-looking ape man (who does very little) and an exploding volcano! This really isn't an acting movie but Berry is good and Lloyd Hughes is REALLY handsome and rugged as the hero. Bessie Love is truly terrible--SHE was a big star in the 1920s???? Talk about overacting....Still this is a fun movie when the dinosaurs are on--which is often. When they're off just admire how handsome Hughes was) It's a hell of a lot better than that ludicrous Spielberg version. "},{"Title":"cheesy fun!!!!!!!!","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A group of explorers find a unexplored region in the amazon, witch is the home to the decendants of the dinosaurs. The plot is lame. The script shows no effort. the music tends to get annoying. But hey, it is still a fun movie that fans of bad movies will get a kick out of. Also, fans of stop-motion should check this out. the first few stop-motion sequences are pretty crude, but as the film progresses, the animation keeps getting better and better. Worth seeing for genre fans!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Dinosaurs boring, Lloyd Hughes HOT !!!","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Dinosaur movies bore me to tears, I fell asleep on this one several times, but forced myself to wake up just to take in the gorgeous Lloyd Hughes. I'd watch a 2 hour silent movie with him reading the phone book if I had to, he's so fascinating and boyish and adorable.Wallace Beery was ok, but my eyes kept looking at his pot belly in that white shirt. How did a man who looked like he did have such a long career?Bessie Love. What can I say about her? She had a weird head and there is something so odd about her face, I just can't get excited about her as a heroine. At least from this movie she wasn't much of an actress either. Ah well. Maybe Madge Bellamy was unavailable.Lloyd Hughes fans should check it out, but otherwise this movie is forgettable. I give it 5 out of 10. If it didn't have Lloyd Hughes I would have given it a 2 or 3.  "}]