[{"Title":"A great film by Murnau","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"39 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I think of Murnau's Faust as a masterpiece not only of cinema, but of the human imagination.  I understand that reviews at the time of its premier were lukewarm, but I honestly can't imagine not feeling grateful for the opportunity to see this film today.  Moments and images from it are so powerful, they are vivid in the mind years after seeing them -- two hours in a dream world.The flying sequence has been commented-on more than once, and with good reason.  It is a spectacular series of shots wherein the camera tracks through long miniature sets which gradually change from a dense cluster of medieval rooftops and steeples, to a tortuous countryside of mountain peaks and snake-like rivers, twisted trees, deep gorges with plunging waterfalls and stone cliffs, rapids, a field of long grass, elaborate renaissance architecture and an Italianate palace.  Along the way there is an encounter with grotesque elongated black birds in the sky, their wings flapping in unison.  The sets incorporate running water (with little bits of smoking material floating in the rapids to simulate splashes and spray), an illuminated moon, and smoke to simulate clouds and fog.  The whole sequence can't be much more than a couple of minutes long, but the effort to design, construct and coordinate the sequence must have been staggering.  The following palace scene is set on a huge multi-level set with female dancers stretching off into the distance.  They are there for no better reason than to establish an atmosphere of sumptuous decadence, and young Faust arrives in the middle of this riding between two enormous elephants, which seem to be entirely artificial and crafted of fabric, wire, etc.  So it goes throughout the production.  Almost every scene is a feast for the eyes, and the darker scenes are vividly expressionistic in design.The acting is the old-fashioned silent-movie variety of big operatic gestures and vivid facial expression.  It may seem odd to those not used to it, but it is NOT an example of ham actors overdoing it.  This was a legitimate style of acting in its time, and offers genuine artistic beauty to those who can manage to appreciate it.The fact that there seems to be no video version of `Faust' at the time of this posting is criminal.  Ditto for Murnau's Sunrise.  These things should NEVER be out of print.  "},{"Title":"A magnificent spectacle; one of cinema's finest","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"39 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" F.W. Murnau's telling of the classic German legend, 'Faust' is a masterpiece to behold. From both the technical and story standpoint, the film excels and despite being nearly eighty years old, Faust still stands tall as one of the greatest cinematic achievements of all time. F.W. Murnau has become best known among film fans for 'Nosferatu', but this is unfair to the man. While Nosferatu is something of an achievement; it pales in comparison to this film in every respect. Faust is far more extravagant than Murnau's vampire tale, and it shows his technical brilliance much more effectively. The story is of particular note, and it follows a German alchemist by the name of Faust. As God and Satan war over Earth, the Devil preaches that he will be able to tempt Faust into darkness and so has a wager with God to settle things. Satan sends Mephisto to Earth to offer Faust an end to the plague that is making it's way through the local population, and eternal youth, in return for Faust's soul...The way that Murnau creates the atmosphere in the film is nothing short of amazing. The lighting and use of shadows is superb, and helps to create a strong sense of dread at the same time as making the film incredibly easy on the eyes. It's the music that's the real star of the show, however, as it's absolutely fantastic and easily ranks up with the greatest scores ever written. The scenery is expressionistic and gives the film a strong sense of beauty (which is increased by the excellent cinematography), especially in the darker scenes; all of which are an absolute delight to behold. The story is undoubtedly one of the most important ever written, and within it is themes of good, evil, religion and most importantly, love. The points are never hammered home, and instead they are allowed to emancipate from the centre of the tale, which allows the audience to see them for themselves rather than being told; and that's just the way a story should be.It's hard to rate the acting in silent cinema as being a member of a modern audience, I'm used to actors acting with dialogue and judging a performance without that is difficult. However, on the other hand; silent acting is arguably more difficult than acting with dialogue as the only way to portray your feelings to the audience is through expressions and gestures, and in that respect; acting is just another area where this film excels. In fact, there isn't an area that this film doesn't excel in and for that reason; it easily ranks up with the greatest films ever committed to the screen. "},{"Title":"Visually Stunning Classic","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"36 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Title FW Murnaus Faust (1926) Director FW Murnau Cast Gosta Ekman, Camilla Horn, Emil Jannings, William Dieterle Review Having seen Murnaus Nosferatu and having enjoyed it immensely I had to check out some of his other films. Faust quickly caught my attention. After Murnau made Nosferatu, he was given the opportunity to do whatever film he wanted..and they gave him the huge budget to do it. The result was an impressive, visually stunning, supernatural film.God and the Devil are fighting for who gets to control humanity. They do a wager, they decide that if Satan (aka as Mephisto) can corrupt Faust then all of humanity would belong to Mephisto. After the wager is on, Mephisto spreads the plague throughout Fausts town and people start dying. He decides to call upon the powers of darkness to help people out.First off, more then anything, this movie is a true visual feast. How Murnau made this movie with the limited resources he had at the time is a true testament to his talent as a filmmaker. Heck, it was 1926, before make up fx, before stan winston, before blue screens and CGI, before anything! Yet, he managed to create an incredibly rich film. Heck this guy even managed to do a crane shot in the movie! In a scene where Faust and Mephisto are flying through the sky's...the camera swoops over a landscape filled with waterfalls, mountains and cliffs...all in one shot! I was actually amazed how with their limited technological resources Murnau managed to do this type of shot back in those days.The imagery is amazing...starting with Mephisto spreading his gigantic black wings over Fausts small town. I kid you not when I say that, that image is one of the coolest images I have ever seen on any movie. Images of the horsemen of the apocalypse riding the sky's....angels with swords, Faust conjuring up Mephisto by reading from his book...man this movie was really something to behold. Its all wrapped around that black and white aura that gives the film that eerie feel. Kinda like the same feeling I got when I watched White Zombie. I love black and white horror visuals. And Faust was full of them.Of special interest to me was that scene where Faust conjures up Mephisto by reading some words from a book, its truly a great movie moment with an incredible supernatural feel. The visuals of those circles of light emanating from the ground up towards the sky...that was amazing. And actually I think that scene influenced Francis Ford Copolla in Bram Stokers Dracula because he uses the exact same image of circles of light emerging from the ground.Faust fantastical imagery truly demonstrates that Murnau had complete and total control over everything that he showed on the screen. The snow, the wind, the shadows, the lights...all perfectly handled to create the exact mood and feel that was required at them moment. Its quite obvious as well that this movies benefited from a much much bigger budget then Murnaus previous films. The sets look a lot like those on Caligari at times, the detailed miniatures are very well achieved and the extras are plentiful.The performances are great, better then in Nosferatu. They are sometimes a bit exaggerated, but not as much as in other silent films I've seen before. On this one, the performances seemed just right to me. Of special mention is Emil Jannings as Mephisto. This guy played Beelzebub with some real relish. The character comes off as evil, treacherous, calculating...and he does it all with this smirk on his face. Great character. The make up on him is great and he kinda reminded me at times of Bela Lugosi as Dracula. But overall, hes performance was the best in the film. I also really enjoyed Camilla Horn as Gretchen, her scenes with her baby in the snow were great not only in the acting department but visually as well.Overall, Id recommend this movie to those of you interested in German silent cinema. Its really something to see how even in those days, the imagination and creativity was there. And even the limited technological resources couldn't hold them back from creating a truly beautiful, haunting, spooky, supernatural film. For those of you who enjoyed films like Murnaus Nosferatu or Robert Wienes The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari then you will most certainly love Faust.I would certainly say it is far superior to the films mentioned before, yet for some reason doesn't get as much recognition. Check it out schmoes for a slice of the best horror silent cinema ever. Definitely worth a look.Rating 5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Murnau's visually-stunning epic of love and hate, faith and temptation, good and evil","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"24 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" To fans of early horror, director F.W. Murnau is best known for 'Nosferatu, eine Symphonie des Grauens,' his chilling 1922 vampire film, inspired by Bram Stoker's famous novel. However, his equally impressive 'Faust' is often overlooked, despite some remarkable visuals, solid acting, a truly sinister villain, and an epic tale of love, loss and evil. The story concerns Faust (Gösta Ekman), an old and disheartened alchemist who forms a pact with Satan's evil demon, Mephisto (Emil Jannings). As God and the Devil wage a war over Earth, the two opposing powers reach a tentative agreement the entire fate of Mankind will rest on the soul of Faust, who must redeem himself from his selfish deeds before the story is complete.Relying very heavily on visuals, 'Faust' contains some truly stunning on screen imagery, most memorably the inspired shot of Mephisto towering ominously over a town, preparing to sow the seeds of the Black Death. A combination of clever optical trickery and vibrant costumes and sets makes the film an absolute delight to watch, with Murnau employing every known element &#150; fire, wind, smoke, lightning &#150; to help produce the film's dark tone. Double exposure, in which a piece of film is exposed twice to two different images, is used extremely effectively, being an integral component in many of the visual effects shots. In fact, aside perhaps from Victor Sjöström's 'Körkarlen (1921),' I can't remember double exposure being used to such remarkable effect.It's often difficult to judge performances in a silent film, but I've certainly got a generally positive attitude towards the acting in 'Faust.' I was particularly astonished by Gösta Ekman, whose character, given limitless evil control, is transformed from a withering old man to a handsome youth. Despite my impression that two different actors had been used, it seems that Ekman convincingly portrayed both the old and young man, which is a credit to both the actor and Murnau's make-up department (namely, Waldemar Jabs). Emil Jannings plays Mephisto with a sort of mysterious slyness, always one step ahead and always up to no good. Whilst I wasn't completely blown away by young actress Camilla Horn as Gretchen &#150; the woman with whom Faust falls in love &#150; her acting is adequate enough, and she certainly shows some very raw emotion in the scene's final act, when her forbidden romance with Faust sends her life in a downward spiral.'Faust' was F.W. Murnau's final film in Germany, his next project being the acclaimed American romance, 'Sunrise A Song of Two Humans (1927).' At the time, the film was the most expensive ever made by the German studio, UFA (Universum Film AG), though it would be surpassed the following year by Fritz Lang's classic science-fiction epic, 'Metropolis.' Notably, there were five substantially different versions of 'Faust' produced, several of these by the director himself these include a German original version, a French version, a late German version, a bilingual version for European audiences, and an American cut compiled by Murnau especially for MGM in July 1926. Each of these altered particular scenes and camera angles, and often included material that would be more relevant to the target cultural audience (for example, the US version reportedly contains a joke about the American Prohibition era).At the heart of 'Faust' is a love story between the corrupted title character and his doomed love, Gretchen. I felt that the scenes when Faust is trying to coax Gretchen into loving him were the slowest parts of the film, much less exciting and invigorating than the darker and more effects-driven sequences that preceded and followed it. Nevertheless, F.W. Murnau's 'Faust' is an absolute gem of 1920s silent horror, and anybody who doesn't look out for it is very surely missing out on something special. "},{"Title":"A must see film","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"25 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" My first silent film lasted over two hours. Dialog full of screens after everything's been said. To be honest, I was surprised at how there was never a point of down, there was never a realization that I was watching a silent film, though it did take a bit of getting used to in the beginning. Some might get pushed away due to the fact that the screen transfer isn't great, or that the music has been recently dubbed, but I found it all to fit perfectly. The acting in this film is more than over expectation, that made me believe in the story from start to finish. By the end I had a new found admiration for the makers of movies from our past, and what standards they can set for movies now. "},{"Title":"A wager I will wrest Faust's soul away from God","Date":"18 February 2009","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" By 1925 UFA, German cinema's pioneer production company, was almost collapsing under the weight of mounting financial difficulties, having lost over eight million dollars in the fiscal year just ended. It was at this point that American film studios found the perfect opportunity they've been looking for to finally defeat their one opponent in the market of continental Europe. It was ironic that a film industry born out of the necessity of WWI and Germany's inability to provide American, British or French films in the years between 1914 and 1919 would go on to become Hollywood's number one opponent. Indeed Paramount and MGM offered to subsidize UFA's huge debt to the Deutsche Bank by lending it four million dollars at 7.5 percent interest in exchange for collaborative rights to UFA's studios, theaters, and personnel - an arrangement which clearly worked in the American companies' favor. The result was the foundation of the Parufamet (Paramount-UFA-Metro) Distribution Company in early 1926.This is only tangential to FAUST but important nonetheless to place the film in its correct historical context. Both as FW Murnau's last German film before he left for Hollywood and as UFA's most expensive production to that date. It is no wonder that within a year of accepting Hollywood as business partners, UFA was already showing losses of twelve million dollars and was forced to seek another loan, when FAUST, a film that cost them 2 million dollars alone and took six months to film only made back half of its budget at the box office. FAUST would go on to be succeeded by Fritz Lang's METROPOLIS as the most expensive German production but it remained FW Murnau's aufwiedersehen to Weimar cinema. He was one of many German film artists and technicians that migrated to sunny California following the Parufamet agreement (Fritz Lang would follow a few years later, having refused Goebbels' offer to lead the national film department for Nazi Germany, along with others like Paul Leni, Billy Wilder, Karl Freund and Ernst Lubitsch).Weimar cinema wouldn't make it past the 1930's and FW Murnau's career would come to an abrupt end with his death at 42 in a car accident, but FAUST, as the last German production, not only in nationality, but also in style and finesse, definitely deserves its place next to 1922's NOSFERATU in the pantheon of German Expressionism. Frontloaded in terms of spectacle and dazzling visuals, this retelling of Goethe's classic version of Dr. Faust's story is as slow paced and dark as Nosferatu but with the kind of fantastic, mystical and romantic blend that characterized German post-war cinema. A cinema aimed at repressed lower middle-classes which, in the absence of a national identity swept away by war, were now turning to a new cultural identity conscious of the social realities of the times. In that sense, Murnau's Faust is part escapism spectacle, part edifying fable on the corruption of evil and the redeeming qualities of love and forgiveness.And if the story is overwrought melodrama by today's standards, the magnificent sets constructed by UFA technicians and special effects work stand shoulder to shoulder with some of the best from the 20's. Mephisto looming black and gigantic over a town swept by plague is an iconic image etched on the same pantheon wall of German Expressionism as Count Orlok's shadow. The angels of death riding on their horses with beams of light shooting through them combines the dark fantasy of the production design with expressive lighting, the kind of which would eventually become shaped into film noir by directors like Otto Preminger and Fritz Lang. Gösta Ekman as Faust (superbly made-up as an old man to make even Welles green with envy) and Emil Jannings as Mephisto stand out among the cast. "},{"Title":"10/10","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A lyrical fable version of Goethe's famous story, where Mephisto and an angel gamble with Faust's spirit, the entire film has an aura of delicate beauty. When Faust's town is shrouded with a pestilence, Faust summons Mephisto and agrees to a trial selling of his soul, in the hopes that he can save the townspeople. When Faust does indeed cure the town, Mephisto tempts him with the promise of youth and Gretchen, the most beautiful woman in Italy. Misty, often eerie, fiendish imagery, like satanic birds, hooded men, flying horsemen and Caligari-inspired exteriors fill the screen. When Faust signs his contract, the words burn themselves into the page as Mephisto dips his feather pen in Faust's vein. A wonderful touch near the beginning has Faust trying to escape Mephisto but having him appear wherever he goes, always a few steps ahead. Both Faust, as a young man, and Gretchen are lovely, and Jannings gives an excellent performance as the Dark Prince. A masterpiece of poetic atmosphere that ages Murnau's technical mastery wondrously, the film is aided tremendously by the sometimes ominous, sometimes enchanting orchestral score. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A feast to look at.","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Faust is a famous German story from Johann Wolfgang Goethe but to be honest I wasn't familiar with it until I saw this movie. Perhaps that's also why I liked the story so much, the movie changes direction time after time and from the beginning on you don't know how it is going to end. A great story of good versus evil in which love conquers all.What makes the movie very memorable is the visual look of it. The movie is filled with some truly amazing early special effects. F.W. Murnau truly was a master in using convincing early special effects in his movies, some scene's are really impressive. Also the cinematography is spectacular and it has some brilliant lighting.In many ways the movie was decades ahead of its time. The way the story is told in the movie is unique and spectacular for its period and so is the use of humor in it. All the scene's with Mephisto and Marthe Schwerdtlein were shear comedy brilliance, also mainly thanks to Emil Jannings his acting.Mephisto himself really was one scary great villain character, especially when the character is first introduced to Faust.Maybe not entirely a classic masterpiece, the middle and the drama is bit too much dragging and lacking for it but certainly a movie historical important and memorable movie. A F.W. Murnau movie that deserves to be seen by more.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Pleasure is Everything","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Faust is my favourite German film, a timeless tale brought to life visually perfect by Murnau in 1926. The photography and special effects although obviously constrained by the prevailing technology was stunning and relentless, a tour de force of camera trickery to bring the power of the story across to Artheads and ordinary folk alike. Trouble is, it's a German b&w silent film so mainly Artheads and a few like me will ever see it for its beauty. Sunrise from a year later takes some beating but Faust does it easily.The Devil wants to rule so places a morally dubious wager that if he wins Dr. Faust's soul he wins the Earth. Faust falls into the snare and so begins his descent into Hell, along with the woman he has in one night of passion &#150; No man can resist Evil. After 9/11 can we really be sure who won? There's so many memorable scenes The Devil lowering over the town (Jannings having to spend hours perched uncomfortably over billowing soot until Murnau was happy with the shot); Faust throwing his books on the fire in his fantastic room (with piles of dangerous nitrate film deliberately going up to help); the un-cgi magic carpet ride; Gretchen with her baby in the snow etc. Ekman and Jannings were especially superb in their respective roles, but everyone and everything played their parts well.The print is a knockout remaster, the menacing atmosphere whenever Faust or Mephisto are in shot is palpable as was only possible with nitrate film stock. Thoroughly recommended to those even only mildly interested who've never seen it before, one I will hopefully watch repeatedly in the future. "},{"Title":"Liebe. Real Humane Emotions.","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Friedrich Wilhelm Murnau was the most important director of the German expressionism era. He made 22 films from which only 11 have persisted. Murnau often made several different versions of his films, which made it impossible to tell which was the original one. Faust was no exception; he made 9 different versions of it whose editing, rhythm and acting differ from each other. F.W. Murnau did a lot of breakthroughs in cinema - he's the most influential filmmaker of his time. For instance in his earlier film Der Letzte Mann (1924, The Last Laugh) Murnau used the camera as a character for the very first time. It was the first time the audience couldn't tell when you were watching the events as an outsider and when as a character. Faust is no lesser. Eric Rohmer has written about it in his dissertation and Herman G. Weinberg saw Faust as the most beautiful film ever made.Everybody knows the German writer Goethe who wrote Faust. But the story did live before his play. It lived as a folktale. And this is where the critics did wrong. They thought that Murnau's Faust was a fiasco; probably because they tried to compare it to the original play. But F.W. Murnau did Faust (1926) based on the folktale. So the philosophy of Goethe's Faust was left away. The production company (UFA) of Faust also produced another artistic film, Metropolis by Fritz Lang. When the audience didn't like either of these films the company failed.Faust is a story about God and Satan who wager. A man, Faust, agrees to sell his soul to Satan so he can have all the power of the world. First he wants to use the power to help the diseased people but the temptations of eternal youth and beauty win. Damned be the illusion of youth! Faust is a timeless story because the idea of selling one's soul will always be there. Faustic contracts are still made. There is only one thing that can terminate the contract. Liebe - Love. The flaming word appears on the screen to assure us. Earlier I mentioned the new camera-work of The Last Laugh. But Faust did something new too. It was the first film that was based on the metaphorical force of light and shadow. The use of shadows in Faust is symbolic and brilliant. When talking about light and Murnau one might be reminded of Nosferatu (1922), a Gothic vampire story by F.W. Murnau, where the beams of light killed Nosferatu.Faust deals with essential and timeless themes. On the surface the themes are good and evil but Faust is much more complex than that. I would recommend this masterpiece of the German Expressionism to all film lovers. I wouldn't be surprised if one said that Faust is the best film ever made. F.w. Murnau manages to capture real humane emotions. "}{"Title":"Visually stunning but tedious, overlong and boring morality play.","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Cinematically this is a triumph of black and white cinematography. What is done with light and shadow is consistently amazing - mind-boggling for its time. Carl Hoffmann brilliantly creates a world of shades and shadows for these timeless myths to unfold against.  Unfortunately, the narrative is very ponderous and slowly paced - one is reminded of Wagner's PARSIFAL in its concept and its execution.   The love story between the young Faust and his Gretchen repeats itself over and over until one has to shut off the story and just concentrate on the visuals.   Jannings is a stand-out as the sly and conniving Mephisto.  The rest of the cast is merely adequate. Future director William Dieterle is not memorable as Gretchen's brother. This is a hard film to sit through but worth it for Murnau fans and for fans of cinematography.  It is certainly a visual masterwork. "},{"Title":"Nice but Somewhat Dated Adaptation of the Faust Legend","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First of all, I must confess I have not read Goethe's poetic version of Faust, being more familiar with the great writer through his novel the Sorrows of Young Werther. I do have a limited degree of familiarity with the folk tale but, by and large, I saw the film with few pre-conceived expectations.Watching this 1926 adaptation of the Faust legend today is a mixed experience. The visuals at the start of the film certainly pushed the boundaries of what was achievable at the time and many are still stunning, whilst a minority have aged badly. However, they show how much the early directors were already exploring the boundaries of what was possible and treating cinema as a medium in its own right, with capabilities far beyond the bounds of what is achievable on the stage.More problematic is the pacing. The tempo of the film slows dramatically during the second half and it is here that the problems arise as the vast cosmic scale of the piece zooms into a stodgy love story.The acting is also varied and the performance of the actor playing Mephisto has dated particularly badly; indeed he is laughably camp from a modern perspective.For these reasons, Murnau's work lacks the timeless appeal of Lang's early films. Nevertheless, there are many interesting ideas on display that still make this period piece a worthwhile viewing experience. As the audience leave their ordinary lives to enter the cinema (an experience that was still highly exotic in 1926) they are immediately lifted into the cosmic realm and a confrontation between Satan and an Archangel. They are then transported again to a medieval village situated in the folk memory of the past, doubly estranging them and allowing themselves to immerse themselves in this attempt to make cinema a spiritual experience.The scenes of the devil sending plague (in the form of miasma) on the village would have stirred painful memories for many in the audience given that the Spanish influenza epidemic had taken place only seven to eight years previously.The cinematography is less static than that on display in Lang's work and there are some nicely framed moments such as the scene of the girl and the baby in the snow, where she is made to look like Mary holding the Christ child.The shot of her scream echoing out across space to Faust is a bravura moment, whilst the ghostly appearance of her mother in the chair is effective if a little maudlin.Faust himself is somewhat reminiscent of Frankenstein and Rotwang, being partly rational scientist and partly alchemist. Whereas Frankenstein rejects the past and embraces the future, Faust rejects not only God but also science when he seeks to dabble in the occult.The ending of the film, which shows Christian redemption coming from supreme/sacrificial love or agape may seem somewhat trite but given the emphasis on salvation coming by right beliefs held by some Fundamentalist denominations in our day, perhaps it is one that needs to be reasserted.Overall, then, this film is certainly worth watching but be aware that some scenes have dated badly. However, it is an ambitious take on a story that is, at its heart, timeless. "},{"Title":"Concentrate on the domestic version of the film","Date":"28 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A real miracle that brings this film back to life. 1926 in Germany produced many prodigies. Murnau chose to go back to the old traditional legend, hence to ignore Goethe's double drama and all the subsequent romantic or melodramatic adaptations in the 19th century. He also decided to ignore Marlowe's adaptation from 16th century England. He simplified the traditional tale and only had one simple episode of travelling through time, in this case to some Italian noble beauty that Faust rapes under the influence of some magic. Murnau chose to concentrate on the tale of Gretchen in the second part of the film (which had started with the plague, of course the Black Death) after this Italian trip with elephants and black slaves. He makes it romantic and intense in feeling, though all that feeling is nothing but the result of diabolical magic. Mephistopheles seduces the mother while Faust seduces Gretchen. Mephistopheles also keeps the brother away long enough for Faust to succeed in his seduction. But then Mephistopheles gets on his own route since Faust must be damned for him to recuperate his soul. He gets the brother back to the house in time to find the seducer in his sister's room, but after the mother had found him in the room too and had died of the traumatic shock. Faust kills the brother in the fight that follows. The sister will be then put in the blocks but not executed for fornication. But the winter comes and her baby is born. In the cold and the snow the baby will die of exposure. She will be accused of having killed the baby and then sentenced to burn at the stake. And here Murnau regenerates the tale by making Faust truly in love and coming back to see Gretchen again. He runs in the crowd to be on her passage when she is led to the stake. Mephistopheles makes him old again just when he stands in front of her begging for forgiveness. He is pushed away, unrecognized. She is tied to the stake and set afire. He jumps onto the pyre and into the fire and she sees through his age the young Faust she had been in love with. They die together at the stake. And that brings the final salvation because Faust was not moved by lust only but by real love that made him sacrifice his life, and Gretchen was also moved by love since she was able to recognize the young Faust in the old one, hence to see beyond appearances. The end then is the rejection of Mephistopheles' request to get Faust's soul by God's angel whose wings are wide open in the shape of an enormous heart. Apart from this touching and intense tale, the film is of course marvelously well directed and shot and Murnau chooses too to keep the old framing technique that was natural with the old camera, the picture is systematically fuzzy all around. Today this produces some kind of dreamlike feeling. The music of the DVD is also quite fascinating, in both versions of it, only a harp or a full symphonic orchestra. We must be more than plain grateful when we see all these old films that find a new youth and glory thanks to the DVD.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"Interesting & Memorable","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's no surprise that F.W. Murnau's film version of Faust is so interesting and memorable. It seems almost to be ideal material for his style and skill, and indeed this movie combines the Faust story with plenty of Murnau's own touches. The creative visuals are probably the most impressive aspect of the feature, although Emil Jannings's performance is also impossible to overlook.The Faust legend is interesting enough simply as a story that it would be easy for a film-maker to focus on the story alone. It would also be easy to glamorize the power of Mephisto and the fascination that it holds for weak minds. But Murnau and Jannings make Mephisto appear interesting, powerful, and clever, while still never obscuring the shabby and hateful nature of his efforts to ensnare Faust. Faust himself faces not only the battle for his soul, but also the even more interesting struggle of making sense of everything.The early sequences are very effective in setting it all up. The initial temptations that the devil uses to entice Faust are interesting in their own right and also in terms of the larger issues, and the imagery that Murnau uses complements the events very well. It sets the stage nicely for the developments that follow, creating a very well-conceived version of the classic tale.  "},{"Title":"At the Gates of Darkness","Date":"24 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" F.W. Murnau's Faust. Eine deutsche Volkssage (1926) is based on Goethe's Faust I, the movie takes as direct text basis a libretto written by Hans Kyser which differs remarkably from Goethe's dramatic play. For example, Kyser motivates the physician Dr. Faustus's pact with Mephistopheles through his mercy for the victims of the plague, while in Goethe's work, the basic motivation of Dr. Faustus is the enlargement of his scientific knowledge. It is thus interesting to see that Mephisto or the devil represents the darkness from which all the additional knowledge seems to come which cannot be reached by Dr. Faustus in the world of the light in which God reigns. It is this negativity of the darkness as opposed to the positivity of the light that parallels the dichotomy of Good and Evil as well as the dichotomy of Volition and Cognition. So, Dr. Faustus' fundamental metaphysical attempt is to control the dark empire of the will that cannot be controlled by traditional science settled in the bright empire of the thought. It even seems that negativity stands for reflection, and reflection comes from the darkness that in the same time represents Evil. Moreover, since the Being is defined by the positivity of light, cognition and Good, the negativity of darkness, reflection and will must be defined by the Nothing, since in classical logic there is no third instance between them.Therefore, we may see Murnau's Faust not only as a movie dealing with the ethic categories of Good and Evil, but also with the metaphysical categories of Being and Nothing. Dr. Faustus, signing his league with the devil, opens the curtain that separates the Here and the Beyond, he transgresses a border of no return. When Mephisto promises Dr. Faustus that he may enter the contract only for one day, it is quite clear why Mephisto can always turn around the hour-glass in order to prolong the lasting of the league Eternity cannot be split; if you take out a piece of Eternity there will remain still Eternity. Since Dr. Faustus is a human being and hence does not participate in Eternity, it follows that he will not be able to stand in this never-land between the contextures of Good and Evil, of Darkness and Light, of Cognition and Volition, of Being and Nothing, of Here and Beyond. His intermediary position is shown by Murnau in the often overlooked scene where Dr. Faustus, who had meanwhile turned by aid of the devil into a young man, is charming a young Indian princess while a pendulum above them is vacillating between light and darkness.Murnau must have had in his mind a poly-contextural world when he shows us Mephisto holding the mirror in which the picture of the old Dr. Faustus appears, although he had already turned him into a youth. Not only does the mirror not reflect Mephisto who is holding it, but it reflects the picture of somebody else and even has a memory of the former state of this person. This phenomenon does not fit together at all with traditional logic in which the mirror can be seen as the operator who turns position into negation, falseness into truth and thus operates like a light-switch that, clicked on twice, leads back to the original state, i.e. from light via darkness back to light or from darkness via light back to darkness.Now, at the end of his life, Dr. Faustus stays in the borderland between light and darkness that cannot be shown at the hand of a light-switch, since this never stops in an intermediary position between light and darkness. Because the light-switch serves as a model for classical logic, we have to deal in Murnau's Faust with trans-classical logic and thus with a world in which there are not only the dichotomic contextures Here and Beyond, Being and Nothing, Cognition and Volition, but a never-land as a third instance between them, and thus we read on one of Gerhart Hauptmann's titles the phrase At the Gates of Darkness, the gates representing this third instance between the dichotomic contextures of classical logic.When we read on another title toward the end of the movie Death sets all men free, it is clear, that Dr. Faustus, after having entered the border-land between the Here and the Beyond by signing his pact with Mephisto, is on a trip that can only end in the Darkness, the Nothing and thus his Death. Once somebody has crossed the borderline between the contextures, he is on a trip of no-return. But such an end would fit into classical logic and thus not fit together with all the hints Murnau gives us toward polycontexturality. Murnau therefore needs a third instance between the contextures by which Dr. Faustus can be rescued from Death representing Evil in two-valued classical logic, both belonging to the contexture of the Nothing. Since Evil can only be neutralized by Good, this third instance must come from Good in order to finish Dr. Faustus's life not in the darkness of Evil, but in the light of Good, and this instance is his love to Gretchen. But in order to achieve that, Murnau needs another trick that does not fit into classical logic Since Dr. Faustus has meanwhile turned back into the old man he was at the beginning of the movie, Gretchen must remember the alter ego of Dr. Faustus as a youngster, and Murnau shows this by fading over the pictures of the two alter egos of Dr. Faustus. In other words Murnau achieves to establish Love as a third instance between the contextures of Good and Evil by doubling Dr. Faustus' individuality using paradoxically the dichotomic means of classical logic. When Dr. Faustus and Gretchens die together at the stake, they have finished their trip in to the light that leads them out of darkness Death sets all men free. "},{"Title":"Gripping and Visually Impressive","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was so intrigued with this film. Taking the classic story of the man who sells his soul (initially to benefit humanity). Playing with shadows and religious symbols. Using Emile Jannings Mephisto as a three dimensional character, even comedic at times. I think what I like the most was how the middle ages, with the day to day cruelty of pestilence and want, unfolded. Murnau also did some sensational visuals--the apocalyptic visions, the spectre of Satan enshrouding the city, bringing the plague. The character of Faust and his failure to gain love--even though he bargained it away--is very poignant. Faust wants youth but has made a pact. If there is a shortcoming, Faust's debauchery is almost entirely off screen and Mephisto performs all the visible cruelty. The reclamation of the soul needs a little more to pair against. Of course, in many of the Faust presentations, he pays the ultimate price and is not able to repent. "},{"Title":"Wardrobe mistake spoils otherwise great film.","Date":"22 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A good film for me requires the perfect combination of all of its components (script, direction, production, acting, cinematography, etc.). One single problem can ruin an otherwise great film experience. A simple error in the casting of Michael Corleone's daughter spoiled The Godfather III for me. In Faust, the problem was not Emil Jannings (he's amazingly good in the first half of the film, and one of my favorite actors of all time) but that ridiculous outfit he wears in the second half of the film. I'm amazed nobody has commented on how gay and fat his Mephistopheles looks (nothing against gays and fat people, folks). A fat gay Mephistopheles surely does not inspire any dread or fear. I could barely put up with Jannings and his custom, with its feather and its tail. I also agree that the second half of the film drags. Faust is still an incredible piece of filmmaking, which makes you understand why Hollywood became so interested in Murnau, and shows that Germany (along with the US and Russia) was in the forefront of world cinema at that time. But is also regrettably an example of how details can ruin an otherwise great film experience. "},{"Title":"Blood makes a quite extraordinary ink!","Date":"7 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a stunning spectacle, very well-acted.I am probably showing my literary ignorance here, but I only qualm with this film is the fact that it ends happily.I was prepared for a moral tale about the highly negative consequences of selling one's soul to the devil and attempting to have one's cake and eat it, too.This dazzling example of German Expressionism features a dynamic and handsome Gosta Ekman as Faust, Emil Jannings as a leering and murderous Mephisto, and Camilla Horn as Gretchen, a simple girl who pays an extraordinary price when she gets seduced by the wrong guy.Director F. W. Murnau beautifully conjures medieval Germany as a place pathetically vulnerable to the plague, where people use religious faith to sustain them and steal moments of pleasure when they can. It's a savagely judgmental place where a harlot can be slapped into stocks and denied shelter in a killer blizzard.The way this story is told, Faust gets to shed his old-man's body and beard for another go-round as a youthful Cassanova, callously causing the deaths of romantic rivals along the way. Yet he seems to get off scot-free when he heeds the woeful cry of his abandoned lover.This film is full of riveting imagery...a feast for the eyes, if not for the rational mind. "},{"Title":"Well worth a watch for fans of German Expressionism","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was watching this because my brother is a huge fan of German expressionism and recommended it to me. I quite like this movie and Nosferatu. I don't think either of them are as good as Metropolis but each are worth watching. The plot is that Satan wagers with an Archangel that if he can corrupt the kindest soul he can find into being a selfish, callous bastard then he can have The Earth to do what he likes with. He chooses Faust and at first he succeeds by having Faust sell his soul for the ability to perform Jesus miracles to a plague set up by Satan but it quickly catches on that Faust's miraculous power of healing people isn't God's work and they attempt to stone him to death, he wishes his way out of it in the name of Satan and Satan then decides to play the card of he tried helping others and it failed so why not be a selfish man by asking for youth, women, whatever he wants. He accepts but starts to loosen his grip on Satan after falling in love with a goodhearted catholic. Things go out of control thanks to Satan wanting an iron grip on what happens and it ends with the archangel declaring Stan has lost thanks to the power of love. The effects for the time are brilliant, maybe not Metropolis jaw-dropping but it for the most part holds up even today (you probably have to look twice to see that the man playing Faust was 30 because of the old man make-up) and I quite like the story even if the love part feels forced. I don't really like the acting of the silent era and with this movie it's no exception. While I don't mind the ending I feel as though it's been done a million times since (or maybe even before as well) and today, just comes across as a bit cheesy and I thought in places it was a little bit slow. I would say this is well worth the watch if you're a fan of silent cinema. It may not be as good as Nosferatu or Metropolis but it's pretty damn close. "},{"Title":"technically superior early film","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Archangel rebukes Satan for the scourge of War, Plague and Famine. Faust is an alchemist trying to turn base metals into gold. Satan wagers that he can turn Faust against God. Archangel agrees to put the world in the balance. Satan brings the plague onto the town and Faust is helpless to stop it. In despair, Faust calls on the evil one and Satan sends Mephisto to tempt Faust. It's an elaborate production from UFA. It is technically superior for its time. I am not sure which version I saw. It's probably the German version. I'm not expert enough to comment on the differences. It is a compelling story from the classic tale. "}{"Title":"The Devil You Know","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Devil wagers with God that he can corrupt the soul of pious alchemist Faust (a little pro-gambling tip for His Horned Hoofedness never bet on future outcomes with an omniscient being). After initially refusing to sell his soul, Faust agrees to a one-day free trial, but then, much like me and the Sports Channel, forgets to cancel his subscription in time. Like so many of Murnau's films, Faust is an overwhelming visual experience, with great cinematography and some nifty special effects. Things do turn very melodramatic by the end, even by silent film standards, with poor Camilla Horn having nothing to do but weep for the last half hour, something for which we can blame Goethe as much as Murnau, although the latter does little to assuage the problem. Nevertheless, Faust remains a striking display of the power of German silent cinema. "},{"Title":"A Lurid Epic from the Start of Film","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw Faust last night at a special event at the Paramount theater in Seattle with live organ accompaniment. The hosts relentlessly hyped the movie, so when it started, I had high expectations. I was not disappointed. Faust wastes no time by explaining how portals from Hell opened up and wraiths are running free over the Earth. This is an instant hook, but then it gets better as a head angel makes a bet with the devil Mephisto. So what is there that could go wrong?This movie has world-class production design to complement that it takes place in an apocalyptic, post-biblical fantasy time. Personally, I'm not much a fan of the worlds typical to fantasy stories, but the one in Faust is original and creative.The story follows a young Faust chasing after women and happiness in his new, young body. He finally finds one girl who becomes his only goal. This is fine and tells a perfectly good story. My objection is that the beginning shows us angels, demons, the devil, and the plague. Then the story goes down to deal with small-scale issues, looking at Faust's corruption really close up. This isn't necessarily bad, and the story goes back to its large-scale issues at the end, which has plenty of emotional and physical violence to balance out with Act I. I found it distracting that the jump was made to smaller battles, but these smaller battles are on the emotional side, making them far more important and interesting.Though Faust isn't subtle with its themes, it tells a story that moves right along, despite being seen as one of those old silent films. The acting can be appreciated without looking down on old styles or thinking them archaic. The movie is dark, but Satan himself is a source of humor in some scenes. I see a lot of people who don't want to watch anything pre-50's and 60's, but right back at the beginning of cinema, there's entertainment, emotion, sex, violence, and comedy present in the same movie. Thank you, Faust. "},{"Title":"The Devil Comes to Germany","Date":"11 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The demon Mephisto (Emil Jannings) wagers with God that he can corrupt a mortal man's soul. Apparently, director F.W. Murnau wanted Lillian Gish to play Gretchen, but she insisted that the film be shot by her favorite cinematographer, Charles Rosher. Murnau instead cast newcomer Camilla Horn, whom he had met on the set of Tartuffe (1925), where she was a double for Lil Dagover. Now, I would much rather have seen Gish or Dagover in this role, but Horn holds her own and makes a mark on German film history.The imagery is what sells this film from the beginning with the creepy four horsemen, to Mephisto unleashing the plague, and beyond. The story is a classic (I mean, this is Goethe we are talking about) but it is even more classic because of the way Murnau was able to present it in 1926, a time when special effects were in their infancy.The only unfortunate this is that Karl Freund had to drop out, as this would have been yet one more classic film to put on his resume. "},{"Title":"Death and nature with surprise","Date":"5 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Some filmmakers just love to go all out on style. Friedrich Wilhelm Murnau was just such a one. He loved camera movement, superimpositions, attention-grabbing shot compositions, stylised theatrical acting &#x96; the full works. Now, things like this will absolutely ruin a good drama, but if your subject matter is just as fantastical as your technique you can just about get away with something truly wonderful. Faust, the archetypal German fairytale, provides Murnau with the opportunity he requires to indulge his love of trickery and showmanship.Murnau was by now very good at this sort of thing. Eschewing any form of naturalism he stages Faust operatically, carefully controlling the rhythm and flow from shot to shot. The rhythmic touch is present and precise in every single moment, giving extra zip to even little things, such as the young Faust's eyes suddenly snapping open when his image is first glimpsed in a bowl of water. His images are often exaggerated and painterly, a particularly fine example being when the plague-ridden acrobat collapses dead over the edge of the stage. And in Faust's world of magic and mystery, the shimmering special effects and expressionistic shadows work, while the rather unconvincing puppetry has a theatrical charm to it that is totally in keeping with the spirit of the whole piece.Just as the direction is operatic, so too run the performances. Master of disguise Gösta Ekamn makes this a Faust of grand gestures and stylised movements that are almost musical. Jolly fat man Emil Jannings is especially good at this form of acting, hamming it up grandly but still keeping up the cheeky comedy persona for which he was best loved. You can see how much control Jannings has over his movements in his first appearance at the crossroads. He doffs his cap in an extremely smooth motion, in a manner that is very eerie but also rather comical in its unexpectedness. The exaggerated performing doesn't suit everyone however. Leading lady Camilla Horn alternates between twitching like a startled gazelle and plodding about like a zombie. Generally though the stylised acting works here because it is all a part of the twisted fairytale world in which the story takes place.As Faust shows, style over substance does have its place. And yet a picture like this, with very little to it apart from pretty pictures and neat effects, is under a lot of pressure to be consistently dazzling and engaging. Unfortunately, Faust does start to get a little tedious after the first hour. An extended comedy sequence between Jannings and French comedienne Yvette Guilbert is particularly disruptive to the overall flow, and only demonstrates that the picture's humour works better when it occurs in by-the-way fashion amid the action. Admittedly, the whole thing is pulled together for an impressive finale, but by this time the audience has been somewhat tried and the impact is not quite what it could have been. "},{"Title":"In a great modern myth, desperate doctor strikes a pact with the devil.","Date":"20 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Two great European myths emerged from the early modern period, despite its being a time of print culture that of the great seducer, Don Juan, and that of Faust, the frustrated intellectual who strikes a pact with Hell. These are myths in the sense that they are the exclusive property of no individual author, but belong in common to the whole culture (as Murnau's subtitle, calling this a Volkssage, reminds us); and as such they are susceptible to wide variations in the telling. The tale of Faust began humbly enough (by literary standards) in the anonymous German *Faustbuch*, which, quickly translated into English, soon became the basis for one of Kit Marlowe's greatest plays. After that brief emergence into high culture it went low-brow again, becoming a staple of German puppet theater, and wall-paintings in beer-cellars like Auerbach's in Leipzig. Lessing saw its possibilities, and Goethe (who had drunk at Auerbach's as a student) realized them in the greatest work of German literature--on which he lavished much of a very long life. Goethe's work inspired Romantic artists including not only Byron (as in Manfred) but also opera composers ranging from Ludwig Spohr to Hector Berlioz, Charles Gounod, and Arrigo Boito.Murnau's splendid (and now splendidly restored) silent film takes its cues primarily from the Goethe and Gounod versions, but goes its own way too, as is quite right. Goethe, after all, was writing a closet drama, that is, a play meant to be read rather than performed and seen in a theater (though the first of its two parts is widely considered stage-able); but Murnau was creating a photo-play in which any words had to be in the form of disruptive title screens; and so the verbal component, which for Goethe was the whole, had in film to be kept to a bare minimum. This underlies and justifies many of Murnau's departures from Goethe's splendid precedent--departures that offended me when I first saw this film many years ago, in a far inferior version, but that I now see the reason and justification for. In any case, those of us who are familiar with Goethe's *Faust* (as Germans tend to be) are seeing a rather different movie here from the one that others see--for better and/or for worse.From Goethe (himself borrowing from *Job*) this film takes the notion of a background wager between Heaven and Hell, here providing that if Faust falls, spiritually, Hell gets to rule the whole earth. This being a film from Germany a quarter of the way through the twentieth century (which Al Pacino, as the Devil in *Devil's Advocate,* memorably characterizes as all mine), the terms of the wager provide no sure clue which side will win it. The *Faustbuch,* Marlowe, and Berlioz all consign Faust to Hell at the end; Goethe, Gounod, and Boito all redeem him. What will this film do? Find out! The emphasis on youth (as the main desideratum for which Faust bargains with the devil), and the disproportionate (relative to Goethe) emphasis on the love story with Gretchen, both show influence from the Gounod opera. An example of Murnau's departing from both precedents is having Mephisto himself commit a murder that in both Goethe and Gounod he manipulates Faust into committing; but the underlying idea, that Mephisto is prepping Faust for Hell and damnation by leading him to despair of salvation, is rightly maintained. Also, where Goethe has Faust recall a plague when his and his father's medical science utterly failed to help people, Murnau makes that plague present, and Faust's inability to help is the immediate cause of his spiritual desperation. A maiden who appeals in vain to the aged Faust for medical help (for her mother) is a near look-alike to Gretchen, a nice touch.Jannings is a splendidly louche, unhandsome devil (here named Mephisto, the only name bestowed upon this character in actual dialog in Goethe, though speech prefixes give Mephistopheles). His tactics are ingeniously contrived to keep outright magic to a minimum, relying on spiritual cunning instead. Camilla Horn seems too much the stock silent heroine early on, but grows mightily as Gretchen suffers. Gösta Ekman as the title character is perhaps weaker in his young guise, but his ability (with great help from makeup) to represent both old Faust and young is breathtaking.Makeup in general is too stagy for the frequent sharply focused closeups, so that we see it AS makeup. For special effects, shots of the apocalyptic horsemen, and shots of Mephisto and Faust on the back of some rough beast supposedly carrying them through the sky, may induce some cringes; but otherwise the quality is astonishingly high for the period, with model sets exquisitely designed, built, dressed, and photographed. The soundtrack of the 1997 restored version features only one each of cello, trumpet, violin, clarinet, and piano, and so sounds a bit thin, and also rather repetitious, but it is enlivened by intelligent quotations from both Gounod's opera and Schubert's setting (from Goethe) of Gretchen am Spinnrade. "},{"Title":"A Visually Amazing Great Supernatural Film!","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" You will never see cinematography like this in a sound or color film! Murnau's 'Nosferatu' (1925) pales in comparison to this visually fantastic masterpiece!The first half is a perfect supernatural tale of God and the Devil (Mephisto) wagering over the soul of man if Mephisto can win Faust, all of Earth belongs to Satan. It is shown and told with such amazing photography, sets and acting. Check out the other reviews that describe the wonderment of all its stunning shots in detail. The final scenes are masterful as well the death of Gretchen's baby and Faust's final salvation.Emil Jannings is so great as Mephisto it looks like the Devil is a sure winner. He steals every scene he's in, whether he's pure evil, puckish, Satanic or clownish. The Snake Has All The Lines! No wonder he was the first actor to receive a Best Actor Oscar! It made me want to see his other classic, 'The Last Laugh' (1924).The musical soundtrack perfectly matches the action and mood of every scene. Great!But---the middle really drags on too long as a love story between the now young and handsome Faust and the beautiful Gretchen, and there are some needless scenes of Mephisto being pestered by Marguerite's aunt seeking to be his wife.The movie picks up again in the last third as Gretchen is condemned for her affair with Faust, who sacrifices himself for her, and Mephisto loses the bet.The film is so staggeringly made we can forgive the boring middle parts, but I can only give it a 9, not a 10. "},{"Title":"Should have been a lot better","Date":"17 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Faust is a German silent movie from almost 90 years ago. Of course it is also still in black and white and the runtime differs depending on what version you have. The original ran for 85 minutes roughly, but the new restored version almost reaches the two-hour mark. In that case, it's not a good thing. The film drags a lot on several occasions and even if Goethe's story of Faus is a truly interesting one that I also enjoyed reading when we did it at school, it's just not enough material for a 120-minute film, at least not in this version. The director was Friedrich Wilhelm Plumpe, more known as Murnau, who worked on several of the most successful German silent films in the early days of movie-making and was probably second only to Fritz Lang at that point here in Germany. Murnau was a combat pilot in World War I by the way and no less than 6' 11 tall.Anyway, back to this film The lead actor is a Swede that I have to say I am not familiar with. Jzst like Murnau, he died way too early. Emil Jannings plays the devilish character of Mephisto and he won the very first Academy Award not much later. The lead actress is the pretty (and) young Camilla Horn who enjoyed a prolific movie career in many decades after this one, especially the 1920s, 1930s and 1940s. And even if the trio did a decent job with their performances and certainly elevated the material, it is not enough to make up for the flaws of this film. All in all, not recommended. "},{"Title":"Visually stunning but rather messy plot","Date":"24 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well I don't know if the movies stays truthful to the original story as I haven't read it. I have also heard there are several versions of the Faust story. I thought it started quite interesting enough with the plague and an old Faust trying to find a way to help the people. However when he seeks for help with the devil who offers him the joy to become and remain young the plague problems are forgotten and we follow Faust getting amorous, falling in love at first sight with some silly and way too long romantic sequences. The devil plays some evil tricks too. The further the movie the more I got a bad feeling in my stomach from silly to totally dark. Surely story-wise it's worked out better than Nosferatu and visually amazing but all in all rather messy and not really entertaining. "},{"Title":"My new favorite silent film","Date":"6 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I just watched the F. W. Murnau silent film version of Faust from 1926 and it was surprisingly good. It's from the director of Nosferatu and heavily based on the Goethe version of the Faust legend, not the Christopher Marlowe verison.Marlowe's Faust ends in a bleak and very hopeless kind of way whereas Goethe has Faust redeemed at the end with the idea that caring about others and love is the most powerful and most transcendent force in the universe and that, as it is the ultimate goodness, you cannot be damned if you can love.This silent film is heavily based on the more hopeful version of the story by Goethe, containing elements of both part 1 and part 2 of Goethe's Faust. I strongly recommend this for anyone who is a fan of Goethe's version of Faust. I sort of wish it would get a remake, still set in the fifeenth / sixteenth century and with the same ending (even if people do find the idea of love redeeming you to be saccharine). I think we need stories like this. And it is a shame the Goethe version of Faust isn't more well known in the English speaking world. "},{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Faust is the story about a wager between God and the Devil to decide who gets control of the earth and mankind. As part of this wager, the Devil tempts Faust, an alchemist who is pained by the arrival of the plague in his village (brought on by Satan), by promising him power to save victims from the plague and then youth in return for his soul. The story progresses to an interesting conclusion.Murnau's Faust is an incredible movie, with really incredible visual effects, including a fantastic image of the devil over the village and another of the four horsemen. This film really has an epic feel to it and must have been the most ambitious of Murnau's films.Great performances, especially by Emil Jannings as Mephisto (Satan) and a classic plot make this a film worth seeing.Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Movie Odyssey Review #017 Faust","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 017 Faust (1926) - released in Germany 10/14/1926, viewed 8/14/05.The Great Miami Hurricane strikes Florida, leaving 100 dead and several hundred thousand dollars in damage. Al Capone's Chicago headquarters is attacked, injuring one of his men.BIRTHS John Coltrane.DOUG We close out 1926 at the movies with F.W. Murnau's adaptation of the classic German good-vs.-evil story, Faust. With this movie, combined with Nosferatu and Sunrise, I'm starting to get a sense of Murnau's style gorgeous lighting with an emphasis on the darkness, soft camera lenses, and some of the screen's earliest scenery-chewing villains. Emil Jannings steals the show as the charming, sneering Mephisto. I know that the story of Faust has been adapted many, many times, but I wasn't really familiar with it before this. I was surprised at where the story went; Faust's village is overrun by plague, and when prayer and medicine fail, Faust summons the devil to stop it. Eventually an arrangement is reached for Mephisto to grant Faust youth and anything else he craves, and the plague-ridden village is abandoned, never to be seen or mentioned again. I found that the film got kind of boring after a while; before the end, I didn't care what happened to Faust anymore. He made the deal, so he might as well pay the price for it.KEVIN Faust was really cool. Murnau definitely had an eye for using some wild visual effects to tell the story. From a certain point of view, special effects were much cooler before computers when it was harder to figure how they were achieved. The character of Mephisto reminded me of the Clown from Spawn, acting all wicked and mischievous while also having a very playful attitude; a memorable scenery-chewing performance by Emil Jannings. The first moment that comes to mind for me is the scene where Gretchen is about to be burned and she calls out to Faust, and her voice carries over the land in that one awesome composite shot.Last film Sparrows (1926). Next film Metropolis (1927). The Movie Odyssey is an exhaustive, chronological project where we watch as many milestone films as possible, starting with D.W. Griffith's Intolerance in 1916 and working our way through, year by year, one film at a time. We also write a short review for each and every film. In this project, we hope to gain a deeper understanding of the time period, the films of the era, and each film in context, while at the same time just watching a lot of great movies, most of which we never would have watched otherwise. "},{"Title":"One of the Great Triumphs of German Expressionism.","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" F.W. Murnau (director of such films as Nosferatu (1922), Sunrise, and Der Letzte Mann 're-imagines' the tale of Dr.Faustus.Unlike Nosferatu, it's most comparable film by Murnau, Faust clearly had a much higher production values, which can be seen with some eye-popping special effects such as the entrance of Mephisto, or even Mephisto's stabbing, or even the scene of Faust and Mephisto flying. You might consider these dated by today, but on looking back you'll wonder how they did these effects in the 1920's, making them incredible. Other noteworthy items are the sets, and backgrounds and sets which stand strong today.The main character, Faust is played well both by Gösta Ekman (playing both the young and old Faust), but it is Emil Jannings who truly steals the show as Mephisto who can works just as well as being the embodiment of all evil, to the funny scenes (read intentionally funny scenes) such as the church scenes where Mephisto covers his ears from the church music, to a woman trying to seduce Mephisto.If there is a problem with Faust, is that it drops into Melodrama (specifically with the tagged on happy ending) between the middle and the end which drags the film down to a pace at time, but this hardly is much to complain about because Faust is one of the best Fantasy tinged Tragedies, and still holds up today as fine filming even if you don't think you could stand through a film made over 75 years ago.9/10. A must see! "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Murnau's Faust is awesome.  His use of special effects was great in its day and still holds up pretty well for today's standards.   I especially liked Mephisto looming over the village as well as his doubling as he is stabbed.The lighting is fantastic; each frame can tell its own story.  As part of the German Expressionist movement, every emotion, every thought is transferred onto the screen.  The agony of Gretchen, the confusion and frustration of Faust, and the sheer evil of Mephisto are always apparent.The film is just plain great from the classic story through the characterizations and special effects.  It's one of the greats. "},{"Title":"the devil waggling his tail","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie proves that sound and color are not a prerequisite for a good movie. On the contrary, the black and white contrast adds to the story, it makes Mephisto only look all the  more devilish. It is at times very funny and the theme is still relevant.  "},{"Title":"A living dream","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" FW Murnau's 'Faust', made in Germany, is a wonderful film. The version I saw had a beautiful piano accompaniment, which certainly helped, but any musical accompaniment would do just as well.Emil Jannings' performance as Mephistopheles is just superb - mocking, playful, frightening. Camilla Horn and Wilhelm Dieterle (who later became a respected Hollywood film director) are also good value as the sister and brother who fall foul of the young Faust's amorality.The film is funny, moving, and effective. It looks stunning, it is like having a dream which assaults the senses at every turn. A true gem which I would recommend anyone to see. "},{"Title":"Devilishly clever kinema...","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Even the original NOSFERATU can't hold a candle to this one. Endlessly inventive, FAUST boasts both the over-the-top chewing of the scenery kind of performances that were de riguer before sound came along, as well as some of the most innovative camera work I've ever seen. There are times when this one hurtles along at a breakneck pace that's downright mind-boggling. Jannings, as the malevolent, manipulative Mephisto, steals the show (especially when his attempts to woo one particular frau prove too much for even his ghastly gorge). The fx, too, are noteworthy- even by today's standards. Yet one more reason why silence is, indeed, golden. "},{"Title":"Citizen Kane of silent cinema","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Faust is, in my opinion, a film that shows everything that could be made during the silent years, and its great achievement is that everything is done at perfection. Taking a familiar story for German audiences, the film transcends its message to an universal one, a confrontation between good and evil. This two hour film flows easily between suspense, terror-filled Expressionist moments (the scene of the calling at the crossroads), but also comedy (Gretchen's aunt love potion) or even choreographed dance scenes and puppet horses at the very beginning. The only film I have found with an equal impact to Faust is Sunrise, a Song of Two Humans, and they're both from Murnau. I have to applaud the effort to make the work of this great master of early cinema available to a modern audience. "},{"Title":"a Chinese Mephisto","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I own this beauty--- a wonderful visual to the classic novel. I have watched this film a few times and i can say that it is also easy to fall asleep too. I have recently been having a hard time with some of the cultural baggage to older films--- where the camera can sit for long moments of time--- this one is a bit easier due to the absence of dialog--- which can really throw off the viewer. All in all i can wade through that old fashioned stuff and get to the heart of the beast. This film opens with one of the best visuals in film--- that one scene of the four horsemen sticks to my mind like glue--- the dry ice and puppets come to life--- in great puppetry fashion--- this is an actual relief from all the computer animation that is being deployed these days--- and then follows the story of the alchemist--- i wish that alchemists still existed--- i would major in a university if that were the case--- a beautiful mixture of folklore, science, art and experimentation--- The last thing that I will comment on is the way that Mephisto is dressed/looks reminds me of the way that the Chinese were demonised in the olden days--- giving the film a hard edge that it turns on--- I don't want to lead you too far into thins film--- just see it--- F.W. knows what he is doing--- "},{"Title":"A Visual Masterpiece","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Murnau's 1926 Faust is an absolute masterpiece.Visually it is one of the great splendors of the silent era. Image after image remain in the mind's eye long after viewing it the devil looming gigantically above the city, his enormous dark wings casting the streets in shadow as he spreads the plague; the fantastic scene where Mephisto and Faust ride over the countryside and the mountains standing on his cloak, like a magic carpet. And when the devil first appears to Faust, with his gleaming eyes, he is wonderfully creepy. Emil Jannings delivers a great performance and Camilla Horn is particularly exquisite as Gretchen. A great film! "},{"Title":"all you need is love","Date":"18 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Nosferatu was going to be a hard act for F.W. Murnau to follow, but he came pretty close with Faust - Eine deutsche Volkssage (simply called Faust in English). The movie combines traditional stories of Faust with Goethe's version of the story about a man who sells his soul to the Devil. Like Nosferatu, the movie has a very surreal look it's as though almost the entire story takes place in the foggy moors, which of course adds to the mystique.I should admit that a lot of the movie caused me to make the sorts of comments like on Mystery Science Theater 3000, due to how full of itself the movie is. In addition, there was a scene that made my jaw drop the people carrying the bodies of plague victims were dressed like the Ku Klux Klan! Yes, the movie has its strengths and weaknesses, but it is definitely one that I recommend. One of the really great films from inter-war Germany, along with The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari, Nosferatu, The Nibelungenlied and M (and there are probably plenty that I haven't seen).Starring Gösta Ekman, Emil Jannings, Camilla Horn, Frida Richard, William Dieterle, Yvette Guilbert, Eric Barclay, Hanna Ralph and Werner Fuetterer, "}{"Title":"An expressionistic masterpiece","Date":"25 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For me, along with Metropolis, The Gold Rush and The Passion of Joan of Arc, this is one of the finest movies of the 1920s. In design and direction especially, Faust is a masterpiece. It has a great story with a strong operatic feel, and the characters are great, Mephistopheles is especially memorable.F.W.Murnau's direction is superb. This is especially true in the duel between Faust and Mephistopheles which defines the term epic in every sense, and part of the reasons why it works so well is the wonderfully malevolent atmosphere that Murnau, Robert Herlth and Walter Rohrig create. The music fits amazingly well and the story despite one or two scenes in the middle that drag just a tad is compelling.The acting is very good. Gosta Ekman does a fine job conveying his character complete with a believable transformation from decrepitude to youth, while Camilla Horn is suitably pure. As the imposing demon Mephistopheles, Emil Jannings with a magnetic appearance and presence steals the film, while he does keep some of his comedic qualities there are times where he is quite terrifying.Other than Jannings' performance and Murnau's direction, what makes Faust such a masterpiece are the expressionistic images which inspired by Casper David Frederich's paintings are amazing, with excellent cinematography and sculptures of smoke, light and steam to compliment them. All in all, a brilliant film and one of the best of its decade. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Breathtaking","Date":"31 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The special effects in F.W Murnau's expressionism masterpiece Faust - Eine deutsche Volkssage (Faust) are just astonishing. I was really surprised when I saw the flying sequence with the weird bird creatures and inventive camera angles, it looks so modern compared to other films of the time and even many films made after it. Its also very creepy at times(mainly in the beginning) and tells a classic tragic story of love and the battle between good and evil(even though it doesn't at all times make a clear distinction between the two).(Slight spoilers ahead) The moral dilemma is probably the greatest when Faust says he'll help the people in Satan's name and as he is trying to save a child from the plague he is stopped by the crucifix the child is holding and then is almost stoned to death by the townspeople (who he is trying to help in the first place) because he can't bare to look at the cross and is in league with the devil.Acting in Faust is great same with cinematography and the story is just so captivating. Highly recommended for fans of silent horror,silent cinema and German expressionism. "},{"Title":"Stunning masterpiece","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Murnau's masterpiece captures the Gothic genius of the original folktale&#x97;and it is obvious that such a story would never have came from a Latin or even Slavic people&#x97;it required the uncanny Gothic genius. In these Germanic peoples the platitude (the banality, the philistinism, the petty bourgeois dullness) and the Gothic coexist.Gretchen is both nice and well played; Murnau's Faust is a creepy metaphysical romance, made with flawless taste and snappy aplomb by the German director. Now Murnau's genuine flair for the Gothic and the weird is obvious&#x97;his sets are made out of light and darkness, the Christian element (of rituals, practices, customs) is strongly contrasted with the chaos and delusion brought by Faust's new master.Notice that the protagonist, Doktor Faust, is a scientist&#x97;or an alchemist, anyway, not a meta-physician, but rather an enquirer of the nature, like Dr Frankenstein. For the folk, the idea of philosopher is that of a naturalist, of a scientist, even an alchemist or an occults, not of a speculative thinker. Think a little about these Faust&#x97;Marlowe&#x97;Goethe&#x97;Hegel&#x97;Mann&#x97;Bulgakov&#x97;Frankenstein. "},{"Title":"One of the era's best","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After winning a VHS copy of Faust on ebay, I finally see what the fuss is all about. I also see why Emil Jannings has achieved such a substantial reputation. (I already knew why F.W. Murnau had!) Faust is a film I had always been told I should see. I am glad I finally have.Although the copy I have is certainly diminished from what the original nitrate print must have looked like, it is still quite clear that Murnau and his cinematographer, Carl Hoffmann, did exquisite work. This is not even taking the makeup, costumes, backdrops and special effects into consideration! Those factors push the film into an even higher realm of accomplishment.Without acting, though, a film is nothing more than a spectacle at best and a bore at worse. Faust has no problem here. Jannings is a marvel as Mephisto, the scheming demon overseeing the temptation of Faust. Although he can be charming when he needs to be, as in wooing Aunt Marthe (more than he had intended, in fact!), his very appearance is frightful. The simple, yet somehow purely evil tip of his hat after being summoned by Faust was enough to send the old man running in panic more than once.Faust is aptly played by Gosta Ekman. As both the young and old Faust, he is strong, not overplaying much at all. The makeup is fantastic. I have to admit that I thought Faust was played by two different actors &#150; one playing the old Faust and one the youthful Faust. It was all Ekman, though.Camilia Horn bursts onto the world screen as Gretchen, the tragic damsel and object of Faust's infatuation. Horn is not only pretty, but does a fine job of understated acting. She indeed has the eyes and face for silent cinema. Of course the eyes and face riveted into my mind &#150; and probably most viewers &#150; are those of the evil Mephisto. Jannings' rubbery features, accentuated by the wonderful make up and quilled cap, are amazing to behold. I can see why little dialogue was needed in Jannings films.Overall, this is a superb film, certainly one of the top 10 silent films and one of the top three or four of the great German expressionist films of the 1920s. It's a keeper. "},{"Title":"A visual feast.","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  F.W Murnau's last major film made in Germany is this 1926 version of the Faust legend.  There are wonderful visuals here, especially when the devil (an impish Emil Jannings) flies over the city.  There are many poor quality bootlegs out there, but catch the restored Kino Video version.   The cast also includes William Dieterle, a german actor/director who came to Hollywood and directed many great, moody classics.  "},{"Title":"Another Masterpiece of the German Expressionism","Date":"26 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Mephisto (Satan) bets with God that he can get the soul of Faust, a bright and studious man. If Mephisto corrupts Faust, all mankind would belong to him. The first part of this film is related to this pact. Then, with Faust young and handsome, he seduces Gretchen, and the second part of this movie is related to the tragedy of Gretchen. The last scene, with the redemption of Faust, is also wonderful. Yesterday I watched Faust on DVD for the first time. This is another a masterpiece of the history of the cinematographic industry and of the German Expressionism. The lighting, shadows, effects and photography are amazing for a 1926 movie. I read in the biography of the outstanding Morneau that he fought as a pilot in the World War I and died in 1931, with 43 years old, in a car accident. What a loss for the culture of the world! Emil Jannings as Mephistoles is fantastic, alternating evil and wickedness with funny situations. Faust with his regret has a great performance and the despair of Gretchen (a very beautiful woman) is touching. I only regret that the DVD released in Brazil has not restored the images. My vote is ten.  "},{"Title":"Murnau's forgotten masterpiece","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Visually impressive, and with an absolutely marvelous, commanding performance by future Oscar winner (and future Nazi) Emil Jannings, Faust beside Nosferatu and Sunrise as F.W. Murnau's best work . Extremely funny on occasion (as when Jannings sticks his fingers in his ears outside of the Easter Mass), effectively sinister in others, Faust is a buried treasure waiting to be unearthed. Having seen it is perhaps a good qualifier for the title of Film Fanatic. "},{"Title":"One great movie","Date":"17 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Faust is a masterpiece from the majestic F.W.Murnay. The plot doesn't matter, the main attraction is the enormous visual greatness. The part where Faust and Mephisto are flying over Europe, the birds and everything, is one of the greatest moments in movie history, and the ending is absolutely beautiful. Also the beginning, where the skeletons are riding is majestic. All the way, this is a real masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A timeless tale retold with stunning visuals","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Many people have heard the tale of Faust, which has become ingrained in the collective mind of our culture. A worldly doctor sells his soul to the devil in exchange for any earthly good he could desire in exchange for the loss of any spiritual good he could have. This, I believe, is told from the Goethe angle, seeing as how the tale of Faust is more of a folktale than anything that can be attributed to any one novelist.An archangel and Mephisto, played magnificently by Emil Jannings, make a wager if Mephisto can tempt and acquire the soul of Faust, a renowned and prestigious alchemist, all of mankind is doomed. The hideous raven-form of Mephisto slinks off to his work....In a truly awe-inspiring image, we see Mephisto spreading his demonic wings over the nameless Germanic town in what is one of the coolest things I've ever seen. This spreads the plague, which devastates the town. Faust sells his soul in order to stop it, but doesn't stop there. Be it wealth or the flesh of the loveliest woman alive, Mephisto will give him any earthly desire after he makes his contract permanent.The story is heart-breaking a classic tale of good, evil, religion, love, and temptation. I'm not one of your weepy types, but I have to admit I was getting a little misty-eyed at the ending. The acting is awesome across the board, with Emil Jannings stealing the show as the cackling Mephisto. His range of facial expressions boggles the mind! But really, it's the visuals that make the movie memorable phantasmagoric montages of bizarre and demonic images, just what you'd expect from the director of Nosferatu. A demon engulfing a town in his wings, satanic birds, skeletal horsemen....and others. It's really....really interesting to watch.Murnau may be known best for Nosferatu, but don't skip out on this other gem from the Expressionistic era. "},{"Title":"No talkie could ever be *this* good.","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First of all how would you convey your emotions if you only had your body to express yourself?Would you make gestures?Would you move your hands?Or would you use your entire body as a means to express yourself?Well, Gretchen, in Faust, demonstrates the proper way to do it. Her ***incredible*** acting is more than deserving of praise. Her facial expression when saving her child from certain death, her body movements, the tears in her eyes... it was sublime. Simply sublime.Murnau's photography and special effects also excel. This might be the perfect movie for someone who has never watched a silent movie. It's moving, it's eerie, it's phenomenal. Only second (and that's a maybe) to Caligari (although Caligari might not be liked by the general public). Superb. Perfect. "}{"Title":"Not especially close to the original novel, but what a visual delight!","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I mentioned that the movie isn't especially close to the novel by Goethe, this ISN'T that bad a problem. Unfortunately for me, as a college student decades ago I was forced to read this epic story and it was tedious to say the least. It was 25,000 of non-rhyming verse that went on and on and on and on,....seemingly with no end! Fortunately, this movie is relatively fast paced and interesting--probably because it DOESN'T follow the original!! Now the plot is possibly familiar to you. Faust is offered a deal by the devil--he can have youth and beauty and live out his every wish provided he give up his soul. The prologue to this involving the archangel debating with Satan is GREAT--the make up and costumes are amazing! Faust agrees and lives like a jerk--eventually getting a sweet young lady, Gretchen, pregnant and leaving her. However, like the novel, in the end Faust has second thoughts about what he's become.The star of this movie are the special effects and costuming as well as the gorgeous cinematography. For all fans of the silents, this is a must-see. "},{"Title":"Grossly overrated","Date":"9 July 2011","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm not sure which version of the film I saw, although it did have live piano accompaniment, which was nice. The announcer mentioned it was presented on film at 18 fps. It started out with a Kino logo. I think all the text on the screen was in German, with English subtitles.The film itself however was a disappointment, mostly because even today you still have to have a good story to tell. This is less a story than cartoonish propaganda.I do give credit for the early-on special effects, which seem good even by today's standards. I'm reminded a bit of Dracula (1992). Filmmakers (especially in Canada) should take note that special effects come from skill, not computers.But as to the story, it's just not there. For example, it's never really clear why Faust suddenly abandons his hope of curing plague and decides to lust after some young woman. We have to make up the reasons ourselves. It's never clear why the side of good permits a mob to burn an innocent bystander for the sake of a game involving someone else, permits the death of child due to shunning by society, or why the side of good permits these mob attitudes, or plague at all. In the end, although we're told that love wins, both lovers die in the mob's fire, and we're left to assume that the remaining plague victims die as well without supernatural help. In fact guilt wins, mayhem wins, hatred wins, and disease wins. That's all.I have to say I found Mephisto rather a fun figure, more like Puck than anyone evil, and I was certainly rooting for him through most of the film, even if he was a jerk.Ultimately, the film only makes sense if you buy into the mythology already, as it makes no attempt to justify or expand any of it. For any rational viewer, it's just so much nonsense that the skill with effects and even the comedy becomes irrelevant. Such a shame. "},{"Title":"After Decades Waiting to See It, Disappointed","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Proposition I believe German silent films are most directly accessible to the modern film-goer through production stills, and NOT the experience of the films themselves. This film is one more case in point. The look of the film is clearly designed by artists. The sets and costumes and lighting make for tableau that are striking as any contemporaneous woodcut or painting. The carefully crafted light sculpts shapes out of darkness in a way that is superbly captured in still photography. Any production still that I have ever seen from this film would have a treasured place in my home, on my walls. Where the going gets rough, is when the thing gets moving, and you see the shortfall between the striking visual design and the living breathing dramatic embodiment the design is wrapped around. Specifically, and I do hate to say this, the effects are poor. Strikingly so. I am one of the first to complain about films that seem to depend too completely for their effect on special effects. --And I think that is exactly the problem here they made the decision to over-reach, doing things far outside their grasp at the time, and they dwell in this uncomfortable, imperfectly realized crossroads between superb chiaroscuro and crappy effects work for most of the films unwinding. That's a pity.Back projection is overblown, grainy and unsteady. The four horsemen of the apocalypse are as static, though obviously modeled in the third dimension, as Day of the Dead paper mache. And Janning's gestures and motions as Mephistophiles are as abrupt as a cartoon character's; where majesty and slowly measured glide was necessary, he looks like he's imitating a pigeon on the lawn. (Contrast his movements with those of the demon in Fantasia, where they got it very right, cartoon though it was.)I can look at a film history book, or on the net, and still feel the power of this films production stills. But best not go back to the film. Whatever worked about the motion picture the stills come from no longer does. As time passes, I am encountering more of this phenomenon when finally confronted by endearing all time classics of early cinema. By all means, tell us their historical firsts, and show us their beautiful production design via stills. But spare us the dispiriting ordeal of the actual films.Some silent films that work, for me Phantom of the Opera; Hunchback of Notre Dame; Greed; The Wind; Sunrise; The Crowd. These come to mind. Please note that even the ones on my list that deal with horror or supernatural material do not go for the special effects burn, and so are spared the damage that over-reliance on special effects seems destined to do to a film. I'm sure there are many more. But my complaint prompts this thought What will they make of our films that are 90% effects in a few years, when technology has left them in the dust? "}]