[{"Title":"The Son of the Desert","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"16 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" THE SON OF THE SHEIK (United Artists, 1926), directed by George Fitzmaurice, reunites the leading players of Rudolph Valentino and Vilma Banky, most recent stars of THE EAGLE (UA, 1925), in what has become one of the most popular films from the silent era, mainly because of it not only being Valentino's final screen performance, but is where the legend of Valentino began. A sequel to his earlier success, THE SHIEK (Paramount, 1921), Valentino's career up to this point consisted of hit and miss stories over the next few years until THE EAGLE not only brought renewed interest in Valentino, but reassured it with THE SON OF THE SHEIK. Since sequels were a rarity during that time, Valentino, as did Douglas Fairbanks with the sequel to his immensely popular, THE MARK OF ZORRO (1920), DON Q, SON OF ZORRO (1925), Valentino reprises his original role as well as portraying his own son, Ahmed. Agnes Ayres, Valentino's leading lady in THE SHEIK, is offered special billing in the opening credits, who also re-enacts her original role as Diana, this time as wife and mother.The story begins with the opening titles that read as to the location, Not East of Suez, but South of Algiers. Yasmin (Vilma Banky) is the daughter of Andre(George Fawcett), a renegade Frenchman and leader of a group of thieves. She supports them through her dancing publicly. In the marketplace (as recalled by Yasmin via flashback), she meets Ahmed (Valentino), a handsome young sheik, and the two fall in love. After meeting with Yasmin secretly one night, Ahmed is captured by her father's renegades and held captive in a building where he hangs by his tied-up wrists placed on the window bars, and subject to whip torture for not revealing the name of his father and other information. After being freed by his men, Ahmed, believing Yasmin as his betrayer, abducts the girl and subjects her to his methods of torture, with one scene looking at Yasmin with vengeance in his eyes, and (off camera) putting her through the process of rape. It would be his father, Ahmed Ben Hassan (Valentino) who orders him to release the girl. After learning the truth from Ramadan (Karl Dane), Ahmed tries to win back Yasmin, who has returned to the dance hall, and now wants nothing to ever do with him.In many ways, a much more interesting story than its predecessor, and brief to the point at 68 minutes. Aside from the fine chemistry between Valentino and Banky, the supporting villain as played by Montagu Love, along with sandy sets with production designs by William Cameron Menzies, THE SON OF THE SHEIK is Valentino's film from start to finish. And with this film as well does the Vilma Banky name remain legendary. But who knows how far Valentino's screen career would have gone had it not been for his untimely death at the age of 31 shortly following the film's release.THE SON OF THE SHEIK did enjoy frequent theatrical revivals for a number of years, usually on a double bill with THE EAGLE, as well as television showings during the early to mid 1960s. It became one of the selected films shown during the summer months on weekly public television series, The Silent Years (1971), hosted by Orson Welles (New York City area, WNET, Channel 13, on July 13, 1971). In spite of its popularity and the legend behind it, what's interesting to note is that while the twelve movies featured on The Silent Years did enjoy rebroadcasts up till the mid 1970s, THE SON OF THE SHEIK wasn't included in the reruns. Some years would pass before its availability onto video cassette and/or DVD (Blackhawk and/or Kino), the best being from the Killiam Collection accompanied by a theater organ score by Jack Ward. THE SON OF THE SHEIK, which played as part of its silent film collection on American Movie Classics around 1996, can be currently seen and studied whenever played on Turner Classic Movies. For those interested in the legend of Valentino, THE SON OF THE SHEIK, which provides two Valentinos for the price of one, as well as being an important part in cinema history, is worthy screen entertainment. (***) "},{"Title":"Excellent Valentino finale.","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This was Valentino's last film, and he is excellent in it, but it is far from being his best film (as many critics claim).  Certainly Camille, The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, The Eagle and The Conquering Power are much better films.  This was designed as a rollicking and sexy adventure film, with large doses of cheap slapstick humour, and on that level succeeds admirably.  That famous scene where Valentino ravishes Vilma Banky is extraordinary, and Valentino shows real talent in portraying both the son and the father (he is almost unrecognisable in the latter role).  Great split screen work allows the two Valentinos to inter-relate well too.The film makes you wonder what this talented and beautiful man may have achieved had he lived.  Would he have made it in talkies?  It's hard to believe such charisma would ever fail. "},{"Title":"Delightful Romantic Adventure","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" In the south of Algiers, in a camp of outcasts, the Frenchman André (George Fawcett) leads a troupe of mountebanks and thieves. His daughter Yasmin (Vilma Banky) is the dancer of the group and is promised to the cutthroat Moor Ghobah (Montague Love). However, Yasmin meets Ahmed (Rudolph Valentino), who is the Sheik's son but she does not know, and they fall in love for each other. When the young couple secretly dates in the ruins of Touggourt, where Yasmin dances, the criminals attack Ahmed, beat up and capture him, expecting to ask for a ransom. Ghobah poisons Ahmed, telling that Yasmin is a bait to lure victims for them. Ahmed escapes, and he abducts Yasmin and despises her. When he knows the truth, he fights against the gang of criminals trying to rescue her from Ghobah.The Son of the Sheik is the last movie of Rudolph Valentino and a delightful adventure with romance, action and drama. The cinematography is impressive, and I particularly liked very much the sequences when Vilma Banky dances in Touggourt beginning with a close and opening to the whole place, and when Ahmed chases Ghobah and Yasmin in the desert. Considering the equipment available in 1926, big, heavy and with serious limitations, it is amazing how these scenes were shot. Rudolph Valentino is fantastic in the role of the son of the Sheik, and his agility recalled me Errol Flynn, when he fights in the bar of Touggourt, jumping on the chandelier. The beautiful Vilma Banky dances magnificently well, shows a great chemistry with Rudolph Valentino and has also a great interpretation. The intense music of Arthur Gutmann gives a perfect dynamic to this wonderful underrated film. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) O Filho do Sheik (The Son of the Sheik) "},{"Title":"Valentino's swan song","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" It is sadly appropriate that in his final movie Valentino plays a stronger and more nuanced version of his signature character Sheik Ahmed, the impassioned lover who is initially impetuous, self centred and brutal, but who gradually matures into an admirable man. In this case, the male lead is actually the son of the original sheik, but Valentino also plays, just as engagingly, the father who is now middle aged, wiser (this is essentially the adviser role Adolphe Menjou had in the original movie) but still commanding and able to wield a sword.As wasn't the case with The Sheik, the script acknowledges the luridness of its material in a tongue-in-cheek manner (one memorable title card reads The night was young at the Café Maure. Not a knife had been thrown&#151;so far) while not mocking it to the point at the movie would lapse into parody and lose its pulpy charms. For example, in one of the most famous scenes the sheik tries to put his rebellious son in his place by bending an iron bar; the son replies by straightening it out. This is deliberate camp that nonetheless clearly establishes the strength of character and body of both men. The film also departs from the original in the frank comic relief it provides in the form of a nasty but amusing little mountebank who seems to get on the good and bad characters' nerves in equal measure. For those expecting titillation, the film does not disappoint. Valentino and the leading lady Vilma Banky, were involved in real life and it shows in the spooning scenes. The film also has plenty of the rougher, even perverse sexuality that in one form or another is present in nearly all of Valentino's films (even The Eagle, the closest to a family picture Valentino ever made, has that brief scene with the hero flourishing a whip before the frightened female lead). Here we have Ahmed's rape of Yasmine which is far racier than the merely hinted at ravishment of Lady Diana in The Sheik, and a striking (and homoerotic) sequence in which Valentino, tied up, his tailored white shirt torn to shreds, is subject to a prolonged whipping by a gang of thieves, the most sadistic of whom addresses him as My young lion. To me, this is the quintessential Valentino film and the one to show people who are curious about this actor's enduring mystique. "},{"Title":"AMAZING!!!","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This was a truly amazing film. TCM just played this along with four others for Valentine's Day. While Camille (What was with Nazimova's hair?), The Eagle, Four Horsemen, and Conquering Power were all good, Son of the Sheik was the best for Valentine's Day. The pure raw sensuality that Valentino portrayed was exciting. I've only been into the silent films for the past fours years, and as I'm only 22, one would think I have no appreciation for old people. However, this film had me online for a few hours finding pictures of Valentino in this film. HUBBA HUBBA!!! It really is a shame he didn't live longer. He very well could have made talkies, as the song I heard him record sounded lovely. "},{"Title":"Valentino farewell a fun adventure romp - dual performance.","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Valentino with tongue in cheek offers this sequel to his famous THE SHEIK. He appears here in a dual role - as a repeat of his earlier role as a tempestuous young Englishman/Desert Prince and his father, the aged version of his earlier character.  Here he shows a true acting gift, ably impersonating a man in his fifties or sixties, as well as doing his usual best in the romantic leading man mode.  He looks for all the world like John Barrymore with his greying beard and make-up. There are some fine split screen special effects for the two characters to be on the screen at the same time, including a marvelous moment when the older Sheik throws a piece of iron which falls at the younger man's feet, who then picks it up. There are many more close-ups in this film than in the original and film has obviously advanced as an atmospheric art in the five years between the two. The orchestral score (Tchaikovsky, Grieg) and sound effects are added as this print I viewed is the re-issue version (alas minus the rape scene). It is a hoot to see the exteriors of the Sheik's desert tent and the vast interiors - they don't match in the least, the latter about three times the size of the former.    A fun adventure film - the simple plot involves the daughter of the bad guys falling for the Sheik, with his alienation based on his belief that she betrayed him into a kidnaping, when she was an innocent dupe.   Agnes Ayres revives her original role as the old Sheik's love and Vilma Banky does well as the dancing girl.  A fun film - and sadly, Valentino's last. "},{"Title":"Affecting","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I only just watched 'Son of the Sheik' on dvd last night and was amazed at the textures of cinematography and the natural un-histrionic flow of the performances. While it may not be very profound or innovative, it never set out to be, and it is a far better flick than I expected, very rounded and organic and effortless. Vilma Banky is lovely and appropriately lowkey, and Valentino is every bit as exciting to watch as his celebrity maintained. Ahmed is NOT a character performance, Oscar material or anything, but Valentino instills this cardboard figure with the warmth of life, a quickening of the pulse, all very controlled and tasteful and humanly affecting rather than superhumanly virile. Of course he looks gorgeous, but so does the film itself. Some of the slapstick may seem dated by now, but then what about 'American Pie'. "},{"Title":"Valentino 101","Date":"8 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" If anyone has heard about Valentino and wants to see what all the fuss was about, The Son of the Sheik is an excellent way to do so. Here he is five years past the overacting he exhibited in parts of the earlier installment. To top it off, he plays dual roles the son and the father. And he does both admirably. The shots of the two characters in the same frame - touching each other, no less - are flawlessly executed. Generally, this is standard melodrama culminating in physical battles between the good guys and the bad guys and a final chase. Along the way we get a lot of exotic set pieces, lavishly furnished desert tents, horses racing across the dunes, smoky cafes in which dancing girls wriggle for tossed coins and a grand palace with spacious rooms and shiny floors. The intimate scenes between Valentino and the beauteous Vilma Banky are more sensuous than those of the previous film. Clips from these scenes will be familiar to anyone who has ever seen Valentino references in documentaries. Agnes Ayres reprises her role from The Sheik as Diana Mayo, now the wife of the older sheik and mother of his son, and she appears to have aged 20 years but is no less attractive. For Valentino, Banky and Ayres alone this is a treat. "},{"Title":"Way to Go, Rudy","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" In sands Not East of Suez -- but South of Algiers, handsome Rudolph Valentino (as Ahmed) and beautiful dancing girl Vilma Bánky (as Yasmin) fall in love. Mr. Valentino learns that Ms. Bánky must dance for coins, which her wicked father George Fawcett (as André) gambles away. Mr. Fawcett and Montagu Love (as Ghabah) are part of a band of renegade thieves. Valentino wants Bánky for his own, but Fawcett isn't about to part with the goose that brings in the golden coins. Valentino is kidnapped, strung up, whipped, and held for ransom. Turns out, he's The Son of the Sheik... Valentino is freed, with a lot of help from his friend Karl Dane (as Ramadan). Valentino thinks Bánky betrayed their love; and, he vengefully abducts her. Meanwhile, Ahmed's father Rudolph Valentino (in a dual role, as the original Sheik) and mother Agnes Ayres (as Diana) are preparing an arranged wedding for the younger Valentino. Father and son clash, over love and lust&#x85; An indelible, essential film, Son of the Sheik finds Valentino at the top of his profession. George Fitzmaurice (direction), George Barnes (photography), William Cameron Menzies (sets), and George Marion Jr. (title cards) are all outstanding. Bánky and the supporting cast are excellent. The filmmakers create a rich, dreamy, and imaginary world; note how the opening title card refuses to be precise. This goes even further than the original The Sheik (1921) in establishing the films as something incompatible with reality; of course, both films suffer when taken without a grain of sand.Valentino's characterizations are startlingly well-crafted; no doubt, many original film goers missed the nuances present in the younger Ahmed, and would not have even guessed, unless alerted, Valentino was also portraying the older Sheik. The split screen appearance of the two Valentinos is technically brilliant; and, even with make-up, Valentino's portrayal of the older Sheik shows an extraordinary range. In fact, Valentino could have essayed a double career as a dashing older man. Had he lived, Valentino might have been awarded his own best acting Medal of Honor for his performance, which was at least equal to John Barrymore's 1925 win, for Beau Brummell. ********** Son of the Sheik (7/9/26) George Fitzmaurice ~ Rudolph Valentino, Vilma Banky, George Fawcett, Agnes Ayres "},{"Title":"Adventure, lust, betrayal - it had it all!","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I recently saw the Son of the Sheik at an old movie house in Los Angeles. It was complete with the Wurlitzer theater pipe organ -- live accompaniment for this rare gem! I was in awe at how sophisticated and enchanting this movie was.  I remarked to my husband that it reminded me of one of my trashy love novels.  It was so perfect.  I remember reading somewhere that Rudolph Valentino's fame came from the fact that he was so dark and handsome and muscular as opposed to the little pasty boys that had existed before him in the cinema. The scene where he exacts his revenge on Yasmin and ravishes her....was wonderful.  His dark eyes as he looked at her in the close-ups.......ahhhhh. This movie truly was a treat.  The desert scenes, the lush scenery and sumptuous costumes create a wonderful lavish movie. Valentino was taken from the cinema world far too early....but at least we have these lavish movies to remember him by. "}{"Title":"Something For Everyone!","Date":"31 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This was a truly great movie. It had something for everyone, adventure, romance, comedy. I'll start with the comedy. There's this itty bitty guy who's bald and has a beard who steals every scene he's in. He's an adult, but he's really small and really plays it up for laughs. There's plenty of adventure as first one side and then the other battles for possession of Vilma Banky. She's the prettiest woman in the film, so I can understand that. There's adventure right up to just about the last. Rudolph Valentino rescues her from a bandit (the title card says he's a Renegade Frenchman, he and Vilma kiss and it shows the riding off through the desert, in what turned out to be Rudloph Valentino's last film. I hate to say it, but I will. When it comes to looks, Vilma far outshines Agnes Ayers, who played the object of Rudoph Valentino's attention in The Sheik (1921). There's romance, between Rudoph and Vilma. Now, the bandit that Rudolph rescues her from had been promised to her by her father (thanks, Dad!), but her heart loves Rudolph. I've got to give Vilma, a little extra credit. It's not every Hungarian who could pull playing a believable dancer, but she does. What's kind of poignant is that Rudolph Valentino also plays his father and you see him as an older character. Unfortunately, he didn't live near long enough to get old. But like I said in the beginning, there's something for everyone in this film. If you like silent movies, try to give this one a look. "},{"Title":"Visually stunning","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" It amazes me, that Valentino-as-the-sheik was able to start such a fashion in the 1920s. Watching this sequel of THE SHEIK I keep seeing everything that had already been recycled in the Broadway operetta DESERT SONG - also filmed as an early talkie, shortly after SONG OF THE SHEIK. Valentino far outclasses everyone I've ever seen play The Red Shadow - and visually the SON OF THE SHEIK is much better than any DESERT SONG film version (even the later, color one). Considering the intense interest in 'Arab Matters' today, it's sad that no one revives DESERT SONG done Valentino-style. Because even after all those years - his 'hypnotic gaze' in the film remains hypnotic. "},{"Title":"Sequel That's Better Than Original","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Son of the Sheik, The (1926)*** (out of 4) This sequel to THE SHEIK was released to theaters just eleven days after the death of star Rudolph Valentino so it goes without saying that this earn a lot of money by female fans wanting to see the star one final time. In the film he plays the son to the Sheik of the first film. The son gets into a bit of trouble when he falls in love with a poor dancer (Vilma Banky) only to have her father kidnap and torture him. The father tells the Sheik's son that the daughter was in on the kidnapping but it turns out this wasn't true so the son must make mends with his own father (also played by Valentino) and go get the woman he loves. For a 68-minute film there's quite a bit of plot going on but in the end it's certainly a better film than the original thanks in large part to a lighter tone that allows some humor as well as a lot more action. It's said that Valentino was embarrassed by his image in the first film so perhaps that's why this sequel is so different in terms of tone. In the original film you could accuse the Sheik of being a truly horrid monster but those traits weren't passed down to the son who we see as an all around good guy. The camera certainly soaks up the sexuality with various shots just fixated on the star and I'm sure his female fans appreciated this. The film also benefits from some nice humor from a couple idiots working for the dancer's father. The action scenes this time out are a lot more impressive as we get more fist fights, more sword battles and of course we have Valentino riding to the rescue of his woman and having to save her from the evil father. Valentino turns in a much better performance here than in the previous movie. He's very charming as the son and manages to be funny in his own right but the more impressive performance comes from the older father. There's quite a bit of make up on Valentino when playing the Sheik from the first film but I thought he did a very good job with the anger the character has as well as a small bit of humor when his wife (Agnes Ayres; returning from the first film) reminds him that he was the same way when he was younger. George Fawcett is good as the bad guy and Banky is also very good in her role. Banky and Valentino have a lot of chemistry together and this is extremely apparent early on when the two sneak away to meet under the moonlight. Who knows where Valentino's career would have gone had he not died and we can't even say he would have survived into the sound era. This final film of his has the actor in good form, which is more than a lot of legends can say for their swan songs. "},{"Title":"David Jeffers for SIFFblog.com","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Sunday February 15, 130 & 700pm, The Lynwood, Bainbridge IslandLie still, you little fool! An Arabian prince (Rudolph Valentino) becomes infatuated with a beautiful dancing girl (Vilma Banky), traveling each night to see her, until he is beaten and robbed by the gang of thieves she lives with. Believing she is complicit in the crime, he takes her by force to his desert camp and has his revenge. When his father (also played by Valentino) takes him home to fulfill a marriage agreement, the girl is set free. Once back among the miscreants, she learns the truth.A frenzy of interest surrounded The Son of The Sheik (1926), released two weeks after the unexpected death of its star. Banky’s dancing scenes and kidnapping are exhilarating highlights. Intensely romantic in a primitive sense, Valentino’s persona cultivated a desire for sexual fulfillment in his audience, while encouraging a positive attitude toward forceful, sexual dominance. Cinema as escapist fantasy has no better example from the silent era. "},{"Title":"Sexy and entertaining, but perhaps more problematic than the first film","Date":"30 May 2014","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Son of the Sheik (1926) is one of few sequels which outshines its predecessor. The Sheik (1921), while historically significant and full of kitschy fun, is not what anyone would call a good movie with its direction-less writing, pedestrian direction, and lack of chemistry between the romantic leads.In contrast, TSOTS has a competent director in George Fitzmaurice, great chemistry between leads Rudolph Valentino and Vilma Banky, and the writing is much better, featuring characters with strong motivations and personalities. Heck, even Agnes Ayres and Valentino as the now middle-aged couple of the original film muster more chemistry for their ten minutes together in this film than they did in the entirety of the original! TSOTS comes off as the better film also because it knows what it is pure escapist fare. The actors all play their parts with an awareness that they're in hokum. That's not to say they camp it up Valentino actually underplays in many scenes, taking an approach opposed to his bug-eyed antics in the original. Vilma Banky makes for a beautiful and strong-willed heroine, much more appealing than Agnes Ayres' tepid (and slightly snobby) English captive.Of course, that is not to say that the film is not problematic. It is a misrepresentation of Arab culture, and the villain is a lecherous and violent Moor played by the white Montagu Love. Even worse is one certain scene, perhaps the most infamous in all Valentino's filmography, in which he, believing his lady love has lured him into being captured by a group of bandits, kidnaps and rapes her in revenge. Of course, he finds out the truth, rescues her from potential rape at the hands of Montagu Love, and begs her forgiveness (which she readily gives him), but it's still off-putting and the only aspect of the film which is inferior to the first, where a similar scene ends in the leading man feeling disgusted toward himself for even considering such an act. Many write this scene off as being more of a sadomasochistic rape fantasy than anything else, but I doubt most modern viewers will be comforted by that notion.I still thoroughly enjoy this film for its self-aware comedy and the healthier examples of sexual/romantic chemistry between Valentino and Banky while recognizing its ickier aspects, but your mileage may vary. "},{"Title":"A note about the ravishment scene...","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Just to answer ClaudeCat's question, It really made me wonder about the time  period did women of the 20's enjoy seeing rape fantasies onscreen, because of  different attitudes about women and sex? Or was this something filmmakers ofthe period imagined women wanted to see, and the fans put up with it in order to  enjoy the sight of Rudolph's face? the film was quite remarkably based on abook written by a WOMAN and the script also was written by a WOMAN.  This issomething I found very shocking when I first studied this film in film class.  The  rape in this film in many ways functions the same way the rape scene did inGone With the Wind. In fact, in both cases, many people don't even call them  rape scenes, even though in both a woman is taken against her will.  Manytheories about this revolve around the fact that Valentino was this exotic, sexy,  foreigner that women secretly wanted to kidnap them from their dull,homebound lives and their conservative husbands.  This is in a way whatpsychologists call a rape fantasy.  Whereas a real rape, the woman has nocontrol, in a fantasy, even though she imagines being taken by force, she isreally the one making the rules, because she is imagining it, much as the female  writer of The Son of the Sheik may have her character be ravished, but is really  the one in control of what Valentino does.  One important thing to note is a rape  fantasy doesn't mean the woman actually wants to be raped in real life.   "},{"Title":"Double Rudys","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Valentino's final film is unremarkable for its characters or plot - the latter is but a melodramatic trifle. It is, however, of some historical interest with regard to visual narrative.Of course, back then there were no 'vocal technician' actors. Every actor had to tell a story with his or her body, face, and especially with the eyes. On that count, there's plenty of trademark Rudy glares, modulated with knowing smirks and slight raises of his right brow. He was keenly aware of his power over women, and wasn't afraid to use it - it shows here.Likewise, Banky has to keep the male audience interested, so she has to project this without words - and so her dances are engineered to send men into smoldering paroxysms -- somewhat risible, today. Compare this to Samantha Morton's performance in Sweet and Lowdown to see how far we've come, not only in movie craft, but in the degree of competence we expect from the actors.The key technical feature is the split screen compositions with Rudy playing 'the Sheik' and 'the Son' in the same frame -- not original, but quite effective and nearly seamless. Simultaneously, it ties in the first Sheik AND this story; Rudy has to reinvent the first character - very clever.The big weak spot, though, is in the intertitles. These were not well handled - they aren't edited to any effect, they're simply cut right in between the actors' mouth movements. This could have been essential viewing if someone had the vision to manipulate us more effectively through the editing. "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"11 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" this movie is, on the surface, your typical over blown silent film. when it comes to the action its laughable (the sword fights were hilarious to me)but i was somewhat drawn in by Rudolph Valentino's looks and general appeal. it was on last night and i was a bout to go to bed, but my parents were still surfing channels when it comes onto this film. i recognised Valentino the second i saw him and instantly knew the movie. even though i'd never seen suddenly i could go to bed! i just kept staring, this silent movie that played like a comedy to me was drawing me in. suddenly the romance was apparent and i had fallen for Valentino's heroic character. it's not dramatic though. sword fights are hilarious! "},{"Title":"kinda like THE SHEIK, Part II","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This isn't a bad film, but also seems pretty familiar considering it has the same leads in this film as the original SHEIK. And, as well as this similarity, the film at times just seems like a continuation of the original--even though the story centers on the son (who, oddly enough, looks EXACTLY like the guy in the first film!).The basic plot involves love at first sight--a screen cliché if I've ever seen one! A nice dancer who is virtually the slave of a band of outlaws falls for the nice young son of a sheik. However, despite their ardor, he is told by one of the scummy gang that the dancer doesn't love him, but it was all part of a trap to lure the rich man to the gang. And, given that Valentino's character didn't read the script, it takes him most of the movie to determine the girl is in fact sweet and worth marrying. "},{"Title":"beautiful, but disturbing","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I agree with most of the other reviewers' comments about how beautiful this film is (especially the Kino dvd I saw, which has the original tints), and what good performances Rudolph and Vilma gave, but I was surprised that no one else was disturbed by the ravishment scene. It really made me wonder about the time period did women of the 20's enjoy seeing rape fantasies onscreen, because of different attitudes about women and sex? Or was this something filmmakers of the period imagined women wanted to see, and the fans put up with it in order to enjoy the sight of Rudolph's face? (The filmmakers also seemed to want to have it both ways Rudolph and Vilma remain elaborately clothed throughout every scene, so if you want to, you can imagine nothing very bad happened when the camera cut away!)Anyway, other than that I thought the film was rollicking--a textbook example of the wonderful extremes silent movies could go to. "}]