[{"Title":"A very good early Hitchcock film","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"29 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A story loosely based on Jack the Ripper. In London a killer called the Avenger goes around killing blond-haired girls. Around this time Mr. and Mrs. Bunting take in a lodger (Ivor Novello). He's quiet but very odd. He takes a liking to their blond-haired daughter Daisy (June Tripp). But then the Buntings begin to suspect that he may be the Avenger and want Daisy as his next victim...Hitchcock's first thriller and a very good one. Very few title cards are used--he uses images to carry the film. Sometimes it works but, more than once, I was confused. It was one of his first films though so this can be forgiven. It also moves a bit too slow. But it's still worth seeing.You can see the beginnings of his later work peeking through and there are some sequences so well directed that they're stunning (the one where Novello and Tripp kiss is just SO beautiful). Also the acting is actually quite good by everybody--especially Novello. He was a box office draw in the 1920s and it's easy to see why. The man is not only a good actor he was undeniably beautiful. It's easy to see why he was once called one of the most beautiful men alive.Novello was gay--I wonder if Hitch knew that. There are two lines in this film where people talk about his character--Good thing he doesn't like girls and Even if he is a bit queer. These lines are quite interesting now--I wonder if they were put in on purpose or just happened to be written without anyone knowing. Interesting to think about... "},{"Title":"The real Hitchcock is born","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the first real Hitchcock movie. The one in which he really starts to use all his abilities, although we can see that they are still not mature yet. It's very interesting because he makes a lot of experiments in this film, like the glass ceiling, and we see how hard he wanted, at the time, to really make his mark, to stand above the rest. Although the ending is not very good, the first 20 minutes of The Lodger are impressive, with Hitchcock slowly telling us (visually, of course) about the killer and his particularities, until the arrival of Ivor Novello. A must-see picture to any real Hitchcock fan  "},{"Title":"A compelling whodunit","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A stranger (Ivor Novello) in fog-bound London seeks accommodation from a family and they provide him with a small apartment upstairs.  Their blond daughter is drawn towards this fascinating and somewhat mysterious gentleman.  Her parents become suspicious of the intentions of the lodger and they live in fear of her safety.  There is a serial killer abroad in the foggy streets and who knows? this stranger could be that maniac.It is interesting to view an early Hitchcock film as far back as the silent era.  I am surprised at the quality (despite a few scratches here and there).  The addition of music is rather overdone  in my opinion but it does fill in the empty silence and does add a dramatic effect.  No doubt in the early days a capable pianist (below the screen) bashed out some impromptu music to fit the mood of each scene.It is an uncomplicated story but that does not mean the guilty person is easily recognized (if at all!)  Hitchcock likes to tease with a lodger who has shifty eyes, who paces the floor (what an original idea to photograph through a transparent floor), who has the wall pictures removed and who creeps out silently at night.I feel that the atmosphere created is exceptional.  Certainly a bit theatrical with exaggerated eye expressions but compelling nevertheless.When you see a film of this vintage you realise how much film production had already advanced in the 20's and without the aid of all our recent technological contrivances. "},{"Title":"It was the start of what came to be known as the Hitchcock touch...","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The film begins with the head of a girl in close-up... She is very blonde, and her curling hair fills the screen... She is screaming... Cut to a theater sign, announcing a show called Tonight, Golden Curls. The lights of the sign are reflected in water... From that water the golden-haired girl is drawn out to land... She is no longer screaming... She is dead... Assassinated! That scene was more than the start of a film... It was also the real start of suspense films in England...The Lodger, based on a novel by Mrs. Belloc Lowndes, was set in a Jack the Ripper-style murder wave in a foggy London... The victims were always blonde girls, always killed on the same day of the week...While the whole capital speculates in contagious fear, a new lodger turned up at a peaceful boarding house... He wears a black cloak and carries a black bag...There are other details which make us mistrust the mysterious tenant without, obviously, conclusive proof&#133; So is he or isn't he the serial killer? Well, you have to see the film, and to follow a plot that was to dominate and control several of Hitchcock's later films the concept of suspicion, the essential point for suspense&#133; "},{"Title":"A Story Of The London Fog","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" With a savage murderer stalking the night, dark suspicion swirls about THE LODGER living in a London home.Sir Alfred Hitchcock (1899-1980) became a director of note with this silent film, his first thriller and only his third directorial effort, which shows the young Master's talents being developed in embryo. Based on the novel by Mrs. Belloc Lowndes and the tales of Jack the Ripper, Hitchcock was able to embroider upon the theme of mistaken identities and incorporate an intense chase sequence, both of which would become important elements in his later suspense films. He also made the first of his famous cameo appearances, twice actually, which would also become part of his trademark.The film is well plotted and moody, told in an almost expressionistic style, relying mainly on visuals and a somewhat frugal use of title cards. The staging in the narrow, multi-level home is especially well managed, with characters on different stories interacting in the plot simultaneously.Fans of the 1944 American remake with Laird Cregar may be surprised at its very different ending from this film. This is probably largely due to the fact that the earlier movie (including some very incongruous and never explained plot elements) was planned as a showcase for its star, matinée idol Ivor Novello, who plays the title role. Born David Ivor Davies in Wales, Novello (1893-1951) was the son of famed singing teacher Dame Clara Novello Davies. He found success on the stage at an early age and became a very popular actor-manager, playwright & composer, his most lauded song being the World War One patriotic tune 'Keep The Home Fires Burning.' Although he appeared occasionally in films, Novello's greatest renown came from his acting in the lavishly romantic stage plays he authored, his handsome good looks being especially appreciated by the ladies in the audience. A hint of his melodramatic stage persona, especially the use of his mesmeric eyes, can be seen in Hitchcock's film, projecting the actor into a virtual Epiphany during the most exciting sequence. Novello would also star in THE LODGER's 1932 British talkie remake.The rest of the cast does well in support of Novello, especially Marie Ault & Arthur Chesney as his increasingly frightened landlords. Monosyllabic actress June flounces prettily as their flirtatious daughter; Malcolm Keen, whose character is done rather dirty by the script, plays the suspicious cop who loves her. "},{"Title":"Murder &#150; wet from the press","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Lodger was the feature which Hitchcock himself described as his first true film (it was actually his third complete one), and film historians, particularly auteurists tend to focus upon it because it is it introduces themes of murder and suspense that Hitch's name would later be synonymous with.To be honest, the first thing that strikes me upon watching The Lodger is its sense of rhythm. Hitchcock's earliest films were always very rhythmic and the opening moments of The Lodger are a great example, with a dynamic and attention grabbing sequence of shots and title cards. Much of this however may be down to the style of the seldom referenced screenwriter Eliot Stannard, who has a credit on all but one of Hitchcock's silents. Stannard was a master at telling stories in purely visual terms, and his screenplays often go as far as to map out series of interlocking images.The next very obvious thing about The Lodger is that right from the start Hitchcock was more interested in cinematic technique than he was in performances or artistry. The Lodger is crammed with Expressionist effects, in particular double exposures. Hitch clearly hadn't learnt the art of subtlety yet and these are massively overused. We can also tell early on that Hitchcock was interested in using his camera to involve the audience in the film, throwing in point-of-view shots or drawing our attention to specific items. In this regard his technique was not yet refined. He was develop it in his later silents.Of course what generally interests followers of Hitchcock's career is the fact that The Lodger is the first time he deals with the grisly subject of murder. It's true that there are many Hitchcockian elements here &#150; murder, blondes, a love triangle and even a MacGuffin in the form of the Avenger whom all the characters are concerned about but isn't the focus of the story. There is a kind of morbid sensationalism concerning the killings, something we'd see right through to the other end of Hitch's career with the comment about ripped whores in 1972's Frenzy. There's also of course a wrong man, although here he appears more as the subject of a whodunit. The later Hitchcock would have focused upon the plight of the wrongly accused, and made a more suspenseful film in the process.All in all, The Lodger isn't really as significant an early Hitchcock as some would believe. For one thing there is the influence of screenwriter Stannard and the fact that Hitchcock, although he may have relished the material, was still very young and inexperienced. The fact is The Lodger may contain more of Stannard's influence than it does Hitchcock's. It's not as if Hitchcock immediately began making more murder thrillers. The majority of his British thrillers are of the espionage/adventure variety, and it would take up until the early 40s for Hitchcock to really begin making masterpieces in the domestic murder genre. It's also nowhere near being Hitch's best silent film, even though it tends to be remembered over more polished works like The Ring and The Manxman. Taken out of context though, it is a fairly decent late silent thriller, with only a few minor flaws in plot and direction. "},{"Title":"Vintage Hitchcock at his best.","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In a quiet British town, a serial killer known as The Avenger is on the loose. Noted for his partiality for blondes, The Avenger has killed seven women-and shows no signs of stopping.Ivor Novello, as the title character, is a quiet and mysterious man who appears at a boarding house soon after the seventh murder is committed. The landlady reluctantly allows him to stay in an upstairs room, but becomes suspicious when she notices the young man turning over all the portraits of blonde-haired women in his room. It doesn't help the landlady's suspicions when the man begins showing an interest in her daughter, Daisy (naturally, a blonde). Daisy's boyfriend, a detective, is assigned to The Avenger's case, and (almost immediately) becomes suspicious of the lodger as well.Although The Lodger isn't Hitchcock's first feature, it most certainly is the film that launched his career as the Master of Suspense. Noticeable Hitchcock trademarks are apparent here-namely the lodger's arrival and the ceiling/mirror scene.Loosely based on the infamous serial killer Jack the Ripper, this silent thriller is fast-paced with exceptional performances. The score, at times, seems out of place, but Hitchcock fans will nonetheless enjoy this film.  "},{"Title":"A Nation of Shopkeepers and Murderers","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I wonder if this would be identifiable as a Hitchcock movie if it weren't identified as such. Maybe. It as a few innovative touches anyway although it's often a little primitive.For one thing it's a theme -- a serial murderer in a comfortably bourgeois setting -- that Hitchcock would return to from time to time. Frenzy, for instance, and Shadow of a Doubt. But this isn't really typical in that the later Hitchcock would have complicated the story, or juiced it up, by having the innocent eponymous lodger guilty of something or other -- maybe just having a closet full of ladies' garments. As it is, he's made Ivor Novello a bit odd looking, given him effete gestures, more makeup than the other men, suggesting that he's gay. Other characters refer to him as queer (in the old-fashioned sense of quirky) and say of him that he's not keen on the ladies. (Ivor Novello was himself gay.) There's also a scene in which a sexy young girl is happily taking a bath while the lodger tries to sneak into the bathroom. Shades of Psycho.And when the lodger is pacing back and forth in his upstairs room, the family look up at the ceiling at the jiggling chandelier and the ceiling becomes transparent so we can see the shoes of the suspect. Oh, it's not elegant, but it IS original. Hitchcock was trying something new even then.Then too, there is a scene in a kind of -- boutique? Is that the right word? A fancy dress shop where the heroine models. The prissy looking lodger is seated between two dolls in cloche hats -- I'm afraid I'm guessing again -- and one of them puts an unlit cigarette in her mouth, waiting for the smooth gentleman to light it for her, and maybe buy her that smashing dress too. But the lodger has noticed that -- well, to be frank -- the woman's bare KNEE is on display, the flapper! So, get this, staring straight ahead, he takes out his lighter, flicks it lit, and moves it to the side so she can reach it. Then he disengages himself, stands up, and walks off, to her irritation. It was not necessary to do the scene in that particular fashion but it's the kind of thing Hitchcock would dream up, a small but telling detail. Hitchcock makes his cameo in the crowd of people trying to clobber the lodger, who is hung up on a fence by his handcuffs. (Christian symbolism? I doubt it.) Hitchcock's presence is clear enough in still shots but the print I saw was so old and scratchy half the scene was obscured. Why didn't Hitchcock make an outright movie about Jack the Ripper instead of this one, with an innocent Avenger. We never find out who or what the real murderer is avenging. Come to think of it, we never even see him. Maybe Hitch wasn't too fond of period pictures. The few that he made were anything but hits. Hitch making a movie set in 1885? What's next? Hitch remaking the shootout at the OK Corral? Hitch doing a biography of Moses? Nah. He had a pretty good sense of his talents and their limitations. When he misjudged them it was usually in the matter of technique, not subject. Worth seeing. In fact, an interesting story. "},{"Title":"Important Historically & Very Good In Its Own Right","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Usually remembered as Alfred Hitchcock's first thriller, The Lodger is also a very good film in its own right.  Although the acting is somewhat dated, and although there is not a really appropriate musical score that has survived, it has the carefully crafted plot and suspense that Hitchcock would become famous for.The opening sequence uses the director's creative touches in setting the mood of a city terrorized by a mysterious killer, The Avenger, who is targeting light-haired women.  Then we meet the actual characters an older couple and their daughter Daisy, and Daisy's policeman boyfriend.  When a mysterious lodger appears and rents the family's extra room, his strange behavior begins to make them suspect that he might be the mad killer, even as he builds a close friendship with Daisy.  As the story proceeds, tension and fear continue to build until an ending that is exciting, if somewhat melodramatic.Hitchcock shows his mastery of silent film technique in using a wide variety of camera techniques and props to communicate the emotions of the characters.  The acting is mostly good, although Ivor Novello as the lodger overplays his role rather noticeably.  This is the kind of movie that could really benefit from a good musical soundtrack, and the fact that it is exciting to watch even without an appropriate score shows the quality of Hitchcock's craftsmanship.Anyone who enjoys Hitchcock or silent films will definitely want to see The Lodger.  "},{"Title":"Fun stuff, very Hitchcock!","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is fantastic and fascinating mostly because of its director, but it would be fun either way. I'd say that it's better than many films of the same period, but not to the same extreme degree that Hitchcock's movies eventually achieved. You can see it's his work, though. Hitchcock knew that what made a suspenseful movie good had nothing to do with gore or loud noises, and this shows even in his early work. The Lodger has a distinctly Hitchcock feel to it--fun and scary--and it's interesting to see how he gets around the lack of sound, considering the fact that most (all?) of his other films were talkies.  "}{"Title":"For a 1926 production it's inventive, smart, and a great opening to Hitchcock","Date":"22 August 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Lodger (1927)This is the first of three movies in a 30 year period based on the same plot, and in terms of plot this is the best of them. (There is also a recent one that is the worst of the bunch.) It is, for sure, an early Alfred Hitchcock film. It's early in the sense that it's still creaky at times. It's Hitchcock because it's tightly made, visually dramatic, and it combines sympathy and suspense really well.If you are into what makes Hitchcock tick, you really have to see this movie. Not that you should mind--it's great stuff. First of all you get the presumably innocent man accused of a string of murders (this is ambiguous). Then you have the mixing of sex and murder (or lust and murder--there is no sex here). And then you have the way Hitchcock mixes every day regular people and very safe and homey situations with genuine terrible murderous events. And finally there is his filming and editing. Take a look even at the very first shot--a close up a screaming woman shot at an angle (a Dutch angle). Look next at how dark and impressionistic the next shots are of a horrified crowd, a cop, and a reporter. Later there are other interesting cuts to lead you to thinking a certain way about the characters. And the overlapping of images. And the shot of a man walking overhead on glass, as if you can see through the ceiling.The humor and clever conversation of later versions of this story are naturally lost on us here. Also in good Hitch fashion there are few intertitle cards. Good thing. The visuals tell the story. And wait until the final scenes, the Pieta all over again, really gorgeous. Some of these last shots were redone at the request of the studio to change the impressions of the main character, a handsome man with an acting reputation to protect. Hitchcock went along, and it seems to be acceptable all around by the time it was released.It's hard to find a decent print of this (a version from a good copy of the film, on DVD or streaming), but it has recently been restored and re-scored (orchestrated) and that's for sure the one to get. It is so far only a U.K. release, apparently even a blu-ray version is out (look for the red and black Constructivist cover). Criterion has not released a version. The original release has different scenes tinted blue or amber for greater effect and the usual version on Hitchcock DVDs and DVD sets in the U.S. is all black and white.So, if you don't like silent films and can't stand choppy or grainy or badly cropped releases of early films, don't see this. But if you can find the clean new restoration, or you just love Hitchcock, or if you really like silent films (they get more and more amazing the more you see), then see this! It's the director's first really characteristic feature. "},{"Title":"Be careful, I'll get you yet.","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The lodger's first appearance, dressed like the description of a murderer named 'The Avenger' with a wrap across his face, makes it a bit too obvious that Jonathan Drew might be the killer. That's what hooks the viewer into wondering who the Avenger might actually be, and with only a handful of credited characters, the only other reasonable suspect would be police detective Joe.Alfred Hitchcock masterfully directs his first British thriller with hallmarks of the style that in later years would make his name a household word. The steep stairways of the boarding house, a recurring black cat and Hitchcock's own understated presence were all to be repeated in later films, not to mention central characters in a tense game of identity crisis. What makes the lodger character (Ivor Novello) particularly creepy is his unusual behavior in turning women's pictures away from view and the borderline malevolent interest he takes in young Daisy Bunting, a fair haired girl who has all the prerequisites for the Avenger's next victim.There are a couple of anomalies that bear mentioning. I found it more than a bit unusual that the lodger's murder map would have been drawn in exactly the same way as the one the police have, a set of smaller triangles within a larger one to mark locations of the stranglings. Speaking of triangles, perhaps it was unintentional, but the one between Drew, Daisy and Joe presents a lot of unresolved tension as events unfold.The other scenario I had some problem with involves the mob chase after the lodger and Daisy leave the pub - just where did ALL those people come from? Presumably it was late evening with most people staying safe at home, but it looked like a hundred plus people were after the innocent victim.At times excessively grainy and marked with imperfections, I was fortunate to have this rare movie turn up on a Hitchcock DVD compilation of nine British films on three discs put out by St. Clair Vision. These early Hitchcock efforts have been easy to find for a long time now except for The Lodger, and Blackmail which is also part of the set. Even if you're not a Hitchcock fan per se, it's a great set to get into to see the early development of the suspense genre, with an opportunity to see how the director progressed over the course of his early career. "},{"Title":"Primordial","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The value in this doesn't come from the story, the acting or the intertitles. There's nothing exotic about the locales or the people; in fact, there seems to have been a deliberate use of a cast that precisely resembles the sort of audience that was expected to attend the movie.Where the value lies is in the twisting effect that comes from the editing of the imagery that has us convinced of one thing, to the point of siding with the indignant mob within the film, only to have the rubber band harshly snapped at the precise climactic moment. Ideas that filmmakers -still try- to rearrange and perfect.Along the way, we are treated to some uniquely cinematic ideas; partly the camera angles and the shot to shot edits that twist our perceptions. But note also the superposition of images to denote imagination and memory. What we have here is evidence of Hitchcock's early recognition of the power of the camera to tell the story in it's own unique and new language. "},{"Title":"Alfred Hitchcock's First Suspense","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The master was 27 when he made this film. It was his 2nd or 3rd, but his first suspense movie. And it's pretty frightening. It's different (and kinda beter) than the novel's plot. In that,he really is the killer (in that case, Jack the Ripper). But in this, despite all the evidence, the lodger (according to the working title, Jonathan Drew) is really trying to stop the villain. Despite it's age, it doesn't show. Classic suspense and horror in the avenger's murders. When the film was shot,one actor playing a reporter in a chair was missing, so Hitch performed his first cameo- he is sitting in a chair at a typewriter in the room  full of articles being written. He apparently enjoyed it, for you can see him at the end in the front of the crowd beating the lodger Johnny. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's first film.","Date":"30 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Rating ***1/2 out of 4.Hitchcock has said it himself. THE LODGER is really his first film as a director, or at least the film wherein he would find the genre that he's truly capable of doing. The future trademarks are all here the framed innocent man, the mysterious murderer, the icy blonde, the visual style and storytelling skills, and the macabre humor. THE LODGER is a real first for the late, great Master of Suspense and despite its age, is still great cinema.The story follows a string of murders in London, blamed as the works of the mysterious Avenger. The story then focuses on Daisy (June), the daughter of a landlady, who that night welcomes a mysterious lodger to their home. Daisy is seeing a detective (Malcolm Keen) who is assigned to track down the murderous Avenger. Could the stranger murders and the arrival of the lodger be somehow connected? And what is the deal with him wanting to get rid of the paintings hanging on the wall in his rented room? Even early on his career, Hitchcock already displayed a talent in visual storytelling. Since the movie was done in silent, with only a few titles to narrate the story. So Hitch had to find a way to tell the story by visual means. To show that the landlady and her husband are feeling the lodger is pacing in his room, Hitch superimposed a footage of the lodger on a glass floor. A flashback is viewed from a puddle in a footprint. Recurring images like the sign that states To-Night Golden Curls. The use of Christian symobolism (the crucifix-like shadow reflected on the lodger's face, the crucifixion near the end). The images in THE LODGER shows that even at this point in his career, and at the dawn of cinema itself, Hitchcock is a true master filmmaker and storyteller with pure talent. He's my favorite director and still one of the best and most quoted talent in the business. "},{"Title":"Silent Hitchcock","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Although the style appeared to be quite chilling, I was not convinced by the depth of character of the lodger to take him seriously. He appeared very wooden, Victorian and somewhat stagey in the vein of a serious pantomime. The film does demonstrate some of Hitchcock's early style of shocking audiences, but it is not a film that stands the test of time. "},{"Title":"One of Hitchcock's best and an early indication of his talent","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Lodger was Alfred Hitchcock's third completed feature film, the first being The Pleasure Garden and the second is the now seemingly forever lost The Mountain Eagle, which Hitchcock did not seem proud of in his interviews with Truffuat. Although The Pleasure Garden showed some indication of what to expect in the future from Hitchcock, both stylistically and thematically, the Hitchcockian elements were minor and not particularly notable. On the other hand The Lodger is certainly, distinctively, an Alfred Hitchock film, and is all the more interesting for the time it comes in and the subject matter, which sees Hitchcock at his most experimental during certain scenes and also (successfully) attempting to give the film an expressionist flavor. Most people probably don't even know Hitchcock made any silent films, let alone one as good as The Lodger.If there's one thing I do not understand about discussions of Hitchcock's ouevre it is how rarely this film comes up in conversations. People would rather discuss inconsequential fluff like To Catch a Thief or formulaic mediocrity like Torn Curtain than a film which sees Hitchcock infusing his own style with silent expressionism? Apparently that is how things are, but they certainly shouldn't be that way given how much of Hitchcock's style is developed here and how interesting what he does with editing is, and the several interesting shots shot through plate-glass floors. The cinematography by Gaetano di Ventimiglia is actually very good as well, if a little predictable, and I do wonder why he didn't have a better or bigger career based on what he does here.The film's story is simple but intriguing, and contains the twists and turns many might expect from a Hitchcock mystery thriller. A Jack the Ripper sort of serial killer is killing curly-haired blonds in London and soon a landlady begins to suspect that her new lodger (Ivor Novello), who takes a liking to her daughter, is 'The Avenger', the killer behind the murders. Of course, not everything is how it seems and the narrative is hugely involving particularly during the first and last twenty-odd minutes, but there's a stretch in the middle where the film is still entertaining and involving but doesn't seem completely certain of itself, and all of the minor flaws are contained within that third of the film. It's still very good throughout, however. These comments are all based on the 75 minute long version. I see that the TCM print is 101 minutes long and am not sure if there are restored scenes or if it is just played at a different speed. I doubt added scenes would have helped the film much, as the narrative moves at a blistering pace and I can't imagine any other scenes doing anything but causing uneven pacing. The Lodger, which features so much subject matter that would later recur in Hitchcock's filmography (lust murder, obsession, fetishism), was remade twice in 1932 (a widely disliked and little seen film again starring Ivor Novello) and in 1944 (a minor cult classic starring Laird Cregar), and another remake set for a 2009 release is in production. Perhaps it will draw more attention to this somewhat forgotten Hitchcock classic, as it really is one of his best films but for some bizarre reason not among his more popular, even among his pre-Hollywood films. A remarkable and visually exciting film with a fast-paced and hugely enjoyable narrative. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Slow to Start, but Builds up Beautifully as it Progresses","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Lodger is Arthur Hitchcock's third feature-length directorial effort, and a landmark film for him. It is Hitchcock's first thriller, and establishes his tradition of placing himself in one scene for a brief cameo.The story centers on the Buntings, a middle class London family who have a room for rent while the city is being terrorized every Tuesday by a mysterious Jack-the-Ripper-like serial killer who calls himself The Avenger. A mysterious, rather Gothic young man (the great Ivor Lovello) rents the room and his odd behavior almost immediately sends up red flags for the suspicious Mrs Bunting (Marie Ault). Things begin to come to a head when Young Daisy Bunting's developing friendship with the new lodger begins to attract the jealous attention of her young police detective lover (Malcolm Keen) and when Mrs Ault notices his mysterious night-time sojourn on a bloody murderous Tuesday.I generally enjoy well-made silent films and consider them a species quite apart from films with sound. Yet even if I were to lump The Lodger in with its louder cousins and proceed to rate it purely on its relative entertainment value, this little gem of a film would still be rated as high as 8.In a talented director's hands the lack of sound is no handicap, and as silent film directors go, Hithcock was very good. I am convinced that his early, formative history in the silent version of the medium is one of the reasons why his later films were so visually dramatic and exhaustingly and meticulously photographed.Silent film acting is also very different from acting in a 'talkie'. not having a voice forces performers to act-out the feeling of each scene with a standard body language. Certain tilts of the head and eye-movements become words for 'please forgive me', 'I like you','leave me alone' and even 'Go away and never come back'. Silent movie actors often learned this vocabulary so well - making several films per year just to keep themselves fed and lodged - that the transition to sound and its much more visually subtle body language became very difficult.The silent performances in the Lodger are very excellent. Lovello is phenomenally ambiguous and creepy, though somehow sympathetic as well - absolutely perfect for this role. His female counterpart is his equal, though she presents herself much more subtly. Daisy Bunting was played by a mystery woman named June whose infrequent appearance in films is hard to explain given her good looks and obvious talent. A young Malcolm Keen, who would make other films with Hitchcock later in his career, does yeoman's supporting work as the not-so-sympathetic police inspector.Recommended for film history buffs and thriller fans with open minds and good attention spans. "},{"Title":"The First Real Alfred Hitchcock Flick","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Alfred Hitchcock had already done a few films when the Lodger(1926) was released in theatres, but it was this motion picture where he started to develop into the master of suspense. The movie is about a lodger who may or may not be Jack The Ripper.  This is the first Hitchcock film that involved a wrongly accused man and this was not by design.  The Lodger(1926) was influenced by Hitchcock work in German cinema. It is perhaps the director's best silent picture as most of his best work came during the sound era.The Lodger(1926) has plenty of atmosphere and suspense which is increased by its Expressionistic feel.  It would become a big influence on his later films.  The ending was something that Hitchcock was oppossed to since he wanted to give the audience the doubt of whether or not the hero is actually the murderer.  The director would go through similar problems with Suspicion(1943).  The Lodger(1926) is a pure film that relies on the visual aspects of cinema.The best scene in the film involves the use of different sources of communication as information about a murder spreads like wild fire.  It is one of his top five British films along with Blackmail(1929), The 39 Steps(1935), Young & Innocent(1937), and The Lady Vanishes(1938).  The film is filled with elements that would play big with Film Noir.  I enjoyed watching this film in a double bill with Blackmail(1929).  The Lodger became a big hit after a few changes were made in the editing of the movie.It was only last year the the feature was fully restored during Hitchcock's 100th Birthday anniversary.  Ivor Novello is very charming and mysterious as a lodger who may be a murderer.  The art direction is brilliant and the cinematography is perfect.  The direction by Hitchcock is nothing short of excellence.  What's interesting about this movie is was the first Hitchcock film to be released to the public even though he had two or three films under his belt.  "},{"Title":"Attempts to stand above the rest but ends up falling into mediocrity","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Based off of the 1913 novel The Lodger by Marie Belloc Lowndes, here is a silent film with some positives but also a lot of negatives. The movie is about a serial killer in London who murders blond women and leaves a calling card. The killer goes by the name of The Avenger. Jonathan Drew is renting out a room but seems incredibly strange so the family living in the house starts to wonder whether or not he is the killer. Without spoiling the ending I'll say that not very much really happens throughout the story until the last fifteen minutes which really makes the film drag on. In addition the film was originally going to have an ambiguous ending where it was never revealed whether or not Jonathan is innocent and I really wish that the film would have used the original ending.The acting is mediocre with Ivor Novello as Jonathan (the lodger) who seems really wooden in his portrayal. June Tripp seems to just smile a lot without using any acting skills in her portrayal of Daisy Bunting, the lodger's love interest in the film. Malcolm Keen on the other hand seems to do a good job as police officer Joe Chandler but he isn't great enough to be a standout. The best actors in the film are Marie Ault and Arthur Chesney as the landlords and they honestly do a great job even if it isn't spectacular.For special effects there are very many noteworthy ones. There is a shot where you can see the bottom of Jonathan's shoes as he walks upstairs and the camera looks up through the ceiling but it still isn't that amazing. The musical score seems out of place and repeats far too often without enough variety.So overall this film is worth watching if you are really interested in Alfred Hitchcock or the novel but otherwise this film isn't worth your time. It is truly a mediocre film and shows that Alfred Hitchcock had to work his way up to his later legendary status as a director for films such as Psycho (1960) or The Birds (1963). Score 6/10 "}{"Title":"Hitchcock's first thriller !","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hitchcock introduces the world to his classic storyline of the wrongly accused man in THE LODGER. Not only do we see Hitchcock's interest in this kind of plot, but we see Hitchcock's early love for blond women. A Jack the Riper type is going around England killing innocent blond women.With a wonderful mix of imagery, Hitchcock gives the audience a real treat with an early taste of his classic thriller plot. "},{"Title":"The birthplace of the Hitchcock touch.","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In THE LODGER's very first shot, we see a screaming woman.  We learn she's being murdered!  By whom?  A serial killer haunting London.  What's his MO?  Beautiful blonde girls.  Who's the main suspect?  The mysterious, sometimes unfriendly lodger upstairs.  This is Hitchcock's third film as a director, but his first suspense thriller.  Technical brillance, use of plot twists, and a rather frightening scene where our hero is chased by an angry mob makes this a classic.  There are scenes in this film that anticipate REBECCA, SHADOW OF A DOUBT, STRANGERS ON A TRAIN, THE WRONG MAN, PSYCHO, and especially FRENZY.  Would make a fantastic double bill with any talkie Hitchcock.      "},{"Title":"unusual and interesting","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was lucky enough to see the nicely restored and tinted version with Joey Talbot score which is a pleasure to watch.  You can see where Hitchcock's genius is just starting to appear in some of these scenes (the 'glass ceiling' effect, the crazy cuckoo clock).  Ivor Novello and June are decent leads, but the ending lets the film down a little.  Perhaps you can draw your own conclusions from the last frame, which I find ambiguous in its message.  Yet another interesting silent ... "},{"Title":"Watchers, Avengers","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This project is no more sophisticated than many others of the period, but has become important only in retrospect. As a master's early film, one can see here some fledgling elements that appear throughout his career. Some commenters here note certain visual icons of interest, but what is more import I think is the notion of the camera.Hitchcock is important because later he developed a new philosophy of the eye. The camera takes on a personality and fluidity that is more than just a ghost or a peephole. His later camera is curious. It questions, sometimes aggressively. This would happen well after this film, but you can see him rolling over some precursor ideas. How many watchers are there in this film? Other than ourselves, basically every major character. How many avengers? Are we among them?Even in this early film, beyond the lighting and symbolic iconography, he works with shifts and contrasts among the various watchers, and in parallel among the avengers. Not masterful yet -- actually heavihanded -- but clever nonetheless.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Hitch hits paydirt with his third feature.","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This memorable silent film is based on the 1913 novel by Marie Belloc Lowndes, which spins a yarn inspired by the Jack the Ripper murders. In Victorian era London, a serial killer dubbing themselves The Avenger, and using a triangle as an emblem, is terrorizing the city. During this time, an intriguing, cagey stranger (Ivor Novello) rents a room from the Buntings (Marie Ault and Arthur Chesney). The Lodger finds himself attracted to their lovely daughter Daisy (June), and she to him, which angers her suitor, a police detective named Joe (Malcolm Keen).Sad eyed romantic screen idol Novello is very well cast in this striking and atmospheric silent film from The Master, Alfred Hitchcock. Hitch had made two previous features, but it was with The Lodger that he really hit his stride as an innovator and craftsman. He employs a number of engaging visual tricks to get the viewers' attention, all while telling a good story. In addition, he creates some genuinely harrowing suspense, and given that shooting in sound was unavailable to him at the time, he instead uses imagery to create a soundtrack of sorts. His film is equal parts sinister, tense, and romantic, and also comedic at times.This viewer watched the full length 100 minute version, which might seem a little draggy for some peoples' tastes, but it wonderfully creates a mood and feel, with some truly standout sequences. The colour tinting on scenes is effective; this viewer also chose the option of listening to the 1997 music score written by Canadian composer Paul Zaza, which adds much to the excitement.Hitch began here his trend of on screen cameo appearances he appears with his back to the camera in a newsroom, and is in the crowd when the killer is unmasked and arrested. His assistant director was his wife Alma, whom he'd recently married.Filmed again in 1932 (with Novello reprising the title role), in 1944 (with Laird Cregar), and 1954 (with Jack Palance).Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock Emerges","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" London is gripped by panic over a mysterious serial killer with a predilection for young blond women. Meanwhile, an enigmatic young man moves into a boarding house. Could he be the killer? Directed by Alfred Hitchcock.The main star of this film is Ivor Novello, who was better known as a songwriter. Novello brings an appropriately enigmatic, shadowy quality to his character and only occasionally lapses into melodramatic gestures. He has a wonderful rapport with June Tripp, who portrays Daisy, a model and the daughter of the boarding house's landlady. Marie Ault and Arthur Chesney also do fine work as the owners of the house, friendly, then fearful of the potential killer living in their house. Also noteworthy is Malcolm Keen as Joe, a policeman who loves Daisy and is investigating the nearby serial killings.THE LODGER (1927) is often considered Alfred Hitchcock's first truly distinctive film. Much of what would inform his later films is present here. Hitchcock creates a unique and unnerving atmosphere inspired by German Expressionism. His use of light and shadow in many shots is fascinating, and the editing is accomplished. This movie flows at a good, even pace; not a moment goes on longer than necessary. He shows his mastery of building suspense and anticipation. He uses modernistic design in some of the title cards in order to heighten the atmosphere of tension and dread. The movie's climax is riveting. The audience genuinely wonders as to whether or not this young lodger is capable of murder, and the actors effectively portray their characters' fear and apprehension.Overall, THE LODGER is an effective start to one of the most distinguished careers in movie history, and merits viewing today. SCORE 8/10 "},{"Title":"Very Early Hitchcock","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A landlady suspects her new lodger (Ivor Novello) is the madman killing women in London.We open with a shot of a woman's face in terror, which could very well have been Janet Leigh in Psycho. Hitchcock walks a fine line between thriller and horror. In this film, he probably leans more towards thrills and suspense, but there is always the horror lurking in the background -- a killer called the Avenger killing women! Who is next?There seems to be some debate over whether or not this was inspired by the Jack the Ripper murders, or is some kind of fictionalized telling of the story. The consensus seems to be that there is no connection, but it really makes no difference. Whether jack or any other killer, it is a scary thought to think a serial killer is sleeping where you live.Amazingly, the production company did not like what Hitchcock had created. How this can be is unclear, as The Lodger is definitely one of his better earlier films. For me, he would not strike gold again until The Man Who Knew Too Much (1934) and would be very hit and miss until the late 1940s. But history has vindicated -- Hitchcock is legendary and the names of the producers have been forgotten. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'm not a Hitchcock fan even though I haven't seen that many of his movies. I didn't know he also did silent movies. I gave this one a go at the recommendation of a friend and I'm really glad I did. The nice thing about a silent is that you don't have to listen or read dialog constantly. There is not too many inter-titles which would slow the movie down too much. The movie moves at a slow pace but with a very interesting story filled with mystery and characters which despite little dialog are given some good depth. There is really good chemistry between all of the characters thanks to wonderful performances of the whole cast. I love these movies with small cast, so you have time to sympathize with all of them even policeman Joe who I found a bit of a show off at first. It's quite sad that the beautiful and charming actress playing Daisy was in so few movies. Also loved some of the camera angles and special effects such as the moment where we could look through the floor to see The Lodger walking around nervously in his room. Oh yes and there was even a bath scene, I would never think that would be tolerated in the twenties. But it's filmed in a very subtle and stylish way. "},{"Title":"Camera and character, rather than plot, drive this late silent film and early Hitchcock classic","Date":"18 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Near the end of the silent era, Alfred Hitchcock marshaled the format's strengths to create his first masterpiece. 1927's The Lodger, a dark adapted tale concerning a London serial murderer, employs the kinds of creative camera angles and major plot twists that would later become hallmarks of Hitchcock's work. Consider, for example, the ways Hitchcock signifies vertical space in the lodging house where most of the action takes place. The titular lodger, a pale, staring, partially-obscured figure who could have been imported from a German expressionist horror film of the early part of the decade, lives upstairs. The landlady and her husband, great sources of physical comedy as they clutch each other or trade off yawns, live downstairs. Their beautiful daughter and her detective suitor spend most of their time on the middle floor. When the lodger is the subject of other characters' thoughts or conversation, the camera cuts or pans or pulls back from them to reveal a light fixture that sways almost imperceptibly due to his movements above. A glass floor is also employed to look up at the lodger's feet as he paces the floor. When the lodger or another character climbs or descends the stairs, the camera may look down the middle of the stairwell from directly above. This technique is used in one of the movie's most dramatic sequences, when the lodger appears to leave the house to commit a murder. The landlady listens in terror to every footfall and shutting door, then climbs the stairs to snoop around. A hand on the railing winding up each flight is seen from a nice, symmetrical, overhead viewpoint that a real person in the house could not attain. The effect of seeing feet and hands from dramatic and unnatural angles is exciting, dizzying, and eerie. It helps to create the awe and tension that Hitchcock loves to instill in an audience. He toys with extreme close-ups as well, having the participants in a kiss practically kiss the camera lens. Though not the first director to use intense emotionality or surreal, dreamlike imagery, Hitchcock used them unabashedly to make his first thriller a memorable one.Every role in The Lodger is strongly conveyed without too much reliance on dialogue cards. An early action by the antagonist feels spot-on for a serial killer in his rented room, he turns around every portrait of a woman so that it faces the wall. The heroine's bathtub scene, in which she undresses behind a veil of steam and wiggles her toes in the water, is typical of a pre-code film, but it doesn't add much to the plot. Like so much else in a Hitchcock film, its primary purpose is to keep the audience entertained. Yet there is a lot of clever character work done with her and the detective protagonist, who tries hamfistedly and mostly without success to endear himself to her. She seems to be in a bind regardless of the story's outcome either she will be murdered by the villain (when he kisses her, we see rapture in her eyes), or she will settle for a goofball husband (when he kisses her, we see boredom and resignation there). The major twist near the end, while impossible to predict in exact detail, is disappointingly arbitrary, but it paves the way for a resolution of the triangular character drama.The final shot is a bit unsettling and ambiguous. As the happy couple kisses in the foreground, the killer's catalyst, a marquee sign advertising Golden Curls, blinks on and off in the foggy distance. Whether this is meant to be darkly funny, or ominous, or whether it merely seems ominous because of the atmosphere that Hitchcock successfully creates for the film, I do not know. "},{"Title":"Danger Upstairs","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock made many great films. This was the film that made Hitchcock.The streets of London are wild with fear as a crazed killer who calls himself The Avenger waylays young blondes. But all is well at the Bunting household, with pretty blonde daughter Daisy lining up a marriage with a police detective and a new free-spending lodger taking their spare room. But the lodger's habit of going out on the nights when The Avenger strikes, coupled with his apparent interest in Daisy, makes for an uncomfortable journey into fear.The things with Hitchcock that made him great are on display here, his ability to keep you guessing, create twisted rooting interest, and find humor in suspense. June Tripp (billed just as June in the credits, as it was her stage name) plays Daisy with that playful capriciousness Hitch loved from his leading ladies.But The Lodger is more than a calling card for cinematic greatness to come. It's a fine piece of film in its own right, stylistically unique from its opening shot of a woman's face in close-up as she registers the shock of her imminent murder. Rather than allow us to see the killer, the film then moves us into a sequence showing the media taking hold of the story, a scene reminiscent of David Fincher's Zodiac for the way the tumult and not the crime becomes our focus.Always happens Tuesdays, that's my lucky day, a busy paper-seller comments cheerfully about the crime.Ivor Novello as the Lodger is a wonderfully beguiling figure, beauty etched with despair. He always seems on the verge of a nervous breakdown, yet somehow resilient as photographed by Gaetano di Ventimiglia as a kind of saintly Nosferatu. Look at him one way and you think How could he be... Look at him another and you think How could he be anyone else?Hitchcock and screenwriter Eliot Stannard play with this aspect of the story, and with Novello as such an appealing man of mystery, work up an interesting duality around him, which is best personified by the supporting role of the detective, played with deceptive subtlety by Malcolm Keen.The detective, Joe, is a bully and a lout, and not much of a cop. He suspects the lodger early, but it's not clear whether this is from instinct or jealousy when he sees how Daisy has taken to the new guest. When Joe rounds on the lodger, our thoughts, like Daisy's, are likely to favor the lodger as the injured party. But if he's the Avenger, shouldn't we root for Joe?That's another Hitch calling card, of course, the police, almost always ineffectual or hostile. Here it rises above a trope in a riveting conclusion that helps make The Lodger unforgettable.I do agree with some of the criticism of the film being slow; it did seem that way especially the first time I saw it. But with every subsequent viewing, I found myself being more pulled in by every scene, despite now knowing how it turns out. That's another Hitch trademark, the good film that gets better when you see it again and again. "}{"Title":"This is the first Alfred Hitchcock film to act like an Alfred Hitchcock film.","Date":"8 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is the first Alfred Hitchcock film to address crime and murder. Hitchcock made other films in the silent era but this one feels like a Hitchcock one. This is the plot. A mysterious man (Ivor Norvello) has recently begun to live in this inn. The inn's landlady (Marie Ault) is worried that he may be the avenger, who is a serial killer that preys on blonde women, when he starts spending time with her daughter (June Tripp). The daughter also has a police officer boyfriend (Malcom Keen) who has similar suspicions towards the lodger. Eventually the lodger is revealed as innocent and they have to clear his name before an angry mob kills him. The movie takes a while to get going, and although I don't usually mind that, in this film I just kept wondering what it was all building up to. But it's all worth it for the end which I think is the best part of the movie. I was interested in seeing Hitchcock's first attempt at a crime drama and the credits roll and I feel satisfied. "},{"Title":"The 'debut' of the greatest thriller director!","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" After a few flops in his early career, Alfred Hitchcock in 1926 tried his hand for the first time at the crime genre - and the result, The Lodger, became his first big hit, of course. And it already introduced to the audience MANY of his later famous features the storyline, the suspense-enhancing effects, the haunting, creepy music - and of course the plot twists...The movie really goes RIGHT into the matter from the very beginning in the first scene, we see a young blonde being strangled... It was the work of the Avenger again, as we soon learn, who is described as 'tall, with his face hidden behind a scarf'; immediately, the news is spread by the newspapers and over the radio, and everybody reads or listens, shocked and curious at the same time, just like this was a crime novel or a radio play; but the girls who work at the nearby club called Golden Curls really are a little worried by this maniac serial killer and his 'preference' for blonds...And then, next door at Mrs. Bunting's inn, a mysterious stranger turns up to rent a room - tall, with a scarf over his face... And not only that Mrs. Bunting's pretty young daughter Daisy is - a blonde...Slowly though, the lodger, with his good manners and appealing ways, wins Daisy's confidence, which makes her boyfriend Joe pretty jealous; but she ignores him as well as her parents' warnings, and goes out with him - on a TUESDAY night, the day the 'Avenger' always commits his murders...! Now, from here on, we who have seen the movie are not allowed to give away any further information, of course...It's really formidable how Hitch, with his FIRST thriller, at once seemed to have found his so very own, special style; Hitchcock fans will recognize LOTS of issues he later used again in all those classics that brought him the reputation of the BEST director of thrillers there ever was. But The Lodger isn't only of special interest for fans of the director or the genre it's also a very interesting time document.It gives us a very nice glimpse of the Age of the Flappers, with their bobs and their loose dresses, and some good old jazz music to match with the atmosphere of the time. But as soon as the plot becomes dramatic, we hear that strangely threatening music that sends shivers up our spine and lets us feel that something horrible's about to happen...There are movies that NEVER get dated; The Lodger is one of them. It's still as IMMENSELY suspenseful from the first until the last moment as it was 90 years ago! "},{"Title":"silent","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I wasn't sure at first what to make of this one. there are some parts of the movie that I liked very much,, and on the other hand there are some parts that just seem to drag on forever. I have nothing against silent films,, as I have been watching more of them lately,, not just Hitchcock ones either.. the story is sort of like Jack the Ripper, but not,, set in a different time period,, a man takes up residence at a local motel, and the owners/operators suspect he is the man going around London killing all of the pretty young blonde girls. the movie has some tense scenes and some mystery to it,, some action here and there, to me it seems like there were parts of the movie that weren't tied together.. and therefore made it a little hard to follow from time to time,, otherwise it was a decent movie. "},{"Title":"One of Hitchcock's Early Works!","Date":"6 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I don't know if this is first actual film as writer and director. Anyway the film's dark plot is about London's serial killer known as the Avenger. The landlady and the landlord suspect the lodger could be the Avenger. This film is dark but definitely worth watching just to see how he evolved as a director. The cast includes Ivor Novello as the mysterious lodger. Up until film, almost all actors and actresses had only stage experience. The early silent films offered another to way act for better salaries. This silent film is actually an early thriller classic. The cast do a terrific job especially Ivor Novello. The film might have been inspired by the Jack the Ripper case in London, England. "},{"Title":"A Landmark Film","Date":"3 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" If you are making a Checklist of Hitchcock Films, by all accounts this is considered the First. Though technically He made three Movies before this, they were of little consequence, two have been lost and the other mostly ignored. So this is where to begin.It is a Silent Movie and was manipulated by the Director with his flare for unique Visuals and Showy Effects and Camera Angles. It was a trait He would carry throughout His Prolific Career and would Endear Audiences and Critics for Six Decades.This is a Murder Mystery and Love Triangle combined to make an interesting Story that is quite emotional and suspenseful. It is an Eerie Movie with many Ominous proceedings taking place indoors and out. A Mood you could cut with a knife. Certainly one of the first Serial Killer Films. It does have a tacked on Ending that is nothing like the Tone that brought Us there and was a reluctant concession from Young Hitchcock.Stay away from horrible Public Domain Prints that have been around for years and seek out the newly Restored, Tinted Print for Maximum Enjoyment. Not the best Silent Film, though one that is a Landmark for the Director who would only get better. "},{"Title":"The Lodger with the transparent floor","Date":"29 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I love the opening title card, showing a caricature of a trenchcoated figure with a wide brimmed hat, lurking through a doorway, bathed in orange light. Girl, with a wide open gape, screaming, as she discovers the blonde body, the latest victim of The Avenger, a Jack The Ripper-like maniac stalking and killing blondes on the foggy streets of London. But who is responsible? Is it the new lodger taken in by the Buntings, who has taken an uncanny interest in their blonde daughter? Hitchcock's first suspense flick, as well as one of his earliest surviving films, is nearly expressionistic, theatrical, essential viewing for Hitchcock fans and fans of silent films, even if a bit static and harmed by contrived happy ending. A lot of the film deals, not with the actual murders, but with the sensationalistic media coverage of the murders. Based on the somewhat overrated book by Marie Belloc Lowndes, this film improves on that slow moving tale, based partially on the Jack The Ripper killings form 1888, and theories as to who the killer was. A lot of commenters merely mention this as being Hitchock's first film, and talk about the traits he later used which he originated with this film. But people couldn't say that at the time of the initial release, they could (and should) only talk about what a good movie this is, to this day. It still holds up as a good suspense movie, despite being nearly a century old, and regardless of who directed it and at what point in their career. "},{"Title":"Actions speak louder than music","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Saw this today as part of a double bill with Underground, directed by Anthony Asquith, and I have to say, this didn't come off across as well as it's partner. It's a perfectly good and engaging story about a lodging house and the going's on around it, and Ivor Novello shines out in a way that took me by complete immersion.Yet, the score by Nitin Sawnhey was lacking in my opinion. Two uses of vocal tracks really disrupted things, and generally the music was all a bit bombastic and busy. Which is a shame as the movie itself was quite entertaining, although it can't really be said to have had you on tenterhooks necessarily.The underlying alienation, the money-grabbing opportunism, the fear of the other aligned to the curiosity of us all, are very enjoyable aspects of this golden-hued feature. Definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"An Interesting And Silent Example Of An Early Hitchcock Suspense/Thriller","Date":"15 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is very interesting to watch as an early example of the suspense/thriller style of movie that Alfred Hitchcock would eventually become so famous for. In 1927, Hitchcock was a very young man, still inexperienced as a director in an industry that was still finding its feet. In that environment, one can't expect perfection, but there were lots of possibilities for a young and creative director, and Hitchcock took advantage of them quite well.Set in London, the movie has a very effective opening, depicting a city in panic as a Jack the Ripper like killer stalks the streets, murdering young, fair-haired women - and always on a Tuesday night. Once that's established, we're introduced to an unnamed man who rents a room, and immediately becomes (in our minds and in those of the other characters) the prime suspect. Hitchcock gives us plenty of reasons to suspect this man, but also a lot of room to believe that what we're seeing is a case of mistaken identity. Ivor Novello was quite good as the Lodger, June (no other name apparently) was lovely as Daisy, whose parents run the boarding house, and Malcolm Keen was good as the increasingly jealous police detective who suspects the Lodger, but - we suspect - partly because he's jealous of the man's growing relationship with Daisy, and her growing fondness for him. The musical score in the version I saw was a bit inconsistent - sometimes very appropriate, other times - well, not as much so.Hitchcock would certainly make better movies in the future, but this is a fascinating look at one of his earliest. "},{"Title":"Themes Common In Later Hitchcock Films","Date":"22 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" During the first decades of the last century, the city of London was well-known for its many objects of local colour; to say London was to say Big Ben and by extension, the Houses of the Parliament, Buckingham Palace, the Queen Mother, the gin-tonic, the river Thames, the fog and Jack the Ripper.But the city's most infamous murderer did his work in the past, so the British film director Herr Alfred Hitchcock updated the celebrated story and created The Avenger, his own mysterious assassin at large in London.The Lodger; A Story of the London Fog (1927) is an excellent silent film and probably the best one made by Herr Hitchcock during his silent period. The film has all those ingredients and virtues one associates with Herr Alfred. This German count especially appreciates the masterful way the suspense is created, leading the audience down different tricky paths of mystery and intrigue. Besides the outstanding film narrative and excellent camera-work, there is also a good deal of wit the Londoners, like any other European commoners, watch with fascination the story of this dangerous criminal who terrifies a whole population and defies the police. An added attraction are the appearances of many nice girls in negligees; what more is needed?There are a lot of scenes in The Lodger wherein Herr Hitchcock's talent for creating mysterious atmosphere is well demonstrated; the influence of German cinema-with which Herr Hitchcock was very familiar-is also apparent in his technique. Some admirers of Herr Hitchcock have told this Herr Von that themes common in later Hitchcock films can be noted in this one blondes and fetishism, the sensual kiss between the lodger ( Herr Ivor Novello ) and Daisy ( Frau June ) and the scene in which the lodger wants to enter the bathroom where June is taking a bath. These will be developed and improved later by Herr Hitchcock during his talkie career, but this is a completely different story for this German count.And now, if you'll allow me, I must temporarily take my leave because this German Count must take lodgings tonight with a Teutonic rich heiress.Herr Graf Ferdinand Von Galitzien http//ferdinandvongalitzien.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Alfred Hitchcock Frenzy Begins","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" London is terrorized by a Jack the Ripper copycat calling himself The Avenger. In the opening scream, he claims a seventh victim. While the Ripper preferred prostitutes, the Avenger digs blondes. Each victim has been a fair-haired lass. Naturally, the sale of British peroxide plummets... Lead policeman on the case is Malcolm Keen (as Joe Chandler). He also likes blondes, especially golden-curled heroine, and Avenger-bait, June Tripp (as Daisy Bunting). Mr. Keen gets stiff competition from tall, dark, and handsome Ivor Novello (as Jonathan Drew), who arrives on the scene as The Lodger at the home of Marie Ault and Arthur Chesney (as Mr. and Mrs. Bunting). Suspicion begins to fall upon Mr. Novello, who also has a thing for blondes. Could he be The Avenger? The Lodger (subtitled A Story of the London Fog) helped put director Alfred Hitchcock on the map, in Great Britain. It showcases Mr. Hitchcock's great visual storytelling style. The most commented-on example is the shot of The Lodger walking in his upstairs room, as seen from the point-of-view of the downstairs Buntings. Hitchcock had a glass ceiling constructed, for Novello to walk across. The director explained this was a way to show footsteps visually. Other filmmakers would have added the Footsteps! to a title card or sound effects track. The director issued some minor complaints about changing to film's ending to suit Novello's star status, but it gave him one of his most enduring film themes, the wronged man. The Lodger was a very influential film, especially on its own director.******** The Lodger (2/14/27) Alfred Hitchcock ~ Ivor Novello, June Tripp, Malcolm Keen, Marie Ault "}{"Title":"Hitch's first film&#133;","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" (possible spoilers) In what Alfred Hitchcock considers to be his first true film, he presents the story of a man who is suspected of being Jack the Ripper. It is almost a polar opposite of what was to become one of his favorite themes, the wrong man theme, in the sense that it is the populace (and the audience) rather than the police that are on the wrong track. The film is very expressionistic and highly stylish, and often lingers on motionless shots to let individual performances illustrate the dramatic tension.A young Hitchcock (he was my age when he made the film, about 27 or 28) allowed himself to be swayed by popular and studio pressure much more than he would later in his career, since he allowed the entire ending of this film to be altered based on the popularity of it's handsome star, stage actor Ivor Novello. Hitch's humor comes through in scenes like a showgirl dramatically giving up peroxide, since the Avenger seems to prefer blondes. The Lodger is also credited with being the first film where Hitchcock started making his trademark cameos, one of him at a news desk early in the film and once again in the crowd near the end. I am going to remain neutral on this, because neither appearance is surely Hitchcock. The man at the desk is shown from behind and could be anyone, and try as I might, I couldn't find him anywhere in the crowd at the end. Hitchcock also has nothing nice to say in the film about media sensationalism, which is the cause of much of the widespread panic caused by the murders. Very good early Hitchcock, it's easy to see why he was gaining so much attention at this point in his career. "},{"Title":"More than just a taste of things to come...","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The first real Hitchcock film leaves a lasting impression from the atmosphere - a killer (rape is, of course, not mentioned) is on the loose in London. Most of the action takes place at night, and the plot is centred around a family who struggle to make ends meet, and so take in a lodger. Hitchcock once said that he liked to make films with a contemporary setting because he could understand the minutiae of the character's daily lives. This is reflected in the realism of the family's situation.Many people comment unfavourably about the soundtracks on most DVD releases of silent films. Unless it was specifically intended to go with the film, I always turn the sound off - don't let some arbitrary piece of music spoil your enjoyment.The Lodger and Frenzy stand at either end of the director's career, both with Jack the Ripper style plots, and both set in London. Both contain bravura technical shots - famously in the Lodger there are the glass ceiling and the staircase. We have an engaging plot, good characterisation, and innovative visual storytelling. Hitchcock really did start as he meant to go on. "},{"Title":"the lodger on PAL","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have recently seen the lodger in three different versions. Each had a different soundtrack.If you have access to European PAL DVD's (you need a player that accomodates all regions and/or PAL disks), this PAL disk of The Lodger had by far the best visuals, apparently the result of a masterly reprocessing. Also, and this may turn some off, it was tinted. Finally, the soundtrack was different from either of the other two, and, in my opinion, much superior.According to Donald Spoto, Hitchcock was under pressure to give the story a happy ending; hence the suspected murderer turns out to be one whose sister was the avenger's first victim, and he is seeking, in fulfillment of his mother's dying wish, to bring the killer to justice. A kind of deus ex machina functions, as our suspicions are summarily dispelled by a report that the killer has been captured, leading even Daisy's unrequited detective suitor to recognize the innocence of the lodger. "},{"Title":"Great Film - Terrible Soundtrack","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I recently purchased Laserlight's DVD version of Alfred Hitchcock's silent film The Lodger, a double feature on the same DVD as the main film, Sabotage.  I found The Lodger to be fascinating, as it was Hitch's first signature film, giving him the first chance to stretch his claws.  However, I was quite disappointed with the added-on soundtrack, which was often out-of-sync with the suspense scenes in the film. Part of this soundtrack included a whimsical, happy-go-lucky section that might have been appropriate for, say, a Walt Disney movie.  This sappy section started somewhat before the pivotal scene where Ivor Novello, the mysterious lodger first makes his dramatic appearance at the front door of Number 13, and yet this silly music just keeps playing, as though the person in charge of adding the soundtrack had to go to the bathroom. During another suspenseful scene, in a truly ingenious contribution to early cinema, the lodger is photographed while pacing overhead on a glass ceiling; and yet, the same, stinkin' sappy music is playing! Did the soundtrack person have to go the bathroom again? Take some Immodium AD next time, pal!Where was Bernard Herrmann on this project?  "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's best silent film","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Lodger is not without its faults, the music does feel too bombastic at times and the ending is too tacky and too conventional. However, the film looks great, the foggy atmosphere, crisp black and white photography and expressionistic images add a lot to the suspense and story and enhances it too as well as holding up terrifically well. There's also a scene with Novello and June's kiss, and it is beautifully done. The story, loosely based on the infamous Jack the Ripper, is suspenseful and compelling with the suspenseful moments appropriately eerie. There are a few darkly funny moments too that are done subtly and the thriller aspects do thrill and are done audaciously. Hitchcock directs splendidly and in his distinctive style helped by a story that serves him well, the innocent in danger theme was a favourite of his and it shows. The acting is good, Ivor Novello especially in a performance that is ambiguous and creepy but also extravagant and sympathetic. June is alluring and Malcolm Keen has a character that is not as sympathetic and he doesn't hold back. Marie Ault and Arthur Chesney give solid support. All in all, a great film, the best of Hitchcock's silent films and possibly one of the best silent films as well. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"More than competent early Hitchcock","Date":"13 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Hitchcock is one of the few filmmakers whose career spans almost the entirety of cinema, or such portions of it that we can trace them to see how cinema changed with them. He might as well have been one of the many visionaries who didn't manage the transition into sound, or who did but could not fully sustain their talents and vanished in perpetual obscurity; at any rate, I just have to value Hitchcock, he consistently envisioned a specific type of film and with few exceptions executed with more than simple competence.So even though I am not a fan, Hitchcock for me is a bit like Kubrick, I like the personality of his camera, the layered narratives, the abstraction into cinematic space, but at the same time know that I can get these with more resonance and purity from other filmmakers; so I keep watching Hitchcock for those moments I can appreciate in spite of their often silly wrap-around. The only movie I don't have to imagine in a better form is Vertigo, it's pretty much perfectly distilled.This is one of his earliest successful efforts, a very good movie made even better by the fact that we know how these ideas were later supplemented into more fruitful situations.So we have again a man who may or may not be guilty of the crimes he's accused of; but who is nonetheless a suspect because 'he looks queer'. From his end, he is obsessed with looking, searching, with following footsteps so closely he may as well have walked in them. Love as the compass that can always be trusted to point north. The most powerful character is the cop, the spurned lover, who eventually does the right thing. Near the end Hitchcock frames him with the sadness of profound humanity. "},{"Title":"A Hitchcock Gem Through and Through","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Just how did Hitchcock learn about the art of cinema so very quickly? This is a very 'dark' movie, with fog, lurking shadows, and an atmosphere to die for to lure an audience into the unsuspecting perils of forming judgements. And you couldn't improve upon it no matter how much new technology you employed in so trying. Black and white can be so very much more dramatic and effective than colour in the hands of a director who knows what he is doing.There are truly wonderful pieces of imagery on offer with Ivor Novello as the lodger occupying centre stage as Hitchcock exploits circumstances to distraction - our distraction. The lodger is a troubled and strange soul, with Novello evoking menace in true silent excellence. Our first glimpse of the man sets us up for Hitchcock's later masterstrokes just as it does in so many of his later films. Here we tread warily around a foggy London, treated to so many snippets of suspicion courtesy of Mr Hitchcock's supreme command of the camera.This is a movie to watch several times for the craft alone, never mind the simple story told so very well. Masterful. "},{"Title":"Nice suspenseful thriller","Date":"5 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Lodger is the story of a serial killer who calls himself The Avenger and likes to kill blond women and who is apparently based on the real life Jack the Ripper. While this killing spree is happening in London, Mr. and Mrs. Bunting and their daughter rent out an apartment to a lodger, who they come to suspect might actually be the serial killer in question.This is one of Alfred Hitchcock's earlier films, but it still is a great movie. One of the big differences that I noticed between this and other silent films I've seen is the paucity of inter-titles. But Hitchcock is skillful enough that he sets up the whole back story in detail in the opening scenes that it is still clear to the viewer what is happening. The lack of inter-titles seems to help with the continuity and pacing of the movie which contributes to its suspense. I was also impressed with the little details and subtleties that threw suspicion onto the lodger in this movie.While I preferred the later remake of the story, this was an entertaining film to watch. "},{"Title":"It's All Atmosphere","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" We can see the master attempting to hone his craft here. The beginning of the film sets up everything. As a matter of fact, Hitchcock did a great job with exposition in almost every one of his films. So those first ten minutes introduces us to the terror and threat that hangs over the Embankment as a Jack the Ripper type murderer does in his victims. Ivor Novello has trouble keeping a low profile. Considering why he is there, one might think he could try to be a little less suspicious. But then we would not have a movie nor the ultimate mob mentality at work. The young heroin never doubts him, though she really should. He lurks around, runs out at night, and seems like the perfect suspect. All that aside, there is so much mood and atmosphere at work. Hitchcock uses everything that the black and white medium can do to move this picture along. The crowd scene at the end is priceless Hitchcock's man alone. When he is hung up on the fence, too exhausted to free himself, he becomes a sort of Christ figure; the Romans jeering at him. This works better than the later sound version, although that is also pretty interesting. HItchcock is able to pull this off and it must have given him great confidence. "},{"Title":"the first Hitchcock film is a taut, visually expressive and even darkly funny serial killer feature","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock's the Lodger finds the master of suspense, at 27, already with an instant knack at mounting suspense and dread, often with some startling camera movements, not to mention the moments of gallows humor. It's exhilarating to see Hitchcock, in a silent film no less, stage the implied murder of a woman by showing movement, shadow, a pause, then a seemingly over-the-top close-up of the woman screaming, then cutting to the next day or whatever. He makes a street corner look downright vicious and creepy, and I'm sure in the intended blue-tinted scenes it's something of a minor revelation on escalating the thriller of the period into art (the version available on the most recent DVD, as an 'extra' on the DVD of Sabotage, is acceptable at best and at worst is a travesty for collectors who might want the best musical score or digital treatment of a transfer).It's the classic story of Jack the Ripper, with certain names changed and a slight twist of a jealous romantic plot common to Hitchcock films- here he's called the Avenger- and it concerns a certain lodger who goes to stay for a bit at a house owned by Mr. and Mrs. Bunting. The lodger is a funny sort of chap, hating the pictures on the wall in his room, saying ominous throwaway words during a chess game, and going out in foggy London at night. The Bunting's daughter likes him, but her fiancée, a detective, is jealous and suspects the lodger to be the deadly Avenger, out killing blonds left and right. The story, despite seeming (at least on the DVD) to jump around a little bit in mid-scene, is executed with a level of narrative fluidity I was surprised by. Sometimes in silent films one gets so attracted to just the visual aspects of certain compositions or the star power of the leads that the story loses its way. Here Hitchcock balances the elements, and makes for some good details along the way.There are little things that stand out as interesting techniques or little notes in the storyline. I liked the editing style when we see a crowd gather around the corpse of one of the Avenger. I liked, a lot, seeing a figure walk across what seems like a staircase, but looking upward at him. And I loved seeing a little note of romance, as a character cuts out a little heart-shaped piece of dough and hands it to Daisy (played by, simply named, 'June' who is a beauty), coaxingly, but then when not accepted right away he rips it in two. A detail like that, or a line of dialog at the end cuing the audience to something you're toothbrush - you left it behind makes for a nice touch too. It doesn't hurt either that Ivor Novello makes for a perfectly ambiguous character- the sort you're not totally sure of, watching his every facial gesture like it's another clue, or another devilish intonation.Compared to some of Hitchcock's more beloved classics this is sometimes a little crude in its construction, as well having to be subverted to the sound form (one wishes a little for the big personalities of Hitchcock's 1930s British films). But all things considered, it's essential viewing, and shows the kind of breakthrough work that Hitchcock needed (i.e. a hit) that could get the ball rolling on his career in England- and not as a fluke, to be sure. "}{"Title":"A strange man checks into a boarding house, but the owners think he may be Jack the Ripper","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Early Hitchcock, in which he is exploring all fields of technique. Spectacular special effects, overwhelming use of lighting and memorable action scenes. Novello's acting may be slightly overdone, but it only makes him seem more mysterious. Still modern, still Hitchcock and certainly very interesting! "},{"Title":"","Date":"27 July 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Highly stylized, and a good (if somewhat dated) plot, but the studio-imposed ending is a disappointment, and clearly not a typical Hitchcock tone. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Silent Hitchcock","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Lodger is as others have already said Hitchcock first suspense movie. Though I have not seen movies from him before this pictures.THIS CONTAINS SPOILERS!!!!!!! The plot outline is as following; 7 Girls with curly blond hair have been killed all on Tuesday nights. A suspicious looking man rents a room in an apartment from a family. The family a mother, father and a daughter with curly blond a hair (Daisy). The lover of the daughter is a policeman. The daughter of the house is getting attracted to the Lodger. When mother notices that the lodger leaves on a Tuesday night the parents try to stop the affair. Daisy doesn't listen to the advise and leaves with the lodger on a Tuesday night. When the policeman suspects the lodger of the killings he searches his room and finds a gun, the map with the murders on it and a picture of a girl with curly blonde hair. He's arrested but manages to escape and Daisy follows him. He then tells Daisy the real story behind it. Soon the whole neighborhood is following the handcuffed Lodger. The policeman then heares the real murderer is caught red-handed and the real story comes out. Only now the lodger has to be saved from the crowd who still think that he did it. It really is a wonderful piece of silent cinema. And already a perfect example of the cleverness of Hitchcock. He already uses so many techniques for building up the suspense. He also manages to let the images speak. There is so much to see in the mise-en-scene, the effects and the editing. The story is very easy to follow and everything is made very clear when there is no sound. Sound is really important and makes the story a lot easier to follow. As I have seen both Hitchcock's silent and talkie version of Blackmail, you can really see the difference. The acting has to be really expressive in a silent flic. So everything becomes clear about what they think. In talkies such things can be told with sound. In an earlier comment I read that the lodger was a bit overacting. I don't think that he overacted to the standards that were used in those days. He had to act that way to make clear his mental state. Other examples can be found in the mise-en-scene. For example the fog when he first enters, the flickering light as if something is going to happen etc. This really is a clever and intelligent movie made by the master of suspense. I didn't expect it to be that good when I was going to see it but it really blew me away that he already was so inventing in building up suspense.A MUST SEE!! "},{"Title":"Excellent silent thriller - the young Hitchcock already sure of style","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  We know we're in the hands of a master director to be from the first moments of the film.  Enough about its plot and content has already been said here by other commentors - it is certainly impressive.  Novello is a perfect choice for the neurotic and odd lead, causing the audience as well as the cast members to suspect him of being THE AVENGER.   Here the ending was changed to protect Novello's reputation as a romantic leading man (as was the first talkie sequel in which Novello also played the lead, albeit to a slightly altered script, character and motivation).  Here the cinematography and editing match the direction in all being top notch and the exquisite tinting in the restored version adds a great deal to the overall atmosphere of the film.   All the players are fine with no real standouts except for Novello, who had a very successful career in silents (16 films) but retired from talking films after only 6 to become one of England's most influential composers until his death in 1951.   See this one - it's a classic. "},{"Title":"A good early Hitchcock film","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I think this film is a great Hitchcock of all time. The photography, plot, and the direction are classic Hitchcock elements. It is also one of his first films. The lighting effects in the film are great. I first saw it when I was 9 (I'm now 13), and I did not find it too scary. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's First Achievement","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Having already directed a number of short silent films, it was not until Hitchcock made the Lodger that fans starting to take notice. A classic Jack the Ripper story, the Lodger is the first of Hitchcock's films that touch on the subject of the wrongly accused man that is framed for murder. Excellent filming, keep your eyes open for the mirror / floor shot. It's shown in every silent film class in England.  "},{"Title":"Who will pick pretty Daisy, and with what result?","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Will Daisy (played by the actress June), a beautiful flaxen-haired fashion model, wind up pushing up daisies if she continues to flirt with her parents' new lodger (Ivor Novello)? After all, he looks like eyewitnesses have described The Avenger, a Jack-the-Ripper-style serial killer of young women with golden tresses. He certainly acts queer. Police detective Joe (Malcolm Keen), Daisy's nominal boyfriend, thinks he's a wrong 'un, but Joe is quite obviously jealous.Joe gets assigned to the Avenger case just as Daisy and the Lodger are getting amorous for real. The Avenger claims his next victim on a night the Lodger has mysteriously stolen out of Daisy's parents' house, making Daisy's mother more than suspicious her daughter is in danger. A few nights later, Daisy and the Lodger are spooning on a bench by a lamppost when Joe comes along and assails the Lodger's impudence at moving in on his girl. Daisy haughtily breaks her almost-engagement with Joe and goes off with the Lodger. Only then does the abandoned Joe put two and two together and conclude Daisy's new beau, whom he blames for everything wrong in his world, is the Avenger.Is he? As viewers of Alfred Hitchcock's first true thriller, a silent film from 1926, we are halfway convinced, but privileged shots of the Lodger's face that we are granted in various situations have made us feel sympathetic to him, see him as some sort of victim, not a psychotic killer. Certainly, Daisy has no doubts about him, for she  resists when Joe arrests him. Taking advantage of the confusion when Daisy's mother faints at the news, the Lodger, handcuffed, bolts and escapes. Daisy meets him at their lamppost. He tells her a story of how his own sister was the Avenger's first victim. He is out to capture his sister's (and indirectly his mother's, who never recovered from the shock) killer. That's the quest that took him out of Daisy's house on that most recent fateful night. She believes him. Should we?At the level of subtext, this is a film about Joe's patriarchal right to Daisy's hand, with her father's approval. After he puts the cuffs on the Avenger, he says, he'll be in a position, career-wise, to put a ring on her finger. Does he have a right to? Do Daisy's desires or lack thereof matter? Will her attraction for the Lodger be validated as safe and fruitful, or cost her her life and plunge her world into chaos? Hitchcock has constructed a morality play around patriarchy and, not incidentally, Christian symbolism. Notice the images Hitch places on the screen after an angry mob hunts down the handcuffed Lodger. "},{"Title":"Not so subtle","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Unfortunately, this famous film was for me a bit of a disappointment. The novice Hitchcock is clearly in love with special effects and the manufacture of suspense, but he resorts to devices that are all too obviously manufactured in his endeavour to throw suspicion on the eponymous lodger. It's pretty difficult to poke a fire in such a way as to poise the poker threateningly above the head of the girl on the other side of the table, even if she is bending down to retrieve a lost chess-piece; and it's pretty crude to have your suspect pretend to stab the heroine with a table-knife. And when the murderer is known to have a fixation of blonde girls, it's not exactly subtle to have your suspect talk not about the beauty, but the colour of the heroine's hair -- lack of subtlety is the main theme here, culminating in the lodger's 'crucifixion', when a trickle of blood oozes from his mouth in what is doubtless intended to be a deeply significant shot. The story is a potentially good one, but the execution is too often ham-handed... not aided, I'm afraid, by some poor acting.It does annoy me when people dismiss bad acting in silents with airy phrases such as 'you had to overact to get the story across without dialogue' and 'that style of acting was normal in those days'; any decent silent-era actor can get his message across just by the way he moves and reacts without making eyes at the camera or gesturing around, and wooden acting is wooden acting in any era. Top silent actors were often better than talkie actors because they didn't have the crutch of dialogue to distract from awkward body language; if it looked unnatural, everyone would notice.Ivor Novello had no pretensions to be a great screen actor -- he was originally selected for film roles simply on the grounds of his striking good looks, and cheerfully admitted it -- but this is far from being his best performance. He gives every indication of reacting to off-screen directions as to what expression to pull next, rather than communicating clearly with the audience; some scenes are far more successful than others. Malcolm Keen in the role of his rival Joe, the detective, is little better, and the mysterious June (perhaps a contemporary society celebrity with whom the audience was expected to be on first-name terms?) acts them both off the screen, as do the character actors who play her parents.The film has good moments, generally when a touch of humour is allowed to break up the would-be intensity or when the actors relax enough to give more natural performances, but it left me feeling nakedly manipulated. There are flashes of talent, but all concerned are trying too obviously and too hard; I'm not sure I could honestly recommend it, save for curiosity's sake. "},{"Title":"I love it (read at your own risk for possible spoilers)","Date":"11 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It may be the oldest film I've seen but it doesn't mean that its terrible, in fact its one of the best movies that Alfred Hitchcock has directed after Psycho.The story of the The lodger A story of the London fog is that there is serial killer called the avenger who goes around killing young women around London and in a nearby hotel a suspicious man moves in and the owners and their daughter get curious as he leaves at night and continuously walks around in his room. The plot maybe simple and it may take inspiration from the famous serial killer Jack the Ripper but its well paced as the curiosity just builds up with the suspicious man as he is doing puzzling stuff. It also has a plot twist that makes you question what the true identity of the lodger really is.The acting is also great, Ivor Novello as the lodger is the best part of the movie as he fits the role perfectly with his appearance - he has shifty eyes and his appearance fits the Avenger's appearance (not to be confused with the superhero movie) which makes us question whether he is the killer. As for the rest of the cast they don't hold up as well but manage to make great main and supporting characters. The Lodger is a silent movie but I found it quite unusual as I thought title cards need to be shown for every piece of dialogue but the title cards only appear when an important part of the plot needs to said, its doesn't appear when there is just a normal conversation for example the conversations between the Bunting family but then again this is the first silent movie I've seen. It doesn't bother me much because it keeps the plot focused.For a film from the 1920's it sure does hold up well, apart from some scratches the films camera work is impressive, I also like how the ceiling goes transparent when the lodger is walking around his room as the the bunting family is wondering what's he is doing. If I have to bring a gripe or two along is that 60% of the remastered music doesn't fit into the theme as I've seen the remastered version and as I said before the rest of the cast beside Ivor Novello doesn't stand out.Overall this is one of Hitchcock's best films to date, you shouldn't be hesitant about watching this if you want to journey into the fog of early 20th century London, give it a watch you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"The First Benchmark","Date":"9 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" At Age 27 after three films (two of which are lost, the other, witch was The Pleasure Garden) Hitchcock Culminated his first seminal quintessential film ,it was raised in the schools or Berlin and Was hailed as the Greatest British Picture Ever Made at the time, Its A theme He would Return to many years later in Frenzy made outside the golden age of his successes in Hollywood.It was Hitchcock first major Success and one of two films in the 20's (the other was Blackmail) that gave him an enormous reputation , It offers a possible explanation forJack the Ripper and shows the beginning of many Hitchcock trademarks such as the Wrong Man on the run, fetishistic sexuality and murder, Death and Pleasure, In the Dark Thick Fog, London is awash with fear and loathing over a serial sex murder known as The Avenger who targets Blond Woman in particular and leaves their warm corpse lying in the street ,He always strikes on a Tuesday, his Face is covered, and Leaves his calling card always tucked away in the victims pocket, On a Tuesday night Daisy Bunting(June Tipp) a Model comes home to her little flat she shares with her family, her boyfriend(Malcolm Keen) the local chief of police is there boasting how he's going to catch theavenger killer while flipping a coin in the air, Suddenly the Gas meter switches off and while Daisys Father (Arthur Chesney) goes to insert another coin in , The house goes dark All of A sudden their is a knock on the Door and Mrs Bunting (Played beautifully by Marie Ault) Opens the Door to a pall faced Tall man with his face Covered (Ivor Novello) inquiring about the room for let upstairs,The Pale Antisocial Asexual Unnamed man begins his association with the family and starts More trouble than they can possibility imagine, especially when we seems to take Interest in Daisy who Just Happens to be Fair Haired.Suspicion Falls upon the odd Introvert and coincidence seems to follow fact as Tuesday Night Comes Around Again and another scream is heard in the Depths of the London Fog.Fritz Langs film work work particularly M (a film about a child molester and Serial Murderer) made a profound impression on the Work of Hitchcock .It would be a strange coincidence that in his Last American Film Friz Lang Would Pay Homage to him in Beyond Reasonable Doubt This film has all the trademarks of the latter Hitchcock s films and is greatly enhanced by the great use of film montage of German Expressionist Films to which Hitchcock learned his trade and made a point of his style This Film has been Remade four times as recently as 2009 and the second even starred Novello himself however there's is no comparison There are some who say Hitchcock was always a bit of a silent film director with his use of great lengthy scenes without dialogue, and if you watch this u can see why everything in the stories plot comes across clear as a bell its not a dodgy DW Griffith with too much montage to millions of Credit cards to Tell you whats happening, you can see exactly whats going on, you can tell when something horrible is going to happen to the sweet blond victim , and you are given that same 'suspend belief' that's in all the Great Hitchcock Films of his Golden Period .Its a Silent film but as the voyeur you can still see everything that goes on you are looking through a crack in the floor of a second story apartment at a Killer Passing above your head waiting to strike, "}{"Title":"Hitchcock's Jack the Ripper movie","Date":"27 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I like more and more watching silent movies. The lack of speech was making the actors look for other ways of expressing themselves and today their facial and body language resemble the art of mimes. It also made directors search for better visuals to compensate the absence of the spoken text. Such a master of visuals as Hitchcock was not handicapped by the lack of sound, and one may argue that some of the great horror scenes in his later movies could be part of silent movies as well.'The Lodge' was the first film to be considered a complete fully feature by Hitchcock. The story retraces the Ripper case, which by the time when the film was made was still present in the living memory of many London inhabitants. In the foggy atmosphere of many of the British films of Hitchcock a couple of characters well known in the later films of the master show-up - the man whose non-normative behavior makes of him the obvious suspect and the maid who falls for the man and trusts him despite all the logic of facts presented to the viewer and adopted by the rest of the characters. First timers in Hitchcock's films are the vertically filmed staircase, the threatening shadow on the wall and the girl in the bathroom - it will take another thirty years to bring the last two together in the memorable scene in 'Psycho'.For all the visual suspense the film lacks thrill in action and the ending is awfully conventional. It is said that Hitchcock wanted another ending for his film, maybe this was the descent-from-cross like scene where the hero is saved at the last moment from the threats of a lynching mob. This or some other ending would have made better a film which is still remarkable for its visual power. "},{"Title":"Great movie; one of the best silent ones ever!","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I saw this silent Hitchcock after seeing about twenty other Hitchcock, all the famous ones from the forties, fifties and sixties. I expected that without sound, not even Hitchcock could create suspense, but I was wrong.The Black Lodger's star Ivor Novello has a great appearance in this film and sure his scary way of looking adds up to the tension. The moment in which he looks out of a window, and a shadows in the form of a cross is over his face, is masterful.The Black Lodger was Hitchcock's third movie, and his first masterpiece, as I understand. Shortly afterwards he made Downhill, also with Novello, and a good movie too, especially the ending. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" yeah its fun and the best Hitchcock i think.i hate that undertake is making it this is the one and only best no 1 i mean no one can change that good suspense and fun 1 for black and white While this wasn't Hitchcock's first feature film, he refers to it as the one that set the pace for his later films, the first to show his vision, style, and bravura. The most interesting thing about this film, other than its technical virtuosity and the horribly ineffective soundtrack, is the fact that it wasn't supposed to end the way it did. Hitchcock wanted The Lodger to be the killer, which would have made a more predictable film (granted in 1926 audiences weren't spoiled by the great of the genre and everything could have been surprising if the right amount of suspense and tension were provided). Instead, there were pressures to let matinée idol Ivor Novello out of the killer role, probably because people didn't want to picture Novello as a killer. Ironically, the fact Novello wouldn't end up as the killer made this film even better, a lot more interesting and compelling. "},{"Title":"proto-Hitchcock suspense thriller","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In The Lodger you see elements that will be come standard in later Hitchcock films -- the innocent man wrongly accused; a blonde heroine; the director's cameo; and (something no one else on this board has remarked upon) a MacGuffin (Hitchock's first one?). The latter consists of a killer (The Avenger)who's identity gets the story going. And, like all MacGuffins, it's not really that important. We learn at the end of the film that The Avenger has been apprehended, but learn nothing about him or his motives for killing blonde women.Other commentators have mentioned the generic classical music soundtrack -- much of the same music is also used in the earlier Hitchcock silent film The Ring -- which doesn't compliment the action but in fact works against it. I had to turn down the sound after a while when I became irritated by the repetition of the same pieces of music (again, just like in The Ring).Aside from some brilliant filmic devices, such as the oft-mentioned seeing-through-the-ceiling effect (I also thought that this might've been the first film with a flashback sequence, but perusing the IMDb I see that that distinction belongs to a movie almost 20 YEARS PRIOR, The Yiddisher Boy in 1908!), this movie is very slow-going. The acting is mediocre and the pacing is glacial.On the other hand, you can't really judge a silent film from over seventy-five years ago by the same standards that you'd apply to a later film. However, that really doesn't make me want to watch The Lodger more than the two times I already have. "},{"Title":"first important hitchcock","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  in my opinion this is the best silent movie ever made. ivor novello is great as the parody of jack the ripper. rest of the cast is ok. the whole movie has some sort of special style in the lightning, the creative design, the performances and hitchcocks directing.(spoilers ahead)the best scene of all silent movies is when the people in the street persecutes ivor novello mistaking him for the assassin almost killing him.i'm not a fan of silent movies but this one is the exception, i have watched it four times and i always discover something new. 9/10. "},{"Title":"In a cinematic class of its own.","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A new lodger moves into a spare room upstairs of a elderly couple who live below and actually believe him to be the one they call The Avenger that is committing the horrible murders on woman in London. Which they get even more worried when their daughter starts getting even more closer to the mysterious man, while the detective who visits them has just been given the case and who has always had a sweet spot for their daughter. When he sees that the two are getting close he goes too many lengths to convict the lodger, because all the evidence points to him.Hitchcock's BW silent film The Lodger is a compelling thriller and a very first-rate one too. This film, which was his third one off ranks basically kick-started his unique touch and impressive film-making ability. So much that it has definitely influenced him on his future projects and he even admitted it helped him mastered his skills, It was the first time I exercised my style &#133; you might almost say it was my first picture. - Alfred Hitchcock. This particular story of The Lodger is loosely based on the famous and grisly tale of Jack the Ripper and Hitchcock works wonders with it in his film and added his own personal touches to it. He really draws you into this well crafted piece with its tightly knitted suspense, stylish touches in the direction, that of inventive camera placement, surefooted editing and set details and definitely that of the moody performances. Yeah, he stages every frame with such panache by evoking changes in atmosphere and also popping in subtle hints to where to story could be leading. The clues are there, but Hitchcock really strings you along for a relentless and enticing ride of whodunit, without giving too much away. Where the suspense slowly builds too its heart pounding finale, but the actual ending felt somewhat odd. Well to me it did, I thought a sadder one would've been better suited. Even Hitchcock's dry and witty sense of humour creeps up into the story too. Though being shot in black and white the composition held a hazy tinge of blue during the night sequences and rusty crown during the day that added idyllic charm to certain scenes. The silent performances are more than solid enough. Ivor Novello stars as the puzzling Lodger and he fits the role perfectly. He has some sort of unsettling figure, especially through his body movements and that off lurking about in the foggy streets at night. The rest of the performances achieved there purposes and made for effective entertainment. Also the score playing in the background was certainly uneven at times with being rather chilling, but other times too forced. Hitchcock has come up with a fine line of detail and symbolic assortments too his heart-aching story that has a lurking creepiness put together about it.Patience is the key, especially for any silent film, so make sure you're in the right frame of mood for it, before trying to get into it. Anyhow, Hitchcock's The Lodger has been remade a couple of times, but never bettered. Definitely a controlled film that's not-to-be-missed under any circumstances. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's  Great  Silent Classic !","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Viewed most of The Lodger films and always loved the different versions depicting the Jack-The-Ripper horrible murders. Alfred Hitchcock was twenty-eight(28) years of age when he produced and directed this film, and as usual, appeared in several of the scenes in the film. The London public thought his talents were fantastic and we all know what happened to Hitchcock's film career. The Bunting Family decided to lease a room upstairs and Ivor Novello,(Jonathan Drew), played the Lodger, who hated pictures of young attractive gals that were placed in his room and even turned them around. However, the Bunting's had a very attractive blonde hair daughter, June (Daisy) that Jonathan Drew seemed to take a fancy to, even though she had a boyfriend who was a detective looking for the Ripper. There was a black doctor's bag in this picture which contained many different items you will never suspect, and the Ending is typical Hitchcock ! "},{"Title":"The best of Hitch's silents...","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Lodger is universally considered the best of Hitchcock's silents. It's a story that's loosely based on the Jack the Ripper killings in London. In this movie the serial killer is known as The Avenger and is killing blondes, which has the fair-haired girls of London worried. During this time a mysterious man shows up looking for a room to rent from a family. This lodger has some quirky habits of going out on foggy nights and has them wondering who exactly this lodger that's living in their house really is. This movie definitely showcases Hitchcock's early talent for the thriller genre and he keeps you guessing throughout. I have read that Hitchcock wanted a different ending, but that it was shot down my the movie executives. I won't mention the endings to avoid spoiling the movie, but I would have liked to see it Hitch's way. Unfortunately this was long before the days of shooting alternate versions, so we just have to imagine how he would have done it. It's amazing to me to watch Hitchcock's quality movies from the 1920s-1970s. He truly deserves the title, The Master of Suspense. He dedicated his life to the art of filmmaking and we get to reap the benefits. *** (Out of 4) "},{"Title":"Atmospheric early Hitchcock","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" An enjoyable silent from Hitchcock with some of his distinctive touches which would appear in his later films. The lighting is a little dark but it may just be the less than perfect transfer to video.The acting is what you expect from the silent era....stylized and overdone. Ivor Novello is unusual as the suspected killer...a talented Welsh playwright and author, he also starred in many silents and early talkies. He was often called the most beautiful man in early British cinema but is a little too effete for the part......and his eye makeup is way over the top. A couple of scenes are particular standouts.... he is caught on a fence hanging by handcuffs while the crowd attacks him...... and the glass ceiling effect as the lodger paces the floor above the landlord's flat. If you are a Hitchcock buff, it is one you must see....if not, it is rather hard going "},{"Title":"A Must-See for Hitchcock Fans","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" NOTE The ending of the film is discussed in this commentThose who have followed the career and style of Alfred Hitchcock won't want to miss this film, the Master's third picture. Even though it is a silent film, you will note Hitchcock's use of visual expression, rather than lots of written cues, to convey ideas and plot development.I actually got to see this on the Internet, but I think it must have been the same version that IMDb user RSP43 saw. The soundtrack consisted of several well-known pieces of classical music, such as Tchaikovsky's 1812 Overture. They are good songs on their own, but some are inappropriate for the scenes that they accompany. A bouncing royal march, Rimsky-Korsakov's Procession of the Nobles from his Mlada Suite, is heard during the Lodger's ominous debut and at the beginning of the film, when a screaming murder victim appears in close-up and the news of the murder spreads through London. As if these events are supposed to be cheerful rather than tense! I would like to hear the new score that was prepared for Hitchcock's 100th birthday.Regarding the ending of the film I've heard that Hitchcock wanted the film to end with the Lodger as the true murderer, but that other higher-ups in the production company asked him to change it so that the Lodger was innocent, perhaps not wishing their star Ivor Novello to be cast as a killer. This would reflect the debates over how to end Suspicion later on in 1941. For The Lodger, the result is a film that is somewhat like Hitchcock's 1956 movie The Wrong Man, since the film eventually tries to convince the audience that the Lodger is a sympathetic hero, wrongfully accused. While the viewers are left assured of the Lodger's innocence, I think Hitchcock threw in a reference in the final shot to suggest to us his original intention. Look through the window that the stars are standing in front of; you'll see a flashing electric sign that was used as an omen for the Avenger murders at the beginning of the film! Interpret that as you may. "}{"Title":"Competent silent thriller from the master of suspense","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  _The Lodger_ is a competent thriller that demonstrates that the touch of the master, Alfred Hitchcock, was developing even early in his career.  There are narrative and cinematographic elements present here that appear in his later works in much more refined form.  Two shots in particular demonstrate a willingness to experiment with special effects.  One shows the title character pacing in his room from beneath through a transparent floor.  The second shows the memories of a police detective by means of a flashback that takes place within the confines of a footprint in the dirt.  Interestingly, during a kissing scene there is a breach of the 180 degree rule; it is difficult to determine if this was intended, or merely a goof.Aside from the major narrative, which concerns the search for the serial killer, the Avenger, there is an interesting subtext that involves the romantic attachments of the daughter of the lodger's landlords, who vacillates between the safe but strait-laced police detective and the dangerous but exciting lodger. "},{"Title":"Terrific,just a stepping stone to Hitchcock's genius.","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A superb Hitchcock masterpiece about a serial killer who kills blonde curly hair girls,and a mysterious lodger who is suspected to be the killer. An excellent movie for those who are into Hitchcock and considering that this movie is his first suspense film. "},{"Title":"It's not what Marie Belloc Lowndes wrote; see 1944 film for that.","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The version I have just seen as part of the 10 volume set Alfred Hitchcock The Master of Suspense runs 90 minutes as compared with a tinted version once shown by American Movie Classics which ran only 74 minutes. I have not had the opportunity yet to compare the two side-by-side,as it were, thus cannot tell you what AMC may have omitted. What I can say is that, visually speaking, the AMC version was far superior in print quality. On a scale of 1 to 5, I would rate it about 3.5, whereas this 10 volume DVD version of THE LODGER rates 1.0! It is so bad that facial expressions are not always discernible.That said, if you have the patience to endure this poor print, and if you turn down the volume to mute the annoying modern musical score, it is a chance to see Alfred Hitchcock learning his trade in a very interesting fashion. Moody camera work, presaging what would become after a decade or so film noir, showcases a horror story suggested by the Jack the Ripper murders. It is loosely based on a novel by Marie Belloc Lowndes, but takes some almighty presumptuous liberties. If you want to be surprised by the outcome, please read no further. But I suspect most of you know that Ivor Novello was much too handsome to be a serial killer. Instead he turns out to be an amateur crime-fighter out to catch the monster who had murdered his sister. She was the Ripper's, uh... I mean The Avenger's first victim. Just the same, he displayed some really weird habits. Luckily, the official police caught The Avenger and were just barely able to prevent a mob from tearing poor Ivor to pieces. P.S., he got the girl instead of the very straight detective who also had his eye on her.If you want to see more or less what Mrs. Belloc Lowndes actually wrote, check out the 1944 film with Laird Cregar playing a really creepy Lodger with designs on lovely Merle Oberon. Hitch took a second crack at THE LODGER in 1932 in sound, but I have not seen that version. Since it also featured Ivor Novello, one supposes Mrs. Lowndes was once again circumvented. There are some good things to say about the silent film, though. Title cards are reduced to a bare minimum, contrary to the common practice of the era. Hitch gets the story told by means of the camera, not the printer. Acting, judging by the AMC version, is not bad for the silent era. Hitch controlled his cattle very well, even in this early period.Besides the 10 volume set which contains the version of THE LODGER I have just viewed, there are 5 other DVD's available, all containing more than one Hitchcock early movie. One hopes that at least one of these was transferred from a better print, but I have no advice to offer as to that. The AMC tinted version, which I was lucky enough to copy to VHS a few years ago is not at all bad. Just a little soft in detail. "},{"Title":"Crickets would sound better","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Being an avid Hitchcock fan, I watched this film (his third) for purely educational purposes. I found it to be interesting, but I wouldn't change my plans to watch it again. What I found annoying, and this has nothing to do with Hitchcock, is the new soundtrack recorded for this movie. It sounded more like left over tracks from a Keystone Cops movie. It didn't do anything to enhance your viewing pleasure and it distracted me. The piano playing didn't even try to built suspense during a tense moment. When the lodger first appears, you'd think the soundtrack was depicting a lovely stroll in the park. Not the arrival of a menacing figure. Perhaps this was the original sheet music used in the film and was updated for better sound clarity. Either way, me didn't like it! "},{"Title":"Good Thriller","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Lodger, The (1926) *** (out of 4) Alfred Hitchcock's first thriller has residents fearing that their latest lodger (Ivor Novello) might be the serial killer known as The Avenger. This film was clearly influenced by the Jack the Ripper case and this makes for an interesting Hitchcock film. I think this is the first film from the young Hitchcock where he can see some evidence of what would come later in America. Hitchcock's direction is tight throughout and he handles the material very well and adds some nice suspense as to whether this guy is or isn't a killer. Novello, who would appear in the 1932 remake as well, is quite good here and delivers a strong performance. The ending is also very nice, although the film runs a little too long for it own good. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's's first thriller","Date":"15 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" this first screen adaptation of the novel(with the same title) by Marie Bellock Lowndes is Alfred Hitchcock's first thriller.it's a silent film,the only silent film adaptation of the novel.its biggest value to me is the curiosity and novelty factor.of the silent films i've seen so far,this is not one of the best ones.i found it much too slow,and the music accompaniment is is irrelevant to ht film.i think whoever produced this print just picked some public domain music and slapped it onto the film.i did get this film as part of a very cheap collection and so it my be this particular print that has that problem.for me,The Lodger is a 4/10 "},{"Title":"Disappointing...","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Regarded as a classic by most people simply because it is Alfred Hitchcock's first suspense film. Unfortunately, The Lodger is almost completely bereft of the fine craftsmanship that would come to be Hitchcock's calling card in his later films. Inspired by the Jack the Ripper murders, the story centers on a family who takes in a mysterious young man amidst a series of killings going on in the city. Unengaging and slow moving, the film drags on as the family begins to suspect the young man of being the killer. Their suspense builds, but ours does not. The film picks up nicely in the last twenty minutes with a couple of plot twists and a jealous boyfriend / detective, but it's not quite enough to save the film. There are also a couple of examples of artistic cinematography and symbolic imagery, but it never really pays off. Hitchcock's best work was still well ahead of him. "},{"Title":"first important hitchcock","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  in my opinion this is the best silent movie ever made. ivor novello is great as the parody of jack the ripper. rest of the cast is ok. the whole movie has some sort of special style in the lightning, the creative design, the performances and hitchcocks directing.spoilers ahead the best scene of all silent movies is when the people in the street persecutes ivor novello mistaking him for the assassin almost killing him.i'm not a fan of silent movies but this one is the exception, i have watched it four times and i always discover something new. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Better than many of his later and more polished films!","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie was a major surprise. As it's a very early Hitchcock film, I had very low expectations for it, but was pleasantly surprised to find that the suspense and especially the mystery elements are much better than many of his later films. If the film hadn't been silent and if many (if not all) of the existing prints hadn't been in such poor shape, this would undoubtedly be a more widely known film. By the way, the DVD box says it was THE first film by Hitchcock, I noticed when consulting IMDb that it is NOT. Also, towards the end of the film, for all you people who love to spot the director in his cameos, it MIGHT be Hitchcock in front and center in the crowd scene only if he put on muttonchops and hair. It DOES look like him, but in later films he always looked like himself--bald and ordinary.As for the movie, it's about a Jack the Ripper-type assassin that is targeting fair-haired ladies. When a mysterious lodger arrives at a boarding house, slowly people begin to suspect him of the killings. How the writers and director manipulated this to move the audience is brilliant and the film's conclusion is not telegraphed but exciting and fulfilling. A wonderful but overlooked film.By the way, if you want to see this film or its sound remake (The Phantom Fiend), you can download them for free at archive.org--you can just follow the links on IMDb. "}]