[{"Title":"Should be required viewing in high schools along with the novel","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Victor Sjöström's The Scarlet Letter is a masterpiece. It should be put on DVD for all to enjoy, even if parts of the film have to be supplemented with 16mm dupes. TCM hasn't shown it in years, yet they show The Wind several times every year. It makes no sense. The Scarlet Letter is even better than The Wind. It should be shown in high school classes along with the required reading of the classic novel by Nathanial Hawthorne. It makes my head spin to think of how many thousands of children would fall in love with silent film if they were only exposed to this classic. I hate to think of them being exposed to that horrific Demi Moore version instead. Lillian Gish is radiantly beautiful as the demure but sensual Hester Prynne. Lars Hanson makes an exceptionally wonderful minister Dimmesdale, fighting his romantic feelings for the lovely Hester. Henry B. Walthall makes a very believable and threatening Roger Prynne. Karl Dane adds some wonderful comic relief as Master Giles. The M-G-M production values here are exceptional and the cinematography by Henrik Sartov glows. I love the tracking shots of Hester and the Reverend Arthur Dimmesdale walking together in the woods, and the lovely shot of their reflections in the lake as they confess their love for one another. Poetry on screen. The musical score for the film is quite beautiful, commissioned by TCM in 2000. The only parts that got on my nerves were the harpsichord sections. The flute, piano and violin parts were the best. Your silent film viewing is not complete without seeing this classic. It's Lillian Gish's best film. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Beauty on film","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After years of desperately wanting to see this movie I finally got hold of a copy of it. I put the DVD in the machine and waited with baited breath, was the film going to be as wonderful as the other commenters(?)had rated it? was it going to be anywhere near as good as the other Gish/Hanson/Seastrom collaboration The Wind? Well, the answer was that it was everything I hoped for and more. The version I saw a recording of TCM's restoration so the quality of the print veered from superb to not quite so good, but, in all honesty that did not matter as I soon got caught up in the story of Hester Prynne and the Rev. Dimmesdale. The acting was superb by all the cast, the direction was excellent and the whole setting of the movie was outstanding. It still amazes me who there are those who will not watch a silent movie, are you crazy? This version is a million miles better than the Demi Moore/Gary Oldman version made 70 years later, the chemistry between Gish and Hanson is perfect, the child actress Joyce Coad who plays Pearl, the love child, is delightful and Henry Walthall is menacing as Roger Chillingworth, Karl Dane also deserves mentioning as Master Giles in a slightly comedic role. The only downside to the movie and it had nothing to do with the movie itself was that I bought it from a guy who contacted me via IMDb and led me to believe it was his own print, I paid $52 for a TV recording off TCM. He is contacting people concerning vintage movies so beware if someone offers to get a print of that vintage movie you want to see. "},{"Title":"Gish Resplendent","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A young mother is forced to wear THE SCARLET LETTER of adultery by her repressive society.Nathaniel Hawthorne's classic novel is brought brilliantly to life in this excellent Silent film from MGM. Because the book was on the censored list, Lillian Gish, the era's finest actress, had to campaign vigorously with both the studio hierarchy and civic morality groups around the country to be allowed to make the film, causing her to ironically deal with the same sort of moral strictures her heroine would face in the film.Her persistence paid off. She was able to obtain the services of director Victor Sjöström and actor Lars Hanson, both from Sweden. Sjöström instructed Miss Gish in the Scandinavian method of natural acting and he gave the film a blunt, no-nonsense look, crisp & clean, utilizing the Studio's excellent sets to the best of their advantage. Frances Marion, the most celebrated screenwriter of the day, was responsible for the literate script.As the much harried Hester Prynne, Gish is beatific, her face radiating as if from an inner glow. She is playfully sweet as the community seamstress, wanting to cavort on the Sabbath or wear frilly clothing, only two of the actions proscribed & punishable by the Puritans' implacable rigidity. Later, with Hanson, she takes the viewer along as she delights in her new, hidden joy as he returns her love. Whether calmly standing on the scaffold to endure her shame, or fiercely protecting the unbaptized offspring of her forbidden passion, Gish never for an instant loses her grip on the pathetic character she's portraying.Although he spoke no English, this was not a hindrance to Hanson. Playing the conflicted Rev. Arthur Dimmesdale, Boston's saintly parson, he paints the portrait of a good man literally dying of guilt, a weak man who dare not defend his wife & child. Hanson's face reflects his agony, his left hand twitching at his own breast where his secret symbol of shame is hidden. With Gish unobtainable in this world, he moves steadily towards the inevitable, and deeply poignant, conclusion.Henry B. Walthall, Miss Lillian's costar in Griffith's THE BIRTH OF A NATION (1915), has the supporting role of a mysterious stranger whose arrival in Boston foreshadows a dire denouement for the wretched lovers.Also in the cast are Karl Dane who acts out the viewers' dismay at the solemnity of the Puritans, most especially in the person of vindictive gossip Marcelle Corday; there is no love lost between this pair. Movie mavens will recognize diminutive Polly Moran & dour Nora Cecil as rigid Puritan matrons, both uncredited. "},{"Title":"Anyone who considers silent film-making inferior to sound film-making needs to watch this film.","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched this 1926 silent version and the 1934 sound version back to back, projected in a theater. The 1926 version was not only a more artfully shot film, but the depth of the characters and their relationships were immeasurably better. The story structure and additional focus on the developing relationship between Hester Prynne and Reverend Dimmesdale created enormous empathy, and the introduction of Roger Chillingworth was absolutely haunting and palpable. The 1934 sound version was deflated and unemotional by comparison. The 1926 film is very well cast, solidly structured, skillfully directed, and beautifully shot. The film's final scene will leave one almost breathless and wondering what will happen next in the lives of these settlers. It perfectly wraps this must see example of masterful storytelling. Anyone who considers silent film-making inferior to sound film-making needs to watch this film. You may be enlightened.  "},{"Title":"A beautiful film no longer available","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Victor Seastrom's magnificent retelling of Hawthorne's important novel is beautifully directed with an incredible performance by Lillian Gish.  It is a disgrace that this film is not available in either VHS or DVD format (and especially so since the ludicrous version with Demi Moore is). "},{"Title":"Lilian Gish,the first thespian of the silent era...","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the definitive version of the classicdo yourself a favor and forget the Demi Moore one which was released a few years back.Any actress who takes on the part will be fatally compared with Mrs Gish and the favorite thespian of MM Griffith and Sjostrom is so powerful that she would outshine anyone.At a time when an actor had to manage without words,every performance of Lilian Gish (the wind orphans in the storm ) is a tour de force in itself.Running the whole gamut of human feelings,her portrayal displays every nuance of her fragility,her desperation and her hope against hope .But I will not try to describe itjust watch yourself.Sjostrom's directing stood the test of time hands down and the story is absorbing until the very end.Never forget that Mrs Gish made a great come back in the talkies which culminated in her sensational old lady in the night of the hunter (1955) "},{"Title":"On silent film poetry","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Exactly what we've lost since the end of the silent era is magnificently on display in Victor Seastrom's THE SCARLET LETTER shimmering black and white photography of superbly composed and paced scenes capturing the essence of the American classic novel by Hawthorne, though certain details of the story have been altered and may annoy literary purists.  This is not the novel but a separate work, more than a perceptive and intelligent picturization.  Here is the great, lost art of silent screen acting, with Lillian Gish, unforgettable as Hesther Prynne, leading an accomplished cast.  The result is pure visual poetry. "},{"Title":"There Just Aren't Enough Words.....","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There just aren't enough words to describe the beautiful performances in this film....not that words are needed, then or now. Victor Seastrom's lovingly crafted scenes provide perfect visual frames for the transcendent performances of Lillian Gish and Lars Hanson. An artistic triumph for everyone concerned, and a bittersweet reminder of what was lost with the death of the art of the silent film. (The Turner restoration is alas, also bittersweet, as prints of wildly differing quality had to be married in order to create a substantially complete copy of the subject. Thus, viewers move from scenes that shimmer with pristine beauty to muddy, contrasty dupes. It's a tribute to the art of all concerned however, that this is not the distracting issue it might be with a lesser film. Like any work of art, you won't notice the cracks and flaws after a while if you're paying attention as you should. It's just a shame that the entire film isn't as mint-fresh as some of its scenes.) "},{"Title":"See it for what it is.","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  MGM's 1926 adaption of Nathaniel Hawthorne's The Scarlet Letter is, quite possibly, the best motion picture to have been released in the silent screen era's latter days. It can, undoubtedly, be looked upon as the best that two of that era's best actors-Lillian Gish & Lars Hanson-were paired up in. And, too, one very talented child actress, by the name of Joyce Coads, deserves to be given big credit. (She made only 10 more films before taking a final bow from the limelight; in her 2nd to last-Devotion 1931-she didn't get billing.) The Scarlet Letter should also be noted as, perhaps, the very best that Victor Seastrom- whom Charlie Chaplain had called the best director in all the world ever delivered. Just don't make the mistake of seeing this film as a good adaption of Hawthorne's novel. Because it's not. The film is a total of an hour and 20 minutes. Had it been really true to the novel, it just might have been longer than Gone With The Wind. (And, speaking of the wind, as fate would have it, Seastrom directed only one more film in the US, which also teamed up Gish and Hanson namely, The Wind (1928). MGM gave Seastrom his walking papers because he'd refused to give The Wind a happy ending. The Scarlet Letter of 1926 should also be seen by anyone who just might be under the mistaken impression that silent films can't leave a lasting impression. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Versions Ever","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love this film for everything that it is. The story, the acting, the direction, everything about it is great.The story revolves around Hester Prynne(Lillian Gish) and her love for the Reverrend Arthur Dimmesdale(Lars Hanson). Poor Hester is marked with the 'scarlet letter' when she gives birth to her lovechild with the bishop, and the bishop suffers on his own as his heart begins to fail on account of the guilt he feels.The orchestration of this film helps a lot because the wonderful music helps you follow the story more and bring intensity. I love Lars Hanson's performance, he has the perfect profile for love scenes. "}{"Title":"Immortal Hawthorne novel gets the silent treatment","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Scarlet Letter (MGM, 1926), directed by Victor Seastrom, and adapted by Frances Marion, is hailed as the best of the several screen adaptations to the Nathaniel Hawthorne novel that was written in 1850.In this version, Hester Prynne (Lillian Gish) is a seamstress living in 17th century Massachusetts. On the Sabbath day, her bird accidentally flies out of its cage, causing Hester to run out and try and retrieve it. The town gossips see this and decide to tell the Reverend Arthur Dimmesdale (Lars Hanson) of Hester running about on the Sabbath, which is not permissable. To make matters worse, Hester comes late to church, causing the preacher man having to have this young girl punished. Later seeing Hester sitting out her punishment with her hands and feet locked in a pillory, Dimmesdale has a change of heart and decides to lift the punishment by have her released. Afterwards Dimmesdale falls in love with her. Wanting her for his wife, Dimmesdale proposes and learns that Hester is already married, but at that moment decides to keep secret that she is pregnant with his child. Following the birth of her daughter she names Pearl, Hester, who refuses to reveal the name of the father to the congregation, finds herself facing another punishment, that of wearing a scarlet letter A around her bosom for the rest of her natural life. Five years later, Hester's middle-aged husband, Roger (Henry B. Walthall), who had been shipwrecked for many years, returns to learn of his wife's situation, and thus, threatens to find out whom little Pearl's (Joyce Coad) father is, causing Hester more hardship.Cable TV's Turner Classic Movies, which is where this movie can be seen, first presented the silent version to The Scarlet Letter in the mid 1990s with its then available 80 minute print accompanied with a musical score that was originally composed for the 1973 Public Television 13-week series, MOVIES-GREAT-MOVIES, a 50th anniversary tribute to MGM silent movies of the 1920s, as hosted by Richard Schickel, which aired on New York City's Channel 13. When TCM presented The Scarlet Letter once again on the night of August 31, 2001, host Robert Osborne announced it to be a TCM premiere, in which the movie has been restored to its original 95 minute length, and accompanied with a brand new orchestral score. While the new score is a mix between satisfactory and awful, it does bring pleasure in watching The Scarlet Letter intact, which puts the lost pieces back together into an incomplete jigsaw puzzle. Lillian Gish and Lars Hanson are commendable in their roles. MGM reteamed them once more in The Wind (1928).Also in the cast are Karl Dane as Giles; Polly Moran as a townswoman; Marcelle Corday as Mistress Hibbons, and Jules Cowles. The Scarlet Letter was remade by the Majestic Studios in 1934 starring Colleen Moore and Hardie Albright in the Gish and Hanson roles, with both Henry B. Walthall and Jules Cowles reprising their original screen roles. In the 1934 remake, Walthall's character appears early in the story while in the 1926 version, his character appears much later. In spite of several differences between these two versions, the concept to Hawthorne's story still remains, but for those who have never read the novel, the story in itself goes into more detail. And then there is that 1995 version starring Demi Moore... (***) "},{"Title":"I'll give this an A","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A highly unconventional love story set against an austere Puritan backdrop.I enjoyed the subterranean-romance part as much as I savored the strange, to the point of sometimes-laughable, goings-on in pre-Revolutionary Salem. (Courting couples conversing through an ear tube?...C'mon!!) I haven't read Hawthorne's masterwork since high school -- and my 40th reunion is coming up this spring -- so in interpreting this tale I can go only by the celluloid version...Hester Prynne (Lillian Gish) doesn't conform to the mores of her society. She begs the Rev. Dimmesdale (Lars Hansson) to keep his paternity a secret ostensibly because she doesn't wish to disillusion his loyal followers -- though they are cruel, petty, and rejecting. By holding to this standard she protects her lover while simultaneously punishing him -- because the subterfuge sets off a fatal case of guilt and self-recrimination.In a time and society in which men wield all the power, it's an interesting twist. First, Hester's father had pushed her into an unwanted marriage. Later, the town fathers do whatever they can to crush her spirit. Then her husband shows up to toss a little psychological warfare into the mix... In the end, though, it's Dimmesdale's psyche that lands the fatal blow. This movie seems to prove that at least one thing hasn't changed in four centuries -- one is only as sick as one's secrets! "},{"Title":"Don't go by the poster","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Don't go by the smarmy, eye-rolling illustration on the old movie poster displayed on this site. I have no idea who painted that image, but it has nothing whatever in common with Lillian Gish's wonderful performance in this marvelous movie. Although The Scarlet Letter hasn't been filmed very often, I don't believe it has ever been filmed any better than it was in this 1926 silent version. Apart from being mounted as a fully-rigged MGM production with all the trimmings, it is beautifully directed, acted and photographed. Above all, in The Scarlet Letter, Lillian Gish demonstrated once again what a truly fine actress she really was, miles better than such contemporaries as Mary Pickford and Gloria Swanson. Lillian Gish's was real acting, not broad pantomime, as was so often the case in silent movies, and is the reason why some of the genre seem so dated today. The Scarlet Letter is one silent film that doesn't seem dated and there is little doubt that is due in no small measure to Lillian Gish's performance.Lars Hanson as Reverend Dimmsdale and Henry B. Walthal as Roger Chillingworth are very good. However, the former's perpetual had- wringing anguish, and the latter's equally perpetual scowling, seem cartoonish compared with Gish's far more subtle characterization.Unfortunately, this movie isn't shown very often anymore. Nevertheless, anyone interested in the Scarlet Letter ought to see this version. It will not only increase their appreciation of Hawthorne's story, but that of silent movies as well. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Movie Making from the Silent Era","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For anyone who thinks silent movies are dated and dull, have a look at this film from 1926 with Lillian Gish and Lars Hanson. The Scarlet Letter is a drama that still resonates with modern audiences because it depicts the good and the innocent being persecuted by the tyranny of mob justice. In this case, the majority in a New England town violates the dignity and freedom of individuals to enforce a strict moral code. The world of the Puritans in the early American Colonies was rigid and often unforgiving and for those whose lives strayed, stern retribution was the result. Silent stars had to be great actors to convey emotion without words...the eyes, the expression and body language along with brilliant sets and crowd scenes. This film has these qualities as well as crisp captions to tell the story. I found both Lillian Gish and Lars Hanson convincing in their roles as the ill-starred lovers in a time when people seemed to put great stock on enforcing codes of conduct at the expense of transgressors. The expressions on faces in the crowd scenes showed the hearts of stone that would humiliate anyone who crossed the lines. Movies like this one gave 1920's audiences a lesson to reflect upon in a world that was still quite harsh in its own customs and morals. I am no expert on silent films but the few I have seen convey great feelings and emotion. They are a separate category from modern cinema and involve audiences more directly. This view was reinforced for me by the recent movie The Artist. The Scarlet Letter is a brilliant example of the silent movie era. "},{"Title":"Good thing I have a penchant for silent films and this one of the more poignant ones in the same vein as Passion of Joan of Arc","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I can't help, but give this film a deserved 10. Not only does it go against the idea that silent films were a novelty and a really egregious piece of pantomime, but that it could be completely poignant, pungent, painful and heart aching. What I just mentioned in that list of sentiments really do impose upon this film. The idea that this could be a rudiment is easily debunked by the quantity of reviews that are all nearly consecutively impeccable.Some of the praise for this film can be laid upon Sjostrom's masterful direction replete with the novel of Hawthorne's lyrical words and story. Of course, the films screen time and period is set in the 1800's and it illustrates the hypocrisies of the church, the relentless protest against heresy and that unbelievably taking place all because of a pointless hullabaloo of Hester Prynne not turning up to church. She becomes enamoured with the priest; then she gets pegged as an adulteress.There are subtle moments when her denotation and symbol that is firmly on her are then drew by her Daughter, the most innocuous thing in her life that she couldn't just punish for not understanding. And when she holds her Baby in a plea for serenity - there's no copious intertitles - there's only a break in pure, unadulterated drama. The minister/priest's performance can be hyperbolised at times, but this was probably to posit an alternative state of ambivalence, so it's only a nitpick. Sjostrom's touch to the heart of his audience, infused with Gishes poised and tragedian performance shows that not only was the methodology of this film ahead of the curb, but the fact it's not been released on a legitimate copy is heinous.Another thing that nearly moved me was when one of the onlookers say, when they see Hester's lover go for her, that He must be the most compassionate Christian ever to go past such evil (paraphrased). It's true that we get a complete anthropology of this town and it keeps your interest right into the 1hr 37mins running time.When Gish was getting this film past the censors, it was on the list of Banned Book Adaptations. Her complete regard for the novel allowed for one to push the envelope. She personally hired Sjostrom to direct the film, a novice to Hollywood at the time. He had came of his success on that amazingly suspenseful Phantom Carriage (1920). The elements in the film that may not seem very much into his style would be the narrative; it doesn't seem like something he'd tackle, but his craning of the world to show us it especially when an intertitle that inserts says The day when they didn't take gaiety as an offence is proof that I got deceived. It seemed as though they were just having merriment in the village, then after coming from a pure long shot, we see from close shot that it was somebody being accused of being a whistle blower.When the character Robert came in the film I was entranced by both the sorrow of the situation and I couldn't turn it off, so much so, that it affected my sleep the next day. It had an insurmountable grip; I believe Sjostrom was one of the few legends of his time that can actually branch to a whole new set of novices. Without a doubt, he learned the craft of storytelling and he learned the tricks and artifices of enticing his audience. Verily, he's not dissimilar to any suspense masters that subsequently came.In Wild Strawberries you can see how Sjostrom played his character so well. He understood the trade of acting. "},{"Title":"Lillian's performance is so pure and true","Date":"22 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Lillian Gish had always wanted to film Nathaniel Hawthorne's book but she had a lot of opposition. Louis B. Mayer told her that it was on the black list as church and women's groups had banned it. However, when she wrote to the groups, they all agreed to lift the ban if she would personally be responsible for the film - Lillian Gish was a powerful symbol for purity in the twenties. The bleak theme and landscape of the story were second nature to Scandanavian film makers and Lillian was quick to hire Victor Seastrom to direct and a new Swedish actor, Lars Hanson, to star as the kindly minister. Even Henrik Sartov's camera-work had a magnificent but cold beauty, totally in keeping with the harsh New England scenery.Puritan Boston on a Sabbath day in June - Reverend Arthur Dimmesdale (Lars Hanson) is beloved throughout the county for his kindness and humility. Hester Prynne (Lillian Gish) is frowned upon - church goers see her running and skipping (she is trying to catch her canary) and that is forbidden on the Sabbath!!! For that she is put in the stocks but is rescued by the smitten minister who never realised that the committee would meter out such harsh punishment.It seems they are the only passionate couple in the county as they conduct their affair in secret, amid such rules as engaged couples' lips must only meet after marriage and women's under- garments must be washed and dryed in secret. Dimmesdale wants to marry Hester - but she is already married, forced by her father to marry a wealthy surgeon (Henry B. Walthall) who she hasn't seen for years. When Dimmesdale returns (he had taken a petition to England) it is to find that Hester is to be punished again - she has had a child out of wedlock. Once again Arthur wants to share her punishment but she is firm that she will not let him sacrifice the good opinion of his parishioners. She is forced to wear an embroidered A on her gown for her whole life - A for Adultress!!!Years pass and even though Hester and Pearl are shunned outcasts, Arthur is never far away. When Pearl is ill Hester rushes to the meeting hall to find a doctor. Hester's husband is there but although he recognises her, he is greatly changed and now goes by the name Dr. Chillingworth. He goes to her cottage and even though he says such a child should die cures Pearl. He is a vengeful man and wants to make Hester pay for her sins. He also finds out that Dimmesdale is Pearl's father but wishes to wait - my vengeance will be infinite!!! Hester and Arthur decide to go away - Arthur is losing his strength, but before they go he exposes himself as Pearl's father, before the town. He has branded an A onto his chest. The film ends with his death as Hester hopes for the beginning of kindness and understanding for her and Pearl.Lillian Gish's performance is so pure and true - there is no doubt, for people viewing this movie, that she could be the greatest actress of all time. In her early thirties at the time, she has a childlike happiness at the beginning of the film, which changes to bleakness in the harrowing scene when townsfolk are trying to take her baby. Lillian Gish had discovered Henrik Sartov when she was making The Greatest Thing in Life. He used a gauze over the lens, so I have read, to make her look even more youthful. Henry B. Walthall was unrecognisable in the small but telling role of Dr. Chillingworth. Karl Dane had a nice part as Master Giles, an observer throughout the film, who cannot abide the town's cant and hypocrisy.Highly, Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"Excellent Production","Date":"17 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Scarlet Letter, The (1926) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Classic production of Hawthorne's story by MGM has Lillian Gish in the role of Hester Prynne, the woman who has an affair with a priest (Lars Hanson) and must wear the sign of an adulterous while keeping the secret of who her lover was. This story has been filmed countless times over the years but this silent version hasn't lost an ounce of its power in terms of the great acting, the greatness of the story and the all around production, which ranks as one of the very best for the studio. There's not a single second in the film where you don't feel as if you're actually living during the time that this thing is set. Everything from the sets to the costumes to the actual atmosphere just puts her right in place with the characters. You can feel their thoughts, their pain and their ignorance in what happens to the Gish character. There are countless great scenes in this film but the highlight has to be where the Gish and Hanson characters start to question love as they sit in a field. To me this entire sequence is one of the most passionate ever filmed as the two actors do a masterful job at showing their love for one another yet they don't even touch. The amount of passion in this scene will set the screen on fire. As much passion as there is, there's also equal amounts of pain. Gish's beautiful, sad eyes so perfectly fits the pain of the character that you can't help but fall in love with her and feel sorry for everything that happens. I can't think of an actress out there who could get so much out of this character as Gish does and this here clearly ranks as one of her greatest performances. Hanson is also extremely good in his scenes, although there are a few times where he goes a bit too over the top. I think he does do a great job at displaying his anguish of the Gish character being punished while he gets away with the same crime. Henry B. Walthall rounds out the cast as the bitter husband. He too turns in marvelous work as he can make you fear him yet at the same time you can't blame him for his anger. All three actors do terrific work together and really take the material and do wonders with it. A lot of the credit must go to director Sjostrom who keeps everything moving at a brisk pace and milks every inch out of the story. His visual style is on full display through the wonderful cinematography and this is brought further to life by the terrific music score played with the film. The first time I watched this movie was via a very dark and badly worn print but the latest, cleaned up print on TCM was a real revelation even though it still showed some damage. Seeing the cleaner print certainly made me appreciate this classic even more than ever. "},{"Title":"Scarlet Letter Aired on TCM October 2009","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just saw this wonderful film. The restored version aired on TCM in October of 2009, so I wanted to update the comment made by another user that the film had not been aired. Hopefully they will show it again soon.The restored version ran about 97 minutes. The image quality was highly variable, with most scenes very clear and sharp, and others blurred, grainy and dark. I suspect that many of the poorer quality scenes were those cut from the US theatrical release, which I understand was only 80 minutes long (source - Blockbuster 1997 Movie and Video Guide).While I have not read the corresponding novel yet, I am definitely adding it to my reading list. The plot of the novel as summarized on Wikipedia suggests a number of changes in the movie, probably with the aim of making some implied plot elements in the book more explicit for a silent film.Lillian Gish was wonderful in this film. You can really feel her anguish at being punished for only wanting love, and not being able to openly have it due to circumstances beyond her control.At the outset the film does an outstanding job of illustrating the extremely repressive culture of 16th century Boston. This is achieved in various ways, such as attire, excerpts from the colonial laws, and the punishments meted out for things we consider basic freedoms today. One interesting example is the outrage and punishment Hester suffers because she enjoyed hearing her bird singing on (gasp!) a Sunday. "},{"Title":"The Puritan Ethic","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 1926 our sesquicentennial as a country was a banner year in the career of Lillian Gish, bringing to life two classic roles on the silent screen. She was first Mimi in La Boheme and then took on that favorite of high school English classes, The Scarlett Letter. I well remember having to read Hawthorne's novel as a junior and I can say that if this silent version had been available on DVD back in the day it might have helped as a teaching tool.Nathaniel Hawthorne who added the w in his last name to disassociate himself with his Puritan ancestors who numbered among them Judge John Hathorne of the Salem Witch Trials was writing as much about contemporary attitudes in New England of his day as he was about the beginnings of the Massachusetts Bay Colony and its Puritan settlers. They were a hardy bunch of people, they had to be, coming to a wilderness and making a home in a forbidding land. The land itself as much as the religion of strict behavioral rules made these people what they were.Hester Prynne is a young woman whose husband disappeared years ago in an Indian raid and is presumed dead. She's a gay young lass, a little to spirited for the Puritan crowd, but she captures the attention of the local minister, the Reverend Arthur Dimmesdale. They fall in love and with both their biological clocks ticking get busy. Of course such things were not known in Puritan times, but in Hawthorne's times they were beginning to be suspected. Lillian Gish as Hester gets pregnant and for this crime of adultery she has to wear a scarlet A on her dress for all time. She refuses to name the father. Making matters worse is her long lost husband returns played by Henry B. Walthall, Gish's co-star from The Birth Of A Nation. The part of Roger Chillingworth the husband is a tricky one. He's a nasty sort, a hard man of the times, yet in fact he is an aggrieved party. Walthall strikes just the right balance, he may be aggrieved and you know it, but sympathy is far from what you feel.Lars Hanson plays Dimmesdale who is not a minister in the tradition of James Bakker or Jimmy Swaggart a couple of fellows who paid dear for a quick moment of passion. Those two would be out of place in this pious community. The dictates of his religion clash with his love for Gish and in the end prove too much to handle.The Scarlet Letter as played by Gish, Hanson, and Walthall, is a version I think Nathaniel Hawthorne would approve. And I'm betting Judge Hathorne wouldn't. "},{"Title":"Seattle International Film Festival - David Jeffers for SIFFblog.com","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Saturday May 27, 400pm The EgyptianFilm bears no responsibility to literature beyond its acknowledgment as a source. There have however, been more than a few great works utterly destroyed by terrible screen adaptations. MGM's 1926 film, The Scarlet Letter is not among those casualties. This great film is a shining example of all the principle elements, screenplay, direction, performance and production coming together with phenomenal results.Lillian Gish suggested Nathaniel Hawthorne's novel, a monument of American literature, for her next picture after completing La Boheme with John Gilbert earlier in 1926. The book was included on a 'blacklist' under the aegis of several religious organizations. Miss Gish made a personal plea and consent was granted. Louis Mayer recommended the popular Swedish actor Lars Hanson for the role of Reverend Arthur Dimmesdale and a fellow Swede, the great director Victor Sjöström (Metro anglicized it to Seastrom)) was brought to Hollywood for the production. The task of adapting the novel was entrusted to Hollywood veteran Francis Marion, whose legendary screen writing career ranged from The Champ and Camille to Son of the Sheik and Zander the Great. The resulting film was not only a masterpiece, it is also one of the greatest literary adaptations in all of film, supporting one of the most profoundly emotional performances of the silent era. Seastrom brought the sensibilities of Swedish cinema, repression, guilt and Puritanism, combined with the integration of beauty in the natural world, to Hawthorne's tale of colonial persecution more successfully than any American director possibly could have. Gish also demonstrates a far greater range than the waif of Griffith's films in her sensitive and overwrought portrayal of Hester Prynne, nearly equaled two years later again with Seastrom and Hanson in The Wind. None of the powerful religious symbolism from the novel seems to be lost in this film. The most significant alterations include an extended prologue showing what led to Hester's condemnation, and the absence of any relationship between Dimmesdale and Roger Chillingworth prior to the sudden, seismic revelation of who they actually are. Seastrom made full use of Hendrik Sartov (a Griffith veteran) and his beautiful camera work to create a mystical, dreamlike vision of Hawthorne's Puritan village. The opening scene of worshipers walking to church in a sweeping shot that slowly pulls back in its arc to reveal the heart of the village, and several additional tracking shots that seem to float above the characters as they travel the country lanes are extraordinary. Seastrom was able to convey huge amounts of the story with nothing more than the movement and reactions of the cast. When Dimmesdale returns, he learns of Hester's punishment. His reactions and her implicit needs are powerfully conveyed almost entirely without the use of titles. The brooding specter of Chillingworth in the forest scene, one of the most beautiful in the film, and his constant, smothering presence is as palpable as any demonic symbol ever devised in German cinema. Seastrom presents image after image (An ominous group of men with lanterns, Hester running in the woods with her long hair flowing behind her, the interior of her house lit by the fire with shadows of a spinning wheel cast against the door, the kinetic and beautifully contrasting crowd scenes) throughout the film, achieving a degree of artistry possibly equaled only by Murnau. The final climactic scene with it's shattering revelation, devastating sorrow etched in the faces of the crowd, and withering emotional intensity, is masterfully executed and has no equal. "}{"Title":"Great Silent","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film represents a literalization of Hawthorne's romance. Romance, for Hawthorne, occurs in shadows, so we cannot quite know what is real and what we imagine. Is Dimmesdale's scarlet letter real or psychological? In the film it is very real, carved into his chest, and the quick juxtaposition of his letter with Hester's is powerful, as, at last, they stand on the scaffold together. Great scenes include the one that culminates in Pearl's baptism, beautifully developed and based on the love of Hester and Dimmesdale and on the witnesses' belief that Dimmesdale acts out of piety, as opposed to some mingling of love and guilt. And the cross-cutting between Hester on the scaffold and an agonized Dimmesdale on the platform of judgment is superb. Gish conveys powerful emotions with subtle shifts in her expression, and Dimmesdale's pain is magnified by its being understood in one way by Hester and in quite another by the censorious crowd. A comic and non-Hawthornian subplot involves the revenge wrought by Giles against the gossip who has caused much of the trouble. She is dunked in the village's water supply. The film moves, as does the novel, with a deterministic inevitability. Gish's vulnerable Hester is at the heart of the story. We know that things will not go well for her when her bird has the temerity to sing on the Sabbath. And, of course, it escapes from its cage. Hester will not escape from hers.We may disapprove of the nasty Calvinists who make up the population of Hester's village, but they remain among us, all too many of them, today. By the way, the winter scenes are wonderful. How did they do the snow? "},{"Title":"the genius of Lillian Gish","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Finally catching up with this film after hearing so much about it, I was impressed by Gish and Hanson and how they managed to 'say' so much and do Hawthorne's novel proud.  Yes, there are changes, but in comparison with, say, the Demi Moore version decades later there can be few who don't recognise the honesty and importance of this beautiful silent film. "},{"Title":"Hawthorne's novel as an emotion-laden puppet show","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hester Prynne and the Rev. Dimmesdale fall in love but their love cannot be, in a version of the old Hawthorne story. Gish is at her best as she unselfishly insists on taking blame for their sin by herself, her huge eyes brimming with tears. The screenplay almost reduces Puritanism to parody, a pastiche of grim-faced people hating every sort of joy and spontaneity, and Hester is made to embody the opposite sort of thing. This may be the reason she alone does not ever wear the Puritan costume of black and white; rather, she wears white and dove-grey, and lots of lace, too, which may be because she is supposed to be a seamstress. She has a pet bird in a cage and skips across the lawn in pursuit when it has the bad taste to escape on the sabbath. Hester's daughter Pearl wears ludicrously anachronistic outfits, a 1920s party dress, slightly old-fashioned, a ribbon in her hair, and smart pumps with ankle straps and bows. Oh, and the church bells ring in a stone endwall, more like a Spanish mission than a New England church. Still, the film comes across as a sort of emotion-laden puppet show, stripped of the novel's complexity and depth, and yet that's the way silent films often work best. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"18 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Scarlet Letter is a literary masterpiece, and for me this 1926 silent film is the one to see both as an adaptation and on its own. It doesn't follow the book entirely by the letter, but the crux and the spirit of the book are there, and all the characters Hester Prynne in particular are incorporated and written with care. The story is still scintillating, there are some breathtakingly beautiful images on screen helped by the gorgeous cinematography and sumptuous production values. The score is stunning as well, the film is superbly directed and while the whole cast give solid to very, very good performances, Lillian Gish is superb, my favourite performance of hers after La Boheme I'd say. All in all, brilliant. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"One of the best versions of this story--silent or not.","Date":"22 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When this film began, it sure seemed like the script was written by whoever was responsible for the 1937 version of Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, as Hester Prynne was very little like she was in the story. This Hester runs and skips and talks to the animals on the Sabbath and is punished for this(?). In the process, she is taken under the wing of the local minister--changing the story significantly from the Hawthorne of the tale. In the original story, it begins with a pregnant Hester being labeled an adulteress and ostracized by the community--how she fell in love and the sort of woman she was before this was never really part of the original story--here, there is a lot of back story--so much that who the father is of the illegitimate child never is in question. It's obvious that the minister is the sperm donor and the film is much more about WHY the affair began.Aside from this unusual reworking of the story, this MGM production is first-rate. The costumes are excellent, the direction very good and the acting (aside from just a couple times where Gish over-acted--in a style that would have been fine in her early films--when such reactions were the norm) was very good. In fact, it's probably the best version I have seen--far better than the 1930s version or the god-awful Demi Moore version (where they gave this bleak story a happy ending!!!). So, even with an odd reworking and an incomplete ending (the film stopped at the death of the minister--whereas the book continued beyond this), it's about as good as you may find. Now there COULD be a better version out there and I'd love to hear any suggestions about a more definitive version (if it's available).By the way, although the print looks great, at about the one hour mark it really deteriorated. Instead of the clear and near-perfect print, it was very washed out for about five minutes--like they forgot to restore this portion. Bear with it--it does improve...a bit. "},{"Title":"How difficult is it to find this film?","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A film well worth seeing, but I wonder how difficult it is to find.  I watched a 16mm print at the University of Toronto Library, and was led to understand that it was the only Canadian copy, and one of only four in North America.  "},{"Title":"The Placards","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" (This comment covers the 98 minute restored version.)I wonder how things can sometimes work as if they made sense. Its the 'intelligent design illusion, I suppose. Here's a film made 90 some years ago, within the first decade of the real movie business. It was based on an 1850 novel. It is closer in time to that novel than us, which is something of a jolt.And yet, it comes across with such modern ideas about self-reference. If Dogville wasn't inspired by this, it could have been.You know the story, no doubt an intolerant mob, led by public figures who obsess about conformity to notions which from a distance are obviously designed to maintain their power. Any deviance is a threat to the community. No more modern theme exists.But it is the manner of the drama that is of interest, in the story and the way it is presented.In the story, a person isn't simply recognized as deviants, they are labeled. They literally wear signs, in the manner of Red Guard placards detailing their sins. (Or Jesus...) We are introduced to this notion early in the movie. The letter in question is such a sign.But there are others as well. The minister who is haunted acts in the most dramatic way, clutching his heart constantly. This is not only for us, the viewers, but for his love. At one point the daughter asks why the minister is always clutching his heart and then makes fun of it.However, the way the thing is presented to us is the same a collection of labeled episodes. Each one begins with an appearance and then labels itself. Often the labeling for us and for the townspeople overlap. In some of these cases, there is a stage, notably at the end, where our on screen audience bows their head as we are intended to do.There's no tenderness here, only expositions of tenderness. Expositions. Placards.Sometimes watching these old films is a visit to the past. In this case, the film visits us.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"A Good Movie but not Great","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Scarlet Letter with Lillian Gish is a fine silent film, but hardly deserves the praise it is receiving from those who have commented on it here. The performance of Lillian Gish is a good one but nowhere near as memorable as The Wind,Broken Blossoms, Way Down East or Orphans of the Storm-not to mention some others. I also preferred the very different movie He Who Gets Slapped with Lon Chaney to this one also directed by Victor Seastrom as well as his masterpiece The Wind. It is probably the best version of this story but probably no other version was even passable-a hard novel to film well, perhaps. I give it 6 of a possible 10 and do think it is worth seeing and maybe even adding to your video collection but it is far from classic or great. "}]