[{"Title":"American Melodrama at its Best","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"55 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Wings (1927), is not only the FIRST winner of the Best Picture Academy Award, it may be the BEST film to hold that title, and I say that knowing that Casablanca, Gladiator, and The Last Emperor all hold the statue too. There have been some stinkers dubbed Best Picture in the past, (Shakespeare in Love beating Saving Private Ryan???  The Greatest Show on Earth over High Noon?!  Spare us all) but this is not one of them.Even supporters of the film, writing reviews here at IMDb, can't seem to resist taking shots at Wings' plot, but I'm here to tell you it is just fine, even solidly written.  Some reviewers don't sound like they have seen this movie in a long time, or if they have, they slept through it.  For one thing, the Love Triangle is not as convoluted or hard to grasp as others have impliedJack Powell (Buddy Rogers) has a crush on one Sylvia Lewis (Jobyna Ralston), the local beauty queen.  She finds this cute and indulges it a little bit--actually too much.  But she is quite sincerely in love with someone else, David Armstrong (Richard Arlen) a well-off local boy who isn't quite able to figure out how to tell Jack to butt-out because it doesn't involve money.  The wild card in all of this (literally and figuratively) is Mary Preston (Clara Bow), who lives next door to Jack and has been mooning over him since she was a little girl.That's the whole dynamic.  I have no idea what someone was thinking when they suggested Mary expressed any feelings for David (She never does). Some have said they can't believe Jack would go for Sylvia with Mary next door. I see their point, because the casting of Clara Bow in her role is like having Kirsten Dunst living next door and not noticing.  The problem is, Jack isn't SUPPOSED to notice Mary until the end, when he has experienced the war and realizes that everything he wants is right there at home where he belongs.  In the beginning he is all about Fast Cars and the Trophy Girls.So, the plot thickens as the US gets dragged into World War I and both Jack and David sign up as pilots.  Naturally each of them heads to Sylvia's house to say good-bye.  Sylvia prepared a locket with her picture in it for David, but Jack sees it first.  This scene is a great display of awkwardness wrapped in etiquette, especially when Sylvia tries to let go of Jack's hand. Jack takes the locket from her, and, this being more than she can stand, Sylvia almost gets the words out to tell him the truth when David gets there.  At this point Jack turns on the macho-factor, and he is so gleeful about rubbing Sylvia's locket in David's face that he doesn't even notice she never kissed him good-bye.Sylvia makes up for David's loss of the locket with some tender words and some passionate kissing--no mystery where her feelings lie--and the three of them head off for war.  Three, because Mary goes too, as a nurse.  Another complaint about this film and it's plot has been that Clara Bow wasn't given enough to do, shunted off into a side part even though she got billing as the Leading Lady, but I just don't see it.  Her part was as big as any Romantic Interest in most movies out there; a good example for comparison would be Kathleen Quinlan's roll in Apollo 13.  Most of her scenes were not shared with Tom Hanks, but she turned in an emotional and Oscar-nominated performance nonetheless.The air battles in this film have never been topped anywhere.  Ever.  And that includes anything involving aliens, fighter jets, or a galaxy far, far, away.  The information that the actors flew their own planes is misleading. Actors couldn't do what these pilots do.  The stunt flying is by the US Army Air Corps in Texas (!) where the movie was filmed (I dare you to have guessed that on your own).  What Rogers and Arlen do is all their own close-ups, flying the plane as they careen and dive.  When the camera ran out of film (or the planes ran out of gas) a stunt pilot from the Army would pop up and land the plane.The resolution of the story I won't comment further on, except to say that it is extremely moving and does highlight the madness of war, especially the kind of war WW1 was.  I support military action for just causes, but everything has a cost and Wings lays that cost bare.  These were issues being struggled over long before Vietnam, just in case you thought Hippies invented protest.After complaining that she didn't do enough, some people insist that Mary's tactics in Paris were out of character.  No they were not.  Mary had to get Jack away from that other woman and get him his orders before he got court marshaled.  She was not becoming a floozie, only dressing the part, and she paid the ultimate price for the risk she took.  It also helped to stir up Jack's feelings about her in later scenes, and get him thinking.Wings!  Melodramatic?  Sure.   Unoriginal?  Well... if you make that claim because you can guess what's coming or you've seen it all before, just ask yourself how old these movies are that you are comparing Wings to, and check Wings' release date again.  Maybe the plot-heist occurred in the other direction.This film deserves a DVD release.    Barring that, see if you can track down the old Paramount Laserdisc, LV 2851-2, which is what I had.  I have been enamored with, and watching, this film since I was 13 (30 now).  It shattered my little-boy prejudices against both black and white and silent films in one great blast of anti-aircraft fire, and I have been spreading its gospel ever since.  You will not ever see a better World War 1 film. "},{"Title":"All set (hopefully for DVD)?","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"30 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This film is, no doubt, a timeless triumph of the silent cinema. I first saw it three years ago and have seen it at least 30 times since then. I've only looked back to see that I have it in my collection...but not on DVD! These studios need to start thinking back to the days in which movies as good as these were made and stop producing so much garbage that they think will make tons of money without considering whether it's done right or not. This film taught me just how important gesture and body language can be in the acting world, whether it be on film or on stage. I know just how in-character an actor is just by looking at their face, their eyes, and how they're written in the script. Don't get me wrong, people can overact and underact in certain parts, but if you do anything without considering your character's expression or mood, regardless of whether or not your voice is unbearable to hear, you will never see success past the sound of crickets hiding in the audience. The industry knew that sound was coming. Most didn't accept this truth, but they knew it alright! Wings reminds those who've seen it, as with most classics of the silent cinema, that ACTIONS SPEAK A MUCH GREATER VOLUME THAN THE SPOKEN WORD. I've said all I need to say, and now I'll let this picture speak for itself. "},{"Title":"A Stunning Achievement","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"26 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Famous of course for winning the first Oscar for best film, WINGS is also one hell of a good film. Spectacular aerial photography highlights the terrific performances of the three leads Clara Bow, Buddy Rogers, and Richard Arlen. Director William Wellman creates a solid and moving anti-war statement as he shows us the brutality and stupidity of war, its waste of youth, and its power to destroy the lives of all involved.The film starts with star-crossed lovers in a small town in America. Bow loves Rogers but he loves Jobyna Ralston. Ralston loves Arlen and he loves her but through a mistake, Arlen thinks she loves Rogers. Then the boys go off to war. The outgoing Rogers thinks the war will be an adventure; the shy Arlen goes off, leaving his devastated parents who cannot express their emotions. Bow soon goes off to be an ambulance driver. Ralston stays homes and waits.The story follows the rivalry and growing friendship of the boys as they head for war. The story ends in yet another bitter mistake. The viewer is as emotionally drained by the end of this film as the parents were at the beginning.El Brendel provides some comedy relief. Roscoe Karns has a small part. Henry B. Walthall and Julia Swayne Gordon are the parents. And Gary Cooper has one brief scene with Rogers and Arlen. The scene in which he turns and flashes that famous smile as he exits the tent supposedly made him a star.Clara Bow is solid as the spirited home-town girl who chases Rogers to no avail. She's gorgeous here and she is even moreso in the Paris scene where the matron lets her borrow a snappy and dazzling dress. Few women in film history have been able to be so sexually charismatic as Clara Bow. She's also a good actress.Richard Arlen and Buddy Rogers give their best performances here. Each takes turns as the center of attention as they become men during the grueling war. Their flight scenes are incredibly well done. Arlen's flight scene as he races toward the American lines is amazing.Jobyna Ralston has a rare memorable film not working with Harold Lloyd. And Henry B. Walthall is quietly grand as the crippled father.Wellman's direction and the camera work of Harry Perry are beyond perfection. The aerial battles are breathtaking as are the scenes where they blow up the German blimps. There's also one astounding scene in the beginning of the film where Ralston and Arlen are in a swing. The camera is mounted in a stationary position in front of the actors so we see the scene as though we are in the swing with them. Then suddenly in the background we see Rogers in his jalopy pulling up in the street. The swing stops and Ralston gets out and runs to Rogers (in the background) while we see the close-up of Arlen as he twists in the swing seat and turns to watch them. It's an amazing scene and all one shot.This film is a must see. "},{"Title":"Good Entertainment, Despite Some Flaws","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This entertaining and occasionally impressive movie is still well worth seeing in spite of its flaws. The combat scenes alone make the rest of it worth watching, and Clara Bow gives a very good performance. She has plenty of energy as always, and here she makes her character especially sympathetic. But it has its weaknesses, too. The story is contrived and full of obvious holes, and except for Bow most of the acting is rather routine (Buddy Rogers is as likable as ever, but no more).The highlights of Wings come in the battle scenes, and they are awfully impressive. Done without computers or other such advantages, they are exciting and are usually completely realistic. The aerial dogfight scenes are especially dazzling. This part of the movie is not shallow stuff, either, since it has a good balance between the thrilling and the horrifying. If the main story-line had been better, this could have worked very well as a classic film about the realities of war and its effects on the young persons who must carry the heaviest load in a war.But unfortunately, it has the story that it has, which could easily have been better. It is far too heavy-handed, and is also riddled with unlikely coincidences, implausible developments, strange decisions by the characters, and many other such holes. If you can somehow look past all these problems, then it produces some moving and emotional moments, but such moments are too often undone by the contrived ways that they are set up. It's just the kind of mess that has often impressed the individuals who vote for well-known awards, but a movie with such strengths deserved to have a much better plot.Nevertheless, it is still well worth watching for its strengths, and not just because it is the answer to some trivia questions. Just in case there are any modern movie fans who have accidentally wandered into the silents section of the database, please don't think that this is the best of what silent cinema has to offer, just because it won an arbitrary award. There are many silent film masterpieces that are vastly better than this. But it's good entertainment, and has some portions that were made with great skill. "},{"Title":"Deserves DVD release!","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I was fortunate to view this film at the Academy of Motion Pictures' Diamond celebration screening series for all the Best Picture winners last year. A newly restored print in pristine condition was beautifully paired with a live performance of the musical score by an eleven-piece ensemble. As a relative novice to silent era films I was struck by the acting, aerial stunt work, sophisticated camera work and great storytelling. As I was watching I couldn't help but think that this 1927 film has so much more to offer than many contemporary attempts at the war/action genre.As the trend for releasing forgotten classics on DVD continues, I make a very loud plea to add Wings to the list. This masterful bit of film-making history deserves a much wider audience.  "},{"Title":"I Am Very Impressed With This Amazing Awarded Epic","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" In 1917, Jack Powell (Charles 'Buddy' Rogers) is a young man with passion for cars. His next door neighbor is Mary Preston (Clara Bow), who is in deep love for him, but Jack does not notice her. Jack indeed loves Sylvia Lewis (Jobyna Ralston), but she is in love with the rich David Armstrong (Richard Arlen). When USA enters in World War I, Jack and David join the Air Force to fight in France and become pals. Mary joins the Women's Motor Corp, trying to be close to Jack. But it is war, and a tragedy happen between the two friends.I am very impressed with this amazing awarded epic. Wings was recently released on DVD by the Brazilian distributor Continental, and in spite of the Japanese subtitles along the story, it was a worthwhile shopping. The story is fantastic, and the air sequences are awesome. I would like to have an idea of the cost of this ahead of time production, with these anthological battles in the air. I can not imagine how these shootings were achieved, in such angles, considering the cinema technology of 1927. The story raises an anti-war flag with the tragic end, and has realistic sequences that are impressive even in the present days. As a curiosity, Gary Cooper, in the role of Cadet White, has a very short participation, due to his affair with the famous actress Clara Bow. Wings is a highly recommended movie, even for audiences that do not like silent movies. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) Asas (Wings) "},{"Title":"VHS version with Theater Organ music track","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  For a feeling of what the silents were really like, look for the version of this film with Gaylord Carter performing the score on a Wurlitzer Theater Organ. Carter recorded this version in the 1980's when he was in his 80's. Amazing performance - basically 120 minutes of live, somewhat improvised music with establihed themes for each character. Incidental music was improvised live combining themes from the various characters.Carter was one of the last musicians that performed during the silent era. Very few musicians understand how difficult this art form was, and Gaylor was one of the best. Each showing of the film was an original, never before heard version due to the improvisational nature of the music. The stamina required to play live music, on 3, 4 or even 5 keyboards with a pedal board and dozens of stops, thousands of pipes for over two hours cannot be overstated. Especially when one of these performers were expected to do so 3 or more times a day!Orchestras are all well and good, but few theaters could afford them - Wurlitzer (and a few other companies) sold 40,000 instruments to theaters world wide during the 20's, and chances are, 90% of screenings of this film were accompanied by a theater organ.  "},{"Title":"Remains really well made and impressive!!","Date":"2 September 2012","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Wings (1927)An epic WWI movie that uses all the classic approaches to a war film and has a lot of great battle footage. It's a tale of rivalry over a girl, of fighting for country (and against the Germans), and of facing death. There are several scenes that make death really gruesome--blood spurting from a pilot's mouth, or a man crushed under a tank--that took me by surprise. I didn't know that such a mainstream American film would go there.Wings is in a way exactly what American movies would look like thereafter--not just war movies, but all of them. By that I don't mean directors studied this movie and it was the inspiration from here on. But just that the story line, the romance, and even the filming, adventurous but straight on, with more attention to characters and plot than visual effect, all of this would be how films would be made for decades. Including many more by the director, William Wellman, who is one of handful of truly expert but never quite daring and inventive directors of classic Hollywood.To back this up neatly, compare this film to the other film that jointly won Best Picture this year (the first year the Oscars were given, and the only year when the best picture category had two separate parts). That is Murnau's Sunrise. Never mind which is better (Sunrise, easily by most accounts). Notice how this film is utterly conservative and conventional in its approach to the art of making movies. It's superbly well done, but well within the rules of the time. Yes, there are moments of inspiration, including some double-exposed stock where a scene takes play in the sky over another scene on the ground. But Sunrise shows the lyrical art of the camera, and of editing, and of a less literal kind of storytelling. Wings is probably much easier to watch for most people--that's the idea. But Sunrise is far more engaging and complex, begging you to watch it twice. I doubt anyone needs to see Wings a second time.But then, I have to admit the acting makes more sense in this film. The naturalism of the three leads helps you get emotionally involved. The most famous by far is the woman, Paramount's biggest star, Clara Bow. She doesn't get a huge role (the men do the fighting and flying) but at least when she's there she's a treat. The flying is actually done by the actors, and many of the people involved were veterans (including Wellman, who was a WWI pilot himself).It's pretty exciting to find this so exciting all these years later. Give it a look. It's been restored really well (there's even a new Blu-Ray release). And it looks great. Don't expect anything new from the story or the filmmaking, but just expect a really well made high drama affair. "},{"Title":"a little dated here and there, but overall a great film","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" In many ways, I enjoyed this film more than the more expensive HELL'S ANGELS (which Howard Hughes RE-SHOT after its initial completion in order to make it a sound picture)--even though it was a silent film. That's because for a silent movie, it's nearly as good as you're going to find, whereas the primitive sound of Hell's Angels and less engaging plot left me feeling a bit flat--though its flying sequence were clearly better and more spectacular than those in WINGS.Clara Bow is excellent as the sweet lead of the film whose two friends go off to war. This is a far better showcase of her talents than the equally famous movie IT (which did NOT age as well).Richard Arlen and Buddy Rogers also did fine jobs in the movie, though special recognition must also be given to the cinematography--the movie is just beautiful in spots and the aerial sequences are amazing for 1927! The only down side? Occasionally, there are melodramatic lapses in the pacing--such as the drinking scene where they talk about BUBBLES incessantly. This seems to be due mostly to the style of the day, and for what it was, it was a brilliant picture. I can easily see why it got the first Best Picture award. "},{"Title":"Dated, true...but entertaining","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" You could justifiably criticize WINGS lesser moments the naive, gee-whiz dialog...the less than comedic champagne sequence in Paris...any of the romantic scenes...the idealized view of military life.... But as light entertainment, WINGS manages to hold its own, despite the passage of years. The battle scenes, easily the highlight of the film, may not have the intensity of later films, but the narrative is clear and precise. And this was not meant to be the last word in documentary accuracy it's an adventure film tinged with romance, with engaging aerial fight scenes that capture your attention whenever they occur.And personally, I felt that the music from the Wurlitzer organ tied together the film's various themes, musical and narrative, quite tidily. "}{"Title":"Very early culmination of a Hollywood epic","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Before beginning to watch Wings one should have the right attitude to watch this archaic cinematic monument in order to enjoy it thoroughly. It is a silent film, and 'silent' does not mean 'of inferior quality', it means that the film was made to be viewed without sound. Because Wings is a masterful epic you should put yourself into a theater from 1927, otherwise you might miss quite a lot from what it offers.Having seen many Hollywood films before Wings I couldn't but notice how far Hollywood has went from the beginnings. There may be Blu-Ray and like stuff now but the concept of a story has not developed into any new level. You have seen all of Hollywood when you have seen this. I can promise you that.The story happens during the The Great War, as the First World War was called that time. We will see some authentic old warplanes in combat scenes that look so more real than any CGI gimmickry from today. The German Gotha bomber is also just so Beautifully frightening it's almost surrealistic. We shall also see some feature that became a rarity in later Hollywood movies a chivalric German.The movie is accompanied with a musical score that also bought my attention. The version I saw from TV featured a score that produced vicious machine gun sound every time a plane fired its guns. I wouldn't however call that a lack off sound effects track, I'd call it art for I haven't seen such an interesting effect since a long time. "},{"Title":"Photography nice story","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" My cousin Clifford M. Blackstone Sr. was the person who filmed the flight scenes in this movie. His son Cliff sent me photographs of his Dad filming this movie as well as a few others with Paramount Studios. Cliff said his Dad was put in an airplane and sent up in the air to crank out all those amazing flight scenes. He said his Dad told him he wasn't even secured in the plane. Cliff Blackstone Sr. is from Mercer County, PA and Cliff Jr. says his Dad was the man who created the zoom lens. Just a side bar, Clara Bow, the lead actress in Wings, had a hairdresser Maryl who Clara introduced to Cliff Sr. Cliff Sr. married Maryl and they had Cliff Jr. It is really a nice story. "},{"Title":"Oscar's Auspicious Debut","Date":"4 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" To Paramount Studios went the honor of getting the first Oscar for Best Picture about two fliers in World War I and their rivalry over Clara Bow. If you have to have a rivalry, she's a good person to get in heat over as many did in real life.The two guys in heat over her are Buddy Rogers and Richard Arlen who are from different sides of the tracks in their home town. Rogers is the poor kid who has a love of flying and of speed. He likes Bow, but she can only see Arlen, a rich kid who likes Jobyna Ralston who's from his own set. When World War I breaks out both men rush to the colors.Their different backgrounds don't help at first, but they gradually develop a respect and camaraderie for each other during their training. Rooming with them is Gary Cooper who was killed in a training accident. Cooper's small role gave a big boost to his career. It's modeled on the air training accident deaths of Vernon Castle and former Mayor of New York John Purroy Mitchel. Although Cooper was associated with many Oscar nominated films including two Oscars of his own for Best Actor, Wings is the only film he was in that won for Best Picture.Although Bow plays a small town good girl, the kind usually played by Mary Pickford or Janet Gaynor, she brings a lot of sexuality to her part. No doubt as to what these two guys are fighting for.Although El Brendel's twisted Swedish speech pattern is not in use for this silent film, he's still a pretty funny fellow as the recruit of German ancestry at a time when those folks were held in suspicion.The training sergeant in the film is former heavyweight contender Gunboat Smith who fought Jack Dempsey twice on Dempsey's way to the heavyweight title, once going the distance with him.Wings was director William Wellman's first great film and first film he did about aviation, a subject near and dear to the former flier with the Lafayette Escadrille. As far as cinematography goes, Wings holds its own with the more acclaimed Hell's Angels from Howard Hughes in that department.Oscar made an auspicious debut with Wings. "},{"Title":"The Best Film of the '20s.","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Wings is a fantastic film with some of the best airplane effects I've ever seen. And the effects rightfully won an Oscar. Clara Bow plays a woman who has both of her sweethearts go off to fight in World War One. Charles Buddy Rogers and Richard Arlen are the two men.They're both pilots and begin at a camp with fellow pilot Gary Cooper. The two men become friends and don't know that they're trying to go after the same girl.It has a simple, but interesting story and it's one of the best films ever made. This is one of those movies where you actually care for every character and when something bad happens or one of them is in danger, you're on the edge of your seat and praying that everything will be all right. The film deservedly won the first award for Best Picture in the 1927-28 Oscar season. "},{"Title":"what a surprise!","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Silent movies always seem a bit, over the top. I tend to lose interest when all you hear is piano music and see overacting. I saw this was going to be on Turner Classic Movies and thought to myself, Self, this won the first Academy Award. At least give it a shot. I am so glad I did.On occasion the acting is over the top, but it seems rare. There is an actually decent soundtrack over the film and sound effects!!! The story line was good and, well, every gelled. To know (due to reading trivia here just before watching the film) that the lead actors actually flew the planes was just the icing on the cake. The aerial scenes were very well done even though at times they were a bit far off, it was countered by real, well done action.Three things threw me and surprised me, taking into consideration it was made in 1927 At one point when the boys are signing up to be pilots, in the distant room others are taking their physicals. You see a line of naked guys butts. I did a double take.At another point, you see Richard Arlen (David) with a German on his tail and he clearly mouths Son of a Bitch! Later on, you see Clara Bow's boobies. It's very brief and they're slightly obscured, but hey, again, 1927!!! I know, this is before censoring, but all three things took me aback and I think those small things thrown in just seriously kept my attention. Not that these were needed.And speaking of Richard Arlen, does anyone else see a resemblance to Harrison Ford? Anyone? I'll sum up with this, it's a good movie made by a guy who knew what being a WW1 fighter pilot was all about and his experiences no doubt added to this terrific film and will enhance your experience if you watch it.Say, is it just me or does the capitalization police around here get a little carried away? Just curious. "},{"Title":"Stunning aerial photography, truly moving","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" David's expressions, when he is saying good-by to his family, are absolutely wrenching. The only one who overacts is Clara Bow, but she's supposed to be the bubbly, irrepressible girl-next-door, so I give her a pass.(Was the yellow colorization added to flames then or recently? I found it distracting.)The uniforms are perfectly detailed too, perhaps because the actual war was so recently in people's memories. Modern movie-makers have gotten very careless about uniform details, I think because they assume no one will notice. Wonderful scene in the Folies Bergere -- note the female couple at one table in the opening clip -- nothing is new under the sun.Beautifully digitalized restoration,astonishingly crisp. What a national treasure! "},{"Title":"Beautifully done","Date":"22 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" With no audio (talking-wise) the visuals had to be strong and engaging to make up for this and the film did not disappoint! With not a hair out of place, Jack and David head off to World War I to train as fighter pilots and dislike each other intensely until they bond while beating the crap out of each other during basic training and become best of friends. The much-hailed world's first on-screen male-male kiss was more bromance than romance, the world was not quite ready for Brokeback Mountain back then. The aerial dog fight scenes were tremendously well done; if they didn't film real flight aerobatics they certainly made it convincing. The special effects with Jack's drunken bubble hallucinations were hysterical as well! Casting Charles 'Buddy'Rogers as Jack and It Girl of the day Clara Bow as the beautiful Mary was bound to create chemistry. Both had winning smiles, and Clara Bow particularly has excellent screen presence and expression. The film showed both the camaraderie and horrors of war...though was light-hearted more often than not, which was perhaps unrealistic but not every war film needs to be depressing. It really was a wonderful film. It covers action,humour, friendship, romance&#x85;and you can watch it on mute at 3am without bemusing your neighbours and house mates! "},{"Title":"Shooting Star","Date":"3 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Greetings again from the darkness. This film holds the prestigious position of forever being the answer to a favorite Academy Awards trivia question Name the first Best Picture winner. Of course, there should be an asterisk attached as the film officially won Most Outstanding Production. There was no Best Picture award that first year. It was also the last Silent Film to win the award until The Artist won this year (2012).Rarely have a film and director been so perfectly matched. William Wellman was known as Wild Bill thanks to his actual WWI flying experience and his penchant for fighting and partying in Hollywood. Wellman handled some of the stunt flights in the film and is also seen as the dying soldier near the end who shouts the buzzards line. Much of the film was shot at Kelly Field in San Antonio, and its popularity can be contributed to the patriotism of the time and the recent aviation excitement created by Charles Lindbergh's transatlantic flight.The story is based on the WWI Army Air Corps and features some incredible aerial photography and combat flying missions, with an incredible for the times 3500 soldiers, 65 pilots and 165 aircraft. The lead actors are Richard Arlen (David) and Charles Buddy Rogers (Jack). They are local rivals battling over the heart of the same woman played by Jobyna Ralston (Sylvia). It's a pretty interesting love story as Jack thinks Sylvia loves him, Sylvia loves David and David knows it, and Mary loves Jack, and he has absolutely no clue.Mary is played by the always outstanding Clara Bow. She truly lights up the film and screen in her scenes. Not only does she have the expressive eyes necessary for silent films, her physical presence is incredible for such a tiny lady. Other interesting cast members include El Brendel as Herman Schwimpft. His German sounding name and somewhat effeminate manner are constant sources of comic relief. Hedda Hopper plays Jack's mother. You might recognize her name as the founder of Hollywood gossip columns ... she started out doing some acting.Beyond the Wild Bill fun, there was also some romantic shenanigans on set. Richard Arlen and Jobyna Ralston ended up getting married after meeting during filming. Also, Clara Bow started an affair with a new actor named Gary Cooper. Yes, THAT Gary Cooper. It is startling to see such a young Cooper when he makes his first appearance. It's a small, but vital role in the film. There has been an ongoing debate in the film world about the homosexual undertones between Jack and David. In the famous death scene, we get the first on screen man-on-man kiss on lips. From a technical aspect, the Handschiegl Color Process was used for the flames and explosions - dramatic splashes of color in the aerial combat scenes. This was also Costume Designer Edith Head's first film. She went on to become the most famous costume designer and worked on hundreds of films.The theatrical re-release of the film coincides with its 85th anniversary and celebrates 100 years of Paramount Pictures. The opening credits provide a time lapse view of the numerous Paramount logos through the years. There are many reasons to see this film its ground-breaking action scenes, the history it addresses, its place in Hollywood lore, and of course, if you want to see the model for Betty Boop (Clara Bow). What I won't do is mention that the love story was copied by Michael Bay in the less-than-stellar Pearl Harbor film. Forget I even mentioned it. "},{"Title":"A mighty maelstrom","Date":"21 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" It was 1927, Lindbergh had just crossed the Atlantic and the American public had all temporarily gone plane crazy. It was also the pinnacle of an era (that began with the earliest epics and lasted until the Great Depression) when special effects meant doing everything for real, no matter how gargantuan the task. In practise this tended to mean building things and then, one way or another, blowing them up. In the case of Wings, the first in a series of popular aviation movies, this means everything from rural villages to gas-filled airships. The fact that very little here is faked lends the pictures of this time an exciting realism that has rarely been equalled since.Director William Wellman was a good choice for a movie about aerial combat, having been a flyer himself during the war. Whether or not his knowledge was of practical use, he certainly retained a love of speed and action which informs his style behind the camera, keeping the motion of the picture going. Sometimes this is for the benefit of the story &#x96; such as the attention-grabbing introductions of Charles Rogers rolling over to look at the sky or Clara Bow peeping through her washing line. Other times, it seems simply to keep up the spirit of manly go-getting; for example when El Brendel shows of his Stars and Stripes tattoo, he doesn't simply role up his sleeve, he leaps to his feet and knocks over the chair. For the scenes in Paris, Wellman always keeps lots of movement going on in the background even though the action itself is more sedate. And despite the almost constant pace, he is still able to make certain moments stand out, displaying a really imaginative approach at times. He shoots the Gotha bomber from below and in shadow, making it look like a monster emerging from its lair.Wings sees notorious floozy Clara Bow in one of her few screen appearances that does not revolve around her sexuality (although that does get a brief look-in). Nevertheless her vivacious personality stands out, and she makes an eye-catching and likable heroine, very much in contrast to the more traditional-looking Jobyna Ralston, who plays the other girl. The lead men, Charles Rogers and Richard Arlen, don't seem exactly amazing when considered individually and yet the rapport between them becomes intensely apparent, and it is they who bring poignancy to some of the later scenes. While little of the acting is exceptionally good, none of it is exceptionally bad either, with a tendency towards understatement that was rare in silent movies. Even Rogers's bubble-obsessed drunk act isn't too cringeworthy. By the way, Gary Cooper fans should be wary, as Wings is sometimes touted as a Cooper movie, although he was just a bit player at the time and his appearance here is only slightly longer than that of Clara Bow's breasts.Although it's long been difficult to see a copy of, Wings is still well-known among buffs for being the Academy Awards' first Best Picture. At the time however the award was called Outstanding Production, which actually seems like the more fitting term. Back then, the Oscars were very even-handed, with few pictures being awarded or even considered for more than one. Wings does not contain the best performances, the best writing or the best anything. It is however a picture that is most impressive as a complete package. It is ultimately one of the crowning achievements of silent era movie production. "},{"Title":"WINGS (William A. Wellman, 1927) ***1/2","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Director William A. Wellman acquired his Wild Bill nickname while on active service in France as an aviator during World War I which, understandably, makes WINGS &#150; his epic tribute to the Flying Corps &#150; the achievement he was proudest of from his remarkable Hollywood career, which included other notable war movies like STORY OF G.I. JOE (1945) and BATTLEGROUND (1949; for whose direction Wellman would receive an Oscar nomination). In fact, WINGS is best-known today for being the very first winner of the Best Picture Academy Award and the only Silent movie to be so named which, in itself, makes it something to seek out but, having finally seen it for myself, I can safely say that it is so much more than trivia fodder! For one thing, Wellman's direction is exceptional throughout and makes his not being nominated for an Oscar a bona-fide mystery; the basic plot-line of a love triangle was creaky even at the time, true, but there were several other things which I did not expect and made this first viewing all the more impressive. Firstly, the title had led me to believe that there was going to be nothing but aerial dogfights &#150; therefore, finding so much vivid footage of trench warfare was a big plus; while it is common knowledge that WINGS provided Gary Cooper with one of his first stepping stones to success, it is amazing to note what he was able to do with so little screen time (just one scene, as an over-confident member of the dogfight team, whose mantle of hero of the air is subsequently passed on to our protagonists); again, Clara Bow (who was romantically involved with Coop at the time) was obviously not called the It girl for nothing but I was still surprised to find her involved in some risqué semi-nakedness in this context; equally curious but pleasant was the preceding comic drunken sequence in which the hero literally sees bubbles everywhere; the ironic climactic dogfight &#150; in which Charles Buddy Rogers innocently shoots down his best friend (and former love rival) Richard Arlen, who has escaped from imprisonment in an enemy aircraft &#150; is topped off by a moving parting scene replete with gay subtext; the expected injections of comedy relief supplied by El Brendel as a Dutchman with a funny name are surprisingly tolerable, etc. The film is quite long at 139 minutes but certainly never boring; actually, it would be the ideal starting point for those usually averse to Silent movies&#133;though, in the long run, suffering slightly when stacked alongside contemporaneous (and even more renowned) efforts such as the ultimate Doughboy picture i.e. King Vidor's THE BIG PARADE (1925) or Howard Hughes' idiosyncratic paen to aviation, HELL'S ANGELS (1930). "}{"Title":"A true classic!","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Thankfully they resisted the urge(to the best of my knowledge anyway) to make a sequel of this great film!  This film proves that you didn't need sound or dialogue to tell a compelling story.  Wings is just as potent today as it was back in 1927.  The aerial sequences are almost eerily good, and could certainly hold their own against anything that could be made today. The human interest story is just as good.  You can feel a definite connection between Jack and David, and some of their scenes together are truly touching. If this film has any(albeit minor)flaws it's that it goes on just a bit too long, but that's a relatively minor consideration overall.  This movie is well worth watching, and if you've never seen one before, an excellent introduction to silent film. "},{"Title":"No Computer Generated Effects Please!!!","Date":"26 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Wings produced by the Paramount Studios and directed by William A. Wellman is the first Oscar winner for best film. It has all the ingredients and depth of any of Hollywood's actioners produced in the new millennium. In fact the formula of this film has been repeated and aped without any new invention. Just look at Flyboys to see how little action films have progressed since 1927. Under America's present administration certain productions have the unsubtle flavour of propaganda vehicles. Germans are treated as out and out villains just as they were in silent pictures before and during the First World War. Have we advanced at all in the medium of film? Oh yes, we now have C.G.I.For the most part the flying sequences in Wings are shot using real planes with the leading actors actually in the cockpits and in the air! The result is authentic and exhilarating! Computer Generated Effects are no match for the real thing and Wings proves it hands down. The pilots used for the acrobatic and dogfight scenes were veterans of World War One and their skill is awe-inspiring. A camera mounted on the nose of a plane captures with shocking clarity the death of a pilot and the ensuing free fall. The moment is so real, with the swirling vistas behind the pilot, that the line between art and reality is blurred. This is real film making! The acting is very good as well. There are none of the hammy performances that are normally associated with the silent era. Clara Bow is wonderful and quite modern! An early appearance by a strikingly hansom Gary Cooper is a great bonus.After a wonderful restoration of Wings done by Kevin Brownlow at Photoplay, could not Paramount release a DVD of this classic film with orchestral score, documentaries and commentary by Kevin Brownlow? This landmark film is a large part of our motion picture history and deserves to be remembered with reverence and respect. "},{"Title":"Best Picture-1927","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  WINGS is the first film to receive the Academy Award for the Best Motion Picture of the year. The actual first ceremonies were held in March 1929, so WINGS was actually almost two years old when it received the award.In fact, WINGS shared the title of Best Picture of 1927 with another silent, SUNRISE, which was directed by F. W. Murnau for Fox Films. It is WINGS that is generally considered to be the first real Oscar winner.WINGS is a very moving film. In my opinion, the scene where Richard Arlen says goodbye to his parents (for the last time) is undoubtedly one of the most moving ever put on film. It is a tribute to director William A. Wellman that he could direct such moving scenes as the one mentioned above, as well as the action packed battle scenes shot in the air or the fun nightclub scenes. Evidently, Rod Rodgers, the pilot stunt man, was paralyzed when he unbuckled his seatbelt harness while upside down, after his plane had made a graceful stop, but upside down, over a ditch. This shot remains in the film. WINGS has plenty to offer, not least some of IT girl Clara Bow's best scenes. The film makes war look fun and glamorous in many sections, which has been frowned upon since the Vietnam war. However, there are many dramatic moments, including a startling finish. The air battles are amongst the most exciting scenes ever photographed. The camera was actually taken to such high altitudes for realism. All this makes WINGS worth watching. StudioParamount. ProducerLucien Hubbard, B. P. Schulberg (associate producer) Year 1927. Synchronized music track. (Some prints runs silent.) "},{"Title":"You don't have to be a fan of silent films to like this one.","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  *Note before I begin my review, I must state that this film is in NO way related to the TV show of the same name. But you probably already figured that, so let's move on. Charles Buddy Rogers and Richard Arlen play two young boys in pre-WWI days, with the former having a desire for car-racing and the both of them having a desire for Jobyna Ralston (who was actually Arlen's wife at the time - go figure.) Also, the It girl, Clara Bow, has a desire for Rogers, but he does not return the love. Unfortunately, they were just an itsy bit pre-WWI too late. So they're off to the war against Germany. Arlen and Rogers go off to fight in the war, and once they are signed up, they begin training (along with some guy who looks and acts like Danny Thomas who has trouble convincing the Air Force that he's not German. He convinces them with a tattoo on his arm of the American Flag. Yes, comic relief. Yes, we see more of him.) they both go off to the air. But after flying for only a few moments, they are attacked by a baron of some sort, who has The Chivalry of the Sky (i.e., he doesn't kill the heroes.) But soon, Bow is off as a nurse to save her dream boy, nearly killed by an air raid that is in turn stopped by Rogers. Later, during shore-leave in France, Bow tries to save her drunk boy wonder again by becoming a beau and taking him up to her room. But some Army Officers charge in, taking out Ms. Bow of the army. And it's finally time for our climactic apex, in which the entire Armed Forces engage in a very big (and immensely entertaining) segment in which our heroes dog fight over the dough boys (I believe a young Gary Cooper is in this scene), and Arlen being shot down. But he manages to escape in one of the German's planes and almost makes it back to the HQ, but Rogers ironically shoots it down, landing on a small French chapel (!) killing Arlen. But Arlen forgives him before he dies, and Arlen goes back home a hero (Hedda Hopper, Hollywood columnist, is there to greet him!) And, finally, Bow and Rogers fall in love, see a shooting star, and she finally gets to show him that she has IT. In other words, The end. "},{"Title":"Not a Bad Movie, If You Can Get Past the Bubbles","Date":"7 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Except for Clara Bow, I did not recognize the main actors in this movie, but that is not unusual for a silent film. So when I saw Gary Cooper, I was stunned, especially when it turned out that he only had a bit part. It is hard to believe that the producer of this movie did not immediately see his star quality. As for the two principal male characters in the film, the one named Dave is obviously doomed. The sad farewell to his parents is the first clue. Then he tells his friend Jack that he thinks the next mission will be his last, and asks him to see that his parents get his medal. Finally, he forgets the teddy bear that is his good luck charm. I'd call them clichés, but for all I know, this may be the first movie in which they occurred.The only serious flaw is a scene in Paris where Jack starts seeing bubbles. It goes on way too long, almost as if the director was so excited by this gimmick that he just could not get enough. There are plenty of action sequences to make up for this, however, much of it quite graphic, including a pilot spitting up blood, and another with blood spurting from his chest, something normally not seen in movies until the 1960s.And, of course, no WWI movie would be complete without men climbing out of their trenches, charging the German lines, and being slaughtered by machine-gun fire. In one scene, a soldier who has been blinded carries another soldier who cannot walk. Together, they continue to move toward the Germans along with the others. I don't know what they thought they would do when they got there, except die, which is what they did. I guess we are supposed to admire their dedication. "},{"Title":"A Landmark in Cinema History","Date":"21 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" WINGS (1927) tells the story of Jack (Buddy Rogers) and David (Richard Arlen), romantic rivals from different social classes, who bond and become best friends during WWI. They long for glory and adventure as fighter pilots, but then soon discover the harsh realities of war. Meanwhile, Mary (Clara Bow), a girl who pines for Jack, becomes an ambulance driver at the front and runs into Jack, with unexpected consequences. Directed by William Wellman. WINGS is noteworthy for being the first Academy Award winner for Best Picture.CONTENT ADVISORY There are two very brief glimpses of nudity. Being a war movie, there is also war violence.SCRIPT The story is fairly basic but mostly engaging. The story details the transition of Jack and David from romantic rivals to best friends, who bond after a fight. The film movingly portrays their friendship and devotion to each other in difficult circumstances. Even after a misunderstanding threatens to tear their friendship apart, they still show devotion to each other. Jack believes David to be shot down, so he vows revenge against the Germans, leading to a tragic mistake. The movie follows somewhat in the mold of the excellent THE BIG PARADE, but emphasizes the supposedly heroic aspect of war at times, while also showing it to be a tragic and senseless waste of life. There are sweet, funny, and intimate moments as well. There are some scenes that go on a bit too long (especially the scene were Jack sees imaginary bubbles everywhere after drinking champagne). Also, there were many titles designed for expository purposes, and while many of them were designed to help the audience follow the battle scenes, some of them could have been dispensed with. SCORE 8/10 ACTING Buddy Rogers turns in a winning performance as Jack, an innocent young man who is forced to grow up after contemplating the horrors of war. He displays equal ability with humor and pathos. Richard Arlen portrays a rather stiff, formal character, so he isn't given as many opportunities to be expressive, but he does show the ability to smile and emote as appropriate. Clara Bow is charming, charismatic and emotive &#x96; you can see why she was such a big star. Gary Cooper's scene is very brief, but he makes a strong and definite impression. Jobyna Ralston, as Sylvia (the girl whom both Jack and David love) also shows charm and is quite moving at the end. El Brendel is brought in for some additional comic relief, and here he's amusing without being too hammy. Great work all around. SCORE 9/10 CINEMATOGRAPHY/PRODUCTION Perhaps WINGS' greatest claim to fame now is its spectacular aerial scenes, unprecedented at the time and still very striking now. Cameras were mounted on the wings of planes and in front of the pilots to give the sensation of flying. There are many sweeping aerial shots of forts, trench battles, troop formations, and the like. However, the visual inventiveness is not limited to the air &#x96; there are other shots from underneath Buddy Rogers as he sits in his car, and a really great zoom-in shot in the Café de Paris that was achieved using a camera on a boom. The plentiful titles are well illustrated, and the battle scenes are very realistic. SCORE 10/10 SUMMARY WINGS stands as a landmark work in cinema history. The cinematography is first-rate, innovative and compelling. The performances are expressive and charismatic. While the scenario has its flaws and could have benefited from trimming in spots, as a whole the film is dynamic and engaging. SCORE 9/10 "},{"Title":"A Rousing World War I Aerial Action Flick","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" William Wellman's epic World War I drama, Wings, dispels negative stereotypes of silent movies. Boasting sound effects, historically accurate tinting, and splashes of red flames that were originally hand painted, the Oscar-winning film engages viewers with stunning aerial photography, with stirring battles that involve dough boys, vintage tanks, and charging cavalry, and with a sentimental story from a period when sentiment was not a derogatory word. Shot in the early days of Hollywood, before miniatures, CGI, and process photography, the dogfights, bombing runs, and charging troops are often breathtaking, to use a tired cliché that could have been coined for this film. The musical score by J.S. Zamecnik is rousing, and immeasurably enhances the film's excitement.Wings headlines several charismatic performers perky Clara Bow, who is smitten by boyish charmer, Charles Buddy Rogers, who thinks he loves Jobyna Ralston, who is actually in love with quiet sullen Richard Arlen, who, together with Rogers, shares a tent with a lanky young Gary Cooper. Although the term was yet to be invented, Wings is essentially a bromance. Despite moon-eyed Arlen's declared love for Ralston, his affection for Rogers is undeniably stronger. Rogers reciprocates despite the attempts of vivacious Clara to capture his attention. The bromance between Arlen and Rogers runs a predictable course from romantic rivalry to fistfight to mutual respect to platonic love. The final moving scene will undoubtedly shock viewers unaccustomed to the male-male affection that was acceptable in 1927. Also somewhat surprising to contemporary tastes is a lip-to-lip kiss between a mother and son. Sadly for Clara Bow, who enjoyed displaying her figure to best advantage, a brief glimpse of her exposed breast is unlikely to titillate anyone any longer.Generally, the film's performances are excellent and avoid the worst mannerisms of silent cinema's grand style. Only Julia Swayne Gordon as Arlen's mother flirts with over emoting. In sharp contrast, D.W. Griffith's Birth of a Nation star, Henry B. Walthall, plays Arlen's father in a touching understated performance that illustrates the subtlety displayed by the best silent actors. Cooper is handsome and winning in the brief role that brought him stardom and Clara Bow's off screen affections.However, despite the romantic complications, what happens on the ground is less engaging than what occurs in the air and in the trenches. Director Wellman and cinematographer Harry Perry pull out the stops to depict events that took place only a decade earlier. With cameras placed in front and in back of the vintage biplanes, the audience enjoys exhilarating point of view shots during take-offs, landings, and dogfights; planes soar from behind on-charging troops to strafe the soldiers; tanks rumble across bunkers and crush the occupants. Yet Wellman makes time to focus on moving vignettes; a young soldier's last cigarette before a stray bullet ends his life; a devilish GI fakes unconsciousness to attract Bow's attention. Wings has it all romance and bromance, dashing leading men, a luscious leading lady, action on land and in the air. Audiences will hardly notice the only thing missing spoken dialog. "},{"Title":"Superior Entertainment","Date":"13 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This movie absolutely blew me away. Having seen and liked Hell's Angels, I didn't know quite what to expect. This is one of the all-time best movies. Superior acting in a WW1 tale, everyone present is spot-on. Buddy Rogers and Richard Arlen do a terrific acting job as two friends thrust into the horrors of war. Clara Bow shows why she deserved her star status. The supporting players, particularly Julia Swayne Gordon as Arlen's Mother are wonderful. William Wellman's aerial photography is simply spectacular. And now about the restoration. Paramount and Technicolor have done a fantastic job of bringing this 85 year-old picture to vivid life. The film is crystal clear and the image is rock-steady. The soundtrack is gloriously alive with the beautiful 1927 score augmented by stunning sound effects. The color tints and flame effects are present, but never overpowering. Paramount is to be applauded for giving new life to this early triumph of theirs. An unforgettably great motion picture. "},{"Title":"A must see movie","Date":"31 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Two men in love with the same woman,Sylvia(Jobyna Ralston)go off to war.Clara Bow is in love with Jack,but Jack loves Sylvia(Jobyna Ralston).Sylvia loves David who loves her too.The rest of the plot has already had comments written about it.I wanted to write mine strictly about the personal desires of the people,in order to get the name(s) straight.As the previous commenter stated it was Mary(Clara Bow) whom the men are in love with,and that is not correct.This is a wonderful movie that I consider a must seefilm. "},{"Title":"Wings With Stunning Aerial Footage","Date":"28 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Much has been made of the fact Wings was the first Oscar winner for a production, which is now known as best picture. It's the aerial flight and fight scenes that make the picture a winner. It also won the award for what we refer to today as special effects. At well over two hours in length, the film still moves swiftly enough to keep us enthralled and entertained with a few exceptions. The film is about two friends who are in love with the same woman; both friends go off to war and face harsh times before the war ends. Richard Arlen plays Dave, a rich guy, who is loved by Sylvia. Sylvia gives her picture in a locket for good luck to Jack, a regular guy played by Charles Buddy Rogers. Mary, the girl next door from Jack, is played by Clara Bow. The drama in the film is a little creaky at times for modern standards, and a scene at the Folies Bergere in Paris drags the film down briefly. However, the aerial photography more than compensates for that. Other than Hell's Angels a few years later, I can't think of any film that has such terrific aerial action sequences for a war film other than Tora! Tora! Tora! made some forty-three years later. A lot of the aerial footage was filmed with the actors simultaneously flying their planes and running cameras mounted on them. The entire soundtrack consisted of pipe organ music. William A. Wellman, the director, has a cameo scene as a dying soldier. Gary Cooper has three minutes of time a half hour into the film as a doomed pilot. This role enabled Coop to get larger parts. Until the end, the film largely eschews making an anti-war statement in lieu of entertainment; it's just good old-fashioned entertainment. *** of 4 stars. "}{"Title":"Only William Wellman","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The director, 31 when he made WINGS was himself with the legendary Lafayette Escadrille flying in WWI nine years before. One has to imagine what it was like making a film like this in 1926-27. Cameras were massive, heavy and hand-cranked. Consider this when viewing this amazing film's flying sequences. Wellman was himself an amazing adventurer and hero, impressing the great silent, action film star Douglas Fairbanks with his countenance alone to the point where Fairbanks brought Wellman into the film industry. Acting for the Silent Screen was as different from performing in talkies and the stage. The experience of sitting in a theater and watching the silver screen can only be imagined when considering the period and lives of the audiences back then. That this film holds up so well is indicative of the work and talent that went into making it. "},{"Title":"Worth a Look","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  You probably know that Wings was the first winner of the Academy Award for Best Picture. That, and the presence of Clara Bow make this movie  worth a look. Wings is a story about two young men, played by Richard Arlen and Buddy Rogers, who become aviators and go off to fight the war in Europe. Clara Bow plays the girl-next-door. Oddly, it seemed to me that the boys were more interested in each other than in the lovely Miss Bow. Although she does a fine job here, I much prefer to see Clara Bow in It Girl roles, as a carefree flapper. Clara was the biggest sex symbol of her time and her talents were not fully displayed here.Claudia's Bottom Line Not bad for its time, but not one of Clara's best. "},{"Title":"First best picture,great battle scenes,Clara Bow & Gary Cooper","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Beginning a project only film junkies would understand, I am going to watch every best film from 1927 on. So I begin. The plot and acting in Wings are both average, the story being very sentimental and predictable. I do admit it was difficult to get used to the mugging that was necessary in silent films, but it was done so well that I really did not need very many captions to know what was said or what was going on. Clara Bow would be a heartbreaker today, and I can readily see why she was such a presence on the screen. The air battle scenes are great. The two leads did their own flying and the effects are remarkable, even if some seem dated. The scenes of battles on the ground illustrate the beginning of a formula for presenting war stories that has lasted through the decades. The very touching scene of Richard Arlen's character's death shows tenderness between two men that we do not see very often even today. It stayed with me. Very engaging and fine work. Oh yeah, Gary Cooper pops up for a brief but intense performance as a doomed cadet flyer. "},{"Title":"Excellent example of silent film","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This movie was the first film to win the Best Picture Oscar, and it was well deserved.  It is quite long (almost 2-1/2 hours).  There is some incredibly good footage of WWI planes engaged in dog fighting.  The plot is relatively simple, but it tugs at the heartstrings nonetheless.Here's a surprise  There is one scene in which Clara Bow is innocently changing her clothes behind one of those folding screens while her boyfriend is sleeping off quite a bit of alcohol.  She unfortunately gets caught by some military men who have come to get him back to the military base.  My husband discovered that if you run the film frame-by-frame, you can see her *breast* in one or two of them!  Remember, this is 1927!! "},{"Title":"If man was meant to fly . . .","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Watching a silent 1927 movie and flying an airplane have something in common. They both take a little getting used to. This is a pretty good movie about the US Air Service in World War I.(Kids, that means 1918. The airplanes are so old they're funny. They have two wings and they're not bent backwards. You'll laugh. But, on the plus side, they don't serve peanut snacks, so your Mom doesn't have to worry about allergies.) Rogers and Arlen have grown up together and are best friends, though they happen to be in love with the same girl, Clara Bow. Arlen thinks she loves him, but she really loves Rogers, but Bow and Rogers keep it a secret from Arlen because they don't want to hurt his feelings or something and meanwhile -- the viewer pendiculates.The movie gets off the ground when the two buddies get to jab their elbows in each others' ribs while going through flight training. There's something a little odd about that friendship, by the way. I see no reason to get into it too deeply but when one dies in the other's arms and they're confessing their mutual adoration I thought they were going to have one last great big French kiss. There IS a kiss but it's on the cheek, an expression of comradeship, and after all this is France. Of course, the director, William Wellman, might be willing to tackle such an unusual homoerotic theme but it would never be allowed on the screen. A highly stereotypical ethnic -- Herman Schrimpf -- yes, but not the love that dare not speak its name.I don't want to give the ending away. That's not usually the case but here the resolution of the plot is both important and ironic. What isn't surprising is the climax of the love affair. The minute that I saw these two rivals for the girl's hand march off to war, I wondered which of them would be the survivor.It is, as I say, a pretty good movie. The affair with Bow is handled tactfully and doesn't take up an inordinate amount of time. It's a long movie, though, and one scene could have been condensed or even eliminated without too much trouble. I refer to the longish scene in the café in Paris where Rogers gets loaded and carries on about the champagne bubbles he's hallucinating. It seems like an excuse for an exercise in contemporary photographic legerdemain -- all those bubbles coming out of nowhere and floating towards the ceiling.Willaim Wellman was quite a character, full of thumos, as the Greeks would have called it. A spirited youngster from an aristocratic Boston background he wound up flying in combat in the Lafayette Squadron in France, winning the Croix de Guerre, so he knows whereof he directs. And the air combat scenes are very good indeed. And some aerial shots give us panoramic displays of the battlefield itself, full of zig-zagging trenches, craters, and lines of barbed wire. I don't know how much money the movie cost but it must have been more than my own salary. Or yours. The acting is unexceptional, hemmed in as it is by the strictures of silent film making. At one point, I'm reasonably certain, an angry Rogers looks into the camera and clearly says, Bastards! Wellman would easily have been capable of that.He was always more of a craftsman than an artist but he tackled some startling subjects, as in Wild Boys Of The Road, and sometimes produced some truly sensitive and underplayed work, as in, The Story of G. I. Joe. Nice job here. "},{"Title":"Movie Odyssey Review #099 Wings","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" 099 Wings (1927) - released 8/12/1927, viewed 8/02/08. KEVIN We come to it at last. Not surprisingly the most expensive movie of its day by far, William Wellman's inaugural Best Picture-winning tale of love-and-friendship-through-war Wings holds up surprisingly well after 80 years of bigger, badder, and brutaller depictions of war on film. The battle scenes, both ground and aerial, are exciting and energetic even by today's standards. But like most silent films, the sentimental character stuff gets about as much screen time (if not more) as the explosions and gunfire. At first I expected the main characters Jack (Buddy Rogers) and David (Richard Arlen) to be lifelong rivals, but instead they quickly resolve their differences and become BFFs after beating the snot out of each other in the first act. Class separation goes out the window when you're all part of the same war. The very drawn-out scene where Jack gets drunk off his ass yields some of the strangest visuals I've ever seen in a war movie, not to mention the most egregious lull in the film's action. *SPOILER* David's big death scene has got to be, and I say this with a great deal of affection, the gayest thing I've seen in a silent film. I'm certain that scene wouldn't have made it past the censors a decade later. *END SPOILER* The biggest blow against the movie is, I guess not surprisingly, the female characters. The character of Sylvia (Jobyna Ralston!) is grossly underused even at the end when Jack returns home and meets David's parents, but Sylvia, the true love of David's life, is nowhere to be seen. As for Mary (top-billed Clara Bow), her role as an ambulance driver in the war seems mainly there to reduce the geography in the love story, and she is rather unceremoniously written out of the war before long. Her gee-whiz disposition towards the action doesn't seem to go away even after she narrowly survives a horrific bombing raid. At the end of the day, it seems like only the male characters are allowed to be changed by the war. It's too bad we had to wait sooo long to see this film. It was a long movie, yes, but definitely worth the time.DOUG I had wanted to check out this movie for a long time, not least because it's the first winner for Best Picture at the Oscars, but also because the cast includes Clara Bow and Jobyna Ralston (Harold Lloyd's most frequent muse), and was directed by the guy who did The Public Enemy. It is, in a historical sense, one of the great war movies of the silent era, along with 'The Big Parade' (which is better). Buddy Rogers and Richard Arlen play the two leads, Rogers as the naïve, boyish Jack, and Arlen as the stern, square-jawed David. Clara Bow gets top billing surprisingly, since she doesn't have as much screen time as the guys, but was still the biggest marquee name. Ralston, alas, is underused as Sylvia, the woman Jack wants even though she loves David; she vanishes after the first act when the boys enlist. I was afraid that the guys' bitter rivalry would drag through the whole movie, but fortunately they don't they deal with it in basic training with a Fight Club-esquire initiation, at the end of which they're best friends. The movie is overlong; I'm sure it was riveting for audiences in its day, but it was hard for me to get caught up in the long battle scenes, because it means it takes a long time for the movie to get to the broad strokes of the plot. The scene midway through where Mary tries to help out Jack after he's gotten drunk out of his mind takes FOREVER. The movie sets the standard for the tried-and-true Two guys in love with the same girl go off to war from which only one will return. Despite the flaws, it is worth checking out for its historical significance, and I hope it makes the leap to DVD very soon.Last film viewed Design for Living (1933). Last film chronologically It (1927). Next film viewed The Love Parade (1929). Next film chronologically College (1927). "},{"Title":"Shooting Stars","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" In a small town, youthful dreams play out. Working on his car, all-American boy Charles Buddy Rogers (as Jack Powell) daydreams he is a pilot. Girl-next-door Clara Bow (as Mary Preston) dreams about Mr. Rogers, but he wants handsome best friend Richard Arlen (as David Armstrong)'s girl. Mr. Arlen has it all looks, money, and beautiful city girl Jobyna Ralston (as Sylvia Lewis). Then the mighty maelstrom of destruction known as WAR draws them into the center of its power.The introduction of the central triad of characters is amazing Rogers on the ground, Bow behind bloomers, and Arlen in the swing -- note how Rogers comes between his friend and the beautiful city girl, as they lazily swing; his energy, in the car, and on foot, crashing in on them. Rogers thinks he desires Arlen's girl, but you'll know differently. These marvelous characters will eventually fulfill your dreams for them; as the film so artfully portrays a myriad of youthful relationships. You can read whatever you want into their love; and, it's all true.William A. Wellman's direction is superb. Assisted by photographer Harry Perry, Mr. Wellman is on par with early Orson Welles, and mid-period Griffith or Hitchcock. Much has deservedly been written the unsurpassed aviation sequences; and, these are indeed breathtaking; in the context of this film, they can never be equaled. Moreover, Wellman is as extraordinary in the film's opening ten minutes, showing the characters in flight before they ever leave the ground. With the silent film genre and aviation theme, Wellman's directorial achievement is textbook.Charles Buddy Rogers seems to be channeling Robert Bobby Harron; which, under the circumstances, couldn't be more appropriate; his Wings, Clara Bow and Richard Arlen, are as beautifully portrayed. Bow was the film's superstar draw at the time of release; yet, temptation to turn the film into a star vehicle is wisely dispensed with; and, she is seen to great advantage.Future star Gary Cooper (as White) and past star Henry B. Walthall (as Mr. Armstrong) have small, important roles; the fact that Mr. Walthall's character appears disabled is one of the film's many great subtleties. The lesser known supporting players (and great crew) should all be proud.To those young warriors of the sky, whose wings are folded about them forever, this picture is reverently dedicated. What Wings says about war should be obvious ultimately, you kill what you love. ********** Wings (8/12/27) William A. Wellman ~ Charles 'Buddy' Rogers, Clara Bow, Richard Arlen, Henry B. Walthall "},{"Title":"Living and loving during World War I- movie that made history","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Wings is a movie about two pilots, Jack Powell (Charles Rogers) and David Armstrong (Richard Arlen).They have feelings for the same woman, Sylvia Lewis (Jobyna Ralston).Jack doesn't know that the girl next door, Mary Preston (Clara Bow) is secretly in love with him.Then Uncle Sam wants those two men and they find themselves fighting at war.They join the Air Corps and become the best of friends.William A. Wellman's Wings (1927) is the first movie ever to win Oscars.It won the best picture award and from the effects.It does have some aviation scenes that looked really good back then.The players of this movie do really good job.Charles Buddy Rogers and Richard Arlen make a fine team in the lead.Jobyna Ralston has proved her talent opposite Harold Lloyd a few times and in this movie she's glorious.And then Clara Bow- more like Clara Wow! Also Gary Cooper in a a small but visible role makes an appearance in the movie.Wings is a pretty good war movie with some romance.It's not my favorite from the silent era but I'm proud to have seen this picture.Everybody who has least bit of interest in cinematic history should see it. "},{"Title":"Much deserving of the first Best Picture Academy Award (even if Sunrise is a better film)","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  As the answer to one of the most commonly known trivia questions in history, Wings is a rather overlooked film. It's often thought of as extremely dated, but that seems a silly notion after you've seen it. Wings actually stands as one of the best films made about WWI - the amount of detail that went into the production is astounding. And we see a certain liquid that we wouldn't see again until the 1960s blood. Not to glorify violence (which the film can probably be accused of doing without any argument coming from this sector), but the level of realism is greatly improved by characters who actually bleed when they get shot. The film is very graphic in the details of the violence of war. Wings may have the highest body count of any film until Die Hard 2. The dogfights depicted in the film are remarkable and exciting. At first, the human story seems a little trite. Two men, David and Jack, are in love with the same woman (played by frequent Harold Lloyd co-star Jobyna Ralston). She, however, only loves David, unbeknownst to Jack. Meanwhile, Mary Preston (played by It girl Clara Bow) is deeply in love with Jack. David and Jack struggle with the love triangle while they go to war, but are forced into a loving friendship through constant companionship in the air. Mary eventually goes to France to help the soldiers, working as a driver. You can't know how gorgeous Bow is when she's dressed in her uniform. As the film progresses, these characters become fully fleshed and their story is downright powerful by the time Wings ends. Wellman, always one of America's most underrated directors, constantly shines. There are several scenes that should be remembered as well as any of the silent cinema's other famous moments. Early in the film, David and Jobyna Ralston are on a swing together. The camera actually follows them swinging through an ingenious and absolutely seemless use back projection. When Jack goes on leave in Paris, there is a great shot in a night club where the camera moves forward on tracks and goes between several couples (and through their tables) on its way to a very drunk Jack. There are also a ton of much subtler cinematic miracles happening throughout the film. Do catch this one someday. It's well worth your time. 9/10. "},{"Title":"The first ever Oscar winner for Best Picture...","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Two boys from the same American small town are recruited into the Air Force during World War I. Charles Rogers and Richard Arlen are the two who also happen to vie for the hand of the same girl, Jobyna Ralston. Clara Bow stars as the doting girl-next-door to Rogers who joins the medical corps to do her part. The movie is famous for being the first Oscar winner for Best Picture, for its still incredible aerial battle scenes, and for the small inclusion of a young Gary Cooper who had as of then not achieved his fame. The movie is the only completely silent film to ever win Best Picture. "}{"Title":"A great movie. really a classic.","Date":"18 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This was the first movie to earn an Oscar for best movie. i think that it really is worthy of the award. It has a lot of interesting points, the movie is action filled and the story is very exciting. the Acting is far from the quality of actors that we have now in the 21st century, but its amazing what this people was able to do without sound. The characters are well defined and you really connect with them. one thing that impressed me is that this movie doesn't have bad guys, just normal people in a really bad situation, like the war. The special effects are just another bright part of the movie. Its amazing how almost a hundred years ago they were able to make special effects as good as you can see in this movie the explosions, the airplanes flying, the compositions, this was an aspect that surprised me. I didn't think that something so elaborate could be done until decades later, but they were able to accomplish great special effects in that time. if you are going to watch a silent movie, let it be this one. "},{"Title":"Not my cup of tea...","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I am in no way, shape, or form a fan of silent films. I am, however, a sucker for a good romance. A couple parts dragged on and on and the bubbles scene was incredibly lame. I did, however, enjoy the chemistry between the two guys; I 'felt' their friendship. After watching, I looked a little further into this movie, and I was incredibly surprised to find out that this was the very first Oscar winner for Best Picture...mainly surprised, because up until this class, I had never heard of this movie before. I will give this movie some credit, though. For its time period, the special effects this movie contained were pretty amazing, considering the equipment they had. I also somewhat like how, with movies like this, what you see really is what you get. Everything you're watching is so raw and original, and oftentimes during the viewing of this, I forgot to keep that in mind. "},{"Title":"New Respect for Old Cinema","Date":"29 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" What a spectacle. I was reluctant to watch this movie for a few reasons. For one, its a silent film. I've never been drawn to any silent films and this is the first feature length silent film I've ever seen. Also, this film's age set me off. I had no desire to watch a film made in the 20s, but I'm sure as hell glad I did. Such an impressive feat in film making. I can only imagine the dizzying amount of work it took to get some of these shots. Even close to 100 years later, the drama still feels very modern and relatable. I was completely invested in each of the characters, even though I never heard a word come out of any of their mouths. Maybe I'm just extremely late to the party on this one, and pardon my ignorance, but what a truly amazing movie. I have a new found respect for the earlier days of film. "},{"Title":"Review of the movie wings.","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This movie was a classic love story of 2 men and 2 women the story was pretty dry as i could pretty much determine the whole entire movie within the first hour of watching it however i did enjoy the cast of characters and i enjoyed the fact that the man ended up getting the girl that he really wanted but we all know that the girl that showed him affection in the beginning of the movie really wanted him but he showed no affection towards her very early in the movie. the man considered her just as a very close friend and never anything more than that as much as she wanted him he did not want her back. i enjoyed that the 2 men did fight while at flight school it showed that they did not not like each other which was very evident. "},{"Title":"the first Best Picture winner should draw attention to other things","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" William A. Wellman's Wings is now remembered as the very first movie to win an Academy Award, and the only silent winner until The Artist. Focusing on some men sent to fight in World War I, it takes an undeniably patriotic view of the war the heroic Americans gallantly go after the cruel Germans. And of course the movie doesn't miss a chance to show off Clara Bow; I bet that the sight of her helped a lot of boys become men back in the 1920s.However, there are some other things that the movie shows that I would say deserve more attention. During the past year or two, the hundredth anniversary of the first global war has drawn questions about the war. An important scene early in the movie shows a German-American man enlisting in the army, only to face discrimination for his German background. This happened a lot in the US during World War I, encouraged by Woodrow Wilson's fanatical nativism. Elia Kazan's East of Eden also features a scene set during World War I in which a German-American gets attacked as the enemy. The most pronounced instance of this was the internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II.Later in the movie, some characters are discussing things that have happened in the war. One of them says That's war. Indeed, what befell the individuals is characteristic of war. The horror that occurred on the battlefield only scratches the surface of the damage that WWI did. Not only did it senselessly kill millions of people and create a lost generation, but the Versailles Negotiations imposed reparations on Germany that set the stage for Hitler's rise to power. On top of that, Wilson (a dyed-in-the-wool racist) refused to listen to a young Ho Chi Minh, setting the stage for the Vietnam War. The division of the Middle East cut off Armenia from Mt. Ararat (after the Armenians had already suffered a genocide at the hands of the Ottomans), while the Kurds, Yazidis and Palestinians didn't even get their own countries.As for the movie, I thought that it did a good job with the battlefield scenes. The heroification weakens the movie, but the cinematography is some of the most impressive that I've ever seen. I guess that I recommend it as a look at old-style cinema. "},{"Title":"Wings still soars...but not so high","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Obviously films made almost a century ago are going to look dated but even so, Wings has not aged particularly well. Certain silent films such as Greed, The Crowd, The Gold Rush, Nosferatu, Safety Last or The Wind are just as effective nowadays as they were when they were first released.The big draw towards Wings back in the Nineteen-Twenties was for its spectacular and innovative depiction of air combat during World War I and for the time these scenes were handled well and largely 'done for real' when there wasn't CGI technology to fall back on. When viewed now, however, the air battles seem overlong and unspectacular, and the constant interruption with descriptive captions hardly helps either. The problem is that they've just been bettered so many times since. Wings couldn't, and doesn't, compare well with something like, say, Pearl Harbor (2001), a modern equivalent in many respects.Luckily, Wings has more going for it than just aerial duels and I found that its strengths lay in its human drama rather than the action scenes as it sports a good cast on top of their game with a plot centred around two friends who are both love rivals for the same girl, a situation complicated further by another girl whose love for one of the protagonists is unrequited.Here and there are some moments of great innovation with the camera and even some unexpected turns of the plot - for example, and most unusually for a war movie of the time, the enemy is not portrayed as wholly evil. Although Wings is essentially a serious film, there are some comedy sequences along the way which I found tedious and unfunny (much involving El Brendel's character). The business with the champagne bubbles extended way past the point of interest. And yet other moments are strangely absent What happened to Jobyna Ralston's character at the end?A triumph in its day, Wings is still very watchable, but there are other films from the same period which can still offer a much richer viewing experience. "},{"Title":"The First Oscar Winner?","Date":"20 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Two young men, one rich, one middle class, who are in love with the same woman (Clara Bow), become fighter pilots in World War I.This film has some crazy pilot training exercises. And, for all I know, they might have been completely accurate. Gyroscopes of World War I? One can only imagine how rudimentary the airmen could be prepared for flight.I think this was the first-ever Oscar winner for Best Picture (though it was called Outstanding Picture or something similar). I can see why. For a 1920s film, it is rather advanced. Did the original have airplane noises and gunfire? I am not so sure. But even without it, that is pretty great. "},{"Title":"Love those planes","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" It's 1917 in a small town. Jack Powell dreams of flying. Mary Preston is his clingy next door neighbor. He falls for city girl Sylvia Lewis but she's actually in love with David Armstrong from the richest family in town. The boys both join the war and become flyboys. They meet Herman Schwimpf who gets pushed as a flyer but rejoins as a mechanic. They would battle the great German ace Count von Kellermann leader of the Flying Circus. Mary joins the effort as an ambulance driver.The story is weak melodrama with El Brendel trying to inject some comedy. The backstory is old fashion and slow. It's a boring start. The planes, the men and the machineries of war is what this film excels in. The flying footage is terrific and the battles are impressive. The love quadrangle keeps it from truly taking off. Nevertheless, one has to love those planes. "},{"Title":"A Movie for Its Time","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Wings is my first silent movie. There were only a couple of slow parts - the beginning and the bubbles, but I suppose it's to be expected from a 2hr 20min silent film (too bad they didn't have the technology for subtitles!).I would honestly love to watch a making of for the film. Considering the era, I have no idea how they managed to film this movie! I only saw one corny special effect throughout, and often times I found myself thinking that some of this must be real war footage. Honestly, there was no such thing as computer-generated imagery meaning they had hundreds of extras on the set during some of the combat scenes. And I have no idea how on earth they filmed the flight scenes. Remarkable!It's a simple story that could have been told in half the time easily, but it was time well spent, allowing me time to contemplate what really went on nearly 100 years ago. My grandfather would have been 10 years old during WWI and 20ish when this film was made. Although too young to fight, it gives me a new appreciation for all who did. "},{"Title":"The 17th Annual San Francisco Silent Film Festival, David Jeffers for SIFFblog2","Date":"12 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Thursday July 12, 7pm, The Castro, San Francisco Monday February 13, 7pm, The Paramount, Seattle D'you know what you can do when you see a shooting star? Two boys from the same town become pilots in the Great War. They battle the enemy over France and each other over a girl back home. Jack (Charles 'Buddy' Rogers) and David (Richard Arlen) both love Sylvia (Jobyna Ralston), while Mary (Clara Bow), the girl next door, secretly pines for Jack and joins the ambulance corps to be near him.Wings (1927) astonished moviegoers with wide-screen Magnascope and breathtaking effects achieved filming the actors in-flight from fuselage mounted cameras. Adding authenticity, director William Wellman, writer John Monk Saunders and Arlen all served as fliers during the War. The United States Army enthusiastically loaned Paramount Famous Lasky Corporation hundreds of aircraft, vast amounts of Texas real estate and an infantry division, over and above their astronomical $2,000,000 budget.Wings shared the first Best Picture Academy Award with F.W. Murnau's Sunrise (1927). Roy Pomeroy also won the first Oscar for Special Effects. "}{"Title":"The first film to ever win Best Picture is typical Oscar flair","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Now what do I mean by that? It's got everything in it that the Academy Awards would go on to love in future award ceremonies. The spectacle, the triumph, it is a war film; friendships are jeopardized; epic romances, the whole 9 yards. This was back before sound films began to take over Hollywood, but the acting in it is quite subtle for the time, and for a silent American film.The effects are spectacular, even today. Not only do they rely exclusively on props, but the planes themselves are real. These actors are really flying the planes in this film, and it is both a bold and a mind-blowing experience. Very little of this film, if any of it, is over a blue-screen, and as there is no sound, there's very little to no reason that they ever had to film on a stage.The acting in this film was back in the day where it was all visual. They rarely talked because the subtitles got in the way. But at the same token, the acting from Hollywood back then tended to be quite over-the-top in order to compensate for the lack of audible dialogue (as well as to help cut down on the subtitles); that's partially why actors like Charlie Chaplin were so big back then. The acting here though, is quite subtle, and everybody reacts and behaves like normal human beings.The story, however, is standard. It is typical of Hollywood to make films like this, even today. They're the ones that are going to attract a ton of attention and make a ton of money. And we will go on to see films like this in the form of Star Wars, Spider-man 2, and Rocky among many other features down the road. I don't know if I'd go so far as to credit this film for starting this trend, but the Academy's decision, then a new organization, to award this film the then-equivalent of today's Best Picture Oscar was what helped popularized it.Overall though, it is a rather good piece that would help define what the Oscars are really all about (alongside the next few films). For the longest time, this film was thought to be lost until a few years ago when it was found in a vault and fully restored. I recently saw this film off NetFlix, so if you have it, and you are a die-hard film buff, I'd recommend you check this film out for, if any reason, mainly if you're curious of the Academy's roots. I give it 8 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"D'you know what you can do when you see a shooting star?","Date":"5 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Yes, parts of it are extremely corny, and some of the expressions are laughable, and sitting through two and a half hours of a silent film and the accompanying organ music may be a bit much for many people, but this film has to be experienced.It was the first Best Picture Oscar winner. It also won the Oscar for Best Effects. Those who love Pearl Harbor should also see the film that was done long before with the same story.The film stars Clara Bow, the It Girl, who was a sex symbol of the period. At the time of this film, she was being paid more than any other star in Hollywood.The film also stars Charles Buddy Rogers (Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award) and Richard Arlen (174 films up to 1977) as the friends who became pilots. It also features Gary Cooper (High Noon, Sergeant York) in one of his first credited roles.You cannot watch this historical film without thinking about the war that it covers - World War I - and the nine million casualties of the conflict. "},{"Title":"Jack wins WWI, despite Blowing Bubbles . . .","Date":"20 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" . . . and shooting down his girlfriend's fiancé, Dave. The 2012 restoration of history's first Best Picture Oscar winner comes complete with hand-tinted flames as biplanes bite the dust one after another, and the middle third of the movie--an endless segment while Jack is drunk on leave in Paris and sees bubbles popping up anywhere and everywhere--is much more bubbly than I remember from my first viewing of WINGS. The plot line still is wildly implausible, but the new score features one of the top hits of the day, I'm Forever Blowing Bubbles. Though not quite as apt at the Little Brown Jug motif which plays whenever the comic relief man for WINGS, flight school wash-out turned war theater mechanic Herman Schwimpf, comes on-screen, the Bubbles number may be the driving force for this movie being made in the first place, as the sale of sheet music in 1927 far outpaced the amount of money to be expected from an alleged war movie. Many film historians rule this more of a rom-com than an war movie, anyway, due to excessive bubbles--but it certainly laid the groundwork for Josh Hartnett to win WWII all by himself in the bubble-less PEARL HARBOR. "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Wings (1927) *** 1/2 (out of 4)The first Best Picture Oscar went to this thrilling WW1 drama from director Wellman. The film tells the story of poor boy Jack (Charles Rogers) and rich boy David (Richard Arlen) who are in love with the same woman, which causes the two to become bitter enemies. When WW1 breaks out the two are thrown together and quickly become friends, although David is too nice to let Jack know that the girl back home doesn't love him. Clara Bow plays the girl who is madly in love with Jack but he's too blind to see it. It's rather sad that this film is basically only remembered for winning the first Best Picture Oscar because it's an incredible film from start to finish. The action stunts are downright incredible to watch and the scenes in the sky are just as thrilling. The majority of the 139-minute running time takes place with all the action and there's never a dull moment. All of the action scenes are incredibly tense and full of great suspense including the terrific ending with the two lead men in action. The battle scenes on the ground are also very well executed. Not only does the action stuff work very well but so does the two love stories. The love story between the two friends as well as the love story with Bow. We've seen this type of love story in countless silent films but the performances and characters are so great that the story comes off very fresh. Both Rogers and Arlen are terrific in their roles and never miss a beat. Bow steals the film as the playful girl in love with Jack. The way Bow moves has enough sexual energy that you can't help but be fixated on everything she does. Her nude scene in front of the mirror is certainly among the highlights of the film. Henry B. Walthall appears briefly as David's father and Gary Cooper has a very impressive, if short, role. Also worth mentioning is the greatly comical scene involving the champagne bubbles. In the end this is another shining example of the mastery of silent cinema and just more proof that you don't need a computer to make great action scenes. "},{"Title":"A Very Good FIlm","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" When I took Lucien to see this film at the Wilshire Ebell around 1970, he said It's an old film. But the fact was this film, William Wellman's directorial debut (major studio film), embodied all the elements that make film great Story, Actors, Story...There is a scene in the film where Irving Thalberg and Lucien are both in the back of a German staff car; they are playing German officers; as I understand it, William Wellman greatly disliked meddling producers and both Thalberg and Hubbard were ejected from the car when a bomb went off -- Perhaps fulfilling Wellman's dreams... "},{"Title":"Still a good one","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Wings is not one of the best silent movies ever made, but it's still a thoroughly enjoyable picture. Actually, it's two movies in one.One is a film about WWI and the combat pilots who fought in it. The scenes of the dogfights are still thrilling, and the land combat scenes bring home the nasty, brutish, hand to hand fighting that made it the most horrible of modern wars. Perhaps because of the lack of modern special effects, the war scenes have a documentary look that's very powerful (in fact, some actual war footage was used in the movie, according to some sources).Sadly, the war scenes are wrapped in a plot that was hackneyed even by 1927 standards. It's a formula buddy picture, with Richard Arless and Charles Rogers in love with the same woman, who inexplicably is not the delightful, sexy and vivacious Clara Bow. Instead they both love Jobyna Ralston, who displays almost no personality during her brief screen time (perhaps to convey that she was tailor-made for the mostly wooden Arless).In any event, the plot reinforces stereotypes of silent movie melodrama, especially in the ludicrous nightclub scene. Rogers overacts drunkenness in a way that's almost painful to watch. Combined with the downright silly plot developments going on in this piece of the film, the only redeeming feature is a bit of brief nudity from Bow.For all its faults, Wings remains an entertaining movie. The aerial scenes, which are plentiful, have likely not been matched even today. Bow shows her starpower to full effect, and the pace of the movie helps make up for some of the cliched plot. It may not be a great movie, but it's not boring. Wings should be required viewing for silent film fans, war movie buffs and Oscar completists. The plot may be laughable, but the power and spectacle of the war scenes remain as powerful as ever. "},{"Title":"The love story of two young men","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I fell in love with WINGS the first time I saw it, and not just for theimpressive aerial footage. I found that the bond of camaraderie betweenJack Powell (Charles Buddy Rogers) and David Armstrong (Richard Arlen)to be genuinely sincere, even transcending their feelings for the womenin their lives. David's death in Jack's arms blows me away every time Isee it. Also, I feel that Clara Bow was miscast. Her grotesque hairdo and makeupdefinately do not suggest the girl-next-door. At the end of the movie,the dialogue shows that both Jack and Mary had matured from theirexperiences in war, but there was nothing in either Bow's appearance orperformance to indic "},{"Title":"World War 1  vs Sunrise","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Sunrise is a better movie! Then again, a shot in the dark for an Academy Award. The Academy, like always makes a mistake. With The Circus, the Jazz Singer, Sunrise and Wings to choose from, the Academy Award had no choice but to give them all one kind of an award or another. Wings got the Best Picture (Production) award because it was pro American and pro-soldiers. This was not a production of Coming Home or the Deer Hunter. Sunrise is the best film out of the 4 but is too good to win. The Jazz Singer is a good film, but not a great film. Still, give it an award for being the first talkie and for making the most money that year. And for the Circus, well, who the heck can make a better movie than Charlie Chaplin. They end up giving him an award for making the movie! Wings is a typical movie if not for its amazing flying sequences which makes it a good movie. Clara Bow is a hottie for 1927. Charles 'Buddy' Rogers is the prettiest thing in the 1920's. And Richard Arlen could hardly find work if he was alive today. All in all, a nice movie that had no choice but to be the best picture of 1927. Unless it was a musical, it could not be any better for its time. "},{"Title":"The best of the silent era","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This movie is why there are Academy Awards. It was the first Best Picture.This movie was a silent one but had fantastic organ music that went along with it to set the mood.It is a long film but very worth it. For it's time it is absolutely marvelous with aerial dogfights, battle scenes and very scenic locations for a black and white film.Clara Bow set the standards high from the very beginning what is expected from an actress.Also contains a very young Gary CooperAlso to keep in mind that it was not known as World War I, because this was before there was a second one.When will it be on DVD? "},{"Title":"An enjoyable footnote in cinema history","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  `Wings' arrived just as the silent era in Hollywood was coming to a close, and managed to sum up the pros and cons of the big budget `epics' that had become popular during that time. The story leaves much to be desired; it relies too much on coincidence, has an overly-simplistic `war is bad' message, and plays up its melodramatic aspects once too often. Nevertheless, it remains entertaining due to William Wellman's talent as a director and the genuinely exciting action scenes that interrupt the preachy tone with a much-needed jolt of energy.This was the first movie to win the Best Picture Oscar, which is a perfectly appropriate place for it in history when you consider the kind of film that the Academy usually rewards with its top prize something made on a big budget that can draw in a large audience and has just barely enough quality that critics can manage a thumbs up. It also had '20's superstar Clara Bow leading the cast, which gave it more than sufficient star power. Some of the people who worked on the film went on to do better things director William Wellman improved during the sound era with The Public Enemy, the original version of A Star is Born, and the American classic The Ox-Bow Incident, and up-and-coming actor Gary Cooper, in one of his first credited performances, would go on to win a pair of Oscars himself.So is `Wings' an integral part of silent cinema? No; in fact, it even pales when placed next to silent epics like Gance's `Napoleon,' Griffith's `Intolerance,' or anything by Eisenstein. But perhaps that's setting the bar a little high; the silent era had its share of the good, the bad, and the downright ugly, just like movies today, and `Wings' remains likeable enough, perhaps because it is made with all the spirit of something by Gance, Griffith, or Eisenstein, albeit not with the same skill. It isn't great drama by any stretch of the imagination, but it certainly isn't boring, either.  "}{"Title":"The first Best Picture winner . . . is not the best.","Date":"2 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" It feels a little uncomfortable to devalue a silent picture when so many have deteriorated and been lost to history. It is a sad truth that an estimated 75% of all silent pictures are lost either through mishandling or were thrown away by studios to conserve space. No one could doubt that Wings is a landmark, a triumph of both early film technology and also as the first film ever to win the Oscar for Best Picture. Nearly everyone who arrives at Wings does so with those two thoughts in mind. Whether it is a great silent film is another matter.To put a fine point on it, Wings is a great technical exercise with a weak and sappy story. It was originally intended to be just a portrait of aviators during the First World War, but then had a romantic subplot grafted onto it. The result is a muddy narrative with characters that don't seem to connect. The aviator story involves two kids from middle America, Jack (Richard Arlen) and David (Charles 'Buddy' Rogers), who are called up to serve their country in the cause, joining the air force to knock the Kaiser out of the skies. They are young and naïve, and dream of glorious romantic adventures. We follow them through their partings with their families, through training and eventually to the combat in the air.As a touch of romance and star power, the studio ordered that a subplot be written for Clara Bow. She was cast &#x96; literally &#x96; as the girl next door. As Mary Preston, she lives next door to David while he pines for another. Wanting to be part of the cause, she goes overseas to work as an ambulance driver. Although her character isn't really central to the movie, Bow gives the film's most spirited performance.As a narrative (at least on the ground) Wings is a mess. The relationship between Mary and David is nearly non-existent. What is there feels forced. The opening establishes that they are good friends while he is blinded by another girl that he is in love with. When he goes off to war, she follows as an ambulance driver. Their second meeting is a long and exhaustive scene in which she catches up with him doing some R&R in a Paris nightclub. There, she finds him so drunk on champagne that he doesn't recognize her (he becomes fixated on imaginary bubbles). Their final scene, as it must, has them realizing that they are in love. There is never really any connection between these two people. She loves him, he loves someone else, they get together. The end. There's no energy or fire to their romance at all.The relationship between David and Jack is actually more substantial. They have a bond of friendship that actually seems genuine and, in another era, might have turned to romance. One is likely to think that because this is the first film on record as having an on screen kiss between two men &#x96; albeit a deathbed scene that, in truth, is more meaningful and more moving than anything that David had with Mary. That part of the film is a chore. The other part, the one in the air, works beautifully. I have always been of the opinion that any movie known for its special effects will fall inevitably to the ravages of time. Technology is a great thing, but at it advances, some movies get left in the dust. Watching the film again recently I was stunned by the coherence of the aerial battle scenes. At all points during the battles in the air, we know where all the players are in relation to one another &#x96; due in part to some very helpful title cards and some brilliant editing. It allows an orientation that creates the drama. We see a pilot in the cockpit with another plane behind him. When a pilot is shot, we can see the plane spinning out of control. That creates the drama, but the movie is even more inventive than that. At one point, an allied soldier is shot down behind enemy lines, sneaks into the German camp and steals an enemy plane. On his way home, he finds himself shot at by one of his comrades who doesn't know that he is an American. That's great drama. It would have been easy to simply create dogfights with no continuity, but to create a story in the air took a further burst of creativity.Perhaps there is something today in our understanding of the First World War that makes a film like Wings seem a little silly. It was made less than a decade after the end of the war at a time when another world war was looming. We now know, through eyewitness testimony, exactly how brutal and awful this war really was both on the battlefield and off. It is perched at a point of history that seems to have dated it almost from the start. It was a silent picture that was in production when the new revolution of sound was about the put these films out to pasture. It was made eight years after the end of World War I and only two years before the brutality of All Quiet on the Western Front made a romantic adventure like Wings seem almost obscene. That film extolled the ugliness of the war, this one seems more of a crowd pleaser.Yet again I return to my original point. Is it fair to devalue a film like this when silent pictures, as a whole, are disappearing? Would I want an audience to catch up with this film even as trenchant as it's story is? As a historical curiosity, yes. It is hard to discount its place in history, but it's not great.** (of four) "},{"Title":"better restored","Date":"10 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Well I go my copy of the restored version .It was excellent.The real rip off is that greedy paramount home video gave the Blu ray version 3 documentaries on the film and only one in d.v.d.This is typical Hollywood greed.They are trying to force people to give up their recorders and buy Blu ray machines,to keep themselves wealthy and powerful against the populace.In spite of this the first documentary was telling it all.I enjoyed the original score.the sound effects were good but sometime interfered in the score a bit.Up staged it . Originally it was in Magna scope,an early form of vista-vision.But paramount home video did not present this version on d.v.d this way , through letter boxing.Some one on amazon claimed that a nude scene was put back on that was not on old print ,but it was the same undressing scene that was on the old print for s couple of moments Clara Bows breast are exposed.There was a scene in which.Right before the intermission, three soldiers ,including buddy,are being given tassels ,by a french officers,for killing the Hun.One of the third ,who was given a tassel ,in which the officer accidentally pinches the man.He is grinning and when he receive that french kiss he is grinning even more.I though this was a suggestion of a gay soldier.But the documentary stated he was a professional stunt pilot playing the role.Then I realize he was grinning cause he thought the scene probably ,including the kiss, was funny.He was holding his laugh,probably.Mr Wellman just kept it in .Working with real soldiers in a real military base, that would of been too risky to have a suggested gay scene.Mr Wellman would not of done that any way.It's sad that the original Vitaphone disk for the national release is gone.It was played in a real live orchestra with sound effects in the premiere . This was recreated as close as possible.The old organ music is still in the disk too as choice . 02/10/12 "},{"Title":"Buddy Rogers and Richard Arlen in the Air, Clara Bow and Her Boobies on the Ground","Date":"16 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I've recently embarked on the (probably too) ambitious project of watching all films to ever receive Academy Award nominations in any category since the awards were first handed out in 1929. When I get into later years and more of the films are available for viewing, I'll probably get selective (do you really want to watch a movie just because it was nominated for Best Sound Recording?) But for the Academy's first year (the eligibility period of August 1, 1927 through July 31, 1928), I'm pretty much watching whatever is available.And what better way to start than by viewing the film that holds the title of Oscar's first Best Picture? Wings, directed by William A. Wellman, who would shortly go on to direct much better things, including The Public Enemy just a few years later, is a daffy love triangle about two hot-shot WWI flyboys who both love the same woman (like Pearl Harbor without sound or Ben Affleck) and a fourth wheel, the girl back home (Clara Bow) who no one seems to want until other options become unavailable. This goofy, almost comic story is wrapped around a typical war film that shows our flyboys spring into action and showcases some impressive (for the time) live aerial footage that won the film its only other Oscar (and indeed only other nomination) in the one-year only category of Best Engineering Effects.Audiences were no doubt dazzled by the technical accomplishments of Wings back in the day, and it's an entertaining enough movie, but it's far too long and its tone far too erratic to put it in contention as an important movie-making milestone. That it's awarded that status is only because it's the first Best Picture winner, not on any merits of its own.Buddy Rogers and Richard Arlen are the flyboys, while a young Gary Cooper appears in a blink-and-you'll-miss-it cameo. Clara Bow's part is written as if the actress showed up on the set one day and the script writer was told to find some reason to have her in the movie, but (evidence of its pre-Code status), like Cooper, Bow's boobies make a blink-and-you'll-miss-them cameo of their own that justify her presence. Wellman's impressive battle scenes aren't limited to the air -- there are some epic action sequences depicting the trench war fare of WWI as well.I don't know where you're going to find this film, unless you do what I did and watch it in segments on a site whose name I won't mention. You'd better do it soon before someone gets wise and takes it down.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Holy Homoeroticism!! This movie is GREAT!!","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  So anyways, I saw Wings, the very first movie ever to win the Academy award for best picture, and I have to say, it was a damn entertaining film, but I'm wondering how many people caught on to how damn homoerotic the whole thing was. Jack and david are two peppy go lucky boys who seem to rich for their own good. Jack is aspiring auto mechanic (who names his car, ahem, the shooting star while David is this very pampered nancy boy it seems who still lives at home (he looks to be pressing 30). They both aspire to have the hand of the foreigner who is just on a visit but can't stop eyeing each other in the meanwhile Soon the war comes, and they must part their loved ones (David (the rich one) has a scene with his parents.. The parents acting  gives a classic definition of wooden acting. Then they are off in training camp, where the only highlight of that that the director must point out is the exercise class, where lots and lots of men in tight undershirts box, wrestle and  sweat just for us.When Jack and David show up for flight training school, they meet up with a veteran flyer who assures them You'll be seeing a lot of me where then, of course, he's killed off the next scene. The next scene after that, the boys are called up into the air by the commander or womever it was, and he acts like nothing has ever happened. Anwyays, the story is silly, on it goes with many high stupidity  scenes, but there are some very interesting moments (especially in the end) which seems to hint that the movie is just ready to burst out of the closet. Essential viewing! "},{"Title":"Seven -- I gave it an extra star for getting to see the ravishing Clara Bow","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I gave it a seven with one of the those points for the visual attributes of Clara Bow. Pre-code Hollywood was more liberal. ) I expected more from the air sequences and I was disappointed. OK, they didn't have aerial closeup technology in 1927 but I still expected more.The boozy modernistic Paris segment was probably the best part of the entire movie, unfortunately the movie's overall storyline struck me as melodramatic. The poignant scene where Jack confronts his dead friends parents is shattered by his subsequent sunny banal ending with Mary. This movie seems powerful in those moments when it experiences the pain loss, and alienation of World War I. Most of the time the movie seems like saccharine when it tries to put a gung ho face on war. Perhaps this movie gets an extra 2 points if one sees the movie's happy face as a bravely ironic put on spun by an alienated generation that drowned its sorrow in bootleg prohibition gin. This movie had some wonderful if isolated sequences that drown in the overall melodrama. I reiterate this movie has some awesome moments where the horror of war peers its head before it is quickly submerged under the rah rah that you might see in any number of John Wayne war movies. Hmm... Are the isolated moments to create an irony that subverted the banal war sequences? Others may disagree but I don't think it deserved the Oscar in 1927. Watch King Vidor's The Big Parade to see what was possible in a war movie made during the silent era. I would also note that the sublime All Quite on the Western Front and Howard Hughes' graphically forceful Hells Angels came only a few years later. "},{"Title":"Weak Storytelling","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Wings is a silent film dedicated to the airmen in World War I who lost their lives during service. Fortunately it is more than just a propaganda film. The film focuses on three main characters Two young men who go off to war and join the aviators and a woman who joins as a nurse. The story is told in rather abrupt chucks and lacks the smooth flow from scene to scene. The characters develop at unnatural stages because of the story telling. The story itself is interesting and if told right would be excellent. However due to poor editing the film seems unnatural and boring at times. I would recommend this film to anyone who interested in silent films or the development of war movies.Would suggest over thisFor Old Propaganda War Movie Sergeant YorkFor Old War Movie All Quiet on the Western FrontFor Silent Film with Good Editing Metropolis "}]