[{"Title":"I am Dracula....I Bid You Welcome","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"74 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   Dracula is a true cinematic classic that still hold up well today more than 70 years after its initial release. Bram Stoker's novel had been filmed before, most notably the 1922 German masterpiece Nosferatu with Max Schrenk playing the vampire as a monstrous rat like creature with no redeeming qualities. Bela Lugosi rose to instant fame with his portrayal of Dracula, a part he had been playing on stage for several years. Lugosi's interpretation is that of a suave and sophisticated nobleman with a hypnotic stare and a cultured Hungarian accent. This made the character more appealing to the ladies while at the same time terrifying to the audience when we see the monster revealed beneath. The story has the tragic Renfield (Dwight Frye) arriving in Transylvania to complete a transaction with the Count which will allow him to lease a English castle. Before they leave for England by ship, Dracula turns Renfield into a quasi-vampire who obeys his master's every command. Upon arriving in England it is discovered that all of the ship's crew have been murdered and only a raving lunatic of a Renfield remain alive. Renfield is committed to a sanitarium run by Dr. Seward (Herbert Bunston). Dracula seeks him out and discovers Seward's comely daughter Mina (Helen Chandler) and her friend Lucy. Dracula quickly kills Lucy and sets his sights upon Mina whose fiance Jonathon Harker (David Manners) is baffled by her sudden change in health and personality. Seward consults with a colleague Dr. Van Helsing (Edward Van Sloan) who quickly identifies the source of the problem as a vampire. They soon expose Dracula for what he is and...... The atmospheric sets of this movie set the tone for the story. Dracula's castle is dark, damp and web filled and his cellar is positively scary. So too is his English manor with the classic winding stair case leading to the cellar. The opening theme I found to be equally foreboding and frightening. I wonder how many of those early film goers realized that it was adapted from the classic ballet Swan Lake. Bela Lugosi should have become a major star after this film, but did not. His first mistake was the turning down the role of the monster in Frankenstein (1931). He did enjoy moderate success in the first half of the 30s playing various mad scientists and criminal masterminds. But he also accepted roles in several poverty row quickies which did little to advance his career. He had a brief return to glory in 1939 when he played Ygor in The Son of Frankenstein and again in 1948 again as Dracula in Abbott & Costello Meet Frankenstein. With his well documented personal demons, Lugosi wound up his career in cheap B' movies ultimately becoming the star in some of Ed Wood's classics. Oddly enough, though he was forever identified with the Dracula character, he only played him on screen twice, in 1931 and 1948 as noted. He did play Dracula like characters in MGM's Mark of the Vampire (1935) and in Columbia's Return of the Vampire (1943). Dwight Frye almost steals Dracula from Lugosi with his portrayal of Renfield. He takes him from a young ambitious businessman to a half crazed lunatic and back again. After this and his role of Fritz the hunchback in Frankenstein, this great character actor never again achieved such heights. A real tragedy. Oddly enough, Stoker's book portrays Renfield as a minor character and it is Jonathon Harker who makes the unfortunate trip to Transylvania. Also filmed in a Spanish language version.   "},{"Title":"How can it not be a classic?","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"57 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the movie that set the horror genre into action.  Sure there may be a few campy scenes that look like they might be out of some high school play production (the rubber bats and armadillos in Dracula's castle come to mind), but there is an unmistakable suspense and eerieness about the film. If you are lucky enough to find the DVD reissue from 1999, you have three great versions the original 1931 version with basically no background music, the 1999 rescoring of the movie by composer Philip Glass, and the extremely interesting Spanish version, made at the same time as the original (with totally different actors).  If you have this DVD, watch the movie twice once with no soundtrack and once with the Glass rescoring.... totally different movie.  Glass' score is great, but it doesn't really help the movie at all (it actually hurts it in many cases).  But the utter silence in Browning's original just makes my skin crawl!  The acting is actually quite great (Lugosi is, of course, phenomenal as is Dwight Frye as Renfield).  The fear, the suspense, and, believe it or not, the sexuality, combines for a great movie that was an unbelievable success in its first release ($700,000 in it first US release, $1.2 million worldwide).  Not bad for a movie made 72 years ago! "},{"Title":"For my money,the scariest movie ever.","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"48 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I suppose we all have differing opinions on what is scary and what isn't.For my money though,this film tops my list.I have seen many a horror film,but few have made me shiver as this one did.The creepy silence virtually throughout the movie,coupled with Bela Lugosi's intimidating presence and Dwight Frye's chilling performance as Renfield(remember the eyes and the laughter?)give me chill bumps on top of chill bumps just thinking about it.Yes,the movie has flaws, but they are few and far between.Hey,it was 1931 after all,and movie making was still in it's infancy.I have seen the various opinions on this film,good and bad,and while it may not top a lot of people's list when it comes to scariest movie ever,it sure tops mine.Bone chilling! "},{"Title":"Bela is king! Great Universal classic!","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"46 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Thinking back to 1931, it's hard to imagine what going to the movie theater was like for people. It was something new and exciting; instead of having 6 movies open in one weekend, they were lucky if 6 movies opened in one month. Horror movies were nothing new in 1931, but one's with sound were and Universal Studios cranked out hit after hit after hit, one of the first being was Dracula. Not too many people realize that these films created exactly what we think of the typecast today with the most popular monsters. Dracula, if you've read the book, is nothing like what Bela created the cape, the accent, the charm, the presence, the looks, etc. This was the first time we ever had a romantic Dracula, the silent film released before called Nosferatu was a monster, Bela created a Dracula that could charm you one second and the next he's draining the life out of you. Dracula is one of the most memorable movies of all time and it's not hard to see why when you watch it.Renfield, a British solicitor, travels to the Carpathian Mountains. He enters a castle welcomed by charming but odd nobleman Count Dracula, who unbeknownst to Renfield, is a vampire. They discuss Dracula's intention to lease Carfax Abbey in London, where he intends to travel the next day. Dracula's three wives suddenly appear and start to move toward Renfield to attack him, but Dracula waves them away, and he attacks Renfield himself. Aboard the Vesta, bound for England, Renfield has now become a raving lunatic slave to Dracula, who is hidden in a coffin and gets out for feeding on the ship's crew. Some nights later at a London theater, Dracula meets Dr. Seward, who introduces his daughter Mina, her fiancé John Harker, and the family friend Lucy Weston. Lucy is fascinated by Count Dracula, and that night, after Lucy has a talk with Mina and falls asleep in bed, Dracula enters her room as a bat and feasts on her blood. She dies in an autopsy theater the next day after a string of transfusions, and two tiny marks on her throat are discovered. Later on Mina has the same bite marks and now the men call on Professor Van Helsing to take on Dracula and save Mina before she meets the same fate as Lucy.Despite the fact that it might not be as terrifying as it was back in the day, you have to consider that this movie made people faint in the theater and gave them nightmares for years to come. The film does have flaws, Lucy dies and that's it, she never comes back which was interesting that Mina was becoming a vampire when bitten, but Lucy doesn't. However, the atmosphere of the film still holds up incredibly well, Dracula's castle has the perfect shadows and isolation that could send shivers down anyone's spine. Makes you wonder how the heck Renfield could stay in that place? I would've camped outside, especially when Dracula comes down and says in that creepy voice I bid you welcome; would you trust someone like that while looking at your neck like it was a Thanksgiving turkey leg? Bela gave a terrific performance that will be remembered for all time. But also much credit to Dwight Frye who plays Renfield and still has one of the most horrific images of all time when they open the door on the ship to see him laughing manically with his eyes wide open. Not to mention his scene with the maid where he's laughing at her, she faints and he crawls towards her. You know what? I lied; this is still a scary movie and I will continue to watch it every Halloween. Bela is king and made Dracula one of the most terrifying monsters in movie history.9/10 "},{"Title":"A horror classic that still thrills and enchants! The most important and influential vampire movie ever made.","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"42 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's almost impossible not to love 'Dracula', a horror milestone that is the most important and influential vampire movie ever made. Bela Lugosi became a cinematic legend after this movie, and his portrayal of Dracula basically invented the modern vampire as we know it. Murnau's silent classic 'Nosferatu' was an obvious influence on Todd Browning, but while Browning was no James Whale (the innovative British director who made 'Frankenstein' for Universal a few months after this) he added a lot of his own style and ideas to the project, and Counts Orloff and Dracula are completely different kinds of creatures. Lugosi made his Count sophisticated, attractive and sexy, and this is what made this movie such a sensation at the time, and what helps make it still a wonderful viewing experience. Lugosi's performance is one of the greatest in horror history. Some of the other actors in the cast are a bit shaky but Edward Van Sloan as Van Hesling is excellent and Dwight Frye's Renfield (a different character from the book) is also memorable. Both actors would reappear in 'Frankenstein'. 'Dracula' is an important landmark horror movie, but even better, is still a fantastic viewing experience seventy years later. Don't just watch it because it's a classic, watch it because it's wonderful entertainment! "},{"Title":"Lugosi's Triumph","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"36 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tod Browning's film of the Stoker novel didn't so much eclipse Murnau's NOSFERATU (1922) as shove it into antiquity. One big reason was the technological advancement of sound. Roughly three years old by 1930, the public embraced the talking picture wholeheartedly over silents. The other big reason for Dracula's success was that the star of the stage play had been cast as the star of the film. And movie history was made. Bela Lugosi's Count Dracula is now a eighty-one year old icon, outlasting all other interpretations before or since. The twist is that this Dracula looks nothing like Stoker's creation (read the book). Lugosi, either through his work with the playwrights or later at Universal with Browning, devised the most insidious form the character would ever take- a handsome, courtly, well-groomed, civilized aristocrat, so gracious and attractive that he projected an aura of well-being over the viewer. This was worlds away from the Murnau/Max Schreck approach of head-on abomination in NOSFERATU. Sensibly, no one in their right mind would stay within viewing distance of Schreck (or Kinski in NOSFERATU, THE VAMPYRE and Dafoe in SHADOW OF THE VAMPIRE) after the first glimpse. But Lugosi's Count would have you chatting and drinking wine- until he began to drink of you. That cape and those evening clothes are the perfect deception. Browning's Dracula is sometimes stagy and tentative in its continuity (it feels at times that the director was unsure where to go next in the progression of scenes). But Karl Freund's photography summons up a persistent mood of heavy gloom and enveloping dread. Two other assets in the film are Edward Van Sloan as Van Helsing and Dwight Frye as Renfield. Van Sloan was Universal's resident Learned Man, appearing as an Egyptologist in THE MUMMY (1933), and perhaps most famously as Dr. Waldman in FRANKENSTEIN (1931). A career-long character actor, Dwight Frye was an eccentric talent who appears to have worked exclusively at Universal. He had his best role as Renfield, producing a still blood-curdling, sneering laugh that seemed to come from the depths of a hellish insanity. If you haven't seen this Dracula please do so. The Count awaits. "},{"Title":"Bela Lugosi in the role he was born to play!","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"36 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While Tod Browning's Dracula is not the definitive take on the most famous vampire of all time, it is possibly the most memorable one. This is not due to Browning's technical achievements or directorial wizardry, by ANY means. It is due to Bela Lugosi's career-defining portrayal of the title character. Born in what is now Lugoj, Romania, Lugosi brings to the part the flavor of his homeland, making him more believable as Dracula. This other-worldly aesthetic helped to make his performance what many consider the ultimate incarnation of Stoker's Dracula. Having played the Count in Hamilton Deane's Broadway version of Dracula, which started in 1927, Bela Lugosi was more than prepared for the role when it was time to commit it to film. Still struggling with the English language, however, he had to learn his lines phonetically. European accent in tact, he was able to deliver such memorable lines as, I bid you welcome, Listen to them. Children of the night. What music they make, and, of course, I am Dracula. His performance alone is reason enough to watch this monster movie classic. If only the rest of the film was as spectacular as Lugosi. Dwight Frye's Renfield, while perhaps a little too over-the-top, is still another highlight to the film, and even Edward Van Sloan's Van Helsing is enough to challenge the might of Count Dracula. The rest of the film is rather flat to me. Now, I know it was made in 1931, and that, at the time, it horrified audiences, but I still stand by my opinion that the overall movie pales in comparison to Bela Lugosi's performance. Everyone else just seemed to be going through the motions, and it seems especially evident while Helen Chandler and David Manners are on screen. They just aren't convincing. I'm not saying that their performances ruin the film. It is still a classic, and certainly worth a viewing, but if you are in the mood for a vampire movie that is worthy of Bram Stoker's name, look no further than F. W. Murnau's Nosferatu. It is much more convincing and even scarier than Tod Browning's Dracula, despite being nine years older and silent. All in all, though, one cannot overlook the stellar performance of Bela Lugosi in the role he was born to play! "},{"Title":"Still the champ","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"33 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bela Lugosi forever captures the role of a certain undead Transylvanian count who takes a trip to London in the first legitimate version of the classic Bram Stoker novel.  Despite many attempts by many talented film makers, I believe this version, directed by Tod Browning, remains the definitive take on the often-filmed novel.  But why?  Is it simply nostalgia?  Granted, I do fondly remember staying up late as a child watching this film on Ghost Host theater and finding myself suitably frightened.  However, if I were the same age today, would I find the film as effective?  Would a steady diet of more modern and explicit horror films made me too jaded to enjoy the more subtle charms of this film?  I hope not, but I could see how it might.  The film is slow, and its slowness is further emphasized by the absence of an under score.  It is stagey - being as it was more influenced by the stage play than the novel itself.  Also, the story plays itself out too quickly.  Van Helsing manages to figure everything out and dispatch the count in about two seconds.  There simply isn't much suspense - and even less gore or violence.  Yet it remains the champ.  Why?  The main reason is Lugosi himself.  He gives the performance of a lifetime.  He truly inhabits the role and is genuinely creepy.  The rest of the cast, particularly Edward Van Sloan as Van Helsing and Dwight Frye as Renfield, support him admirably.  However, when I watch the old Universal horror films nowadays, I find myself really enjoying the atmospheric sets and lighting.  Yes, there is still much to love about Dracula today.  (As long as you  avoid the optional Philip Glass score on the DVD!) "},{"Title":"Classic Movie from Universal Studios","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"30 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The real estate agent Renfield (Dwight Frye) travels to Transilvania for a business meeting with Count Dracula (Bela Lugosi), who is interested in Carfax Abbey in London. Renfield is converted in a servant of Dracula and prepares his master's ship travel to his new a property. While navigating, Dracula sucks the blood and kills all the crew of the vessel. Once in London, Dracula sucks the blood of Lucy Weston (Frances Dade) and she becomes an undead. He feels also a kind of passion for Mina Seward (Helen Chandler), the daughter of Dr. Jack Seward (Herbert Bunston) and fiancé of Jonathan Harker (David Manners). Dracula sucks her blood, Mina has a weird behavior and health problem, and Dr. Seward calls a specialist, Prof. Abraham Van Helsing (Edward Van Sloan), to diagnose the mysterious problem with Mina. Although being a scientist, Van Helsing believes in the supernatural, and tries to save Mina from turning into a vampire. Dracula is a spectacular well-known classic vampire story, with a magnificent transposition of the Bram Stoker's novel to the cinema. Although being a 1931 black and white movie, the photography and the camera work are excellent. There are at least two magnificent scenes the long traveling of the camera in the sanatorium, from the yard to Remfield's room and the long stairway in the end of the movie to Dracula's tomb. The performances are quite theatrical, as usual in that period, and the film does not show any explicit violent scene. I dare to say that probably it is Bela Lugosi's best performance. Universal Studios released in Brazil a wonderful box, with the shape of a coffin, called Classic Monster Collection with eight classic horror movies on DVD. Maybe Dracula is my favorite one. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) DráculaNote On 23 November 2013, I saw the Spanish Version of this movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"29 May 2011","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula(1931) mayn't be the definitive version of the brilliant Bram Stoker novel, but it is still a classic. My only complaints are the abrupt ending and David Manners as John, he tries his best but sometimes his line delivery is awkward and some of his lines are stilted.I did also think that to a lesser extent the first half is better than the second. The opening scene is absolutely brilliant, but while there are still some compelling and well-done scenes the second half is rather talky. That said, there is a lot I loved about Dracula. The costumes, sets, photography and lighting are suitably atmospheric and grandiose, the story is still the timeless story even with the many changes I love and the screenplay apart from the odd stilted line from John is very good.I saw Dracula in two versions, one without background music which added to the genuine atmosphere, and one with a suitably hypnotic and haunting score from minimalist composer Phillip Glass. While I loved Glass' score, I do prefer slightly the one without the scoring, the silence further added to the atmosphere I feel. The whole film is beautifully directed too, and while the film is very short at about an hour and a quarter the pace is just right.The acting is very good, perhaps theatrical in a way but I think it worked. Bela Lugosi has such a magnetic presence in the title role, Edward Van Sloan is perfect as Van Helsing but in a sinister and funny performance Dwight Frye steals the film.In conclusion, excellent film and a classic. 9/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"The definitive Dracula","Date":"30 April 2011","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the most iconic and popular characters in film history, Dracula has taken many forms, in many genres, and performed to various quality. Although not the first film to feature the character of Count Dracula (a couple of lost silent films and F.W. Murnau's unauthorised version Nosferatu came before), Bela Lugosi's portrayal of the menacing and seductive Count is commonly seen as the definitive.The story is known to most &#x96; solicitor Renfield (Dwight Frye) arrives at Count Dracula castle at night, despite prior warnings by the nearby locals. He is greeted by Dracula, who, unknown to Renfield, is a vampire. Upon arrival, he pricks his finger, causing it to bleed which visibly excites Dracula until he spies the crucifix hanging around Renfield's neck. Renfield is drugged by Dracula and the two travel to London the next day by boat. When the ship arrives, only Renfield remains on the boat, now seemingly a lunatic and a slave to the Count. He is hospitalised while Dracula becomes entranced by a woman named Mina (Helen Chandler), who is engaged to John Harker (David Manners). As circumstances grow stranger, Professor Van Helsing (Edward Van Sloan) becomes convinced that the Count is indeed a vampire, and that he must be destroyed.The film would be the beginning of a long run of successful horror movies made by Universal, which would be hits critically and commercially, and many are nowadays considered classics of the genre. Although falling short of the outright perfection of James Whale's Frankenstein (also 1931) and its sequel Bride Of Frankenstein (1935), Dracula still proves a great adaptation of Bram Stoker's novel. Lugosi's performance is the definitive Dracula, his minimal movements and slow, pronounced dialogue, spoken with his Hungarian accent proves an unnerving Count. I'm not forgetting Max Schrek's Nosferatu, while amazing for its sheer dedication, it was hardly the Dracula of the book.Director Tod Browning, who up to the point of making Dracula had made over 50 feature films, controls the film superbly, and opts for slow, menacing darkness rather than loud jump scenes and special effects. It builds up the mood gradually, and with Lugosi's fantastic central performance, makes for an atmospheric experience. It's a pity that Browning would almost end his career the next year with the commercially disastrous Freaks, which I consider a true great of the horror genre.It's just a shame that the film's final scene is rather soft and anti- climatic, jarring with the brilliance that came before. However, it remains an excellent film overall, and the film that would spawn many memorable films for Universal studious.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Lugosi...a chiller","Date":"5 October 2011","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bela Lugosi couldn't have played it any better in Dracula. Simply said, scenes where we find ourselves looking into his eyes, we find ourselves fearfully looking into the eyes of death. Bela Lugosi also imposes a strong presence over his characters which I think is important to his image in Dracula. He is much taller than the other actors, which makes him look more powerful and makes his present felt. He is wonderfully scary. While it is obvious that it was made in 1931 during some scenes, it still strikes fear in the audience.The Mise-en-scene is incredible in this movie, particularly in the opening scene when the carriage comes speeding up the hill and quickly drops the man off to Dracula. There is a thick fog and darkness, Dracula wearing a black outfit covering everything, and cliffs in the background. Dracula's castle is also an excellent example of mise-en-scene with the darkness, high cathedral ceilings, spiderwebs everywhere, bats swooping about, and wolves howling in the background. "},{"Title":"Ironic History","Date":"13 May 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It is interesting that when Universal went to make this one, they did not get much of what they wanted to do yet came out with a very good film. Universal wanted a big budget film, but because of the depression, this one was made on the cheap. The studio head wanted Lon Chaney Sr for the title role. He was not available and almost by accident they found Bela Legosi.Todd Browning did a great job directing the first horror film. Todd could not have liked the fact that at night, the crew shooting the Spanish Version would look at Brownings daily shot and then re-shoot improved versions of their own with their cast.Still, the Spanish version did not have Bela. The rest of the cast around him played the roles real well. The real irony here is that Bela would only do the role one more time, making fun of himself in Abbott & Costello Meet Frankenstein. Legosi is one of the few actors who has the best dramatic performance and the best comedy performance on film for the same role.This original holds up well, including the creepy arrival of the ship of corpses in England. The estate rented by Dracula in England is now actually the same name as a famous web site. Another accident related to this film. Sometimes fate creates a work of art where none is expected. Dracula is one of those, copied a lot but none as good as the original. "},{"Title":"Dracula","Date":"5 October 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I found Dracula to be an interesting movie. The camera really pans out on some scenes, like in the sanitarium and the staircase at Dracula's estate. I found the movie to movie a little too slow for my liking. It seemed to lull in some parts and I found myself getting a little bored. The actors were every dramatic which played out nicely and gave more life to the scene. I enjoyed Renfield because he was so insane and his laugh was creepy. I laughed at the part between the male nurse and Renfield when the spider is taken away from him. I didn't quiet understand the beginning with the three girls&#x85; they did not seem to really add anything to the film. I think Dracula is a classic that has been redone many times. I would say this version was not my favorite, but I still enjoyed watching it. "},{"Title":"A most palatable film!","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Yes, after the first two reels, this film is less effectively baroque, but it's still heartily enjoyable stuff, even if the finale is poorly handled. Bela Lugosi's performance as the good Count is so wonderfully definitive that it seems remarkable how many other actors have subsequently donned the cape. I've not seen any of the other versions, but I suspect few could match Lugosi's hypnotic display of acting. From the wonderfully eerie, sublimely photographed Transylvania scenes to the scenes in a London theatre, Lugosi is spellbinding. While he dominates the film, others make their mark. Helen Chandler is quite good as the unfortunate Mina Seward, Dwight Frye is wonderfully mad as Renfield and Edward Van Sloan is towering as Van Helsing. Certainly, there is a contrast in tone between the two parts of the film; the first nightmarish, eerie, mesmerising and very cinematic, the second more akin to a stage play, and rather more melodramatic, but it does come together in my view, as a most effective, likeable whole. It is all immensely helped by a quite wonderfully Philip Glass score, that perfectly complements and embellishes the images. In many ways it is typical Glass, and that is no bad thing, but the atmosphere the Kronos Quartet create is just right. Rating- ****/*****. "},{"Title":"Listen to them. Children of the night. What music they make!","Date":"22 September 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Listen to them. Children of the night. What music they make! so said Bela Lugosi in what was to be the role that cemented him as a pop culture icon of American film. To see director Todd Browning's original 1931 adaptation of Dracula is to see the American horror film at its finest. Dracula is the vampire formula at its purest before it could be diluted by the telling and the retelling. Dracula is a surreal experience as Browning takes us with him on a journey into our fear of death, but also our fear of the filthiness of sex. It is a film that has aged like a good wine which Bela Lugosi's Count Dracula swore to never drink.If one were to try and dissect Todd Browning's Dracula to find a sole element of success the search would lead us time and time again to Bela Lugosi. Dracula simply is not Dracula without Lugosi's portrayal of the Count. So much credit has to be given to Lugosi and his portrayal of the titular character. It is doubtful this film would have the staying power, or the atmosphere that it has if another actor was portraying Count Dracula. Lugosi's performance and how it succeeds is the marriage of so many factors, but arguably Lugosi's greatest asset to his performance would have to be his rich Hungarian accent. Lugosi surprisingly doesn't get much dialogue in the film as much of the exposition comes from the protagonist Professor Van Helsing played by Edward Van Sloan, and Dracula's slave Renfield played by Dwight Frye. The lines Lugosi does deliver are often extremely concise. It is not the lines themselves, but rather the way Lugosi delivers them that creates this character. How Lugosi delivers the lines offers more insight into this character than any detailed dissection of the character could. Lugosi's lines are read almost phonetically, each word one by one, each little nuance of the language stressed in Lugosi's thick Hungarian dialect. The resulting effect is hypnotic, poetic, frightening, and in many ways very sad. Lugosi's introduction is in my humble opinion one of the strongest scenes in motion picture history almost solely based on the delivery of the line I am... Dracula. The scene follows Renfield, a solicitor whom Dracula will drive mad, as he ventures through Dracula's dilapidated castle searching for the Count. Dracula appears out of the shadows sucking in whatever air Renfield could muster in these catacombs of death by merely saying I am&#x85;Dracula. Lugosi's delivery is as much a part of the aging castle trapped in time as the cobwebs are. Lugosi was so suave and mysterious as Dracula that the audience became attracted to the vampire. Dracula is not merely Lugosi's picture though. The film has a strong supporting cast highlighted by actor Edward Van Sloan, and Dwight Frye. One thing that can be said of Dracula's entire cast is that despite the extreme material no one even comes close to going over the top with their role. The amount of sincerity and the absence of any tongue in cheek aspect of performance are to be admired. Sloan and Frye's characters both had the potential to skate towards over the top territory, but both performances are firmly grounded in reality and are very effective in complimenting Lugosi's Dracula.Dwight Frye is very strong as Renfield. The role is as complex as that of the Count. Renfield is a bipolar madman enslaved to do Dracula's bidding. Frye is asked to exhibit behaviors on all forms of the spectrum. This character and the characterization are unpredictable to the extreme. One constant about Renfield is that he is the predator, and he represents the fear of sexuality within the vampire mythos. Frye's facial expressions are other worldly especially when we see the extent of Renfield's madness. There is a scene where Renfield crawls with vulture eyes towards a housemaid who has fainted by the sight of his very appearance. Frye too is asked to deliver insight into a character despite the fact that the lines don't explicitly offer character exposition or development. Renfield's dialogue mainly consists of nonsensical lunatic ravings. The way Frye delivers the lines and how he builds the intensity is really powerful though. It is these build up of the madness that keeps this character effective.Technically Dracula isn't all that impressive a picture from a cinematographer's standpoint, but does it really need to be? Browning is very cautious about what he wants to do with his camera. Much of the film is very static and offers little to no movement of the camera. What Browning captures in his shots though are really powerful images. The amount of attention given to the detail of each shot truly is amazing. The fact is there is not one shot of Bela Lugosi blinking in the entire film; that shows an incredible commitment. Browning is more of a still photographer than he is a cinematographer, but the power of the images is unmistakably there. This static dream-like world is perfect for the subject material.It may hurt the pacing a tad, but an argument can be made that the audience are much better able to appreciate Bela Lugosi, and even Dwight Frye's performance due to the way Browning stages his picture. Browning's appreciation for the hypnotic quality of images is one of the strengths of the film, not one of the weaknesses.Dracula is a masterpiece of film making. The film still offers a hypnotic experience almost 80 years after Bela Lugosi first uttered I am&#x85;Dracula. It is a film that has only gotten better with age. Todd Browning and Bela Lugosi succeeded in creating a surreal picture where vampires do exist. "},{"Title":"Genuine horror classic.","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie has thrilled and chilled viewers for generations and also serves as a standard for vampire flicks. This is the role that Bela Lugosi was born to play, Count Dracula. His mannerisms and looks make the character masterful and commanding. Based on Bram Stoker's novel, a vampire terrorizes the English countryside searching for sustenance, human blood.Glorious black and white. The lighting, scenery and mood music should share equal billing with the great direction of Tod Browning. This movie leaves an impression that lasts a lifetime.Wonderful supporting cast includes David Manners, Edward Van Sloan, Helen Chandler and Dwight Frye. "},{"Title":"These images are the base upon which all horror films are built","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've probably written about these films more then any other yet I notice something new every time I watch. This time, I realized Dracula is set in the modern day. During the flower girl scene, you hear a car horn and see modern street lamps. Another question I ask for the first time Why did Dracula disguise himself as the carriage driver? Why hide his face? Despite this question, it is one of the most atmospheric scenes in a film built primarily on atmosphere.Modern critiques tend to say Lugosi is the sole graceful factor in a stagy film. True but don't undersell. Karl Freund's camera is not stationary. A pan around Renfield's shoulder, a slow move up steps, a panorama of Seward's sanatorium. Renfield leering from the ship or the shadow of the captain lashed to the wheel are just two chilling scenes. The use of shadows is toned down from Universal's silents and it's generally agreed that Freund's artistry was held back by Todd Browning. Wither Browning had trouble adapting to sound or was still grieving for Lon Chaney (and the version of Dracula they had planned on making) is debated.Either way, you can't deny the power of these images. The early shots of Dracula's castle, the brides awaking in the catacombs, the illogical armadillos, beetles in tiny coffins, Lugosi's glaring eyes. These images are the base upon which all American horror films are built. They still send chills up a viewer's spine seventy years later. The set design is incredible, particularly the dusty staircase of Castle Dracula or the ruins of Carfax Abbey. Supporting the sets are fantastic glass painted backgrounds.I won't waste words on why Lugosi is the iconic Dracula. He exudes an authority over everyone simply with his body language. Shots of him doing nothing but standing in shadow-swept doorways manage to be creepy.Given Dracula's sway over the opposite sex, it's easy to understand while the vampire is a fantasized character for men. But why is the vampire a sex symbol for women? The film is split on the issue. The scene of Dracula cornering the flower girl brings to mind nothing but sexual assault. I believe Dracula leaning over the sleeping bodies of his prey aren't meant to be provocative but rather to invoke classical nightmare imagery. We are all vulnerable when we sleep and many horror films prey on that innate vulnerably. (Yep, I just traced a line from Dracula to Freddy.) Dracula is feared by his female victims, yet still oddly attractive. Lucy doesn't seem totally asleep when Dracula comes for her. A later scene, where Mina walks into the count's arms, his cape wrapped around her, blending in with the shadows, is undoubtedly romantic. The vampire is a man with complete control over his females, psychic and sexual. Why women would desire such a mate is a topic unsuited for this blog. The seductive female vampire is a horror concept not yet solidified. Mina, once turned, seems less like a willing seductress and more like a drug addict, uncontrollably forced to attack her beloved husband.The movie is flawed, no doubt. Who the heck is the main character? The count is unknowable. Harker or Seward don't do anything besides wring their hands. Van Helsing comes in too late, Lucy exits too early, while Mina is a damsel in distress. Nope, it's gotta' be Renfield. We follow him from the beginning and he features in most of the scenes. A book must exists that explores his character more. There's a lot of untapped potential there. Dwight Fry had enough range to play a straight-laced businessman perfectly, even if his unhinged insanity is what we remember. When his spider is thrown away, you almost feel for the guy. His monologue about Dracula presenting him with a feast of rats is great and I wonder why no other adaptation has gone into more detail about that. Why does Dracula even keep the guy around? He doesn't serve him much and is even responsible for revealing the count's hiding place.The pacing drags in the latter half, as the staged qualities take over. There's a number of narrative question marks. Lucy's story arc is oddly abbreviated. We hear about her escapades as the Woman in White but Van Helsing disposes of her off-screen. Why does Dracula have Mina just hanging around the abbey at the very end? What purpose did that serve? Renfield preys on the unconscious maid in one scene but we never find out why. The guy sure gets out of his cell easy. Dr. Seward should probably hire a new staff. Dracula's final confrontation with Van Helsing is anticlimactic. Even the weaker second half of the film has its moments, such as Dracula making eye-contact with Mina's maid or smashing the mirror out of Van Helsing's hand.I'm not begrudgingly calling it a great movie. It remains the best adaptation of Stoker's novel in many ways and is the most important of the Universal Monster cycle in countless ways. "},{"Title":"The king of all vampires, and the beginning of modern horror.","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What can be said about a movie that has had such a profound impact on both film and pop culture? After years of living in a decrepit castle with his vampire brides, the notorious Count Dracula begins to mysteriously buy property in London with the help of a real estate agent named Harker. However, we soon learn that there is a sinister reason behind the Count's move, as he begins his reign of terror once he arrives in the City.Bela Lugosi created a character that would become the standard for all vampires. Sophisticated, charming but downright horrifying, Lugosi' Dracula still holds up as one of the most magnificent horror villains. Other stand out characters include Dwight Frye's disturbing portrayal of Harker, and Edward Van Sloan's Dr. Van Helsing.Eight decades after it first terrorized audiences, Dracula the film was falling apart. Decreased picture quality, and a significant hissing sound severely hurt the quality of one of the greatest films in the horror genre. But over the past 15 years, two great things have happened. The first, which is a bit controversial with film purists, was the inclusion of a new film score performed by renowned composer Philip Glass. I have to say, the score was much needed to help bring the film to modern times. The sophisticated, but eerie, score really adds depth to the scenes and is a profound upgrade for the quality of the film overall.Finally, in 2012, Universal did a full scale restoration of the film (along with the other Universal monster movies) for its release on blu ray. All I can say is WOW. The picture is nearly crisp, with a more balanced picture and virtually no scratches. Furthermore, that horrible hissing noise that plagued the film is significantly reduced, and for the first time in eighty years, the sounds and dialogue are as clear as the day the film was released. These restoration processes have dramatically inflated the quality and relevance of the film, helping to cement it as one of the most significant pieces to come out of the golden age of cinema. "},{"Title":"I Hope You Have Fangs For Great Movies!","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Horror movies have always been a staple to human entertainment ever since the 1930's. I think we should examine one of the movies that started in all Dracula.This movie has many things to it thank make it scare people in general. The movie is almost very dark and the lighting is grim, giving the atmosphere a strong form of fear in the scene, especially the first encounter with Count Dracula himself. Another thing that gives this movie that scary detail is his (Dracula's) personality, such as showing interest in the blood that pours from Renfield's finger during their chat, which makes it evidence that he is dangerous.All in all, this movie scared even myself and I encourage everyone else to watch and be amazed. "}{"Title":"Excellent in All Aspects","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I found this movie to be one of the greatest experiences with classic horror films that I have ever had. I usually find them slightly tacky but the excellent acting and classic storyline of this movie made it an excellent experience all around.Lugosi never fails to amaze with his signature 'creepy' persona. He captures the feel of Count Dracula to a tee in this amazing film. You can almost see all the years of inflicting pain in his eyes every time he bites a victim. You can almost feel the conflict going on behind his eyes as he takes a victim for sustenance and snuffs out their bright light of life. The scene where he takes the girl in the asylum you can almost see the tears in his eyes as he bites the girl.Dracula's servant also has some incredible acting in this movie. The scene on the ship where they open up the hatch and you can see him staring up at you from the inside of the ship reflects such evil and insanity that it truly makes an unforgettable impression.Besides all of the incredible acting that this movie has to offer, the scenes are set up masterfully and truly set the mood for the film. Draculas castle, set up to be dark, dank and abandoned looking truly sets the scene for evil events to unfold. The cobwebs and long winding staircases could only be the most perfect dwelling place for the King of Vampires and lord of evil himself. "},{"Title":"A wonderful horror film","Date":"21 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula is an absolutely wonderful horror film that does a great job of unnerving the viewer. Dracula acts in a strange enough manner around others to let most people find him odd, and even after the viewer learns that he is a vampire and he has killed several people, his behavior around other people continues to kind of weird the viewer out. One of the only complaints I would have about this movie was that I thought one of the shots was overused. A close up of Dracula's face with the only light being shone on his eyes. While this does a great job of unnerving the viewer, it is used many different times throughout the film, and it does begin to lose it's luster after a while. That aside, however, I really enjoyed watching this movie. "},{"Title":"timelessly odd","Date":"12 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Watching the 1931 version of 'Dracula' now is like watching a silent movie with occasional bits of dialogue. It is creaky, like nearly all early sound movies, and there's not even a music score (one was added nearly 70 years later.) People move slowly, there are long gaps between lines which seem unnatural. At times, the entire movie seems to be playing in slow-motion. It's hard to imagine a teenager of today sitting still long enough to watch it, much less enjoy it. But to a film buff, there is still much to enjoy and the main thing this 'Dracula' has going for it is its own peculiar, unique sense of weirdness. Bela Lugosi's vampire seems to affect the other characters without ever biting their necks. They move about as if in a daze and speak in a halting, confused manner... including Edward Van Sloane's Professor Van Helsing, who's supposed to know what's going on. Perhaps stranger than Lugosi is Dwight Frye as Renfield, with his lunatic laughter (if one could call it that). Renfield pops up in scene after scene, even after he's supposedly locked away in his room at the sanitarium. The sets are every bit as odd. The lower chambers of Dracula's castle and later Carfax Abbey are as barren as the surface of a dead planet, just dirt and pillars and a few coffins. They truly look like places no human should go, places only for rats and wolves and bats. It's hard to believe Bela Lugosi was already 49 years old when he made 'Dracula.' He looks much younger. And though he doesn't have a great deal of dialogue, his most famous lines are all here. I never drink... wine. The children of the night... what music they make! Now that you have learned what you have learned. Harder still to believe that Universal only had him play Dracula once more, 17 years later, in 'Abbott & Costello Meet Frankenstein.' As stagy and slow-moving as it is, 'Dracula' earns its reputation as an original with its many indelible images and sparse, stark dialogue. It truly is one of a small group of films that everyone should see at least once. "},{"Title":"If You Haven't Seen This, You Haven't Seen Dracula","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie might as well be called Bela Lugosi. Count Dracula was the part of a lifetime for Lugosi &#150; one that both made him a star and destroyed his acting career. He ended up being helplessly and hopelessly typecast as a result of the absolutely brilliant performance he offered as the vampire count. The voice, the eyes, the presence &#150; all Lugosi, all Dracula. From 1931 on, whenever anyone sees or hears Bela Lugosi (no matter what part he's playing) they see or hear Dracula, and &#150; even now, over 75 years later &#150; when someone does an imitation of Dracula, it's done in Lugosi's Hungarian accent. The typecasting is a shame, really &#150; because Lugosi was a superb actor. I've seen him in several films and even in the later work of his career, when many of the movies he was in were less than stellar, Lugosi &#150; when given a meaty enough role as opposed to a cameo &#150; could make even a weak movie worth watching. And it basically all started with Dracula.The movie itself has some problems &#150; foremost among them, because of the importance they play in the story &#150; are the bat appearances. Bats don't fly like that, and they certainly can't hover! The ending struck me as rather abrupt, and I found myself thinking that there should have been more, and throughout the movie there are still examples of the transition in acting style required by the transition to talkies &#150; especially what I consider to be deliberate over-acting, necessary in silent movies but sometimes distracting in talkies. Having said that, Lugosi even pulls that off well. His overly dramatic turning away from the wolfbane or cross and cowering behind his cape is in fact overly dramatic, and yet &#150; it's also Dracula. That's just what Dracula does when confronted by wolfbane or a cross, because it's how Lugosi played the part, and coming from Lugosi it seems perfectly natural.The movie isn't especially frightening or suspenseful. Even for someone who had never seen it in 1931, real suspense is lacking. We find out very quickly that Count Dracula is a vampire &#150; just a few minutes in Lugosi pops out of a coffin. The sets are very good though &#150; creating a sense of mystery and fear, even if there's nothing overly frightening about this. Whatever the strengths or weaknesses of the story, though, the movie is made by the performances &#150; Lugosi's obviously, but also Dwight Frye as his hapless victim Renfield, who becomes enamoured of eating flies and spiders and rats as a result of being turned into Dracula's slave. His performance is actually quite funny, and one thing lacking in the movie is any explanation of what happened to Renfield. After Van Helsing (Edward Van Sloan) dispatches Dracula does Renfield return to normal, as Mina (Helen Chandler) did, or does he spend the rest of his life in an insane asylum? That was a loose end that wasn't tied up.I've never read Bram Stoker's original novel, so can't comment on how this movie relates to Stoker's work, but I have seen many film versions of Dracula, and this is by far the classic version. Many other actors have played the evil count, but none have pulled it off as perfectly as Bela Lugosi. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Iconic at the every least","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While the special effects,editing and sound really FEEL like they're over seventy-five years old,the movie itself still has a good,slow,eerie feel to it. I have yet to read Stoker's novel,but I'm quite familiar with the assortment of characters(the Count,VAn Helsing,Mina,JOhn/JOnathan HArker,Renfield,Lucy,Dr.Seward,the sanitarium staff,etc.) Probably more shocking when it was originally released(one story tells of a fainting at a screening of the film),director Tod Browning's movie would be considered quaint by most standards,it still holds up in imagery and in character,with Bela Lugosi able to inject plenty into mere glances and steadily,deliberate movement. The tale of the charismatic,mysterious nobleman from Transylvania who crashes ashore off a shipwrecked cargo vessel onto England,moving into an abandoned estate in sub-urban London's Carfax Abbey feels as common and comfortable as an old slipper. The acting isn't all that exceptional,save Lugosi,Dwight Frye(as the doomed,bug-eating lackey Renfield,whose back-story seems somewhat different than I recall from other versions of the story)and perhaps Edward Van Sloan(As the fiercely incorruptible Van Helsing),but that doesn't hinder this film's message or its mood. It works on a very basic premise,that being that this Dracula sort is one effective and lethal operator. I think that one who appreciates film legend and lore needs to take a look at this offering,for the sights and sounds are as true and necessary to the progression of film horror and melodrama as any from the Golden age of film. "},{"Title":"The Flawed Masterpiece","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The 1931 `Dracula' casts an imposing shadow over the horror genre.  It is, after all, the movie that launched the classic Universal horror cycle of the 1930s and 1940s.  It is also a tremendous influence on the look and atmosphere of horror movies in general (and vampire movies in particular).  It gave Dracula a look and a voice, and created a legend.Okay, so we know it was influential.  But how does it work as a movie?  Well&#133; the first time I watched it, I was underwhelmed.  The pace is slow.  While Bela Lugosi's Dracula is menacing, the rest of the cast is colorless to the point of transparency.  There are some good gliding camera shots here and there (thank you, Karl Freund!), but the majority of the film is locked into stationary medium and long shots.  The film is tightly bound to its theatrical origins &#150; director Browning has his characters look at things out of frame and describe them rather than just showing us, which would be much more effective.Fortunately, `Dracula' improves with repeated viewings.  The glacial pace and lack of sound in many places gives the movie a nightmarish sense of menace. In fact, `Dracula' is somewhere between a nightmare and a piece of classical music &#150; everything proceeds at its own pace, gliding through the motions, gradually building suspense and momentum until the piece reaches climax.  The end result is a flawed but haunting, hypnotic masterpiece, and one of the greatest vampire films ever made.  "},{"Title":"Stilted, Stagey, and yet still Superb.....","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I bid you welcome, I never drink wine, Children of the night...what music they make, and of course I am Dracula are memorable lines that resonate throughout horror films, literature, art, etc... throughout the 20th century because of a landmark film made in 1931 starring Bela Lugosi and directed by Tom Browning.  This film was the birth of the horror film as we know it.  Its importance can not be underestimated.  Dracula is a wonderful film for so many reasons, but first let's look at its many faults.The film is by today standards very antiquated.  It has almost no soundtrack, stage acting for the most part, limited special effects, and a slow pacing.  It has long parts of little action and lots of chat.  It shows little while leaving much to one's imagination(a plus for those like myself that are good at envisioning what is not shown).  With all this not going for it, why is Dracula such a classic?  Why is it considered to be such a great film and a great horror film?The answer is that even with all these flaws (and bear in mind some of these flaws are not flaws for all) the film offers a rich story in an eerie, atmospheric way.  Bela Lugosi was Dracula.  He was the model for oh so many vampires to come.  His gesturing, his deliberation in speech, his facial movements all created a vampire never to be forgotten.  Despite Lugosi, however, is the real genius of the film....Tod Browning.  Browning created a movie and a setting hitherto imagined and conjured on a screen.  Browning was the man behind the camera that created the cob-webbed stairs of the Dracula castle and the squalid emptiness of the crypt.  He created the ghoulish female vampires thirsting for blood.  Dracula is not just a film to see, it is film history and should be viewed with that in mind and not put under a microscope of today's languishing tastes. "},{"Title":"I am Dracula, I bid you welcome","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Directed by Hollywood horror king Tod Browning,this 1931 take on Bram Stoker's classic horror tale gave birth to the Vampire genre of today.F.W Murnau had filmed his version of Stokers tale called Nosferatu in the twenties and in the process started a legal dispute with Stoker's estate. While Murnau's version is undoubtedly iconic and chilling,it's Browning's(slightly more accurate)take on the exploits of a certain blood sucking Count Dracula which paved the way for the Vampire genre we know so well today.Browning's favourite actor(the so called man of a thousand faces)Lon Chaney was the director's first choice for the role of Dracula.However when Chaney sadly passed away in August 1930 the role went to stage star Bela Lugosi.Lugosi had played the Count on stage for several years and it's his performance that dominates the film.It's mouthwatering(no pun intended)to think how Chaney would have been in the role and if he would have(through his famed make up)played the count as written(as an old man)or gone for the look Lugosi gave us.All the vampire and haunted house staples we know so well today begin here from the acres of thick cobwebs,afraid locals,bats etc.And far from being strange visually Dracula is shown as being very charming,charismatic,elegant and sexy.Although the actual blood sucking moments happen off-screen(unlike in The Hammer versions)the build up to said scenes is suitably chilling and downright creepy.The film is based on Stoker's novel and on the play by Hamilton Deane and John L.Balderstone. The film stars Bela Lugosi, Dwight Fry,Edward Van Sloan and Helen Chandler.The film begins with a few bars of Swan Lake playing over the image of a carriage making it's way through the mountains.Onboard is the tragic Renfield(Dwight Frye)who is travelling to the castle of Count Dracula(Bela Lugosi)to get his signature on the lease of a house in England.After being made to feel welcome by the charming Count he is hypnotised and becomes the mindless servant of the Count.The story then moves to the drawing rooms of England for mind games between Dracula and Van Helsing(Edward Van Sloan) and Frye almost steals the film from Lugosi as Renfield becomes a screaming,fly eating nutcase. Browning falters at the last sadly with his villain impaled off-screen with a barely audible groan.That aside what's here is top class from the performances,set design and atmosphere.Sadly Lugosi(unlike fellow horror icon Boris Karloff)found it difficult to escape this role in the future.He played the Count again in the comedy Bud Abbott Lou Costello Meet Frankenstein(1948).And played Dracula-like characters The Return of the Vampire(1944)and Plan 9 from Outer Space(1959).He returned to play Dracula on theatre tours a few years before his death.And when he passed away he was buried in his Dracula costume.Whether you're a horror fan,a casual fan or new to the genre make sure you watch this. "},{"Title":"this is one of the finest horror movies ever made","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A friend of mine once said that there are three types of movie vampires. There are the scary vampires, such as Count Orlok from Nosferatu, there's sparkly vampires like from Twilight, and there's the cool vampires and under that category, there's only one name that comes to mind Bela Lugosi.Lugosi may have tragically ended his career making some of the worst, most laughably bad productions of all time under deservedly infamous names such as Ed Wood, but for a while, he stood in the golden arches of Hollywood and nowhere else is this more evident than his iconic portrayal of Bram Stoker's famous vampire Dracula in this 1931 masterpiece of the same name. Who can forget Lugosi walking down the great steps of a rundown Transylvanian castle, hair sleeked back, clad in dark robes, a candle in one hand, a pale face, grinning, and announcing himself with deliberate hesitations and exaggerated pronunciation I am&#x85;Dracula. Or maybe I never drink&#x85;wine. Evidently, nobody can forget since basically every conception of a vampire, whether on stage or film or simply in the imagination mirrors Lugosi's performance in Dracula. This is one of the most influential and popular horror movies of all time. Now does it still terrify audience members as its advertisements claimed? No. No, Lugosi is not scary and I'm not quite sure he ever was. But if there is one thing that he is and most certainly always was, that is awesome. He's a spiffy, cool, groovy vampire who does not come across as unintentionally funny. He won't terrify you, he won't make you laugh unless he wants to, but he will keep you entertained because he's such a terrific screen presence.In short, yes, Lugosi is the primer behind Dracula, but the movie's reasons for sheer entertainment do not stop there. Dracula works so well and has aged so well simply because it is a great movie. The only regret I have about the movie is that it's only seventy-five minutes long, a common running time for films its age. And during that brief length of time, one finds the most terrific levels of absorbing entertainment. The screenplay is very well-written, the acting by the supporting cast especially by Edward Van Sloan as Professor Van Helsing is terrific, the camera-work is eye candy, the editing is absolutely fabulous. The special effects are a mixed bag. Sometimes you can tell the bats are nothing more than props on strings as they bobble up and down while hovering, but since this consumes only a few seconds of screen time, it's hardly a detractor.Dracula is so well made that to add a music score to its fabulous images really seems distracting. During its age, soundtracks were mostly prohibited since the invention of sound was brand new in the film industry. Looking back on the old films, there are some that seem in desperate need of an imposed musical score. A score was recently composed for Dracula and provided for as an option of the DVD release, but to put it over seems to detract from the movie, not strengthen it. Because the movie is nearly impeccable on its own with its acting, cinematography, dialogue, and sheer entertainment. This is one of the finest horror movies ever made. "},{"Title":"Dracula, the film that started it all","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula (1931) Dracula, the film that started it all. Dracula is the first film to feature the dark lord of the undead and the character has been in over 700 films since, only being toppled by Sherlock Holmes. The film is based on the play version of the book by Bram Stoker. The book was inspired by Slain Castle, Whitby (where the count lives while in England), and Cruden Bay in Scotland and the history of Tepes Valad, a warlord. While in Cruden Bay, Bram's friends and relatives were afraid of him while he planned out the book. He would sit in front of the typewriter for hours on end. Despite rumors, Bram Stoker had never been to Transylvania. Dracula, the book, did not take off until after the author's death, but quickly became a must read after the movie. Due to the Depression the movie had a limited budget and is a lot different then the epic book, Bram Stoker's Dracula(1992) is the closest to the book movie to date.The strength of Dracula is the main character played by Bella Lugosi. His haunting portrayal of the title character is legendary. Bella didn't know much English and had to pronounce each syllable separately. Due to his poor English skills, he did not mingle with the rest of the crew, rumors also have it that he wanted to stay in character, but the cast and crew were impressed by him. As one of his few demands, Bella also did his own make up for his role. Bella's portrayal of Dracula was so good that it caused him to be type-casted for the rest of his career. Bella was even buried wearing one of the capes he wore in the in a stage version. Bauhaus, legendary goth rockers' first single was a song called Bella Lugosi's Dead, it made references to Dracula and if Bella really was a vampire. Bella's performance went on to scare people to the point of fainting in the movie theater and providing hunting's on TV starting in 1957 and been giving kids nightmares ever since. Rumour also has it that the infamous Hannibal Lector's slurping sound in Silence of the Lambs was inspired by when Dracula sees Renfield's blood.Unlike vampire movies to come, Dracula in this film did not have fangs, Dracula is killed off stand and there were armadillos in Dracula's castle. Armadillos are not native to Europe or England. However, because Dracula was the first film with the title character, it became the staple of Dracula films including Starting in Transylvania with Renfield as the real estate agent instead of Jonathan Harker, cutting several characters, including an American who's knife eventually kills the count, Dracula being staked in England and several things are changed from the book. In Stoker's book vampires don't sleep in coffins, vampires don't cast shadows either and the no reflection in a mirror was invented by Stoker.The movie's special effects may appear to be cheesy by today's standards. But the fake flapping bat, the piecing gaze of Dracula, the walk through the spider web and Dracula coming out of his coffin has frightened people to nightmares. The overwhelming performance of then unknown actor Bella Lugosi sealed the movie as one of the scariest and influential roles in movie history. "}{"Title":"Tall, Dark and Gruesome","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula (Universal, 1931), directed by Tod Browning, from the novel by Bram Stoker, is the ultimate horror film of the sound era that began the cycle of others to come. Starring Bela Lugosi who reprized his 1927 stage performance, up to then, with some movies to his credit, he was basically an obscure actor until Dracula hit the theater screens. It should be noted, however, that for Lugosi's sixth billed supporting role performance as a police inspector in Tod Browning's THE THIRTEENTH CHAIR (MGM, 1929), starring Conrad Nagel, comes close to being the major lead. Two years later, Dracula has Lugosi's name heading the cast for the first time, making him an overnight sensation and a new master of horror. Like some subsequent Universal horror films of the early 1930s, Dracula opens its main titles with the underscoring of Swan Lake.The familiar plot features Count Dracula, a vampire from Transylvania, who rises from his grave at night to seek victims from whom he can suck out blood from their necks, and rest in his coffin by day. The first twenty minutes of the story, in which Mr. Renfield (Dwight Frye) comes to Castle Dracula via horse and carriage, to discuss some real estate property in England, and becoming Drac's first on screen victim, is horror film making at best - wolves howling, atmospheric background, with the count seen slowly rising from his coffin, accompanied by his three vampire wives, surrounded in gigantic spider webs, rats and other unrecognizable creatures crawling about which add to the mood and creepiness. After Dracula puts Renfield under his spell to use him as his slave, they come to England where Renfield is later placed in an asylum, and Dracula places his coffin with Transylvanian soil in a mansion next door to Doctor Seward (Herbert Bunston) and his daughter, Mina (Helen Chandler), a young girl engaged to John Harker (David Manners). Of course Dracula has his eyes on Mina and intends on making her his next vampire wife by putting her under his evil spell. Then there's Professor Van Helsing (Edward Van Sloan), knowing about the vampire legend, who must find a way to save Mina's immortal soul and destroy Dracula.At the time Dracula was released, Universal produced a Spanish language version starring Carlos Villarias. While there were some added bonuses in the Spanish version, which runs about a half hour longer than the English version, Lugosi's performance with glassy eyes and deadly stare make it more appealing to the avid horror movie lover. Lacking background music during most of the proceedings, Dracula was presented with a new under scoring in 1999. After viewing the scored Dracula, the best thing that can be said about it is to leave well enough alone. Thank goodness Dracula did not have the misfortune of being colorized. However, the Spanish language version with English subtitles is highly recommended, All the versions mentioned are available on video cassette (later DVD) and formerly shown on both the Sci-Fi Channel and American Movie Classics (1991-92) before shifting over to Turner Classic Movies (TCM premiere October 10, 1998).Bela Lugosi would play vampires in future film roles, but reprized his Count Dracula role only once, in ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN (1948) starring the comedy team of Bud and Lou. Sadly it would become Lugosi's last decent movie role of his career. Sequel DRACULA'S DAUGHTER (1936), in spite the absence of Lugosi, is another one worth seeing.(*** bats) "},{"Title":"Lugosi is Dracula","Date":"11 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There is no doubt that Lugosi's portrayal of Dracula is not only one of the most recognizable but also one of the most popular of the Draculas. The film is very clean, in that each of the cuts and edits were done so that it wasn't unsettling for the viewer. The sound of this film was very clean as well. The music is eerie and really sets the movie up with an early horror and or typical monster movie feel. Which is exactly what it is. While today some of the special effects, such as the faux bats are not up to the standard moviegoers expect to see today, for the 1930's this film was something. This is a movie you can watch again and again and not grow tired of. Not only is it a classic cinematic masterpiece, it has left an impression on and inspired numerous other movies following it. "},{"Title":"Sheer Lugosi, My Darling","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula is one of those movies, that suffer from not really being an outstanding movie, as it is portrayed to be. Bela Lugosi and his fantastic acting is what gives the movie its charm. Bela Lugosi is known for being a mysterious person, which quite suitably fits the role of Count Dracula. Lugosi comes off as being a delightful mixture of suave and creepy, but the movie just didn't age very well. Even at the time most aspects of the movie were dated, from cinematography to acting. Set pieces were masterful and fit really well with the setting that the movie was determined to build. However, movies around the same time such as Frankenstein would triumph as Garret Fort's screenplay just wasn't adapted well enough. "},{"Title":"First Vampire Film","Date":"11 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It seems as though today, films rely completely on special effects to instill fear in the viewer. The true measure of a horror film is one that is inherently scary without using the crutch of modern film tricks. Dracula absolutely embodies that concept. The acting is spectacular. Dracula is creepy in a way that can really affect you. The acting is extremely well executed. Count Dracula is as believable of a vampire as I have ever seem. Not to mention this film basically pioneered the genre of horror. Hard to believe in a world where t is so omnipresent. The dark sets, along with the eerily silent nature of the film really adds to the effect of horror. At the time this came out, I can imagine it was utterly terrifying. "},{"Title":"Dracula Review","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula is a figure that is known by virtually all and can be credited in large part to this 1931 classic. Bela Lugosi who plays Count Dracula is horrifyingly creepy and finding a better Dracula would be nearly impossible. From the first encounter between Renfield and Dracula to the closing scene, the audience is on the edge of their seats and don't know what to expect, which is an essential part of most horror movies. I was a big fan of this film not only because it is an American classic but because it is a true horror film. In my opinion, too often in horror films today, the story itself isn't scary at all. The experience of going to the movie theatre with a huge screen and incredibly loud speakers help scare audiences by having things pop out when you are least expecting it. I believe that anyone can make a movie like that and is completely insignificant. The story behind Dracula is truly creepy and horrifying. A great story like this makes this one of the most significant horror films in history. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece for ALL TIMES.","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The and only and the truest representation of a vampire culture.Second to it is Bram Stokers Dracula 1992,Nosferatu(1922 and 1979) Bella Lugosi is brilliant and everything about this masterpiece is PURE WORK OF ART.There will never be another movie like this one.Movies like TWILIGHT and UNDERWORLD are an insult to the vampire culture in the world.I will waste no time here writing reviews because all people of culture and intelligence recognize this as a timeless work of ART.What else is there to say? See it and see it again and memorize it from beginning till end. "},{"Title":"The One That Started It All","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1897 Irish author Bram Stoker wrote what would become the most famous vampire story of all, Dracula. Despite it becoming a world wide sensation, it would not be until 1931 when Bram Stoker's ultimate example of Victorian Gothic would become a feature film. Starring legendary Hungarian actor Bela Lugosi, the plot is something that almost everyone knows by heart now. Ancient vampire Count Dracula desires for something more than the surroundings of his decrypt castle and decides to make way to England so he can continue his blood sucking ways there. Naturally the people of Britain don't take too kindly to this and from there it's a race against the clock before Dracula can kill again.Film audiences today might find Universal's version campy and more of a comedy than horror. But let's not forgot this was when filmmaking was still in infancy and funny or not, this is the film that laid the foundation for what vampires are supposed to be in our mind. Prior to this, Bela Lugosi was making a nice living on Broadway as the caped fiend when Universal approached him for this role and as a result of that decision, he was launched into the stratosphere of stardom. With his iconic cape, heavy accent, and ice, cold eyes, Lugosi set the standard that all other actors in the role would be measured against and because of that, even in this age of Twilight(Blah), is still the epitome of all vampires. Watch as he stalks the streets of Victorian London and try to tell yourself that he's not spooky or even just a little bit cool. Director Todd Browning masterfully adapted Stoker's work by incorporating all the Gothic elements that made the novel a classic, from the decrypted old castle of Dracula to the black and white shots of cemeteries and crypts. Rounding out the cast is Dwight Frye as the naïve real estate agent turned insanely devoted servant of Dracula (Frye's maniac look and laugh through out the film should have earned him an Oscar or at least a nomination) Edward Van Sloan as Dracula's chief nemesis Van Helsing, Helen Chandler as Mina, David Manners as John Harker, plus many more small time actors who make the film that much more memorable. You can laugh at the bat on string all you want but the image of Lugosi stalking someone in their bedroom in the dead of night has haunted a many young child's dreams and truth be told, still kind of does. And on that note, don't let this classic pass you by and while I'm at it, don't forget to keep your crucifix and garlic close when you turn off that light! "},{"Title":"A classic horror film for a reason","Date":"15 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula is bonafide horror classic not only responsible of leading the way for the Universal Monsters and horror's first real break into the mainstream, but it also had a major influence in the vampire mythos that we see in films today. Despite all the new adaptations of the story of vampires and Dracula, this film still stands tall above the lot.Good What really helps this film retain its iconic status is Bela Lugosi as Dracula and the direction. Lugosi is still fantastic as Dracula as he just commands the screen and despite his version of Dracula has been parodied time and time again, but it still works here. The direction is excellent as well with a great atmosphere and sets on here.Overall, while it is not as brutal or scary as other vampire films, it is still an atmospheric, well acted, and entertaining vampire film. "},{"Title":"Bela Lugosi's Legendary Performance Is The Benchmark For Film Vampires Even Today","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Following the Great Depression Univeral executive Carl Laemmle, Jr. was forced to downsize plans for a planned movie based on the novel Dracula by Bram Stoker. The money simply wasn't there for the scale of the production he's hoped would be on par with The Phantom of the Opera. To cut costs he chose to adapt the stageplay by Hamilton Deane and John Balderston. Bela Lugosi was playing the vampire on stage at the time to rave reviews. Despite that fact, he was not Universal's first choice as star but in the end his charisma won out. Dwight 'Frankenstein' Frye co-stars as Renfield and Edward Van Sloan is Van Helsing. The narrative follows Dracula moving to England from his native Transylvania to drink the blood of the lovely Mina and to make Carfax Abbey his new home. This masterpiece was followed by numerous sequels and countless imitations over the years. "},{"Title":"It may be dusty, but it's still a classic","Date":"25 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" (62%) It is without doubt a classic owing to the fact that it is so well made, and so memorable. The sets are some of the greatest ever to appear on any film, and Lugosi is great as the awful head vamp. It's more than a little dated of course, so there's no blood/biting or on-screen death or murder, plus the acting is very theatrical at times, and there's quite a few long drawn-out sections of total silence that highlight exactly how old and pioneering it is.With that said, all horror fans should watch this at least once, as it does make a great late-night Halloween movie that will live on - just like the old count himself - forever. "}{"Title":"Dracula (1931)","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tod Browning put on a complete show that didn't disappoint the least bit in this adaptation of the Dracula novel. It was faithful, had solid characters and a strong presence of Bela Lugosi to carry the way. What I liked about this Universal Picture was that it was fast paced and never really had any dull moments. Classic movies sometimes drag and don't hold my interest entirely but I never really seemed to hit pause. I was glued from the get go from the starting opening scene in Transylvania. Renfield, played by Dwight Frye was very sufficient and creepy. The characters of Van Helsing, Dr. Seward and Mina were terrific and casted perfectly. Bela Lugosi as Dracula was of course the star of the film and spawned a long list of Universal movies for himself. The role of John Harker was annoying at times and didn't have the best dialog written for him. It's obviously a classic that all horror fans have to watch. I would be hard pressed to find someone who doesn't like 1931's Dracula despite its few flaws. "},{"Title":"Look Into My Eyes...","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A bloody horror film classic! One of the best vampire films ever made. This is another must see film for all horror movie fans.What makes vampires so alluring, so irresistible? Is it their charming ways? Is it the fact they have eternal life? Is their brooding dark ways? Is it their style of dress and homes? Is it their manners? Or, maybe, it is simply their really cool fangs! Whatever it is vampires are sure to stay in fiction films for a long time yet to come. And some older vampire films like Dracula(1931) will surely never die! I could watch this film classic again maybe because Count Bela has hypnotized me with his famous line Look Into My Eyes... Another great last night flick! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Classic Horror","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For Xmas last year I got the Universal Monsters box set containing 8 of Universals horror movies from the 30's and 40's. I started watching this set with Dracula, a movie that I watched back in the 80's, so I haven't seen it in 30 years, It's still a chilling and frightening movie when you put it into the context of when it was released. Bela Lugosi's movements when he attacks and the light across his eyes must have really scared the daylights out of the 1930's audience, today it's almost humorous. But the movie is regarded as a classic movie from that period. It was the start of the horror movie genre, Classic Lugiso lines including cheeldren of the naight, I nevair dreenk vine and I am Count Draculaaa, and no doesn't say, I vant to dreenk your vlodd. The scene where Dracula meets Van Helsing is a classic, especially when Van Helsing asks what sort of creature makes marks on a neck, and the maid introduces Count Dracula. This scene is quickly followed up by the lack of Dracula reflection in the mirror. Dwight Frye's Renfield is excellent, his creepy laugh and the expression on his face when he is not given his insects is memorable. Bela Lugosi epitomizes the perfect Dracula, no other actor has ever matched Lugosi's Dracula. Combined with Dwight Fryes Renfield, they were the perfect pair for this movie. Interesting that nurses were stationed in the lobbies of theatres when the movie was released to attend anyone who was scared by the movie. I love this box series and I am really enjoying watching Dracula, one of my favourite classic horror movies. "},{"Title":"THE horror masterpiece!","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bela Lugosi is my all-time fav horror actor and this is HIS film!  It is a masterpiece!  While not based on Stoker's novel (Nosferatu is much closer), it is an interesting story, none-the-less!Almost every line that Bela utters has become a classic (Children of the night.... etc).The only fault is that the acting of the hero/heroine is EXTREMELY wooden, and the romance isn't convincing.Having seen both this film AND the Spanish version, I have to say that (in THIS aspect) the Spanish version is MUCH better; the characters are move believeable....BUT.....they didn't have LUGOSI!BTW...there's an interesting blooper in this film, that not many people know about.  About 37 mins in, Lugosi leans down on Nina's bed (to bite her in the neck) -- if you look on the RIGHT side of the screen, you'll see a PIECE OF CARDBOARD that was attached to the lampshade, to take the glare off her face!  (You've never seen it 'cos Lugosi's acting is RIVETING!).  Look for it! "},{"Title":"A superbly atmospheric, cobwebbed delight!","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Transylvanian sequences in this film are a superbly atmospheric, cobwebbed delight and Lugosi's vampire has a presence unmatched by any other screen Count with the possible exception of Christopher Lee.The theatrical origins of the screenplay (it was an adaption of a stageplay based on Stoker's novel) are more apparent in the second half.  Unlike the book Dracula at first conceals his vampiric nature from his English victims, which echoes Jeckyll and Hyde somewhat.Nevertheless I feel the spirit of the book survives in this version better than it does in closer adaptions. Along with 'Vampyr' (1932)and 'Nosferatu'(1922) - also a loose adaption of Stoker - it is probably the best vampire movie ever made.   "},{"Title":"Stopping By Dracula's Castle on a Windy Evening","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One kind of film that Universal Studios did better than any other was the Gothic horror story. Carl Laemmle practically took out a patent on those films. The sets were already on the lot, he just kept making Frankenstein, Wolfman, and Dracula films at minimal cost and they made money for Universal. In fact until Deanna Durbin started singing for this studio and Abbott&Costello brought over their vaudeville routines, these horror films were the bread butter of Universal Pictures.Interestingly enough though Bela Lugosi only played the role of Count Dracula twice on film, he became so overwhelmingly identified with the part that Lugosi's whole life was taken over by the undead Count. He was buried in fact in his Dracula costume.Lugosi however did portray the vampire Count on Broadway in a play adapted from the Bram Stoker novel three years before he did the screen version for Universal. It was on Broadway that Lugosi first got acclaim for Dracula. Carl Laemmle bought the screen rights to the play after seeing Lugosi on stage and just in time for sound. Edward Van Sloan as Van Helsing and Herbert Bunston as Dr. Seward also came over from the Broadway cast.Although Bela got his career role from this film, Edward Van Sloan as the vampire killer Van Helsing also got the role that people identify him with. Van Sloan practically duplicated his role in The Mummy which also became another series of horror films for Universal.Oddly enough Lugosi himself killed the Universal horror genre by that second appearance as Count Dracula in Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein. When those mythic horror monsters became comic foils for Bud and Lou, the demand ceased for these kind of films. It only started again when British Hammer films revived the genre by making them far more explicit and bloody.Still with that Hungarian accented voice of cultured menace, Bela Lugosi remains for purists the only real Dracula ever put on screen, Christopher Lee notwithstanding. Like in The Mummy which I've also reviewed good use is made of themes by Tschaikovsky as background music by Director Tod Browning. But it's Bela Lugosi who makes this film a horror picture for the age. Dracula will be still frightening viewers centuries from now. After all vampires are eternal. "},{"Title":"Lugosi is Dracula","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The one that started it all for me all those years ago back in 1987. I first saw Dracula at the age of five and it scared me with fear, especially those eyes. Bela Lugosi's best movie of his career and really brought out the monster in his character. Edward Von Sloan also did a superb job as Van Helsing, the hunter sent to kill the dreaded Dracula. Dwight Frye also did a wonderful job as the demented Renfield, Dracula's faithful servant. Universal hit it on the nail by making this movie and an entire collection involving the Dracula character. Though tame by today's standards in horror movies, Dracula remains as one of the best horror movies of all time and I agree one bit with that comment. A true masterpiece that will forever fright moviegoers young and old. "},{"Title":"Still Very Scary","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Come Children of the night. This is one of the few horror films that has withstood time, The original Frankenstein was made to look almost bad, and even The Shining has had some trouble and its one twenty-five years old. But Dracula is still a very, very scary film today in 2005. Dracula may not be a great film but it is sure a classic and one that everyone should see. The story is very, very good but not amazing it has its holes but is nearly perfect. The screenplay has good dialogue and characters but the best thing about it is that it understands two things, things that most horror films forget. 1. We are scared more by what we don't see. 2. Silence is often scarier than a lot of screaming and dialogue about scary stuff. The acting is horrible by most of the cast but Bela Lugosi as the infamous Count Dracula himself is amazing. The direction is very good. The visual effects are a little cheesy but hey it was made in 1930. A amazing and truly terrifying horror film "},{"Title":"The Greatest Dracula Ever.","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bela Lugosi was, is, and shall be the greatest Dracula of all time. No modern performance touches his. A truly underrated talent. If he had lived a few more years, he would have been in high demand. Mr Lugosi is the iconic Dracula of the ages. His performance in this picture and many more set the standard for a suave sophisticated villain of diabolical evil. His problem was that he was so completely convincing as Dracula, that his association with the character became, in the audience's mind, natural and eternal. The legion of fans of Bela Lugosi will remain grateful for his untiring efforts to entertain and enthrall us with his stylish and sincere performances even when confronted with a poor script and low budget. The films in some cases were not up to par, but Mr. Lugosi's performance was always above par and professional. The Spanish version of the 1931 Dracula was very well designed and photographed, but it lacked the main ingredient Bela Lugosi. The comparison of these two film should show anyone the power of Lugosi's Dracula. Bram Stoker's Character Dracula was given eternal life by the great eternal BELA LUGOSI. "},{"Title":"the best","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I hear the silence of this film, I also hear the noise of most other films. This is to say that movies are increasingly noisy -- not only full of manipulating and unnecessary sounds, but full of film composers' scores which desperately try to fill some role in the visual medium (I am a visual artist and also a musician and feel that these guys should take a break). The silence of this film is pregnant with horror and so eerie. Lugosi is also so frightening that in the scenes in which he is absent (or silent), the fear of his return remains. I also think of Van Helsing's silence in his approach to Dracula without a word, he opens the cigarette case .... There is power and chi in the stillness of this film which is lacking today. There is also, despite from antique acting techniques, a lot of sincerity here. "}{"Title":"Interesting though rather unvivid and tame","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula opens very well with lavish sets and a genuine spooky atmosphere as a young lawyer named Reinfield visits the Count's Transylvanian castle to settle some business. But after this, when the story takes us to London, it seems more disjointed and vague.I don't understand what has supposed to have happened to Reinfield, why did he go mad? If Dracula bit him then why didn't he die or become a vampire? And the story is a bit confusing. Did Dracula plan on killing certain women when he came to London or did he just go with the flow? Why did he come to London in the first place? It's never really clarified. Which is a bit odd considering all of the expositional dialogue featured in the movie.Though it sounds incredibly unpurist, I did enjoy this film much more with Philip Glass's new score. The chewed up Swan Lake music at the start just got on my nerves and I feel Glass's music gave the whole film a new sense of consistency and tied it together a little tighter. I would have liked it more if it showed us the gore and killing rather than simply implying it. I know it was the '30s but they still could have made an effort. I see nothing that would shock even a naive '30s audience.And surely I am not the only one who thinks that Dracula looks a uncannily like Steven Seagal. "},{"Title":"Nosferatu is far superior.","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Despite its usual *four star* rating, this movie is poorly directed and has only adequate acting and a flimsy script. The fact that it was filmed in 1931 does not excuse it. Film editing and directing was already advanced at the time of its production (Nosferatu--the German version of Bram Stoker's novel--is a far superior film), so the only explanation can be that, despite our fond memories, this film is a flop. Like the play that inspired it, action often takes place off-screen, with the characters offering expository to tell us what they're seeing. The story is hard to follow and director Tod Browning positions his camera like he's filming a staged play. Legosi's performance is classic, but the ridiculous close-ups with off-target eye-lights ruin any atmosphere established in the opening scenes. 6/10  "},{"Title":"The Definitive DRACULA of the Ages!","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Everything imaginable has been said about this film which set the standard forever for every classic vampire portrayal. The suave, continental Hungarian Lugosi is unequalled in his role of a lifetime. Helen Chandler is fetching and supremely lovely as the blonde Mina, his lead victim. Dwight Frye goes deleriously mad in his signature performance as Renfield. The sets are magnificent and the photography (and possibly much of the direction) by Karl Freund is toweringly classic. Detractors are quick to call it static and stagy but its mesmerizing power continues to this day. The tragedy of its DVD release is that the print is ungodly dark & murky and MUST be remastered! Are you listening, Universal? Also accompanied by the Spanish version of this film which is visually and cinematically brilliant. The DVD cover features the breathtaking one-sheet poster for the film. But please, somebody at Universal, please clean up the sound and deliver us a lighter, clearer version of this film. DRACULA deserves the best and we lovers of the Great Lugosi deserve the best too! A masterpiece.   "},{"Title":"The Best Horror Film America Has Produced","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is exactly what so many new horror movies are not.  There is little blood, little violence, no gore.  The settings, acting, etc. are so well done and so creepy, there's no need for the kind of shock value blood and gore provide.  Every other Dracula film, with the exception of the Jack Palance version from 1973, might as well not have been done.  Skip all of the new stuff and go to the classic! "},{"Title":"Flies? Flies? Poor puny things! Who wants to eat flies?","Date":"4 October 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula is a film that works against the normal standard of how a monster can be scary. Bela Lugosi's performance as the count Dracula makes for an excellent performance as you watch his suave and intellectual behavior guide him to the streets of London. It's the way he retains his mental appearance that makes him terrifying. He acts so human that we could of forgotten that he's the villain, had it not been for that devilish smirk he often displays. I loved this movie for its chilling atmosphere, use of lighting and camera transitions, and, of course, Lugosi himself, but there's still something that sort of anchors the movie. That anchor is none other than Edward Von Sloan's character, Professor Van Helsing. To be fair, Sloan is a really tough supporting character; he's dedicated to exposing the vampire and works to keeping the other characters from falling victim to him. The only thing about his character, though, is in his dialogue. Looking back at his speeches, they seem jumbled, as if Sloan's lines were written solely from a few great lines and lots of facts on vampires. I remember a part in the plot where David Manner's character asks him a serious question, to which Sloan opens his mouth and spits out more vampire information. "},{"Title":"Tod Browning/Bela Lugosi's collaboration","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The marvelous thing about this classic Universal version of Bram Stoker's novel is the fact that even though it's one of the least faithful or even indeed cohesive versions of the narrative, Bela Lugosi's performance towers above the film and indeed over all film Draculas to this day. It doesn't matter that Stoker's vampire was more of a hairy giant while Lugosi's interpretation is late 19th Century Continental. He brings more to mind the ruined White Russian princes who populated the hot spots of London and Paris in the early 20th Century than he does any kind of 15th Century Inquisition leftover. It matters not. Lugosi connects with the audience, with his intense eyes and bizarre mesmeric hand motions. His gravity is undeniable, and he's like a dark star twisting and attracting everything else in the movie around him -- much like Dracula himself.Browning's direction is understandably derided, although his film would have benefited from a more extravagant production. The conclusion of the movie in particular seems rushed and inadequate. But it's grossly unfair for so many critics, professional and amateur alike, to claim that the film would be better off without him. Even more ridiculous are the claims that the film was directed by Karl Freund. I've seen most of Freund's directorial films and most of Browning's, and this is absolutely Browning's film and his cinematic vision, take it or leave it. The main positive Browning can be credited with, a sort of vestigial reminder of the great Lon Chaney with whom he had collaborated so many times in the past, is the sense of empathy for the outsider that imbues the film with real poignancy. Not for a moment do any of the normal characters like Jon Harker or Mina seem like real people; but Browning paradoxically manages to make Lugosi's vampire come alive, as well as Dwight Frye's amusingly disturbed Renfield. It's not right to credit Lugosi with the lion's share of the accolades, as so many do. Take a look at most of his later films, even his higher-budget collaboration with Benjamin Christiansen a year after this film. Lugosi only reached these heights again when, as in the popular White Zombie, he imitated his performance for Browning. Not to mention that Browning's entire filmography, from the Chaney works like Unholy Three and Unknown through his subsequent work on the infamous Freaks, is marked by the same kind of trenchant identification with the most extreme social outcasts imaginable. Browning's Dracula is another extension of the same idea -- Dracula's lust for blood is the only real emotion on display in the entire film, and it would be a giant mistake to assume that was accident or incompetence.Only in the scenes with Renfield, however, does Browning's trademark dark humor really come into play. Otherwise the film is objectionably dry in tone. The weird atmosphere of the Transylvanian scenes is never equaled by the mausoleums of London which look like the cheap sets they are. What's really important though is the image that you're left with after the movie is over, and that's of Lugosi's magnificent performance. "},{"Title":"The Jewel In The Crown of Classic Universal Horror DVDs","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This DVD is the Jewel in the Crown of the classic Universal horror films released in that format. It includes a quality print of the Bella Lugosi Dracula, with options to play the film with Philip Glass' recent soundtrack; the so-called Spanish Dracula starring Carlos Villarias; and a fascinating documentary hosted by Carla Laemmle, who has a bit role in the Lugosi Dracula and who was niece to Universal studio head Carl Laemmle. There is also an audio track by David J. Skal, production notes, and the like.The Lugosi Dracula is somewhat problematic. Dracula had been previously (and illegally) filmed as the silent NOSFERATU, and a later stage adaptation proved a staple of the British theatre. When the stage play at last arrived in New York, the title role fell to Bela Lugosi. Although Universal optioned the material, studio head Carl Laemmle was not enthusiastic about it; although European films were comfortable with the supernatural, American films were not, and Laemmle did not believe the public would accept such an irrational story. Nor was Laemmle interested in Lugosi; if Dracula was to be filmed, it would be filmed with Lon Chaney.When Chaney died the screen role went to Lugosi by default, but there were further issues. Originally planned as a big-budget production, the deepening Great Depression made the film's box office possibilities seem even slighter than before and its budget was cut to the bone. And Todd Browning, who had been such a successful director of the macabre in the silent era, proved clumsy with sound. The resulting film was more than a little clunky--but it had two things going for it a superior first thirty minutes and Lugosi. Although Lugosi's performance may seem excessively mannered by today's standards, audiences of the 1930s found it terrifying--and even today, when the character of Dracula comes to mind, we are more likely to think of Lugosi than other actor that later played the role.For a brief time after the advent of sound, several studios made foreign language versions of their productions. The Spanish Dracula was one such film, and when the English language company wrapped for the day the Spanish speaking cast arrived and filmed through the night using the same sets. This gave the Spanish company the benefit of hindsight they were perfectly aware of what the English language company was doing, and they deliberately set out to best it. The result is a somewhat longer, more cohesive film with some of the most arresting visuals and camera work of the early sound era. But unfortunately, star Carlos Villarias was no Bella Lugosi although much of his performance was more subtle than Lugosi's, it was also less intimidating, and where today Lugosi seems mannered, Villarias seems unfortunately comic. In a perfect world, we would be able to insert the Lugosi performance into the Spanish Dracula. As it is, we are left with two deeply flawed but nonetheless fascinating films.In their own ways, both films proved incredibly influential, and it is difficult to imagine the evolution of the classic-style horror film without reference to both the Lugosi and the Spanish Dracula. The Lugosi film is not perfectly restored, but the print is very, very good, easily the best I have seen. The Spanish Dracula has more problematic elements, partly due the fact that the film borrowed some scenic footage from the Lugosi version and snips of footage from earlier films (there even appears to be a brief clip of the ballet from the silent PHANTOM OF THE OPERA in the film); the film is sometimes dark, sometimes very spotted, but short of a cgi restoration this is probably as good as it gets.The Philip Glass soundtrack, which is optional, tends to divide viewers. The Lugosi Dracula had virtually nothing in the way of soundtrack; the Spanish Dracula used music to a greater degree, but even so that degree is comparative. The Glass score is often quite interesting, but it is also as often intrusive as it is effective. Some feel it adds quite a bit to the film; others find it distracts. Whatever one's reaction to the film, either English or Spanish language, or with or without the Glass score, this is a remarkable DVD package, and fans of classic horror will find it an almost inexhaustible pleasure. I cannot recommend it too strongly.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Dracula","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Haunting film version of Bram Stoker's classic vampire with Lugosi giving the finest performance of his career. His Dracula is an amazing performance in that he brings out the horror in Dracula from those eyes. Those eyes spell out fear for me more than the sight of blood or fangs. Lugosi's performance can never be matched nor topped.   "},{"Title":"The Original Boogeyman!","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While not the brood fest as it could have been Bela Lugosi DOES pull off quite an acting feast here, as he hams it up in a rather curiously staged movie. I was wondering throughout whether the film was rewritten and rewritten as there are curious gaps (What WAS Renfield going to do with the fainted maid?) and curious pans when Dracula was getting out of the coffin that had me wondering. Of course, the fact that I watched the superior (but not by much I'm afraid) Spanish version right afterwards doesn't help I'm afraid because it makes the gaps in the film even wider. All in all, this was not bad, but certainly not great either. "},{"Title":"Philip Glass kills Dracula!","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Finally, I bought Dracula on video. I remember looking on the cover of the video, saying restored version and new musical score by Philip Glass on the cover. But I was so crazed by my find that I didn't stop to think if that was the video I wanted. If I buy a video, it must be as original as the movie. A very important part of the Universal pictures in the '30, is the music. The music is very much a character in those movies. The music adds a special mood. The new score by Philip Glass didn't add that feeling. It was irritating. For instance, when Renfield visits Count Dracula in Transsylvania. These scenes are very important because they introduce us to Dracula. When Dracula and Renfield have conversation, I had trouble concentrating because of the ridicilous score! The score wasn't a character to the film, as the original was.   "}{"Title":"Too bad...","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Today people laugh at that Dracula. Bela Lugosi is a joke of a vampire and every close-up on his stiff-glared face echoes ridiculous.The movie itself is a harsh end-to-end editing of key scenes from the novel. That's why there's no inner breath hampering boredom. Eventually it's the worst Dracula I have ever seen. And I definitely rank Murnau's Nosferatu far above with masterpieces of horror movies.I could not imagine something that bad I was making these comments in my head during the screening! "},{"Title":"'Educational' More Than 'Exciting'","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Younger people who never saw the original here but have seen Dracula movies sometime in the past 30 years will be very disappointed with this original version. I'm not young, and I was disappointed, too, not that it was all bad.The film does have an eerie feel to it in a primitive way, so kudos for that. Bela Lugosi, the first and most famous Dracula of them all, has eyes that penetrate and are unforgettable. Unfortunately, that's about it as the only things unforgettable about this film. I said what I said in the first paragraph because there is no blood, not even one scene of Dracula biting anyone. Come on - this is Dracula!! The ending wasn't very dramatic, either a most disappointing finish.I did enjoy watching this for the historical value, however, because having only known Dracula movies since the '50s I learned a few truths from this film. Truths, meaning that (1) Dracula had to return to the soil when he went to sleep at night, not particularly in a coffin, and Renfield was institutionalized when he arrived in America and stayed there until Dracula killed him in the end. You don't see these things in latter-day Dracula movies or in Dracula spoofs. "},{"Title":"Lugosi *is* Dracula","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I just rewatched this in the cinema (my first time seeing it in years, and first time ever on the big screen) and loved the set design in the castle scenes high contrast b/w photography; over-sized fireplaces and Gothic arches and doorways made the two men seem tiny, and candelabra placed near camera (forced perspective) only reinforces this. Lugosi's first appearance is still chilling 6'1 tall, clad in jet black cape, slicked back black hair, slowly walking to stairs, complete silence before I am Dracula  The complete silence in many scenes was awkward, yet extremely effective. The complete silence, devoid of even any ambient noise. has us waiting for sound, any kind of sound to come along, we're almost searching for it, and when it does, in the form of Lugosi's I am Dracula it is almost deafening, shocking, because of the lack of any ambient sounds. Lugosi's delivery is calm and confident, charming, yet chilling; calling, yet foreboding. Great turns from the leads, great sets and photography and audio track, but film does have a few lulls in action, and a couple of the bat-on-a-string effects have aged quite poorly. "},{"Title":"A master pieces in terror","Date":"22 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of the best horror movie ever made. A vampire from Romania movies to England to look for new victims. This is one of the scariest movies ever made. This is a true horror classic. Based on one of the best horror stories ever told. This is one of the best horror movies ever made. This movie has a great story line. It also has great acting. Do not underestimate this movie because it is old. It is extremely intense. I need more lines. And I am running out of things to say. This a great movie. Great movie great movie. This movie is a must see. If you like really scary movie. Then you will like this movie. It does not feel old. "},{"Title":"The children of the night....","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Real estate agent Renfield travels to Transylvania for a meeting with Count Dracula, who is interested in buying Carfax Abbey in London. He is converted to a slave of Dracula and prepares his master's ship to travel to his new property. Once in London, Dracula discovers that he has a new destiny, and her name is Mina Seward....It's arguably the most famous of the all the Dracula incarnations, but the years haven't been kind to the film, and despite all the quotable lines, and Lugosi's career defining performance, it's all very camp.As menacing as Dracula is, he does spend a lot of time having someone flash a light in his face to look more sinister, and although the main cast are excellent in their respective roles, the supporting cast are just pitiful, and drag the film down whenever they open their mouths.See for example, The Innkeeper featured I the first act, and the hospital steward, they just done seem to be taking the thing seriously.But the film is a classic, the sets are awe inspiring, and in its own unique way, it is quite a chilling movie.........But very camp nonetheless..... "},{"Title":"I bid you welcome","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Easily the best vampire movie ever made, Universal Studios Dracula is a horror masterpiece. The lighting is dim and menacing and the sound track is beautifully scored. Bela Lugosi plays the perfect count Dracula, his accent is perfect and his stage presence is strong. The opening of the film is amazing and excites the viewer for whats to come. The composition of the film is great and the sets/props are well-made and authentic . For a film that was released in 1931 it is beyond it's time. Though it is not entirely accurate to Bram strokers original novel, it comes closer than any other renditions that have been made. The ending is a tad cut short but overall a it is a very successful film, truly a classic. "},{"Title":"This movie will continue to cement the Count's immortality for generations to come.","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Universal Studio's 1931 production of Dracula is loosely based on Bram Stoker's Victorian novel of the same name. I say loosely because the majority of the film is the work of film director Todd Browning and bears little resemblance to Stoker's literary masterpiece. Don't be fooled, though, because the film is just as powerful and as engaging as Stoker's original story.Bela Lugosi won the role of the Count (again) after Universal's first choice, Lon Chaney, passed away prematurely from throat cancer. So, in this respect, the passing of a silent horror star made way for the birth of a new, talking horror star. Lugosi electrified movie audiences with his eerie portrayal of a man hungry for blood. The film begins as Renfield (Dwight Frye) makes his way to the Count's mountaintop abode in Transylvania. He is meeting the mysterious Hungarian aristocrat in order to finalize the lease on a dilapidated structure called Carfax Abbey, which is situated in London, England, and which the Count has recently purchased. Not long after meeting Dracula, Renfield is rendered insane and is committed to Doctor Seward's (Herbert Bunston) psychiatric asylum located just steps away from Dracula's recent acquisition, Carfax Abbey.ow that Count Dracula and Renfield are both ensconced in London, England, all havoc breaks loose &#x97; from innocent flower girls dropping dead in the streets to performances of the Royal Ballet's Swan Lake being infiltrated by an evil Hungarian bloodsucker on the prowl. Soon, the women in this film are dropping like flies. First, the love-struck Lucy (Frances Dade) is brought down, and then her best friend &#x97; and Jonathan Harker's (David Manners) fiancée &#x97; Mina (Helen Chandler) is pursued. Clearly, Dracula has an insatiable appetite for women of the meek and blonde variety.Thankfully Mina's demise is stalled by the ever-alert Abraham Van Helsing (Edward Van Sloan), who clashes with Dracula from the very start. Van Helsing is an expert on mysterious ailments and mythical creatures of the night. He identifies the Count as the girls' assailant almost immediately. Van Helsing's will is strong and he is able to battle Dracula better than anybody else. It is truly a battle of brains and brawn between these two formidable characters, and watching them go head to head is a real treat! As we previously mentioned, Van Sloan and Lugosi had worked together before on the 1927 stage version of Dracula, and their on screen chemistry is just fantastic.Lugosi is an absolute delight to watch &#x97; well, aside from the fact that he can't seem to stop preying upon defenceless young women. Simply speaking, Lugosi was born to play the role of Count Dracula. Even if you have never seen this film before and are unfamiliar with Lugosi, his image is still the first one you picture when someone mentions the ubiquitous Transylvanian count. He was handsome, rather than grotesque, and that is one of the biggest reasons why his variation of the Count was considered so dangerous. He embodies Count Dracula from the top of his head through to his long claw-like hands, down to his expertly shined shoes. His long cape flutters behind him, almost dancing along as he hunts down innocent females to feed upon.If you are new to this film, one of the first things you will notice is that there is no musical soundtrack. Some may view that as a negative, but upon closer inspection, the silence that ensues in the most frightening scenes actually adds to the story's intense atmosphere. Together with the lack of mood music, the cinematography and camera-work in Dracula are quite impressive, considering the film's age and how new this medium still was back in the early 1930s. The close-ups of the Count are chill inducing and the images that were captured on film really stay with you for hours and even days afterwards! It will be a long while before I sleep with my window open ever again; that is for sure.The set design and decoration is typical of most 1930s era films (heavily influenced by the Art Deco movement), especially the scenes set in Carfax Abbey. Just one glimpse of that humongous twisting stone staircase sets my heart on fire! Though Count Dracula is a wealthy aristocrat, his living spaces are primitive and decrepit and they beautifully illustrate his very nature as a monster. On the other end of the spectrum, Doctor Seward's living and working quarters are very robust and welcoming, warm and inviting, ostentatious yet practical for a man who studies medicine and psychiatry.Dracula has left an indelible mark on movie audiences since its premiere in 1931. It is widely considered a cult horror classic unrivalled by many of today's modern horror fare. Mention it to anyone who has seen it before and their eyes will inevitably light up as they begin offering you tales of the first time they sat down to watch the movie. It is a film that will continue to live on well past our lifetimes, cementing the Count's immortality for generations to come.http//juliekinnear.com/blogs/movies-realtors-Dracula "},{"Title":"Dracula may be dead, but the classic horror genre will live for eternity.","Date":"23 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After almost one hundred years of cinematic macabre nail and neck biting, Dracula still lives on, although his looks have changed enormously over those times. From the monstrous looking thin, bald creature in Nosferatu to the changing looks of Gary Oldman in Francis Ford Coppola's 1993 masterpiece (which Leslie Nielsen got to spoof in Dracula-Dead and Loving It), Dracula remains an undying undead character of fiction, even if there was a real life Vlad the Impaler who was the basis for Bram Stoker's novel of the legend of the vampire.Even with Oldman's unforgettable performance and other Draculas (such as Christopher Lee and Frank Langella), it is Bela Lugosi's performance as the count which remains the visionary for this creature of the night. Even though he lives in a Carpathian mountain castle loaded with cobwebs and strange looking rodents, he is definitely a creature of class, although his choice of beverage does not include wine and his nightlife doesn't include going to the theater or ballet. He enjoys another dance, the dance of death, and other than one statement about how glorious it would be to be really dead, he is totally unapologetic of his lustful desire for human plasma.Has there ever been a more haunting carriage ride than David Manners' journey through the Carpathian mountains? The mountain range looks absolutely desolate, in fact absolutely lifeless. It's obviously Lugosi driving the buggy, his eyes piercing in the dark without words as he picks Manners up from the fleeing carriage that is desperate to get out of the area. When Manners arrives at Dracula's castle, it becomes all the more eerie, with Lugosi's friendly greeting obviously plotting something more ominous as he declares, I bid you welcome!. Even as Dracula changed looks over the years, his high-born nature never allows Dracula to be as crude as the monstrous creature of Nosferatu. By not giving a backstory to the count's life, he remains a monster, yet one of noble birth, who is destined for evil and a gruesome demise.While the 1992 remake is certainly a superb romantic vision of the creature, this version makes no effort to romanticize him which gives Lugosi an element of mystery in his performance. He has a few scenes in dealing with the London characters he encounters in a social setting, but most of the time, he is brandishing his cape around to trap some unsuspecting victim in his web. The Mina of Helen Chandler is a sweet, rather stereotypical ingénue with little to do other than look petrified as she falls under Dracula's spell. Lugosi is supported with fine performances by Dwight Frye as the psychotic Renfield and Edward Van Sloan as the very determined Van Helsing. The use of music from Swan Lake over the opening gives an eerie feeling. Appropriately slow moving in spots, it is almost opera like in the way it is presented. It is just too bad that when this became a Broadway musical, it was done so blandly that I had to refer to it as the most bring $100 I've ever spent in my life. "},{"Title":"One of the most important and influential horror films ever.","Date":"16 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" (Halloween Horror Reviews #7)Tod Browning's Dracula is a landmark. Not simply among horror films, but a landmark for all of cinema. It played a vital role in moving the horror genre into the sound era, and setting the blueprints for the various other 'monster' films that followed throughout the 30's and 40's. It also cemented the Universal brand as being the chief mass entertainers of the age, with their brand of Gothic horror leaving a gigantic mark on film history. However, outside of this titanic influence, does the film still hold up after 83 years?Firstly the acting. Bela Lugosi's Dracula is truly immortal and has not aged a day. It still holds as a perfect example of actor and character becoming one, and there is a reason that Lugosi stands as the iconic Dracula, despite innumerable other renditions of the character. Dwight Frye is also wonderful as Renfield, bringing chilling creepiness to every scene he inhabits. He also carries a sympathetic weight and tragedy throughout adding layers to the role. Between these two, the acting is already a treat regardless of the other performances. Edward Van Sloan is the only other performance of note, filled with the authoritative dignity the man was renown for. However despite these great stars in the leading roles, the supporting cast is a massive letdown. Average at best, distressingly bland and wooden at worst. Many scenes begin to slump together as a result of these limp performances. Overall however the acting does stand strong due to the leads, but suffers from uneven support.The set design and imagery is stunning. One of the most iconic Gothic mansion ever put to film features in the opening, a true treat for a fan. However the visuals do dip slightly upon arrival in England, where more generic period sets feature. Some nice lighting and creepy highlights (a sequence featuring live rats running around in a coffin filled basement in particular) do keep the momentum of the opening go throughout however, so overall the sets and imagery do hold up well. The cinematography is far more dated, it is often stiff and doesn't take full advantage of the locations. This fault was fixed in the alternate Spanish version of the film, with far more haunting camera movements.The lacking score is a dividing point for many. Some view it as creepy and ambient, where's other feel it is awkward and an example of the holdover elements from silent cinema. I personally agree more with the later, however it does work at times (the rat sequence once again springs to mind).Overall the film is still strong. However when compared to the work's of contemporaneous director 'James Whale' (who also made monster films for Universal), it is clear that it is severely lacking in polish and shows its age far more than it really should. There is enough immortal material here to warrant its continuous status as a classic. However many elements hold it back, not least of which is an almost laughably anti-climatic climax and ending which leave an oddly sour taste in the mouth. "},{"Title":"Dracula 1931 Review","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I loved the beginning part of the movie! I think Dracula has a great personality about him. He is very laid back yet has an unnerving creepiness about him. The scene when Renfield goes into Count Dracula's castle is just great! First off I liked how when he walked inside the castle everything is so much bigger in proportion to him. This creates a very creepy feeling. I also love when he is walking up the stairs after Dracula; Dracula goes through the cobwebs and doesn't break them. When it is Renfield's turn he has to use his cane to break through the huge cobweb, just as a massive spider crawls by. I also loved the animals that were throughout the film. I think the armadillos, rats, and possums added to the creepiness factor. One thing that I didn't like about the movie, which also made it really slow and boring to watch, was the fact that there was no music. During the passing scenes, or when no one was talking there was just the sound of the film running in the background. This gave a veryyyyy boring feel to the movie. I did not like aspect of the film at all. "}{"Title":"Still a good watch","Date":"9 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula one film that will always be a classic film for film lovers especially those that have a love for the black and white films. Still it might seem simple but was so much more for when the film was actually made which is what makes me like the films so much.The old black and white dark horror film holds its name even more with it by using as many dark scenes as possible. Why not it is a film about a vampire. The perfect stare and movements make the character of Dracula even more believable. At the same time his character seems somewhat of a gentleman, but also scary which is the perfect combination for Dracula.The best of the movie is the darkness and using all of that dark space to make a film is even better. With shadows in just about every scene and others only faces are scene make this film so great with cinematography. "},{"Title":"The Immortal Cultural Icon.","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula (1931) directed by Tod Browning is an adaptation of Bram Stoker's Dracula. The film differs from earlier adaptations as it creates the Dracula we know today, and our modern take on vampires. Nosferatu (1922) sticks closer to the source material, but the character Count Orlok is an ugly and vile looking creature. Dracula on the other hand looks handsome, and is well dressed. He is able to charm the ladies and he has the iconic look that most people think of when they envision Dracula. Bela Lugosi deserves props for his performance as the Count, as he is able to be scary whilst still being charming. The fact that he is able to combine these two things is simply gratifying. The film is great, as well. The tale is scary, and definitely goes down as one of the most influential Universal monster films of all time. Overall, Dracula (1931) deserves an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Best Horror Film Made","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I must admit that I am biased about this film. It was Bela Lugosi's performance that made me think of trying acting in the first place. All of the energy and emotion and the passion he shows throughout the movie blew me away. I was actually able to play the role of Dracula in a melodrama, but I knew immediately where to influence my performance. I am not the only one to draw inspiration from this, however. Countless horror films have been made, all trying to become the next Dracula, but none have been able to dethrone the undead king of horrors. To me, this is the finest horror film ever created, and it is as simple as that. The mystique that this film created around the character of Dracula has surpassed what the novel was ever able to do. When I think of a horror movie, this is it. The peak of the mountain. Do you understand now? I may be sounding like Renfield, but this is THE horror film to watch. "},{"Title":"Bela Lugosi is Dracula","Date":"3 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula was the film that not only turned Lugosi into one of Horrors classic actors, but also the film that kick-started the Universal Horror Series, including Frankenstein, The Mummy, The Wolf Man, The Invisible Man and more. Dracula is a horror classic more than 83 years after its release and has stood the test of time where many a film has faded into obscurity. Lugosi is Dracula, pure and simple, you ask someone to act like Dracula, they act like Lugosi. The accent, the endless stare, the hand gestures, it's all considered standard for the Dracula character and it was Lugosi who made the character he is today.Just like all the classic monster movies, the rest of the cast is just as memorable. Dwight Fry is a fantastic Renfield, perfectly capturing a man torn between obedience and insanity. David Manners is good in the sadly diminished role of of John Harker (most of Harkers lines where given to Renfield instead). Herbert Bunston has to be my favorite as Dr. Seward. The music is classic. Capturing the elegance of the time and of Draculas appearance to the outside world, as an elegant, well spoken man. The sets are just as beautiful, while the use of shadow and fog shroud the film in an unmistakable darkness.The film may not be as memorable as something like James Whales Frankenstein, where every scene is memorable. But its still a classic, with great sets, performances, a chilling yet beautiful musical score and Bela Lugosi as the one, the only and the best, Dracula. "},{"Title":"Classic Creature of the Night!","Date":"19 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tod Browning's Dracula 1931 is every vampire movie you will ever need. Great performances all around. Dwight Frye as Renfield is great! The film has the elements of all great horror, the harbingers telling Renfield not to travel to see Dracula are great! Bela Lugosi does a fantastic job as Count Dracula. The hypnosis sequences are great, the effects draw the viewers attention to Lugosi's eyes. The composition of the shots was very well thought out. The lighting was substantial while maintaining a good darkness and good use of fog. The film has a spectacular build up as Dracula puts his spell on others. The climax resulting how most vampire films end. Dracula is a classic and everyone should view it at least once. "},{"Title":"Absolute Favorite","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am in love with Lugosi's portrayal of Dracula, for years and years after the film has been produced Lugosi's voice has set the standard for what every vampire should sound like, from the Count in Sesame Street to people dressed up for Halloween. Bela's portrayal is incredibly iconic and he is a truly talented actor. Dwight Frye is also an amazing actor and I would have liked to see more of a presence of his character in the film. The shots of just Bela's face are so creepy but yet effective in reinforcing the horror in the mind of a viewer. Van Helsing and Dracula have a character dynamic that is unparalleled in any piece of film or literature even now into 2014. "},{"Title":"A classic horror film reduced to a competent genre-piece","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The horror genre didn't begin with Tod Browning's Dracula, but it was greatly revolutionized by its incarnation. Horror had existed as a largely expressionistic medium in countries like Germany for much of the early 1900s, but when Universal Pictures decide to put its hand in the monster-movie pot, horror would never be the same again.1931 saw the beginning of the Great Depression and movie studios began hurting. Dracula's financial performance led to the lengthier viability of Universal Pictures' studio and jump-started several other horror films known as the Universal class monster movies. With that being said, it also placed Hungarian actor Bela Lugosi on the map in addition to furthering the career of filmmaker Tod Browning.Dracula is more than a curious piece of history in the regard that its atmosphere and acting still hold up today, but I think the appeal for viewers will be greatly diminished if they have seen the classic vampire picture Nosferatu from 1922. That film relied more on the sheer ugliness and daunting presence of the monster - with much material taken from the Bram Stoker novel. Dracula, on the contrary, uses the Broadway play as its source, retracting the ugly traits of Dracula to make him dashing rather than daunting. Suave rather than scary. And somewhat attractive rather than a vile monster.Such decisions were completely creative on part of writer Garrett Fort and director Tod Browning (and the uncredited Karl Freund). I can admire and respect their visions but I can't bring myself to prefer it to the 1922 classic. With Nosferatu being the first Dracula film (not counting the lost films of Russia from 1920 or the other lost film from Hungary called Dracula's Death), it's fair to say that a standard was unintentionally set. And having seen that masterpiece, seeing Dracula was a pleasant but ultimately a somewhat unrewarding experience.The film revolves around the titular count who arrives in Transylvania on business. The residents fear the count and his ominous castle, and fear only continues to brew when he attempts to start a relationship with young Mina (Helen Chandler), the daughter of Dr. Seward (Herbert Bunston) who runs the nearby mental hospital.Is it necessary to go further since the story is so classic? Moreover, Lugosi is brilliant here, with his elegant portrayal of a monster formerly seen as brooding and homely. Subtle movements Lugosi makes in the film feel like bold statements and whenever he speaks, the presence of a shivering echo always exists. Lugosi in addition to Karl Freund's beautiful cinematography that guides us through Dracula's spacious concubine with exceptional clarity and placement.The look of the film - thanks to the professional touch of Freund in this particular film - is what Universal began to rely on with each of their monster films, which will probably get to be a redundant, overused statement as I visit many of these films within the next few days. Browning's Dracula, as a whole, works as competent entertainment, but pails in comparison to its silent film predecessor that proves to be scary even as it approaches its one-hundredth year anniversary. Dracula's effectiveness has been demoted to that of a basic mood-setter, if anything.Starring Bela Lugosi, Helen Chandler, and Herbert Bunston. Directed by Tod Browning. "},{"Title":"Bela Lugosi","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tod Browning directed Bela Lugosi as Count Dracula to major stardom in this loose adaptation of Bram Stoker's novel. Dwight Frye(quite memorable) plays Renfield, who goes to the count's castle in Transylvania to transact a real estate deal, only to be turned into a vampire who loyally serves him, protecting his coffin on its way to London, where he seeks the blood of this new land. Only professor Van Helsing(played by Edward Van Sloan) can stop his reign of terror. Lugosi is the whole show here, delivering an indelible performance, though the film itself(despite a promising opening) becomes remarkably slow and talky. Still, Bela and Dwight Frye make the difference here, and film just about succeeds, but with major reservations. "},{"Title":"Definitive Dracula!","Date":"26 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This 1931 horror classic stars Bela Lugosi, Dwight Frye, Helen Chandler, David Manners, Frances Dade, Herbert Bunston and Edward Van Sloan based on Bram Stoker's novel. I won't give away the film's plot because I think most of us know what it's about. I will say that they don't make them like this anymore, Lugosi makes the film and will always be the definitive version of the legendary vampire, Count Dracula. He's so creepy in the role that he didn't need fangs because his movements and facial expressions are chilling. Frye plays Renfield, Chandler plays Mina, Manners plays her fiancée, Jonathan, Dade plays Mina's friend, Lucy, Bunston plays her father, Dr. Seward and Van Sloan not only plays Dracula's nemesis, Van Helsing, but also appears in other horror classics, Frankenstein, The Mummy and Dracula's Daughter. The film gets flack for not staying true to the novel and may have obvious flaws like wire-hanging bats, but it works for the imagination and they did what they could since they didn't have the technology/resources we have now. This classic has a good spooky atmosphere and I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Bela Logosi although not the first, and certainly not the last, nevertheless the quintessential screen Dracula.","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The vampire mythos has been a part of folklore for centuries. Originally the reanimated corpses of peasants who stank and looked grotesque, in the Romantic era of the 19th century the vampire was re-imagined as a sauve, aristocratic, and above-all hypnotically charismatic creature who is able to fascinate with a curious erotic allure. This archetype would then blossom and achieve literary immortality in Bram Stoker's 1897 Gothic novel. Moving to the silver screen, in 1922 German Expressionist director F.W. Murnau made 'Nosferatu', an unauthorised version of Stoker's novel which ran into legal trouble and thought destroyed for many years. Thankfully, copies of the film survived and it remains a striking film in its own right but nevertheless doesn't have the pop-culture punch that Tod Browning's 1931 film has enjoyed since its release. The reason, well&#x85;Max Schreck's portrayal of Count Orlock is of a grotesque monster, closer to the smelly peasants of the original vampire myth. Hardly erotically alluring. Whereas, in contrast, Bela Lugosi's portrayal of the Count is closer to Stoker's image of aristocratic grandeur and exquisite Gothic decay&#x85;which is, well, much more alluring.However, despite the high point of Lugosi's definitive performance of the Count, the film is not perfect and should be approached with caution due to the risk of disappointment. Although cinema had been around for a while by the 1930s and many incredible films had been produced (i.e. in Germany with the likes of 'Nosferatu' (1922) and 'The Cabinet of Dr' Caligari', and also in the US with the likes Universal's own 'The Hunchback of Notre Dame' (1923) and 'The Phantom of the Opera' (1925)) many films, especially from Hollywood, produced in this era are shot and paced much like theatre as the inherent potential of cinema as a unique art-form was still being established. This seems especially the case in 'Dracula' as it was based on a Broadway adaptation of the novel (taking a few liberties with the original plot along the way) and when the action is taking place anywhere but Dracula's lavish yet crumbling castle, I can see how it would be difficult for many to suspend one's disbelief. Also, it must be said, the bat is absolutely laughable which also sadly distracts from the air of menace the film goes to great lengths to create. Consequently, as a result of such weaknesses, the film has lost a lot of the bite it may have had back in the day (pun intended).So while, as a whole film, 'Dracula' certainly has its weak points and doesn't really stand up to the magnificence of, say, James Whale's 'Frankenstein' released the same year, or Browning's own 'Freaks' released the following year (which promptly destroyed his career and was forgotten for decades until it was rediscovered in the 1960s for the masterpiece it is). However, 'Dracula' was a commercial smash at the time, made possible the Hollywood monster boom of the 1930s, rightly made a star of Lugosi, and served up the definitive cinematic presentation of the Count. No small feat&#x85;and while the film may not scare the modern viewer, it still has a certain power to seduce. "}{"Title":"nobody looks like a vampire anymore.....","Date":"24 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Over the years all these vampire movies have come out and nobody looks like a vampire anymore. Johnny DeppMost of the time, vampires aren't my thing, although I loved Interview With A Vampire, the movie and the book. Anne Rice does vampire. Johnny Depp ain't my thing, either, pretty much, although I confess that I've watched Edward Scissorhands repeatedly. And I guess pirates aren't my thing, pretty much, either....But --- ...nobody looks like a vampire anymore? That's deep truth.You want vampire? First, you have to read Dracula. Bram Stoker did vampire the right way. You want a white-knuckle chase scene? Try chasing Dracula by stagecoach through the mountains back to his castle in Transylvania....Then you should watch Nosferatu (1922) if you want to do this thing right.Then you have to see the 1931 version of the Dracula movies.Then you have to put Bela Lugosi's poster picture on your wall. Keep looking at it.Then you can watch the 1992 Dracula with Gary Oldman.Put his poster on the wall. Stare at that one for a while.Now you're ready to talk vampire talk.&#x85;and by the way, I didn't like Dark Shadows, there are lots of good reasons why the film never made it to the hit parade....for one thing, it doesn't have any Transylvanian stagecoaches, duh.... Read more on my blog Barley Literate by Rick "},{"Title":"Dracula is a scary movie, if you're in the right mindset.","Date":"20 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is the fist sound horror movie from this famous studio. And the pick was a good one.Dracula is about the vampire by the same name who is on the haunt for fresh blood. And for that he moves to England. In England he reaps one victim after the other (Only women).This movie is pretty slow, but that is what you can expect since the book is also pretty slow sometimes. There are some changes from the book, and i will not spoil it, but for one the ending is different, and it has less blood then you expect (if you read the book).There are 3 characters that makes the movie really good.The first one is Dracula, brilliantly done by Lugosi, he is just so creepy sometimes. You will remember the most famous stare in movie history after this movie.The second on is Renfield. You can summarize him with Rats and Ne-hehehe The last one is Martin. Just watch the movie and you will see why.There is some bad parts about this movie also. Harker is bland compared to Nosferatu, and it feels like he don't really care about the role and just reads the line with out giving a F**k "},{"Title":"Vlad the Impaler","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" this is one of my all time favorite classics,, first off Bela Lugosi did a great job,, possibly his top 5 material you have to love the Renfield character that guy was just so lovable the whole movie,, I love the use of sexuality in this movie also, all of the undertones. the movie was very suspenseful, creepy, I just love the story of how our main character, besides Dracula, Jonathan Harker has to go and visit the count,, here we go thru the Bulgar Pass. hope I spelled that right. I love how the townspeople harass him and tell him he's crazy ,the horses are up on two legs,, they want no part of it either, the castle itself is a character in the movie,, it's so old and dank, and dreary,, pefect for me, I actually have visited many castles in Germany along the Rhine, so I can appreciate a good castle when I see one.. you have to also love all of Dracula's minions in the movie,, how the serve him without question. I love the Mina character a lot as well,, and you have Van Helsing,, and a host of others I can't remember because it's been over a year since I've watched this so time again to be taken far off to the land of Transylvania.. I can't wait. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Dracula Movie Ever!","Date":"30 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bela Lugosi is so underrated as an actor - we've never seen any of his films that he wasn't great in. His absolutely amazing portrayal of Count Dracula set a precedent so high that no one can possibly outshine his performance - ever. CGI was not needed in those days because talented actors like Bela became the character, down to his soul, and turned in a genius (and scary) performance! Bela's facial expressions, graceful mannerisms, and underlying evilness create a powerful character that you can't take your eyes off. (Not to mention, his accent is perfect to a T for the worldly and mysterious Count!) I saw this movie when I was in grade school and Bela scared me so much that I couldn't watch it again for years. Presently, I still find it the scariest horror movie ever made but now I appreciate all the incredible talent involved to create this masterpiece! The chilling music and sets and truly spooky ambiance of this movie cannot be understated! The highlight of visiting any wax museum is finding Bela Lugosi as Dracula! He was a one-of-a-kind, amazing actor that deserves more honor and respect than he has received. Just like Adam West is the only real Batman, Bela Lugosi is the only real Dracula. "},{"Title":"i see why it's a classic","Date":"31 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" this is by far the best Dracula movie out there. it is certainly an American classic. it is a genuinely creepy movie, i wont say i was scare or horrified, but it does have it's ere moments. the character Renfield played by Dwight Frye seems legitimately insane, the way he looks, moves, and speaks just seems completely mental. Bela Legosi is also the perfect Count Dracula, he exaggerates the role just enough without making it seem cheesy. the story just sucks you right in and does not let you go until the very end. it's a very good story involving love, death, and obviously vampires. i'm not even sure if a remake could ever do this movie justice just because our style of movie making is so different than i was in 1931. "},{"Title":"A must-see horror classic!","Date":"12 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An ancient vampire, Count Dracula, makes his way to London in a bloody mess. After arriving, he turns Lucy into a vampire and then preys upon Mina. It is up to Mina's fiancé, John Harker, and Van Helsing to prevent Dracula's plan to make Mina one of the undead. The classic Bella Lugosi film has stood the test of time and has remained one of the most memorable movies in the world. I always enjoy watching it and appreciate it for paving the way for all of the other Universal Monsters. Bela Lugosi is eerie and creepy in his role as the notorious Count. It's a shame that Lugosi never got the recognition he deserved. I don't find it scary, but I do find it very creepy, especially the Renfield character. The sets are well done for an older movie and you really get that dark-Gothic vibe. There are definitely several differences between the Bram Stoker novel, but it would not be the first movie to ever change its source material. If you love classic horror movies then I highly recommend you watch the 1931 Dracula. "},{"Title":"Bats all folks!","Date":"5 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Just like Frankenstein (1931), Tod Browning's Dracula from 1931 is often criticized for not being faithful to the book. And just like Frankenstein, fans could care less. Once again, this is a movie that is so classic, and so iconic, that it doesn't matter if it does justice to the book or not. Just like how Boris Karloff set the popular image of Frankenstein's monster, Bela Lugosi set the popular image of Dracula. His clothing, his haunting stare, his rhythmic voice, Bela Lugosi is Dracula. This movie also has one of my favorite movie quotes of all time Listen to them. Children of the night. What music they make. Now since this movie was the first sound horror movie (well technically it was The Cat Creeps, but that film is lost), there isn't much sound other than dialogue. The lack of a soundtrack may bother people, but to me, that just makes the movie much more haunting. Even though I love this movie, I still know it has its fair share of flaws. A lot of the side characters aren't very memorable, and the ending is kind of rushed, but those flaws don't really bother me. For the first sound horror movie, it's still great. I love the over the top acting. I love the fake bats. I love the Gothic sets. I love classic monster movies like this. This movie may not be for everyone, and I would have to admit that there are better vampire movies out there (Nosferatu, Let the Right One In, the Hammer Dracula series, and Spanish Dracula), but this is a must see for any classic horror buff. Bela Lugosi and Dwight Frye steal the show with their haunting and over the top performances, but the rest of the cast is still very good. I don't think this movie is a good as Frankenstein (1931), but it is still one of the most iconic and most innovative horror flicks of all time. It may be flawed, but that's OK with me. I understand the time it was made and how there were limits on what they could do with their budget, so I think it should not be overlooked. There may be vampires in it, but this film definitely does not suck! "},{"Title":"It was interesting","Date":"24 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I thought Dracula was amusing, not my favorite, but amusing. I thought the story line was a bit rushed, there wasn't a lot of character development, all the character's seemed very stagnant, so I didn't really connect with any of them. Dracula seemed to be more of a stalker in a cape then a vicious vampire ready to suck your blood. I think that John Harker was an interesting character, I think that Harker would've been a really awesome character if character development had been better. I thought the affects were funny. I laughed every time they zoomed in on Dracula's eyes shining a light in them as they did. The flapping bat puppets in the windows were crazy weird, but very amusing. "},{"Title":"Classic Gothic Cinema!","Date":"23 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Firstly I may be biased here. I have a strong fancy for Gothic literature, film, and music. This film is very much that Gothic. So therefore I approve it thoroughly. This is a film from a different era. It's 1931. Only in 1922 did the now famous Nosferatu come out in it's full silent German expressionist glory but this film is with sound and lost the distorted look of expressionism. It's a classic just by these merits. But there are some things that a modern viewer might raise an eyebrow at no music, the acting style, the flow of the film....The acting is of a different kind. The actors/actresses don't overact but exude the energy of their characters. Dracula is very Dracula, Renfield is very insane, and so on. They are exactly what they are cast as and that's good. The scenery is amazing.There are a few faults with the film which snapped me out of the dream. Some scene transitions were very fast; by that I mean the story seemed to be told too fast and the transition of events weren't fully elaborated. I knew what happened, having read the book and seen many other Dracula films, but I felt that it should have slowed down some parts. I really wanted to see more and more but at these times was thinking okay, that's happening already, no set up to it?At times I laughed out aloud at some ridiculous parts such as a wasp/bee coming out of an apparent mini coffin, armadillos lurking the castle, and Dracula's stare which occasionally went from being soul crushing to being absurd.The sets are amazing. At times you have to pause the film to admire it even though it is in a grainy sepia tone.All in all you have to watch this. The fact you looked up Dracula on here demands it because like Nosferatu this is a key point in the story that is Dracula.9/10... -1 because of the speed of the film and the armadillos. "},{"Title":"A True Vampire, Count Dracula","Date":"6 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The original Dracula movie. Back in the 30s this was considered a wonderful movie, not only for it's wonderful locations and film work, but for the story itself. The black and white gave it a sense of spookiness that old horror movies have and cannot be recreated with the movies today even though today it is better color and recreations.The movie seemed to skip around a lot and at times was hard to follow and there were some facts that you did not understand until a scene or two later. It also seemed to be moving too quickly because they tried to fit everything into the movie which made it seemed rushed. However even with its flaws, I enjoyed the movie very much. "}{"Title":"What elevates this film to classic status is Bela Lugosi and to a lesser extent Karl Freund","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula is a classic, but that doesn't mean its a great film. It is considered a classic mainly because of its importance and influence in film history. Viewed today, its slow and awkward like many early sound features. Nosferatu has aged a lot better. Most of the blame has to go to Tod Browning. The man made some good silent films, but was obviously unable to adjust to sound immediately. The shots and direction of the dialog are awkward and stodgy. This can be attributed to the fact its based mainly on a stage play version of Dracula instead of the novel. There are many moments when this screams for a music score. Additionally, scenes tend to drag along like molasses and the action is often confusing. Don't expect to be able to follow it easily from when they arrive in London. This was terrifying to audiences when released, but today it lacks any tension. Browning as a director improved greatly with his next picture Freaks.The support acting varies. Dwight Frye is entertaining but over-the-top and campy, whereas Edward Van Sloan is far too subdued and only comes to life when confronting Dracula. Both actors were much better in Frankenstein. Helen Chandler and David Manners are both very attractive people but remain wooden as actors. They didn't seem to improve too much as their careers continued.What elevates this film to classic status is Bela Lugosi and to a lesser extent Karl Freund. Lugosi, while never a great actor, is full of charisma and screen presence. The film livens up whenever he is on screen. As Dracula, he is charming and suave yet completely evil. Simply put, Bela IS Dracula. The cinematography by Karl Freund is dreamlike and adds a lot of haunting atmosphere to the proceedings. Even though its one of the lesser horror films of the decade, you can't hate a film like this and its an essential part to film history. (6/10) "},{"Title":"I never drink......wine","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The daddy of all Dracula movies and I'm not forgetting Nosferatu. Quite how Dracula impersonations would be these days without this film is hard to think. This film was responsible for the Universal series of horror films, which in turn gave the impetus for Hammer and so on and so forth, but how does the film stand up today? Well it's a mixed bag. On one side you have glorious sets, magnificent atmosphere and great helmsmanship from Tod Browning. On the other hand you have hammy acting, incredibly stilted scenes and some lackadaisical helmsmanship from Tod Browning. The early scenes in Transylvania alone make this film a must see. The atmosphere is lead-heavy with foreboding and Lugosi's first words are electric. However when we move to Britain pace all but disappears as Browning seems to be doing his job while asleep. It becomes very apparent that this is a version of a stage play rather than an adaptation of Stoker's novel and we get too much talk. It's not all bad though, and Browning wakes up occasionally to give a nice set piece or two and the ending is particularly good. To be fair to Tod Browning, talkies were relatively new and they were still struggling to master the new medium. Out of this comes one of my favourite things about this film-the almost total lack of score. This, for me, help a lot with building what suspense there was; rather than the music trying to direct your thoughts, you are left free in the silence to scare yourself (or not, it's your choice!). In fact there are a lot of long silences, which are probably a remnant from the silent days. On the whole a film that must be seen because of its' importance and a very enjoyable one, but maybe not the classic it's remembered to be. "},{"Title":"Dracula (1931) ***","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This classic early horror talkie has gotten some hard knocks in recent decades, and in all fairness it's not entirely hard to understand why. For especially when screened these days, Dracula feels slow and indifferently directed by an uninspired Tod Browning, and it is somewhat of a missed opportunity in so many ways. But it's got one overpowering ingredient that still manages to make it a good - though not excellent - cinematic experience and that's Bela Lugosi - who still remains the definitive version of Count Dracula for all time. As Dracula, Lugosi is methodically sinister and eccentric, speaking deliberately with bizarre intonations and slithering about with an other-worldly gleam in his eye. Though many new viewers tend to find his performance campy or humorous, I'll tell you one thing ... he's suitably creepy. If I ever met this weirdo on a castle stairway, I'd bolt out the door so fast your head would spin! The first 20 minutes are near perfect, even the most vocal detractors tend to acknowledge that. They're completely dripping with a sense of dread and horrific atmosphere. But as the movie progresses, the events indeed become more ponderous, talky and stagy - and it's not always easy to maintain full interest. Dracula was adapted straight from the 1920's stage play (which also starred Lugosi) and it often feels like you're a spectator sitting in the fifth or sixth row. I've seen the film many times myself and there have been times where the leisurely pace has actually worked for me as a deliberate and calculated aura of evil (it was great when I saw it at a revival on the big screen); other times, I am as bored as anyone else. It usually depends on my mood. When Lugosi is on screen, it's pure magic; he becomes Dracula. Dwight Frye is also good as the maniacal Renfield, driven mad by his undead master. Edward Van Sloan makes a fine Professor Van Helsing, and two of the highlights of the later parts of the picture involve the confrontations between Lugosi and Van Helsing meeting face to face. Unfortunately, David Manners and Helen Chandler are not very intriguing as the leads. Though Dracula was a huge success in 1931, today it's not as engrossing as other great horror films which followed the year it was released, like the superior FRANKENSTEIN or DR. JEKYLL AND MR. HYDE; but thanks in large part to the mystique and allure of Bela Lugosi in the title role it's still well worth watching. "},{"Title":"The real Dracula","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1931 this movie started the way we see horror movies today. You should see it not because it is such a scary movie or something like that, but because it is part of movie history. Today you can't say the movie is scary I guess, but it is entertaining. Dracula is played by Bela Lugosi and even if you haven't seen this movie you will probably see Dracula as this man. He simply is Dracula.There is hardly a soundtrack, only parts of Tchaichovksy's Swan Lake are used. The acting is nice but has its flaws, even though Lugosi's performance is a landmark in the cinema. It has been copied and mocked, both with their own pleasures. The first official adaptation of Bram Stoker's story for me still is the one I enjoy the most. F.W. Murnau's unofficial 1922 version 'Nosferatu, eine Symphonie des Grauens' is probably better, but a modern audience will not find much joy in watching it. "},{"Title":"Reminds me of Mel Brooks' version","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I finally found the time to read Bram Stoker's classic novel which I thought was of course utterly brilliant so it was obviously very interesting to check out this famous 1931 movie version starring legendary Bela Lugosi in his most recognized role.I realized that this film isn't as slavishly loyal to the original story as it clearly could be. For example as most of us know the book starts when Jonathan Harker first visits Count Dracula's castle and in this motion picture adaptation it's Renfield who has the questionable pleasure to be the first one to meet him.Obviously Lugosi Listen to them...children of the night...what music they make isn't really the greatest actor of all times. He's certainly very unique talent and that's what makes him special but he's not a genius. He's splendidly charismatic and therefore a great choice to play this part. His way of talking is weird, Hungarian accent amusing and acting over-theatrical. Dwight Frye was truly excellent as Renfield, his stylish interpretation of this character was just as memorable as Lugosi playing Dracula.This film reminds me more of Mel Brooks' hilarious parody version than Bram Stoker's original novel. Leslie Nielsen's performance was clearly a humble tribute to Lugosi and I can't help the fact that this film looks extremely comical. I know the visual effects are what they are in the early 1930's but honestly are those supposed to be bats...? And what does a couple of armadillos do in the Count's castle? From today's point of view this movie is so filled with funny details I don't know where to start listing.I guess Francis Ford Coppola's dark and violent adaptation of 1992 is just about the only Dracula that doesn't make me laugh. But still, this one is a huge classic too and definitely worth watching if you prefer these type of films. "},{"Title":"Beware the Borgo Pass!","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The 1931 Tod Browning Dracula is a mess of an early talkie, with some very fine and some dreadfully awful things in it. It's probably unfair to judge it by today's standards, but it's slow going even for a film of its time, and more interesting as a sort of Rorschach for filmgoers, by which I mean if one can sit through and enjoy this film one will probably like old movies; if not, not.As the picture that launched the horror cycle of the thirties, and made a mega-star out of Bela Lugosi, the film does not disappoint in its first twenty minutes or so. The scenes set in Transylvania are obviously back-lot recreations, and rather crude in the bargain, yet for this very reason evocative and creepy, their very stiffness and formality suggest an alernate nightmare reality of the sort young film-makers really ought to study, as no amount of high-tech CGI stuff can do this. It takes real real talent and ingenuity, not tricks, to make a scary movie.Once Renfield travels beyond the Borgo Pass, to Dracula's castle, the movie starts to hum, as the castle's dank and cobwebbed interior is exceedingly uninviting, and one wonders why poor Renfield stays there at all. The quick cutting, from the castle to ship at sea to the arrival in England, is both jarring and surprisingly effective. Once on dry land, though, things get bogged down. The last part of the picture is, alas, the worst, bogged down in melodrama and some very stiff acting.For all this, and the film's genteel conclusion, Dracula is well worth seeing. Lugosi's performance as the Count suggests at times someone in a night school class struggling with an English as a second language course, which is not necessarily wrong for the character, as Dracula is indeed a stranger in a strange land. Helen Chandler's zombie-like and fragile performance suggests that she was in a kind of trance before she met the Count, but no matter, as perhaps this is what appeals to him about her. Dwight Frye's playing of the cackling and vermin-eating Renfield is a triumph, and saves the film's second half from boredom, as the screen catches fire whenever he in on board. Hardly thrilling by today's standards, Dracula none the less has charm to spare; as its slow, ritualized unfolding give various of its key scenes the eerie effect of tableaux, wholly appropriate to the film's intentions.  "},{"Title":"A classic vampire movie.","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's been so long since I saw this movie that it was almost like seeing it for the first time.  Although I've known the story of Dracula pretty well for quite some time, I still think that this film was very well done.  The acting, in my opinion, was superb, especially Lugosi, who's mere presence was eerie.  The writing and dialogue was very good, making a good balance of drama, horror, and even a little comedy relief.I watched the remastered DVD version of this movie, which gave me the option of hearing new music by Philip Glass and performed by the Chronos Quartet. I must say the new music was great.  It added to the general atmosphere terrifically and set the mood.  The music alone was generally haunting and mixed with the movie fit like a glove.  The print on the DVD was very good quality, considering that the film is from 1931 and the sound quality is excellent.Even as good as it was, there were still flaws, as there are with any movie. The special effects were definitely cheesy.  The bats and spiders were obviously puppets on strings, but again, the fact that it was made in 1931 means that that could be forgiven.  The major problem I had was the ending, which seemed rushed and left a lot hanging.  It left plot elements hanging wide open and it just felt like the movie should have gone on for a few minutes more to tie everything up.Dracula is definitely an awesome movie well worth all of its praise and lives up to expectations even 70 years later.  I would absolutely recommend this film to everyone, horror fan or not.  "},{"Title":"Chilling","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I know I'm not alone in finding Tod Browning's film of Dracula heavy going. It has never had a particularly high critical reputation; most scholars find it a laboured and static attempt at Grand Guignol which bypasses the more gothic elements of Bram Stoker's novel in favour of winding sheet melodrama. One doesn't have to accept that verdict to see that they have a point. Dracula survives better as a museum piece than as a horror film. Bearing in mind that it was this film which gave the horror film mass acceptance in the English speaking world, it has a certain significance. But one can sense Tod Browning treading lightly, as if uncertain about what sort of film he wanted to make.My main concern about the film is its lack of pace. Their is little flow to it. Individual scenes stand out as set pieces, but they rarely seem to relate to each other. It is not really the fault of the actors, who even at their hammiest deliver surprisingly strong and committed performances. Lugosi is a standout of course, but equally good are Helen Chandler as Mina and Dwight Frye as Renfield. Karl Freund's cinematography is miraculous, if erratic.The new Phillip Glass score is a matter of controversy judging by other reviews, but I for one found it to be the missing link that restores Dracula to its full powers. Glass picks up the pace in a film that badly needs it. He underlines the characterisations in a fashion that is perceptive and compelling. The mournful yet sinister motif that accompanies Lugosi adds a whole new dimension; Renfield's pizzicato motif likewise delineates the character.Since I am no great fan of Maestro Glass, nobody is more surprised than myself at this assessment.  I frankly approached this newly scored version with a certain amount of dread. But I watched the film in one sitting this afternoon, something that I have never been able to do before, and for the first time found it to be rivetting cinema throughout, and not just in snatches. "},{"Title":"I am....Drac-u-la. I bid you velcome.","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Two things really stood out to me in this one. First Bela Lugosi and his hilariously phenomenal acting, his version has been immortalized, we can thank sesame street for being a part of that. His gazes, his manner of speaking, his eyes everything about him just emanates pure evil-mystery and a sick feeling of dread. I wasn't expecting it to be so effective, I thought because it's so old and a tired victim of cliché that it would be silly and ridiculous. But boy was I wrong, I honest to god got the creeps when the white arm slowly crawled out of the coffin it was so beautiful, at the shots of the castle and the surrounding country, the shadows were weird, something about them was paranormal there was a tone to it all that I really absorbed and felt as my bones ached and my fingers went cold. Sure it's all fantasy but you have to forget that, the sets are perfect, the contrast of pale white and grey-black, shadows where you could almost see what they contained, eerie eerie stuff, the camera did a nice job with tone. Suspend all disbelief as you watch this one and just get lost in a world of nefarious cinematography, the images will linger in your mind and perhaps who knows haunt you! "},{"Title":"Definitely a different time period","Date":"26 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Date 26 June, 2012 -First Time Watch- I would have never picked out this movie by myself. Yet, I was forced to watch it since it was my sister's night to pick a movie for the family to see. Being a big vampire-werewolf fan she picked this movie, which would be alright for me since I'm a huge old Hollywood fan and I enjoy watching old movies. Well, I enjoy watching old movies just not this one. To begin, I found it interesting that while the story takes place in the 1800s, the people all wore 1930s clothing, making them look out of place with the setting. Different idea (one that upset my sister might I add) but not terrible. Then we go to Dracula's castle. I have to say, I couldn't stand Dracula's accent. It was to apparent and it seemed like Bela Lugosi was trying to hard. Then again, actors back in the 1930s did overact most of the time. Renfield, the poor guy who visits Dracula, then walks through a spider web. Dracula says he has a small spider going around. Small!? That web was huge! Looks like the spider who made it could eat a small dog! Dracula then took Renfield to his room for the night, which Dracula gives a long and awkward speech about. He then takes Renfield's suitcases and goes to another room. The door opens by itself! If I was Renfield, I would be scared. What door opens by itself? By the end of the night, Renfield becomes Dracula's slave so it really doesn't matter. Dracula and Renfield go to England aboard a ship and Renfield is found and put into a mental institution. Not a good one might I add. Renfield escapes like ten times! A bunch of other weird things happen throughout the movie, might I add but I don't feel like adding them. However, I will mention the funniest part. When Mina is visited by the bat, you can see the string the fake bat is on! Come on! And it doesn't even move! What the heck? After watching the movie, I was relieved. But, here's the thing about old movies that I've learned. You can't judge it on the year you're watching it in, but on the year it came out. And I guess for the year it came out in, 1931, it was good. I mean, brilliant since I read afterwords that when people first saw it, some fainted in horror. I almost did too. But, in a different way.4/10 "}{"Title":"It's Iconic, But...","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I can't think of many films that are synonymous with their genre. Dracula is possibly the most iconic horror film of all time. It had amazing line delivery by Bela Lugosi, the sets were grandiose and gloomy, and it single-handedly brought about the beginning of the Universal monster movie. When you think of a vampire movie, or Dracula in general, you think of the 1931 movie, with Lugosi's thick Hungarian accent, long, flowing cap, and dark hair with a prominent widow's peak. It's really too bad that this movie is so terribly boring. The introduction of the characters Renfield and Dracula are probably the highlight of the film. Besides the climax of the film, the pace is dismal. It seems that a lot of these horror films are plagued by this problem and this movie is certainly no exception. "},{"Title":"There are far worse things awaiting man than death","Date":"2 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I found this movie to be better than some of the vampire movies today. Compared to more contemporary vampire films, this one had more suspense than gore, but still manages to be very effective.I like how there was a good vs. evil theme between Dracula and Dr.Van Helsing. It seemed to elevate the story beyond just a simple series of slasher scenes. Also, it was interesting to hear Van Helsing's knowledge on vampires and how to protect yourself from them.I thought Bela Lugosi was perfect as Dracula. His movements, with his exaggerated gestures and his dialogue really get you into the character. His acting is quite amazing that he almost seems like his is Dracula, rather than just playing Dracula.The only problem I had with the film was the ending. I though Dracula should have put up a better fight, rather than running and hiding in his coffin awaiting his demise as Dr. Van Helsing takes his time to get a stake to stab him in the heart with. After the buildup through out the whole movie, I was expecting a longer more dramatic ending. Overall, however, I enjoyed the film and understand why it's a classic. "},{"Title":"Lugosi Adds His Seductive Charisma to the Otherworldly Count","Date":"16 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This canonical adaptation of Stoker's 1897 novel owes surprisingly little to its antecedent. Its primary source of inspiration was a 1924 stage play loosely based on the novel. Renfield (Dwight Frye) finds himself Transylvania to finalize the sale of Carfax Abby to Count Dracula, who the locals believe (correctly) is a vampire. Despite their desperate warnings, Renfield continues on to Castle Dracula, where he is enslaved and made insane by the vampiric count. They make their way to England, where Dracula sets his appetite on Mina (Helen Chandler). It's up to her fiancé (David Manners), her father (Herbert Bunston) and the illustrious Professor Van Helsing (Edward Van Sloan).Produced in 1931 - shortly after the advent of sound (1927) - this early talkie bears the marks of its technological limitations. Non-diagetic sound (such as background music) is entirely absent from the film (save for the excerpt from Swan Lake that's played over the opening credits). While this sets the grave tone of the film, it leaves something missing to the contemporary viewer (which is why I would recommend the version of the film that features an astounding score by Philip Glass).Likewise, the acting is non-stylistically stiff; actors tend to not move around very much while speaking (due to the difficulty in capturing their dialog at the time). While this might add to the effect of the count being an upper-class gentleman, it mostly just prevents the actors from getting too into their roles.That said, however, the film features the finest early-sound acting I've yet to see. Bela Lugosi is absolutely hypnotic as Dracula, adding a romantic charm to the character that Max Shreck (Count Orlok in 1922's Nosferatu) could never give to the role. He presents a suave, sophisticated killer that, unlike Orlok, can blend into a society (both attending the theater and earning social invitations). As such, Lugosi's Dracula is a much more covert threat than his cinematic predecessor. Edward Van Sloan gives a terse performance as the stoic Professor Van Helsing, foiling Dracula's seductive charisma with reserved tones and jilting movement. The scene in which both characters square off against one another is the most memorable in the film.Dwight Frye positively scene-stealing as Renfield. He is able to articulate the proper young Victorian gent while also expressing his deepest levels of insanity later in the film. His wild-eyed stares (set against his maddening laughter) surpasses even Lugosi's own hypnotic close-ups. Despite playing the third-banana character, Frye gives the film's most unsettling and memorable performance.Enough cannot be set for the film's art direction as, aside from Frankenstein (1931), it gives us the most singularly enchanting settings of the decade. Castle Dracula is filled with vivid Gothic detail and lush extravagance. The stone stairwell where Dracula greets Renfield is haunting, even by today's standards. Standing in stark contrast to the decrepit ruins of the castle is the manor of Dr. Seward (Mina's father), which is clean, bright and modern (standing as the cultural foil of Dracula's Old World origins).While contemporary viewers might find the action a bit tame and the lack of background music a little frustrating, this canonical film deserves its status in the popular mindset. Fans of classic horror (1931-1941), vampires and the incredible creative talents that worked on this feature will find little to dislike with Dracula. "},{"Title":"Dracula (1931)","Date":"13 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula (1931) is most definitely a classic, but that doesn't necessarily make it all that good. I personally found the film to be somewhat boring. I feel that this movie had a disadvantage as being the first film adaptation of the Dracula story, the later adaptations had a better grip on how to make Dracula his scariest. Movies during this time didn't use much realistic violence, but I feel that the film could have used more gore. The lighting is definitely unique throughout the film and sets the dreary mood for Castle Dracula as well as the boat trip and other scenes. I feel they did too many close-ups on Dracula's eyes, the effect started to get old. Overall it was an okay film. "},{"Title":"Horror in Subtlety","Date":"16 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Unlike most movies of the vampire genre in today's society, this one, the original, is truly frightening. There is no color, almost no romance, and the sets are a tad dull, but the audience will be more terrified by the effects of this movie than anything, which is what a movie should be able to do. The lighting was superb whenever the camera was on Bela Lugosi. The light in and around his eyes and nothing else gave the audience the sense of true and pure evil. The movie created an oxymoron in the light. Light is supposed to represent goodness and safety, but with the light on Dracula's eyes, the audience felt no such security. While lights helped to magnify the horror of the of the movie, the way Reinfeld stared became just as unnerving. There is something about insanity and craziness to an audience that frightens them even more. Perhaps it is not being able to understand what is going through their mind, but as audience members, we knew exactly what was going through Reinfeld's mind. Truly a subtly horrifying movie. "},{"Title":"Like its anti-hero, this film keeps getting older but refuses to die.","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" How much, I wonder, does a film's reputation influence its user rating on IMDb? Quite a lot, I reckon, judging by the 7.7 out of 10 this one enjoyed in August 2010. The fact is this isn't a 7.7 film &#x96; it's a 5.5 to 6.0 film at best. Back in 1931 it caused a sensation in the States, but when you look back at the vastly superior Nosferatu, made nearly a decade earlier, you have to wonder why audiences thought it was so terrific.The film does start with some appropriately atmospheric scenes &#x96; particularly the ones in Dracula's cellar with the low-vaulted ceiling and the three brides awakening from their daylight sleep. Bela Lugosi looks elegant in a slight dissolute way, but is as far removed from the vampire Nosferatu (and Bram Stoker's image of him) as you could imagine. Nevertheless, his appearance here served as the template for all vampires right through to the eighties. He never blinks, apparently, and director Tod Browning often focuses on this unblinking gaze to good effect.The story, however, moves as fast as a one-legged man in a sea of molasses. Professor van Helsing, who looks more like a cuddly old uncle than his last incarnation as vampire hunter cum action hero, spends too much of his time talking about the fate that befalls anyone who comes under Dracula's control rather than actually doing anything about it, and the horrific element of the film amounts to a few shots of Lugosi closing in on a sleeping maiden's throat - hardly enough to give you nightmares. It's left to Dwight Frye, giving the performance of his career as the ill-fated Renfield, to inject some life into the story, but sadly he can't prevent the film from showing its age. "},{"Title":"The real Dracula....","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The classic Bram Stoker novel has been filmed many times, and the count has undergone various transformations. But when all is said and done, there is only one Dracula, and that is Bela Lugosi. His Dracula portrayal is classic.Dracula, after all, is one of the undead, and the pasty look of Lugosi, coupled with his theatricality (one might say hamminess), pretty much defines the character.Dracula has its moments. The brief scene with his brides (it's a shame they didn't get a little sexier here. This was after all, pre-code Hollywood). Dwight Frye as the pathetic Reinfeld gives an inspired demented performance.Unfortunately, for all of its visual style, this original Dracula bores me. But there's been something wrong with just about every version of Dracula ever made.Possibly delivering the horror (and the sexual theme) most adroitly is Hammer Film's Horror of Dracula in 1958. Christoper Lee makes a terrifying count. But, for one who is undead, Lee's Dracula is a creature of immense strength and powerful libido. In short, he's a far cry from anyone looking undead.Frank Langella's virile Dracula features a vampire with a George Hamilton tan. There are some eerie moments in this Dracula, but Frank is simply too studly to be believed as one of the undead.Gary Oldham's 1992 take in Bram Stoker's Dracula was amusing to me. Forget any of the legends of the vampire, Gary's count can walk around in daylight, but only if he wears his Foster Grants.I recall Jack Palance doing a television performance of the count. Frankly, I can't really remember it very well.The vampire myth is wonderfully spooky. I remember when I was a kid, I wanted to be a rock star. Nowadays, kids want to grow up to be vampires. The myth has a powerful hold on our subconscious that no other monster has. A vampire is pretty much sex and death in one fell swoop.The story has been done to death and the many vampire movies are for the most part silly. I have too much respect for the original book (which, by the way, is even more boring than Lugosi's movie) to see the classic story done comically and with so much license taken with the real legend.I must confess a liking for Nosferatu the Vampire with Klaus Kinski. This has Kinski looking quite like the original Nosferatu. There is much humor, which for me works.I have the restored version of the original Nosferatu on tape but I have not viewed it as yet. Even the edited version of this silent seems spookier than Lugosi's.But as I am a purist, and an ancient one at that, my first glimpse of the character of Count Dracula was at a young age when the TV networks would slip in a horror movie before the six o'clock news. And it was the face of Lugosi that was indelibly imprinted in my mind as Dracula. Too bad that every time I watch it, I do get dulled by the movie's talkiness. "},{"Title":"Listen to them. Armadillos of the night. What snuffling sounds they make.","Date":"31 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Despite bearing little physical resemblance to Bram Stoker's literary character, Bela Lugosi's portrayal of Dracula defined the look and feel of the vampire for decades; from countless black and white horrors, to George Hamilton's bloodsucker in Love At First Bite, to Sesame Street's number loving Count, Lugosi's influence is everywhere.The unfortunate result of such an iconic performance is that Tod Browning's 1931 cinematic adaptation of the book&#x97;in which Lugosi played the infamous count&#x97; now feels like a work of self parody. This fact, combined with Browning's rather naive direction (cinema was in its infancy, the art of storytelling was still evolving, and some shots are extremely clumsy), plus a noticeable lack of soundtrack, makes Dracula an often embarrassingly dated affair that is hard to take seriously at times.Thank heavens for the superb Gothic atmosphere, impressive set designs, a few classic lines guaranteed to warm the heart of any avid horror geek (Listen to them. Children of the night. What music they make.), and a chilling turn from Dwight Frye as Dracula's loyal slave Renfield, all of which go to ensure that, even though the film isn't the flawless masterpiece many claim it to be, it still offers enough for fans of vintage horror to enjoy.After all, if the cinematography, acting, and direction fail to impress, there's always the rubber bats, vampire wasp (?!?!), clockwork spider and family of Transylvanian armadillos to keep the viewer amused. "},{"Title":"Part of our common cultural iconography.","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A couple of things always occur to me during the opening scenes. One is that Renfield is a moron for ignoring the villagers' pleas for him to stay off the Borgo Pass on Walpurgisnacht. Dah CASTLE? Castle DRAH-coo-la???? Why take chances? Especially when Renfield notices that his carriage has no driver and the horses are being led by a bat. Isn't THAT reason enough to bail out? Then there's the castle itself. I frankly admire the decor and maintenance of the interior. It's got genuine atmosphere, not the fake atmosphere of, say, the Taj Mahal Motel in Los Angeles or the Kansas City Tiki.But the surroundings and the host are spooky enough that when Count Dracula says, I am Dracula. I bid you velcome. And, Da spider -- spinnink his vamp faw da unvary fly. Da blood is da LIFE, Meester Renfield, that would do the job for most people.But then Renfield is a little peculiar to begin with, if you ask me. An effete wimpy character, shorter than anyone else in the film, ladies included. And offered that drugged wine by Dracula. I feel the same protective way towards him as I do towards Janet Leigh when she's stepping naked into the shower in Psycho. No matter how many times I've seen it I always want to shout out a warning. Janet Leigh was a canny and determined woman, whereas Renfield seems to earn a kind of Darwinian extinction for his wanton trust.What a weird flick. It moves with lethal slowness. I don't mean the pace is slack or that anything lasts too long. I mean that the dialog and the action within scenes seem to take place at almost glacial tempo. The only abrupt motions are when Dracula jerks away from wolf bane or a crucifix or slaps a mirror out of Van Helsing's hands. Now if this were a comedy, or anything other than a horror film, that deliberate pace would be the kiss of death. But it suits Dracula. Things, even the most awful, strike us as taking place in slow motion the way they sometimes do in a dream -- not just a nightmare but an oneiristic catastrophe.I don't think anyone could have handled the part of Dracula as well as Lugosi. There is his cadaverous makeup, for one thing, and his manner -- always polite, always smiling, reeking of moral corruption. And his speech! God, it's exquisite! The rhythm, the pauses, the inflections that inform his lines. In a battle of wills, he points his curled and claw-like fingers towards Van Helsing and says, Come here. When Van Helsing hesitates Lugosi extends his arm, lowers his voice, and commands him, Come . . . HER. (Her, not here.) I don't know whether these stylistic touches were witting or not on Lugosi's part because, as I understand it, he learned to speak English phonetically for his first performances. At any rate he gives his lines the most curious contours heard on any screen.The whole movie is really an exercise in style because the plot doesn't make any sense. Example. Is Renfield turned into a vampire or no? If not, why does he thirst only for blood, even if it's the blood of flies? If so, why does he run around in the daytime and how does Dracula kill him? Well, as long as we're asking questions, what are armadillos and possums doing in the basement of Dracula's castle in Transylvania? And what did Dracula and his wives eat between visits from English real estate brokers? I wondered the same thing about mosquitoes once when I was in muskeg country in the Yukon, a hundred miles or more from the nearest large warm blooded animal, and found the place was swarming with them.I must add too that I didn't care much for the way Count Dracula managed his menage in Transylvania. There were at least three wives, which is not a bad idea in itself, but he treated them pretty shabbily, shooing them away from Renfield's unconscious body so he could get first dibs. Did he leave them behind? At least one of them because as he says to Renfield, I am only taking vit me three, uh -- boxes. I just watched the DVD with the score by Philip Glass, all strings, and all his usual repetitiveness. Glass may over-score the film a little but it's better than the original, and it's in 5.1.If you haven't seen this yet, you must. And don't get into a battle of wills with me. It's for your own good. Dracula has become part of our vernacular culture and if you don't know it, you'll miss some great stuff that will crop up in various contexts from time to time. I never drink -- vine. Any person who claims to be cultivated knows where that line comes from. "},{"Title":"An inhuman monster, an anti-climatic movie","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Given the advances that film-making made between the original Nosferatu and Browning's Dracula, I expected more. We get good but under-utilized Gothic sets, spooky close-ups of Lagosi's eyes, and acceptable performances from most of the cast, but the cinematography and effects are flat. I didn't expect a 90s-style editing pace to pick up the tension and the music does more to motivate anxiety than this pre-Psycho film is credited with. Nonetheless, even the director seems to lose interest with the story once Dracula leaves his castle in Transylvania and he ends the film, perhaps thankfully, prematurely quick. "}{"Title":"Classic Bela before the Ed Wood years.","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is beautiful. I love how it has so little dialog but yet says so much. And there's Bela, one of the best actors of his time. Bela could give anyone working today a run for there money. Tod Brownings direction is wondrous as well. How he manged to do what he did when he did it will always amaze me. The matte paintings look so real and detailed that you almost feel like your there. They will always beat out CGI. You have to go no further than the 1992 remake to see that. Look how horrible that film is. These two films should be shown side by side for film students to show how much better it is to show so little. In this Bela gives his career performance and you can see that he has not degenerated to his lowest points that would later consume him. Even though the Ed Wood films that Bela would partake in later are good movies you can see that he has lost his spirit in those films. Not so with this movie, his integrity is intact all through this film. Watch this film as it will probably not scare you, but it will show you that there is a better way to make films. "},{"Title":"Blood Lust","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the true greats in the horror genre, Browning's 1931 version of 'Dracula' is now showing it's age horribly, yet the atmosphere of the production and Lugosi's chilling performance make it work for a modern audience.This was the role Lugosi would never break free of (and he seemed to revel in his notoriety - he was buried in a black cape!), and he is infinitely memorable as the blood-lusting Count Dracula. Lugosi's stilted, Hungarian accent delivers the film's best lines, such as 'I am Dracula...I bid you welcome', and 'I never drink...wine'. It is a creaky, theatrical performance, but a startlingly effective one just the same. Two pencil-spot-lights were aimed at Lugosi's eyes to increase the intensity of his hypnotic stare, and it is a lethal one indeed.Lugosi's performance is also slightly seductive- there is something strangely sexy about those swishing capes and thirst for blood. I believe Stoker intended the character to have that effect in his 1897 novel, and Browning and Lugosi convey the attraction here. After all, isn't Dracula representative of what we all supposedly lust after- eternal life? Religious imagery abounds in this production, with Lugosi's 'seduction' of Frye revolving around an offering of bread and wine. Lugosi also shirks away at the sight of a cross. It is interesting to note that Lugosi's 'taking' of Frye's character almost didn't make it to the screen. Censors considered it too openly suggestive and homo-erotic, yet the scene remains intact today despite many clumsy edits being applied to the film.Dwight Frye, best known for his role as the dim-witted Fritz in Frankenstein (1931) plays another sidekick here as Renfield, and, like Lugosi, it is a role he was born to play. The pair provide most of the film's classic moments (and a homo-erotic subtext), along with Edward Van Sloan as Dracula's nemesis, Van Helsing. Chandler and Manners are attractive as the young lovers, yet their wooden performances rival the stake plunged through Dracula's heart.The mood and tone achieved by Browning makes the film a classic- the visuals are superb. Shadowy lighting, swirling fog, crawling possums (Yes, not rats-possums! Censors considered rats a no-no), cobwebs and passages of sinister silence where things are seen and not heard build this to an intensity rarely seen in modern horror films.Dracula's Transylvanian castle and 'undead' brides provide one of the most memorable moments in film- the zombie-like females walking (or is it floating?) to a collapsed Renfield, only to be gestured away by their master.The Universal Special Edition DVD is a treat to watch, as we learn of some fascinating trivia. One wonders, after hearing the commentary, about supposed'horror genius' Browning's overall contribution to the product. There are some strange, stilted scenes that appear to have no direction. Most notably, Lugosi is photographed terribly (he looks more like a midget than an imposing vampire) in one particular shot, a piece of cardboard barely obscures a light, and Manners seems to be standing around waiting for something to happen in many a scene. The footage of a ship flailing wildly at sea was actually taken from a silent film, so that accounts for the jerkiness in one shot.It's said that the Spanish version is technically superior, but that may well be because censorship didn't apply to non-domestic product from Universal. An important chapter in film history, and an entertaining one, too. "},{"Title":"The Grandaddy of Vampire films","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There's really nothing one can say that hasn't already has been said about this film. It's a classic in every sense of the word. Based on the Broadway play adaptation(with some similarities to Bram Stoker's novel),it still provokes thrills,chills and frights. What can one say about Bela Lugosi? When someone says the word Dracula, they automatically think of Bela Lugosi and his thick, Hungarian accent. I also liked the roles played by Dwight Frye as Renfield and Edward Van Sloan as Dr.Van Helsing. The settings, especially of Dracula's castle, are awesome! The direction is top-notch and the rest of the cast shines through. Although today's films rely on special effects, this is another example of a film carrying itself by the actors. I have only one suggestion turn off the lights and watch it. Oh,and keep the garlic near you. You never know who might drop by. "},{"Title":"a slightly more sophisticated vampire","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This incarnation of Dracula is quite a bit different from the previous Dracula (NOSFERATU). In the previous film, the names were changed in a cheesy attempt to get past copyrights, but Dracula (called Orlock) was much as he was described in Tod Browning's novel--and probably back in 1922 was the scariest version of Dracula to date. This 1931 Dracula isn't nearly as viscerally scary--gone are the rats climbing about his feet, the excessively long and pointy fingernails and the bat-like face. In its place is a pretty sophisticated and cultured Bela Lugosi. While not exactly a sex symbol, but by comparison to Orlock, he was quite the stud! Lugosi's performance, with its heavy Hungarian accent, is wonderful and measured. However, I think the biggest star of the film is the wonderful cinematography--with gauzy filters and a delicate touch when the action moves to Britain. A great horror film sure to please everyone. "},{"Title":"The movie that made Bela a star","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was the first sound version of Dracula and the movie that made Bela Lugosi a star. He makes an excellent and very creepy Dracula.At Castle Dracula, an estate agent arrives but is bumped off by the Count himself. Dracula and his eccentric assistant then head for London after killing most of the ship's crew they were travelling on by drinking their blood. Dracula heads for Carfax Abbey, his home in the dungeons below this. It isn't long before killings start, all with two marks on their neck. Van Helsing tracks the Count down and then stakes him at the end...We get to see the other unfriendly residents of Draculas's castle too and these include spiders, bats, rats and other creepy crawlies, complete with plenty of foggy scenes.Joining Bela in the cast are several stars who went on to appear in other horror movies Edward Van Sloan (Dracula's Daughter, Before I Hang), David Manners (The Death Kiss, The Mummy), Dwight Frye (The Vampire Bat) and Helen Chandler. Great parts from all.This movie is a must for all horror stars out there. Excellent.Rating 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Lugosi's tour-de-force...","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bela Lugosi's most famous role, that of Count Dracula, a mesmerizing vampire who travels to London and begins stalking society beauties for their blood. A bit creaky here and there, the film's energy level seems to drop off whenever Dracula is out of sight; however, the film's eerie beauty and chilling atmosphere are well-captured by director Tod Browning. Based on the book by Bram Stoker, the material was first adapted into a successful Broadway play starring Lugosi (despite his triumph on stage, Universal Pictures didn't want him for the part!). A Spanish-language version of the script was filmed simultaneously; starring Carlos Villar and Lupita Tovar, it is considered by film-historians to be the equal of this version in every way (some say superior). Followed by Dracula's Daughter (without Lugosi) in 1936. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"outdated and outdone, but not without interest...","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the elaborate, cobweb-strewn, tapestry-like sets, in the manic madness of the performers (particularly Dwight Frye as Renfield and Edward Van Sloan as Van Helsing), and the oozing atmosphere (love that fog!) created by director Tod Browning, there is no denying that Dracula is a strong film in its own right. In spite of this, it suffers from awkwardly jerky plot shifts (including a gap between Renfield's sanity loss, and an ending that leaves MUCH to be desired), scenes of draggy exposition, special effects that seem laughable by today's standards (the pin-light shining when Lugosi gives 'the evil eye' is distracting to no end), and coy neck-bites. That being said, the sheer beauty of this film and the skill with which it's executed IS periodically hypnotizing, and Lugosi is relatively good as the undead Count. Since eclipsed by the Hammer renditions of the tale (with the legendary pairing of Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing), Dracula is still worth a look after all these years. "},{"Title":"Dracula (1931) - US Version ***1/2; Spanish Version ***","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Browning/Lugosi 'classic' has always been one of my favorite Universal horror films but, ever since the simultaneously-produced 'rival' Spanish version resurfaced, the 'original' has taken a beating by fans and historians alike - mainly because the latter features superior camera-work! This, however, is the ONLY area where it can lay a claim to be better in when compared to the US version (the fact that leading lady Lupita Tovar had a sexier wardrobe than Helen Chandler shouldn't even be considered, I guess). Still, the fact that on the DVD the opinion that the seminal US version is the inferior one seems to be shared by quite a few people hasn't done it any favors! I remember being impressed by the Spanish version when I first watched it in 2001, singling out for praise the performance of Pablo Alvarez Rubio as Renfield and, of course, George Robinson's cinematography. However, coming back to it now, I felt that Rubio's hysterical rendering of the character (which reminded me of Gene Wilder in YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN 1974 of all people!) was nowhere nearly as nuanced as Dwight Frye's unforgettable characterization in the US version. Regarding the superior camera-work, I guess this is true for individual sequences (Dracula's introduction, for instance) but, frankly, I never felt that Karl Freund - a pioneer of the moving camera - had somehow been restrained by Tod Browning, who admittedly wasn't very fond of this technique. Given that of late we've also been faced by the ridiculous assumption that Browning didn't actually direct the film, he couldn't have - since he wasn't even there!! It may be however, that since frequent Browning collaborator Lon Chaney (who had been slated for the title role) died before shooting began, the director sort of lost heart in the project - coupled also with the fact that the script was rather talky, another element with which Browning felt uneasy! Well, whatever went on behind the scenes, for me what's in front remains one of the highlights of the American horror film - from the marvelous dialogue (especially as delivered - each in their own unique way - by Lugosi, Frye and Edward Van Sloan), irreproachable performances (Frye and Van Sloan were at their best, while Lugosi only ever really came close with THE BLACK CAT 1934 and SON OF FRANKENSTEIN 1939) and memorable individual scenes (the entire first act set in Transylvania, the confrontation scenes between Dracula and his nemesis Professor Van Helsing, Renfield's various ravings). The tame ending may appear anti-climactic to most people but I honestly was never bothered by it! If anything, this was remedied in any number of ways in subsequent outings...Which brings us back to the Spanish Dracula like I said, the film is an interesting and altogether pleasing 'alternate' to the Lugosi version...but it is fatally compromised by the inadequate leading performance of Carlos Villarias, whose bulging eyes and feral snarls can't hold a candle to Lugosi's definitive screen vampire! This version does go to places where the American doesn't (Browning shies away from the vampire attacks, for instance) and even features 'new' scenes like the aftermath of the vampiric Lucy's demise - but, at 104 minutes (a full half-hour longer than the US version, when considering that they were following the same script!) it's way overlong for its own good. The Browning/Lugosi version is often criticized for its sluggishness but this one actually moves at a snail's pace take, for instance, the famous scene where Dracula is exposed by the mirror - Lugosi knocks the box down immediately, while Villarias takes forever to do so (even if his resolution is effectively flamboyant nonetheless).A word about the DVD quality disappointingly, the Spanish version features closed-captions (for the hearing-impaired) rather than proper subtitles. As for the US version, the print utilized for this particular transfer (which differs from that of the original, and more satisfactory, 1999 release) is a bit too dark for my taste and the dialogue sometimes was hard to catch due to the incessant hiss on the soundtrack! It also reverts to the 'original' single groan during Dracula's staking (instead of the elongated variant available on the earlier disc)...but does feature a bit of music at the end of the Opera sequence, which had been missing from the previous edition!! Well, this only means that it's worth keeping both copies of Dracula as neither is really definitive... "},{"Title":"Enthralling, dark, and creepy","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Those are the three best words I can use to cover this movie. It held me from the start to the end, and every time Bela Lugosi's Dracula was on screen, when he wasn't looking directly into the camera with his creepy glances, he really seemed to be having fun with the role. His conversations with other people (in trying to hide the fact that he was who he was) was even silly at times, because he seemed ages ahead of where they were at. The whole movie circled around his role, and he performed it fantastically, giving many generations the best Dracula of them all, without even showing fangs, or biting anyone. No, there is no I vant too sock yer blawd line, either. This movie is right on par with the rest of the monster films of the day and no, I'm not surprised that it'd scare people like mad when it came out. The only strange part is that there is no soundtrack on the film at all. Not that it put any strain on the movie, but when this movie was released, some audiences found music strange in a scene because it had no explanation for being there. I wonder what movies would be like now if they followed this, we probably would not be seeing them in theaters with THX. "},{"Title":"Comparing this version and the Spanish language one","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Of course, there is no taking the place of this version of Dracula. Nor, is there taking the place of Bela Lugosi in his definitive role as the Count, although Carlos Villar isn't bad in the Spanish Language version (Sorry, but Christopher Lee isn't even in the competition in my book!). For the opening credits, Tod Browning used a drawing of a bat with glaring eyes under the credits. Innovative and in 1931 was probably something shocking (especially, on the big screen). In the Spanish language version, George Melford used the traditional haunted house-type of opening credits with candle and cobwebs. Nice, but cobwebs were already common in horror films when it was made; the 1927 version of The Cat and The Canary, for example. Both openings do work well on different levels, though. The supporting cast in both films is a matter of opinion. In the Lugosi version, Helen Chandler, David Manners, and Dwight Frye all look like Anglo-Saxons of London society. But, pretty Chandler and handsome Manners are just so hammy (she gave just as bad of a performance in the previous years Outward Bound, he improved later on in The Black Cat). However, Frye is superb as the lunatic, Renfield. In the Villar version Lupita Tovar and Barry Norton are just bland as the heroine and hero and Pablo Alverez Rubio is sometimes unintentionally hilarious as Renfield (the look on his face as he gets bumped around during the carriage ride to Dracula's castle is an absolute howl)! It's also worthy to mention Frances Dade and Carmen Guerrero who play Lucy (Lucia) in the two films and who both give good performances. Cinematography-wise, what one film accomplishes the other one doesn't and vice versa. Count Dracula's castle on the cliff top with the shore below is a delight in Villar's version as is the tracking shot of Renfield's first glimpse of the Count. Dracula's raising from his coffin is better in the Villar version until the third time that he does it (where it becomes boring and irritatingly repetitive). However, Dracula's walk through the giant spider web is so much more eerie in Lugosi's version (in Villar's version we just don't get the impact of him passing through the web nor do we clearly get to see the look of horror on Renfield's face). Lucy's night prowl is scarier in Lugosi's film because we can plainly see that it is the dead Lucy walking as if she were in a trance. In Villar's film, Lucia is photographed from too far away and one might easily confuse her for Mina. Dracula's smashing of the cigarette box is done better in Lugosi's version (Villar is just too over the top when he takes a swipe at it with his walking stick) and Renfield's demise is better staged in the Lugosi version. Too bad that greedy Universal Pictures brass got to chop the Lugosi version down to a scant 75 minutes running time so that they could book more daily showings. Greed, greed, greed! As a result, things that are never clearly defined in Lugosi's version are defined in Villar's version ( Van Helsing's origin and arrival to London and the reason why he must remain in the Abbey for awhile at the end, etc.). It would be great if someday Universal Studios could find the missing footage from Lugosi's Dracula, restore the film to its original running length and put it onto DVD for us! "}{"Title":"Universal's monster genesis...","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Universal's first talkie horror production with Bela Lugosi in his landmark role as Count Dracula, a very suave and almost charming figure totally removed from the rat-like visage of Max Shreck (Nosferatu). Full of the always excellent atmosphere found in the Universal pictures, the lack of musical accompaniment doesn't seem to hinder this film much. If anything, the silence adds to the eeriness of the whole affair.Edward Van Sloan lends his usual professionalism as Professor Van Helsing, the nemesis of the undead Count. His face-offs with Lugosi, in the mirror scene & the test of wills are just a few of my favorite moments from the movie.Dwight Frye (in his defining role) is excellent as the crazed, pitiable Renfield. Fans always make mention of his crazed laughter, but is there a better manic scream in all of cinema than the one Frye cuts loose with when Van Helsing shows him the wolfbane (You know too much to live Van Helsing). Another favorite Renfield/Van Helsing scene comes later when Renfield goes Dracula! shakes uncontrollably.....Why I never even heard the name.Dracula is not without its faults, though. The ending sequence with the demise of Dracula & the photogenic pair of David Manners and Helen Chandler walking up the stairs with the abrupt cut to the closing The End is totally flat. The entire scene feels like Tod Browning was on cruise control before he decided to mash down hard on the brakes & leave you with that feeling of Huh, that's it? Shouldn't there be more? And what was the deal with the camera panning away as Lugosi rose from his coffin. You'd hear a creak, then the camera just pans over to a wall then back to Bela standing upright. Did some higher-up at Universal think 1931 audiences couldn't handle seeing a man rising out of his casket?!?Overall, the film is still great viewing and the image of Lugosi's glowing eyes will live on through the ages. "},{"Title":"Old-fashioned, stage-bound...magnificent","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have just seen a version of the 1931 Dracula with a new score by Philip Glass. Not having seen the unadorned original my comments may be biased but I felt the film succeeded brilliantly. I imagine the original  being filled with increasingly heavy silences. The new score managed to bridge the gap between silent movies and primitive talkies. This works to the best effect in the scenes where Renfield travels to the castle and Dracula rises for the first time.I can quite see why people feel Bela Lugosi was the greatest Dracula. He has an aristocratic manner, disdainful of the mortals among whom he moves, that even Christopher Lee can't quite equal. I was amused by Hollywood's idea of a Yorkshire populated by blimey gav'ner Cockneys. Didn't they know Whitby was 250 miles from London? "},{"Title":"Still the Best... Well, Almost","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  My wife and I went to a Halloween screening of Nosferatu where the acting got unintended laughs and I started nodding off midway through the movie.Coppola's Bram Stoker's Dracula (more like Jaqueline Suzanne's Dracula), which I abhor, took a character who, in the book, is essentially a blood-rapist and turned him into a Sad Romantic.After seeing the DVD, there is a curious sort of tie-score.  Lugosi is still the best Dracula, but the Spanish version is much better directed.  More use is made of the sets, effects are spookier and the ladies aren't buttoned up to their chins.And Renfield gets a lovely scene, cut in the English version, where he leaves off talking sanely and politely to Van Helsing in order to stalk a fly.  Pablo Álvarez Rubio and Dwight Frye give completely individual touches to Renfield.  Rubio is slightly more three-dimensional.  Frye is eerier and more memorable.As for the Phillip Glass score that has been added to the English version It should be background music for Teletubbies.  It is the blandest, most repetitive music I've ever heard.  It's the scoring equivalent of 99 Bottles of Beer on the Wall.At least, as my wife has suggested, if Randy Newman had been hired there would have been a hit song... You know you've got a meal in me... "},{"Title":"The Swan Lake of horror","Date":"2 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is an amazing combination of horror and romance. The vampire legend is  here romanticized to the point of making a whole new legend. It is said that Bela Lugosi believed that if you want to take a girl to a  movie, take her to this one. I think he was right. It is a quintessential  romance. "},{"Title":"Adams","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The lighting really makes this film and gives it an eerie feel.But other than that I really didn't like the plot had a lot of holes and just seemed to skip around a lot and didn't flow properly. It was very slow and not scary at all. I did like the castle and the scene with the giant spider web it gave off a very dark Gothic mood.Vanhelsing was an easy choice for the best actor I also liked the crazed man.The coolest part of the movie was the lighting just over the eyes when Dracula was putting someone in a trans. I have seen this used in many later films and i think this was the first film it was used in. "},{"Title":"Classic, Sure, But it Could Have Been Better.","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Made in the very early years of talkies, Dracula remains to this day a classic of cinema, and for good reason. However, this film is not without it's flaws. In fact, they're quite numerous. But an excellent set design and Bela Lugosi's performance are really what make this film what it is.The acting in this movie hits a very wide spectrum, and ranges from brilliant to terrible, although mostly staying within the realm of average. Bela Lugosi, who plays Dracula, gives and absolutely classic performance in this movie. His accent is perfect, and his slow, steady and very deliberate deliverance of his lines are flawless. He captures the essence of Dracula, the very core of evil.Dwight Frye, however, was terrible. He gives, easily, one of the worst and over-acted performances that has ever been captured on film. Everything he does is so over-the-top that it ruins the character. He so obviously tries to act crazy that he just comes off as laughable on screen.The rest of the acting was rather average. Edward van Sloan, who plays Van Helsing, gives the only other memorable above-average performance in this movie. He knows his character, and portrays him as he should be, a little underacted while still giving off a commanding presence.The direction of this film is atrocious. The shots that are meant to be serious are comical, the ones that should be horrific barely manage to touch the viewer. A ridiculous amount of time is devoted to Lugosi's eyebrows, and seriously subtracts from this film. If James Whale, instead of Tod Browning, had directed this movie I have no doubt that it would rank at least a full point higher. As it stands, though, the direction does nothing but get into the film's way.The set designs are simply superb. Count Dracula's castle is powerful and atmospheric. While it's not as the book describes it, it does much to add to the film's tone and charm. The Harker's home has a wonderful classic touch to it, and looks just as one would expect a Victorian estate to look; impeccable, proper and richly decorated.Except for the beginning, there is no musical score in the entire movie. I'm inclined to think that this might be, perhaps, due to it being 1931 (only four years since the first sound motion picture, The jazz Singer). After watching Frankenstein (1931), I'm even more sure of this. But this is still one of the film's greatest downfalls. The utter silence throughout the entire film brings focus to every excruciating little detail throughout, and brings out every flaw and every imperfection. Every moment stretches exponentially, and every minor defect is exaggerated more than it should be. If you get the opportunity, watch this movie with Philip Glass' modern score rendition for this movie. It smooths the entire film over and raises it to a new level.This is a movie that every horror fan and fan of classic movies should watch. In fact, this is one of the movies that I feel that has become so ingrained into our culture, that has become such a pillar of film-making, everybody should see it at least once in their lifetime. "},{"Title":"Soooooooooo bad","Date":"20 September 2012","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's worth watching for all horror lovers, I admit that it's a classic, just for the being Dracula -one of the biggest names when it comes to horror, but the movie it self is very poorly made, it just seems to be a bunch of scenes mashed together, the acting was beyond awful, most of it seems like a bad rehearsal, Lugosi while he did have a creepy face it just didn't seem to fit Dracula, he looks more like the Monopoly man before he went bald on a bad acid trip. I tried to be opened minded when i watched the movie since the movie is from 1931 (as I am whenever I watch a film this old) so i knew not to expect much, but even with that in mind I just can't understand how can anyone in their right mind can say this is the best or even one of the best horror movies ever, Nosferatu is even older and i find it to be better than this, the director seemed to have a better vision. I've seen many other movies from around the same time and even earlier and they weren't this badly acted or directed. All in all I suppose if You are a horror fan you should still watch it, i just wanted to post a review from my point of view, just a regular guy who loves old horror movies, i don't think a movie should automatically be considered good just because it's old. "},{"Title":"Horror classic has to be judged by today's standards...","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Time changes everything. Once upon a time Dracula, the stage play, was a sensation that starred BELA LUGOSI as the blood-thirsty man in the cape who thrilled theater audiences with his chilling portrayal. He's still chilling in the screen version Tod Browning directed and there's plenty of creepy atmosphere to keep you riveted to the story.But there are also plenty of faults. The opening scenes are a lot more cinematic than what follows once we leave the castle and the story starts dealing with Mina (HELEN CHANDLER) and Jonathan Harker (DAVID MANNERS) at their residence. It then becomes almost completely stagebound, with static movement of story and characters so that you know you're watching a museum piece from the '30s. The horror is so diluted by the stagey slow-talking dialog (sound was new and actors were told to keep their speeches slow so every word could be heard). It's an almost silent acting approach to the whole thing.BELA LUGOSI is very menacing in his huge close-ups but is guilty of stage acting all the way through. DWIGHT FRYE makes a very intense and enjoyable Renfield, although he too is guilty of extravagant overacting by today's standards.The cobweb atmosphere is dark and appropriately scary and the B&W lensing of the story is very impressive. But, as stated above, you have to take it for what it is--a primitive telling of the great story handicapped by its faithfulness to the stage version.It ends rather abruptly as Harker and Mina ascend the stairs and Van Helsing tells them he'll be along soon. Fadeout. The End. Much too abrupt. Modern audiences are bound to feel cheated by the less than thrilling ending.Summing up Flaws and all, still an interesting experience mainly because Lugosi and Frye keep it watchable. "},{"Title":"Dull and stagy, but essential viewing","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The film starts off extremely well with a visit to Dracula's castle in Transylvania. Then the movie moves to London and falls apart. For one thing, they changed the characters from the novel--Jonathan Harker went to Castle Dracula not Reinfield and everybody stands around talking about things. EVERYTHING is talked about, never shown. It's like watching a very static stage play. Also, a woman (Lucy) becomes a vampire early on. She's discussed...then ignored. It seems she's still wandering around after the movie ends! Also David Manners is very very good-looking as Harker, but his acting is bad. It's not entirely his fault--he has few lines and they're all pretty bad. Still, it should be seen for three reasons--Bela Lugosi, Dwight Frye and Edward Van Sloan. Lugosi is, of course, Dracula. He gives a great performance (hard to believe he was doing the lines phonetically) and his interpretation defined Dracula. Frye is really creepy (and funny) as Reinfeld--that laugh of his is REAL spooky! And Edward Van Sloan plays Van Helsing perfectly. Only Peter Cushing did a better job in the Hammer films. Also, Helen Chandler has one great moment playing Mina. She's under Dracula's spell and is hungrily looking at her boyfriend's neck! So, if you're a horror fan (like me) this is essential viewing, but expect lots of dull stretches when those three aren't on. Let's go listen to the children of the night... "},{"Title":"It doesn't suck but it won't make you rise from your coffin either....","Date":"15 October 2009","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" OK, time to cut to the chase. In prelude to my coming trip to 'The Land beyond the Hills'(Romania for you less poetically inclined)I have been reviewing genre films set there while carefully skirting those that feature it's most (in)famous (fictional)resident. The list of films set in Romania without Dracula was surprisingly extensive(and there are still several I haven't seen)and also surprisingly good. But now it's time to review film's featuring his excellency the Count, and where better to start off than with the version that is the most firmly implanted in the public's consciousness?In my now infamous review of the 1931 James Whale 'Frankenstein'(which still garnishes hate-mail on a weekly basis from enraged Branagh fans just as effectively as the original version I posted on my old account back in 2002 did)I emphasized just what a polarizing film it can be. In contrast, Tod Browning's less-highly regarded Dracula isn't so much a film with multiple opinions regarding it so much as it is a film whose reviewers are invariably split into two camps 1)Those who regard it as an important but unwatchable curio and 2)Those who love it unconditionally whose only complaints(if any) are that it's pacing slows down after the early scenes in Romania.But films, as with life, are too complex to be summed up that easily. So the truth is that while it has a number of strengths and weaknesses, they aren't nearly as strong OR weak as they are made out. The consensus is that the film goes to hell as soon as it leaves Transylvania; and while it's true that nothing else in the film quite measures up to those scenes in becoming iconic, the film actually has several of it's most effective sequences right after wards The scenes of the 'Vesta' being found with the entire crew dead except a raving Renfield still provides a real jolt, the scenes of Dracula seducing and then coming upon Lucy are still creepy enough to make you occasionally open an eye after you've gone to bed as well, but only if the atmosphere is JUST right.While it is true that a lack of a musical score mars the film, it also manages to give several scenes an eerie feel that makes it seem as if time itself has stopped to allow the Count to do his deadly handiwork. Everything feels dead, with only Dracula himself moving about. They don't call midnight(when Dracula apparently strikes)the 'Dead of Night' for nothing. The oft-criticized scenes where things are kept off camera actually work FOR the film rather than against it, and likely are sparing us some scenes that would otherwise be embarrassing. There's no denying that 'Dracula' is slow and dull, and that this pacing technique(not helped by static camera-work) fails more often than it succeeds; but compared to some other glacially-paced horrors of this era that I've had the misfortune to witness, it's nothing to gripe about.The acting is quite different from most people's reviews too. The consensus is that Lugosi is the only competent actor on board and everyone else stinks. The truth is, in fact, the opposite. Lugosi has an undeniable screen-presence, the most hypnotic eyes I have ever seen in a human being who was not a woman, and he created a character that will be remembered when the dust of my bones is gone; but the truth is that he's so hammy he's embarrassing, and his delivery(We'll be lee--avink, to-MORRRRROW--eve-enink)is the subject of too many parodies too count that it was probably old-hat to mock it before the year was out. This is no slam on Lugosi, I've sat through too many bad films just to see him in minor roles for me NOT to be a fan, but he's done better than this, even in comedies like 'Abbott & Costello meet Frankenstein'.The unfairly reviled supporting cast is actually quite good all things considered. Herbert Bunston gives a credible, if one-dimensional portrayal of Dr. Seward. Frances Dade is very natural as Lucy but sadly has too little screen time to develop the character. Helen Chandler is incredibly dull as Mina and deserves most of the barbs she gets, BUT; she does have one great moment where she attempts to bite Jonathan Harker(David Manners, who IS every bit as bad as critics have said)with this evil little gleam in her eye. It could be made into a shirt featuring the 7 deadly sins and 'Lust' would apply perfectly to it. Still, it would have been better if her role was reversed with Lucy's. Most of the film is carried by Edward Van Sloan as Van Helsing. He seems to be just an old man, but his sheer stoicism and drive is astonishing. He may not be a quasi-superhero like Peter Cushing or Hugh Jackman, but you really believe in everything he says. He may seem unassuming, but rarely has Dracula had such a worthy foe.But the real standout is Dwight Frye as Renfield. His transformation from an unassuming everyman hero, to mad slave, to fiend, to martyr is absolutely incredible. He's both charming and likable in his naiveté in the early scenes, horrifyingly deranged when he goes mad(his laugh is the scariest thing about the film), hilariously funny(he provides more real comedy than any of the comedy relief maids and guards)and ultimately, a very tragic character. One could argue that he is the true hero of the film. His death at Dracula's hands is genuinely heartbreaking. The fact that Frye was never nominated for something shows just how meaningless industry awards really are.So no, 'Dracula' is not a masterpiece, nor is it an overrated misfire only important for historic reasons with only one good performance. It still remains essential viewing for every horror fan worth his salt and should be seen at least once by any self-respecting film fan.Just try not to expect a classic in league with 'Frankenstein'.~ "}{"Title":"thin-blooded","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula is often hailed as a red-blooded horror classic, when in point of fact it's dull as dishwater. The opening segments work pretty well; the castle sets are gorgeous, and Lugosi's performance is suitably mesmerizing. But even during these strong scenes, Browning's flat direction often diminishes the film's impact (the rigidly shot appearance of Dracula's brides is one of many lame moments). And you can just forget it when the action shifts to - and remains too long in - Seward's sanitarium. It's unfortunate that the plot is based on the stage play and not the book, as the film's pacing is consequently quite slow and the action is too confined. I've also never been a fan of Edward Van Sloan's Van Helsing, who lacks both the warmth of Stoker's character and the energy of actors who played the part in subsequent films - most notably Peter Cushing, who was nothing like the character as written either, but who was at least charismatic and cool. The Spanish version, shot simultaneously, is better directed, but the actor playing Dracula in that film is rather too hammy. Shame, really...there isn't a definitive version of Dracula yet, despite the fact that directors are endlessly trying to churn one out. "},{"Title":"Has long since joined the ranks of the  Living Dead","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is yet another of those dreary old films which people desperately WANT to love for purely sentimental reasons. Certainly, it cannot be denied its place in Hollywood history. But it needs to be evaluated for what it is - a fairly unprepossessing example of the genre.It's a sad comment on any sound movie to say that it compares unfavorably to an earlier silent version but that's the undeniable truth in this case.In 1922 director F.W. Marnau filmed the first screen adaption of Bram Stoker's Dracula in Bavaria under the title of Nosferatu. With this landmark production Marnau created an extremely chilling piece of cinema which contained some genuinely spooky images. Nine years later Hollywood sanitized the whole concept and came out with Lugosi's painfully slow and almost comical remake.Today, this sleepy old clunker is, in all honesty, only of interest as an historical curiosity. It moves along with all the pace of a funeral procession (appropriately enough). The dialogue regularly stops for long periods and with nothing much happening on the screen to fill the void you'll find yourself glancing over at the video shelf to consider other options.The almost total lack of incidental music throughout the picture also doesn't help the situation. Bela pulls his usual collection of rather idiotic facial expressions most of which will lead you to believe that he's just spotted something nasty on the carpet.As far as being a viable source of entertainment for contemporary audiences I'm afraid that this movie has long since joined the majority of Dracula's unfortunate victims in the ranks of the Living Dead. "},{"Title":"Lame","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Absolutely Lame. The fact that this movie came out in 1931 is no excuse for how bad it is. Frankenstein and Svengali are two prime examples of what other filmmakers were able to do with the horror genre that same year. Dracula is simply a poorly written, poorly directed and poorly acted film. There is no imagination or style to it at all. It might have been enjoyable just for the spectacle, but there was none of that either. We never get to see Dracula come out of his coffin, change form, go for someone's neck or even flash a pair of fangs. Even for 1931 this had to be a low budget. The rubber spiders and bats on string are just plain laughable. Bela Lugosi makes a good Dracula, and Edward Van Sloan is a decent Van Helsing, but their limited talents go to waste here. Dwight Frye also gives a pretty good, though somewhat over the top, performance as the crazed Renfield. Not worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Bela Lugosi hypnotic","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Renfield is a lawyer from England to meet Count Dracula (Bela Lugosi). The locals warn him against it. Renfield is taken by Dracula and made to be his mad thrall. He accompanies Dracula and his three wives in boxes to be delivered to their new home in Carfax Abbey. On the crossing, they massacre the crew. Dracula is free to roam and kill on the streets of London. His new neighbor is Dr. Seward's sanatorium. Seward's daughter Mina's friend Lucy Weston is taken with Dracula and is killed by him. Renfield becomes a patient in Seward's sanatorium and Professor Van Helsing comes in to diagnose him. Dracula feeds on Mina and Van Helsing treats the dying girl.After Nosferatu's lost for plagiarizing Bram Stoker, a Dracula movie was inevitable. The special effects are limited. It's a lot of fog. There is no on-camera transition. The bat is obviously fake with wires. There are many aspects reminiscent of the silent era. This is not particularly scary or thrilling. The one truly outstanding aspect of this version is Bela Lugosi and his hypnotic stare. His face is wonderful. His presence is obvious. He is the star of the show. "},{"Title":"Not my favorite take on Dracula","Date":"12 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is a classic considering the time it was made and the style it was filmed in. It did create a early genre that is loved by many but the early horror films just don't do it for me. Not to mention the sub-par acting throughout this movie. The special effects were cheesy and easy to tell how they were done.Some shots in the movie did catch my fancy. The shots and lighting on his eyes did create an erie setting throughout the movie. But the slow progression of the story also caused me to become somewhat bored watching it. I would have stopped if it wasn't for the fact I need to review it. I am confused to how it received a 7.6/10. "},{"Title":"Dark-Intense-Art-Still Highly Influential Today","Date":"6 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula is a dark dramatic classic, it is the film that birthed The Vampire, which it introduced to the world in 1931. The Vampire has kept his place in society as a large phenomena that has remained omnipresent in media outlets. In recent years, we've had Twlight split a nation between Team Jacob and Team Edward (the vampire), tweens and their mothers alike. We have the Vampire Diaries keeping a steady following over the past 7 years, spawning a spin off, the Originals, that has also retained outstanding ratings over the past 3 years. Along with countless remakes and direct references to the man, the myth, the legend, the Vampire himself, Dracula; and his scientific adversary Van Helsing 85 years later. Tod Browning's black and white film left room for powerful use of light, photography, and sound helped the film be taken in the way that it was, causing it's overwhelming success. At some parts, the light is so low key that the shot is nearly black, only having a pair of eye's illuminated, This added to Dracula's looming presence, being more impactive on the viewer, they feel they are being watched themselves. The photography is key, frequently; it shows reaction of the characters to what is occurring or in front of them in a quick jump cut or reverse shot. And because of the mis-en-scene that is created, the diegetic sounds that are heard are all the more jarring and can be felt in one's core. "},{"Title":"Attack Of The Evil Eye Stare!","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" HAHAHAH! Huh, what? Am I not supposed to laugh? Sorry, but this film was so funny! Hahah!Okay, maybe it's not 1 star. But it's extremely overrated. Apparently, if a person takes 10 hours to walk a centimeter, it's considered scary. Apparently, if we keep getting ten million times where you see someone's eyes, it's considered scary. I think not. The movie is also very inaccurate to the book, which makes the movie even worse. Not even a five year old can call this a horror. Unless you want to watch someone staring at everyone for an hour, I recommend you don't watch this unless you love black and white movies! I like some black and white movies (Phsyco, Nosferatu,The Mummy) but this, I dislike! Don't go watching this, expecting people to walk at the right pace! Because these people take the whole half of the movie to walk! This movie should be called Attack Of The Horrifically Long Walking, then it can actually be called a horror! 3.7/10! "},{"Title":"I am...Dracula.  I bid You...welcome.","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula (1931) is a film that offers a little bit of everything, but at the end of a lot of things missing. The film is empty in a strange way. The film abounds with metaphysics at the expense of physics. I can not imagine such a horror in today's conditions. I think the director is not particularly bothered. Sound and special effects are beautifully evoked, but not innovative at all. But he created a classic that is not a bad movie.The first part of the film is quite interesting. The phenomenon of Dracula is amazing. Counts castle looks really creepy, but the real horror is missing. The camera is slow and framing are not very good.The second part of the film goes into slow play situations, which every now and then interrupted some horror moment. All material Production and costume design, elements of metamorphosis, disgust of the Cross, invisible in the mirror wrapped in a dark appearance of the character of Count Dracula in the chamber atmosphere from which he emerges from his coffin; all this was raised to the top level by omitting the use of music and Gothic sounds, creaking, rustling, twisting wind and the howling of wolves. Everything that develops, runs silent, the cold conversation that alternate with the image darkness and dense social flirting and compliments.Bela Lugosi (Count Dracula) is such a great character. However, his acting is quite questionable. The appearance is amazing, but what comes after that is pretty empty. I am one of the few who considered his performance as average. I wonder how he felt Lugosi because he did not excel in the role of life.Dwight Frye (Reinfield) is disgusting, sycophant and loyal subordinate toddler who eats flies and vermin. Frye saved movie. Its performance is considered as excessive. I think that his performance is excellent. Watching this film is really tempting. The film will not appeal to everyone, especially not to a wide audience. Bela Lugosi will certainly be remembered. Close-up of Dracula's face for film annals. Is that enough? "},{"Title":"Dracula","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula, a well-known vampire who loved to suck blood, was a great horror film. The music and lighting was a bit slow, but like everyone else, I enjoyed this film. Violence did not really play a role, but it sure is a CREEPY film. This film which was from the Universal studio was a success, and is still very entertaining. It was a great hit! The design director did a wonderful, creative job with the costumes and sets. Once the name Dracula was mentioned, the facial expressions showed the tremendous fear that was shared. Even though Dracula showed a passion towards some individuals, he still sucked their blood, then would try to save them from turning into a vampire. It is definitely a film to love and never forget. "},{"Title":"Dracula review","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Classic films or characters are few and far between. Dracula is one of those exceptions. Everyone knows who Dracula is. He is THE vampire. Growing up knowing who that was and is brought excitement when I had seen there was a very very early make of it. Sadly for me, Did not even come close to anything involved with Dracula. This seemed pushed and rushed. The acting was so-so at best and story line very bland. Those things need to be executed very well for a modern day audience to enjoy it. Still saying that I think this film should get its respect. It's the original and should be viewed if you are a real movie lover. You must always view the originals to truly love anything in life. "}{"Title":"Dracula","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Once again there is something about horror that is extremely difficult to translate over time. I found it to be better than Frankenstein but to me that isn't saying much. I appreciate that this helps to spark later versions of this story and I bet for the time it was very important. Today vampires are very popular and that might not be possible without this film. The sets where Dracula lives are incredible. The idea of this film just seems better than the actual movie itself. Today that accent and the cape just seems corny. There was no music which I feel is really crucial in this genre it guides the audiences feelings and makes situations infinitely more eerie. Without this I feel the film suffered. The best things done were with the setting and the lighting because the shadowy shots really add to the feel that one is supposed to have when watching a movie like this. "},{"Title":"Great Movie That Has A Few Flaws","Date":"20 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Before I begin I would like to say that I watched the 2012 blu-ray.Now to begin, the plot of this movie was very interesting, most of you will know the basic plot but if you do not I will not spoil it here. It kept me guessing and compelled to see what Dracula would do next.The characters... Well, Dracula is interesting, Reinfield was probably my favorite as he had the most interesting story in my opinion. Their was a couple of other characters that I thought were interesting. All the other characters were OK, I can not really remember much about them other that they were there.The creepiness in this movie is very good, the lack of almost any music is both good and bad. It sometimes helps with the suspense and creep factor, but it can make for pretty odd moments and might make some people laugh or smile. But then again, you can watch the 1999 version that has its own score.Their were a few flaws in this movie. As I mentioned before the lack of music is a double edged sword. Some of the characters were not really explored at all, they were simply there to be scared. The run time could have been longer to explore the characters more and flesh out some of the scenes. Also, the editing was a bit weird at times, it would jump from one location to the other. This did not bother me to much but it may bother and confuse some people.All in all I enjoyed this movie, it may have some flaws but it is still a good movie.(Please note my opinion may change)8/10. "},{"Title":"Not  a  fan  of  vampire  flicks,  but  this  is  my  favorite","Date":"16 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I will never be a fan of vampire flicks, but this one is worth the watch. Although it has its sort of cheesy props and stage settings, this movie makes for famous quotes and scenes that I knew about before I even saw the movie. Lagosi depicts a great corteous, but evil character. This movie also plays great with lighting and camera work. Early on in the movie, when Dracula sees Harker's blood from the finger, that angle & lighting plays so well with Dracula's thirst for blood. I also enjoy how the movie plays out scene to scene. I am not really a fan of early horror, but this movie is just a great watch all in all. "},{"Title":"Gloriously Gothic","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Worthwhile watch, after all it's only an hour. Bela Lugosi is of course amazing and probably one of the two things that make this movie so good. His voice and gestures as well as facial expressions are absolutely superb. My favorite thing about this film though is the atmosphere it creates. The lighting or lack thereof is fantastic as well as the sets for Dracula's castle and Transylvania. Personally I feel the film starts to drag once in London (which happens pretty fast) but as I said between Lugosi and the lighting it keeps me going. It is worth mentioning though that Dwight Frye also does an amazing performance as Renfield. "},{"Title":"Classic!","Date":"9 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Although today the special effects seem sub par, you have to keep in mind that this movie is a cinematic classic and you have to pay attention to the little things, which at the time, were something special. The way the lighting accentuates Dracula's eyes almost every time you see a close-up really hones in on the eeriness of his character. Not to mention, it really adds to Lugosi's intimidation factor. Only thing about this movie that I wasn't too happy with were just minuscule things. Such as the floating bat, or the spider who slid up the wall without moving any of its eight legs. And most importantly, the lack of color. If they were to re-release this movie with some color, I think even today, it would leave the audience with some serious goosebumps. "},{"Title":"HVCC Student Yuchen Bai Review","Date":"9 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a sublimated ghost story related with all surface seriousness, it is important to a very effective background creepy atmosphere in the movie. The opening scenes, set in Dracula's castle, are grave, stately, and severe. But the film becomes unbearably static once the action moves to England. Despite the static nature of the final scenes, Dracula is a classic among horror films, with Bela Lugosi giving the performance of a lifetime as the erudite Count. The film is a pure influence on popular culture by the characteristics of coal pillar at that time. To look at this film with the eyes of someone who has grown up with horror films that had the advantage of hitting more nerves than others at the same time. Above all, this is a successful horror movie in the history, also, i love it and maybe i will see this movie again. "},{"Title":"Lin Chen- Dracula Review","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's a horror classic. Although only a short span of 70 minutes，almost every picture is full of feeling. The whole film has spreading the felling of darkness. Especially this film is black and white. The main actor is the most elegant vampire I've ever seen. A close-up of his lens, there is a light between his eyes. That's how vampire supposed to be like. Actress clothes are overall very beautiful, and Dracula's three wives are also beautiful. Unfortunately, the ending is too hasty, thought there was a conspiracy or something.The vampire is should look like this, the gentleman, mysterious, slightly frightening color.Personal favorite of Dracula, only the nobility in the world, and the tablets compared all the other Dracula films all overshadowed by. Because this is not just a horror movie and aristocratic temperament and accomplishment on the inside of the movie. i really enjoy this movie! "},{"Title":"The first talking vampire ...","Date":"18 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This first 'sound' horror film opens with some stunning graphics. For years, silent films only had visuals to tell their story, so already the art of matte painting used as backgrounds had been implemented successfully. So as Renfield (Dwight Frye) makes his way by carriage through the Universal films backlot, it is transformed, very impressively, into Transylvania! The first words spoken are from Carla Laemmle, niece of studio founder Carl Laemmle (she died as recently as 2014 aged 104).After local murmurings of vampires and Walpurgis Night, the camera allows us inside the dusty basement of Castle Dracula, where small animals scamper away as a selection of coffins betray their supernatural hosts. Three somnambulistic women and one man are revealed in near silence. These are beautiful, classic horror scenes. Dracula moves but rarely speaks. When he does, it is to welcome Renfield and then glides up a colossal stairway leaving his somewhat fey guest scrabbling through outsized spider's webs.Bela Lugosi had been playing Dracula on stage for some years and by 1931 made the role his own on film. It was a sensation. For a few months, he was an undisputed movie superstar, a horror icon. This story &#x96; which he described as a blessing and a curse &#x96; would be mentioned in virtually every interview and article about him until his death. He is magnificent, alien and captivating in these opening moments. The first time you see him, you notice how theatrical he is. When you watch him again, he is never quite as theatrical as you remember. He moves slowly, like a hungry lizard and is at one with the thick, macabre, frightening atmosphere &#x96; when he is removed from that, however, his performance takes on an anachronistic aspect.After an opening that is as near perfect as any in horror, Renfield loses his mind and is presided over by Martin, a warder at the sanatorium, (a truly grotesque, comedy-mock-cockney character who refers to his client as a 'loonie') and the horror is restricted almost entirely to Dracula's persona (on the rare occasions he is on screen) because the action is placed very much in the (then) present day. From here, it seems very much that we are watching a filmed theatre production, a drawing room drama. The camera barely moves, performances are very crisp and clear and static. The heroine Mina (Helen Chandler) is a meek, fragile, bloodless thing (perhaps The Count prefers subordinate females to Frances Dade's feistier Lucy) and her beau (David Manners) is even wetter. Of course, it is easy to note the difference in filmic styles from over 80 years ago &#x96; but 'Dracula' has dated less well in this respect than other films made during this era.As The Count is staked by Edward Van Sloan's Van Helsing, it is off-screen. We hear a groan (trimmed on the insistence of the censor) and it is rather anti-climactic. One would have hoped that any sequel would give Lugosi's Dracula a more memorable send-off. What a shame it was with Abbott and Costello, 17 years later.Horror was a largely unknown genre in 1931, so Universal's trepidation was understandable. Whilst Lugosi approached his role with full-blooded confidence, it's a pity the studio didn't do the same. "},{"Title":"Old but good.","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A Hungarian actor with an evil smile, an irresistible charm, and a set of hand contortions the no one possessed, seduced movie goers of his time, in this thriller about the original bloodsucker and his followers. Bela was perfect and this has had a tremendous influence on Hollywood over the decades! It does drag in some places and certain parts were a little lack luster, but overall, it was creepiness at its best. The entire cast and most of the script/story were excellent. This is great to watch late at night when you shut off the lights and let the evil, I mean story, take you on a journey into the darkness known as Transylvania! "},{"Title":"Dracula Review","Date":"18 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Another classic horror film, Dracula is one of the first of its kind in the genre of horror. It is the classic story of a vampire living up in a creepy castle. The cinematography and lighting are quite well done. Many of the scenes are gloomy and dark, especially those that emphasize Dracula's presence. Some of the scenes may have been a little too dark for my taste. However, the over all feeling of the movie stays true to what you would want and expect. The music matches up nicely, keeping the creepy dark vibe alive through out. I would recommend this film to any fan of the horror genre, and really anyone who appreciates well filmed movies. Not as good or groundbreaking as Frankenstein, but still a solid flick. "}{"Title":"I Never Drink........Wine","Date":"7 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I recently reread Bram Stoker's Dracula and subsequently decided to catch up on an old favorite, the 1931 version of Dracula with Bela Lugosi as Count Dracula. For my money, Lugosi's stilted Hungarian accent, stiff and slow movements, and bright, piercing eyes make him the best film Dracula of them all. Edward Van Sloan's performance as Van Helsing makes him a worthy adversary of the Count who exclaims, memorably For one who has not lived even a single lifetime, you are a wise man, Van Helsing. The film does reflect 1931 production values and does not have a particularly vivid ending; moreover, the almost silly performances of the actors portraying Mina and John Harker plus a couple of other elements in the film can place it, at times, in the camp class. But who can forget the mad Renfield groveling before his Master in between dining on flies and spiders. Lugosi shows Dracula's dominating presence and his powerful use of his hands in commanding come here to the weaker-willed characters in this film; they obey him and go to their destruction. But Van Helsing's will is equally strong and together with Dr. Seward and Harker and Van Helsing's knowledge of vampire lore, they ultimately prevent Mina from becoming, in another memorable phrase, this time from Van Helsing, a foul thing of the night.This Dracula is well worth watching every 5 to 10 years. "},{"Title":"Like Frankenstein, the only reason I see it being as iconic as it is, is for the actor playing the monster","Date":"3 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This and Frankenstein are so similar and iconic that it's impossible to watch these movies without thinking the people behind it had the same vision for both of them. I will admit that this has much better atmosphere, especially in the beginning where Dracula continuously walks without making a single noise and that castle and those hills! Okay, at times you can tell when the effects and sets aren't that great but I'll say it's still effective and the best reason for that is Lugosi. I don't think I need to say anything aside from it being the sole reason to watch this movie in my opinion. Okay, what's bad here? Well, everything that was wrong with Frankenstein is repeated here. The runtime is ridiculously short for the story they want to tell clocking in at around about 70 minutes, resulting in scenes stopping abruptly and the rule of Show don't tell being broken. With all this said I would recommend this and the Boris Karloff Frankenstein, even if in my opinion the absolute undoubtedly best thing about both movies are Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"2 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Director Tod Browning's 1931 classic Dracula is one that put Hollywood horror on the map and made Dracula a household name. The film adaptation borrowed more from the play then the novel, but provided a solid blueprint for others to follow. The black and white works in favor of this production, amping up the gloomy Gothic ambiance. The tone and atmosphere of the film is very eeire and ominous. As far as I am concerned Bela Lugosi gave an incredible performance as Count Dracula. He had immense screen presence and old world charm. Bela Lugosi had a unique persona and had the ability to be creepy and charming simultaneously. No other actor embodies the essence of Dracula like Lugosi has done here. In this timeless classic, Mr. Lugosi really brings Dracula to life and sets a standard as well. The Spanish language version of the film was shot in the same time frame, using the same sets and script is a great companion piece to this film. For the most part its Spanish counterpart is a better made film. However, the Spanish version does not have Bela Lugosi, who in my opinion is a key element for the film to perform as well as it does. Dwight Frye also is very impressive here as Renfield as he delivered a very complex and insane performance. As a fan of the genre I enjoy and recommend both this version and the Spanish version. They are a bit old fashioned now, but hold up really well against many of the other Dracula adaptations that came out through the years. "},{"Title":"Classic film but a little overrated","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After his arrival in London, a group of friends finds the series of accidents to their group are the result of the mysterious stranger from Transylvania feeding on them and try to save their corrupted associated under his spell.This one wasn't too bad but did have a few big flaws to it. This one manages to really get enjoyable with the grand opening here, making great use of the film's Gothic leanings here in a spectacular scene that's quite chilling. The night-time carriage ride is good enough with the mysterious driver and creepy ride, but the real fun here comes from the closed-off scenes found in the crypt of the castle where the four of them come out of their coffins in their graves in absolutely fun scenes that are quite creepy and chilling as the setting adds to the eeriness. Going right into the first meeting, where the absolutely grand Gothic castle that's littered with spider-webs that provide the source of a great visual gag and sets up the fantastic dinner scene and eventual corruption scene that's really fun. This also scores some fine points here in the build-up to his true revelation, getting the fine amount of bedroom stalking and reactions fully showing his intentions from the very beginning that makes for a decent mystery here. Otherwise, there's a lot more flaws here that really lower this one down away from these positives. The biggest issue here is the rather bland, boring pace, which indeed comes from the origins of the film but instead comes off as stiff, dodgy and way too talkative than it really needed to be. There's so little action here due to this rather irritated manner of talking or speaking out everything here rather than showing it as we don't even get the neck-bites or any true signs of vampirism on-screen other than what's told to us. In fact, so little of what happens here is told rather than shown this one could almost be seen as a romantic drama rather than a full-on horror effort, and it's really only the fact that he's a vampire which really causes this one to be reminded of a horror film. The only other issue holding this one back is the fact that all this talking means Van Helsing has to continuously explain things to everyone involved for her protection rather than simply explaining everything at the beginning, especially since he knows not only the means of dealing with a vampire but also where he's hiding out. After he suspects this, it's several days of trying to keep her in check arguing, and his location for the hiding spot isn't a secret so it would've been easier to go into action rather than stay back and talk everything out. These here lower this one quite significantly.Today's Rating/PG Mild Violence. "},{"Title":"A monster in Disguise","Date":"21 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Not quite a horror to me, but still a great piece. It's great use of tonality to create so much difference with the light and dark aspects of such a dark movie, in black and white it was so much more than (my opinion) what it would have been in color, so much creepier. And the cinematography id a great job with making the sets seem real and spooky, even though it was shot in the studio, Lugosi did a wonderful job with portraying Dracula as a terrifying monster who took on a charming human guise to catch his victims. The story was okay for me, but the setup all around it was what brought the movie together for me.Its was very dramatic and that's what made it interesting. "},{"Title":"A low-key horror classic.","Date":"19 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is what I believe the original film version of Bram Stoker's classic novel about the blood-sucking vampire count. It was a fast-paced, to-the-point movie with an eerie atmosphere and a solemn-acting cast of characters.Bela Lugosi gave a very creepy and sinister portrayal of Count Dracula; his stern look and wide, bewitching eyes were enough to frighten a room of spectators. He was indeed the highlight of the movie, but much of the plot suffers from a lack of action, emotion and thrills. The more thrilling scenes like the vampire bite sequences were all off-screen. And, the absence of a musical score made the movie a little on the dull side.However, being a movie that was made in the 1930s and is the first motion picture featuring Dracula, it is still a classic and the actors were truly talented in their own way. It paved the way for many more horror classics to come.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Spooky Vampire","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After watching Dracula by Tod Browning, I found this film to be kind of creepy even though it's from 1931. I like a lot of the camera work done in this film. A lot of close ups of Dracula face with a grin on his face, you can't not like that. I feel like Dracula could be a cool meme. I thought it was quite incredible that they made it all in a studio. It really seems like I was there watching Dracula and right there in the setting itself. I really liked the acting by Bela Lugosi. He played the role very well. From all the Halloween stories I grew up hearing and stuff he fit the description of Dracula amazingly. The opening Carriage scene to Dracula's castle was very cool to watch and very interesting. "},{"Title":"Set the standard for the monster genre, but feels forced, with little backstory or interesting plot","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I feel like this movie could have been pretty good if it had a longer running time, and used it's time more efficiently. As is, it spends a lot of time showing scenes with very little happening in them. I suppose those are supposed to increase tension, but all it did for me was make it less engaging.I hated the close ups of Dracula in which he has a small amount of light on just his eyes. The effect is painfully obvious in those shots, and then when it changed to a wider shot the light is just gone, and his eyes are actually in shadow.I liked the Count's accent. It does seem a bit forced, but it is still interesting, and when you talk with fangs it can't be easy.I'm not given any reason to care for any of the characters. All they do is move the plot along. They are all very shallow seeming.The climax at the end felt last minute with very little buildup. I was hoping to at least see his final moments, or maybe a last second struggle, which I believe happened in the book, but it was just a quick shove off screen. "},{"Title":"Dracula 1931","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" To be completely honest I think this movie is blown a little out of proportion by some. While I'm sure that this film was probably pretty scary back when it was made, it's pretty laughable when viewed now. I will admit it's made slightly scarier than some other horror films of the time such as Frankenstein, but it wasn't nearly as good in story and depth. The effects such as the bat and hypnotic lighting on Dracula's eyes were very cheesy, the characters felt rigid, shallow, and unrealistic, and in addition to the very slow motion form of acting and dialogue implemented, the entire film seemed to move very slowly along as well. I understand the slow effect and the absence of dialogue in many parts is to convey a sense of creepiness, and to an extent I think it accomplished this, but I think the lighting accomplished this just fine and the quiet slowness felt a tad overdone. All in all, I would say this was a pretty average horror film with nothing too revolutionary. "},{"Title":"Alright first Dracula film but the soundtrack was amazing!","Date":"24 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" So today in 2015, I have watched a 1931 film which was meant to be the first time that Dracula ever came to cinema. I thought Bela Lugosi was absolutely brilliant with his persona and role as the count Dracula. I loved whenever we are concentrating on his eyes like regardless if it was black or white. He must've enjoyed doing this role since it was only 10 or 20 years that it was the 19th century.I thought Dwight Frye playing as Reinfield was funny like normally Reinfield these days is very serious and clever. It seems like this is the only movie that Reinfield has gone bananas and added so energy to a old horror film. He really acts like Igor then himself to be honest with you.It was too bad that the costumes back then weren't great for the movie or not much Dracula/Mina scene's since he died already in his coffin. However the music didn't put me off, it was the best orchestral music I've heard in a long time actually! "}{"Title":"The most classic vampire movie.","Date":"17 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In this classic American film, directed by Tod Browning and based on the work of Bram Stoker, Count Dracula are looking for a new home in London, but hides a secret he's a bloodthirsty vampire. This is the famous movie that starred the Hungarian Bela Lugosi in the title role, making him one of the best actors who played the infamous Romanian vampire.This should be one of the most famous vampire movies of all time, having cult status. Its remembered, revisited and even parodied frequently. His fame and impact lead us to know very well several of its most iconic scenes, even if we've never seen the entire movie. Bela Lugosi delights, scares, embodies its role perfectly, giving European charm to a character who, in films of the following decades, would be hackneyed and humiliated by cinema with bad movies, bad actors and misinterpretations. A film that everyone should see at least once in their lifetime. "},{"Title":"A Landmark Film But Very Overrated","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember the first time that I ever saw this film. I was only a child and I loved it for a long time. Until I became an older adult, of course. I watched it again last night, for the first time in many years, but this time it didn't hold my attention as it once did. The benefit of hindsight and the passing of time now allows me to see this film with a much more critical eye than ever before. I now see it as an extremely boring and static film, with no real action and all of the horror taking place off-screen. Bela Lugosi is still great as Dracula and I still enjoyed Dwight Frye's over the top performance as Renfield, but the rest of the cast did not match them. The whole film was very talky and stagy, with hardly any music or atmosphere, especially after the castle scenes at the start of the film. I also didn't like Dracula's death scene, because even that happened off-screen and without any real impact. I appreciate that some critics love this film and it is a landmark film, but it pales when you compare it to Universal's Frankenstein, which came out the same year. I just do not understand the adulation for this very stiff and unfrightening film and it is basically a horror film without any horror and that would not frighten even a young child. I have heard stories about audiences back in 1931 fainting in fear from this film, but I find that rather hard to believe and just seems like a way to market the film and make people see it. If you want to see a true classic 1930s horror film, then I suggest you try Frankenstein, which is superior to this in every way. I cannot imagine Dracula ever being scary, even back in 1931. A disappointing and underwhelming film in almost every way. It is still Bela Lugosi's most famous role, however, but that isn't really saying much. "},{"Title":"Classic horror cinema with classic tropes to match","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've heard about Dracula my whole life (first exposure was in Bugs Bunny cartoons), so it was nice to finally watch the 1931 Dracula movie starting Bela Lugosi. One of the biggest sources of suspense was the complete obliviousness of the other characters. This is a common trope now characters in scary movies do not watch scary movies so they don't know what to look out for; they just blunder right into obvious traps. Some example dialogueDracula (appearing at the theater) I... am Count Dracula!Witless Male Well, it's very good to meet you, Count.me (yelling at TV) OMG! It's him! Kill him!!!Witless Male I imagine you'll be fixing up that place you moved into.Dracula Oh, I don't intend to make any repairs.me Seriously?? Who doesn't make repairs? Read the signs, people!Dracula It reminds me of the broken battlements of my old castle... in Transylvania!Witless Female A castle? How romantic!me Lambs to the slaughter... "},{"Title":"Really good but I expect ted something more","Date":"20 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" II did expected to be a bit better then it was, I still think it was really good movieI liked the fact the movie didn't take long to get going.There were some decent creepy scenes in this movie , which I thought were really good and I found bit sure al at times I really enjoyed the mirror scene ,What I didn't like was that they showed how they killed the vampire and the movie far to quick and felt liked the rushed the endingDecent for the time7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Dracula","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A true classic! If your love vampire movies, its best to start from the very begging...the first interpretation of a vampire. Bela Lugosi is fabulous for this park, giving his character charm and humor while being terrifying all at once. Film contains high contrast but more over powered by the exaggerated dark's and shadow. The soundtrack to the film truly supports the intensity of the film (like most horror/thrillers). No terribly impressive cinematography but very smooth fading in and out editing. The story line is a small bit confusing in the very beginning bu nothing that cant be fixed with some subtitles! Over all a very fun, although slightly slow film. I found it to be quite clever and funny at some points and still one of my favorites! "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"5 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm not a fan of vampire movies. The only vampire movie that I truly enjoyed so far is Let the Right one in. However with my desire to watch older horror in black and white I thought it would be interesting to watch the original Dracula movie. I have seen remakes, the one from the nineties for sure and other versions but most are too long ago now to remember. OK the plot is really simple and this is more about atmosphere than anything else. The Gothic atmosphere is translated well to the screen by means of the dark castle of the count in the beginning, the bat, the coffins and of course the appearance and gaze of Dracula masterfully given a face by Bela Lugosi. Kudos also to Dwight Frye who plays Renfield going from a serious guy to a crazy nut. I'm not an expert but everything you need to know about vampires is in this movie except for the gruesome teeth. In my opinion not really needed as Dracula's stare and the way he moves is terrifying enough for any of his preys. "},{"Title":"The Original but Really not the Best Version!","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Purists will not agree, but I prefer several other versions of the story of Dracula, including Frank Langella's in 1979, and Bram Stoker's Dracula. Some of the Hammer productions are quite good, also. How can the original not be the best? Well, it drags. Unless you opt for the new music in the 1999 DVD release, there is not one bit of music throughout it. No gore of any kind is shown. Barely any blood, fangs, bites or bite marks! The restoration is terrible. So grainy that I bet that some 16mm prints were used as a last resort for restoring missing scenes. (The shipwreck and fog scenes are terrible.) The obvious puppet bat is very well performed. I didn't see any wires at all! Still fun to watch, as poor Bella Lugosi get hopelessly typecast in his lifelong role! That look of his was enhanced by his alleged drug habit, they say. The Spanish version on this DVD is actually somewhat better, but without old Bella as Drac, it just isn't the same! "},{"Title":"Dracula = Horror","Date":"30 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Beside the film Frankenstein, Dracula was also a monumental horror flick. The thing that sets Dracula from the other horrors, were the aspect of the vampire count biting necks for blood. Even though this is a horror film, people these days most likely would not find this film scary. Dracula rise back to power after a visit from Renfield at his Transylvania home.The dark hair and the widows peak is classic and gave him that creepy look he needed. One of the things I didn't like to much were the special effects, for example the scene where the bats were flying it looked so unrealistic. The bats looked like they were made of rubber and held up by a string, which I found funny. "},{"Title":"A dark and beautiful film.","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The film I watched had music composed by Phillip Glass in 2000. It is beautiful and truly sets the mood. muddy greys and enveloping blacks with stark whites peeking out from the sea of black. Sharp music that punctuates each scene. Everything about this film is meant to set the mood. The film itself is a work of art in the monster film madness. I can see where many future film makers got their inspiration. You could easily say that Bela Lugosi's Dracula was the start of the Sexy vampire trend (albeit his Dracula is equal parts beautiful and dangerous, unlike twilight vampires). I recommend this film to anyone looking to get into the origins of monster movies. "},{"Title":"Dracula (1931)","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What a film. In terms of classic horror, Browning's 1931 Dracula is definitely one of the most iconic films to ever grace the screen. Bela Lugosi as Count Dracula delivers a brilliant performance that thrills and excites the audience to no end. Despite being made over 80 years ago, Lugosi's Dracula is still found to be one of the most terrifying portrayals of the classic character. After all, this is the performance that not only launched Lugosi's acting career into high gear but set in motion the horror genre as it is today. With brilliant acting and an atmosphere to accompany it,Dracula is definitely one of the best there is.The only issue I had with this film was its ending. Despite being so full of plot, the ending lacked the substance it deserved. It ended rather quickly, and didn't give much explanation as to how the rest of the story played out. Nonetheless, an amazing film. A definite must see. "}{"Title":"A good example of the period genre, but I wouldn't watch it again...","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula (1931, Tod Browning, Karl Freud) certainly achieves the eeriness it was obviously attempting. The use of dim lighting and shadows is definitely not subtle, but still really amusing to watch out for. Most notably, when the Count's face falls into shadow, but a beam of light falls across his eyes (sort of like a reverse raccoon effect) and it really adds to the mortality emanating from him. I'm not a big fan of horror movies (from any period, really) and this film wasn't an exception, but I don't particularly regret watching it. The additions to contribute to the sinister atmosphere like the music, or the use of fog, were fun to note. The costumes were also impressively authentic, if a little dramatized. The way Bela Lugosi plays Dracula is remarkable, as well, because he embodies the very cold impression every audience member gets from his character. I wouldn't watch it again, because I found it a bit cheesy, script and prop-wise, but I recommend watching it if you're a horror movie/thriller buff. It's a great example of the pioneering horror movies of the '30s. "},{"Title":"Dracula","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie isn't what I expected, not in a bad way. I just have seen so many remakes and spin offs. And of course there was the vampire fad with Twilight, Vampire Dairies, True Blood, just to name a few. So watching the original Dracula was fun, I liked to see all of the vampire stereotypes where they happened for the first time, the Transylvania accent, pale skin, charming personality, coffin sleeping, bats etc. Although I didn't find the movie very scary it did have some moments that were spooky, to me the the character that brought the most spook was the hopelessly devoted Renfield. His bulging eyes and lunatic behavior really made for some eerie scenes, one that immediately comes to mind is when the ship arrives to Europe and what they found is the whole ship crew dead and the unstable Renfield all by himself laughing. The movie also used shadows in great ways, many times the shot would be a close up on Dracula's face but casting a shadow over his entire face expect his eyes. This making the shot that more intense, this was done when Dracula was hypnotizing his victims. One negative thing I have to say about the movie was the ending. Through out the movie there was a lot of suspense and build up but it was so anti-climatic. There was a lot of action when chasing Dracula but before you knew it they found his coffin and the shot goes off to Mina and we hear Dracula off die of screen. The end. Over all the movie was good I just wish they carried the excitement all the way to the end of the movie. "},{"Title":"Stage Setting Horror Film","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula is undoubtedly a very well scripted and in my opinion well acted horror film. I find it far fetched from your average monster movie because Dracula is immensely different from a character like Frankenstein. In this film we see a monster with what seems to be a conscious and personality. We can tell by his murderous and sometimes hostile actions that Count Dracula is not a regular human, in fact his evil doings are what make him monstrous. However, as a viewer we can see the obvious human characteristics he posses. The way Dracula lures victims in, such as Renfield, by appearing to be harmless makes the film a lot more interesting and exciting to watch. I have been a fan of horror films and works for as long as I can remember. From being a kid watching Goosebumps to now enjoying TV shows like true blood I have always enjoyed the horror genera. As I watch the 1931 version of Dracula the overbearing sense of similarity is definitely prevalent. The idea that the most dangerous characters can initially seem harmless is used in Dracula and countless other horror films. "},{"Title":"classic horror","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" im a huge fan of horror films. this is considered a classic. the way it's shot is pretty decent for such an old film. it's kind of slow at first but eventually picks up. this is really a classic to the horror film genre. where it all started. granted, most horror films these days are mostly special effects to make them look more dark and scary. but back in the 30s that technology didn't exist and this film did really well for not having any special effects. also, the music in the very beginning was really great. it really helped set the mood for the movie. it had a dark, sort of evil tone to it. as if something was going to happen. except, it went to being really slow and sort of boring afterwards for like 20 minutes. but it was still a nice addition, like i said. overall this was great for a classic horror "},{"Title":"Ehh alright","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I thought overall this movie was not the greatest but it was not horrible at the same time . I did however really enjoy the acting that took place. Dracula obviously was played very well through out. I also really enjoyed the doctor and martin who is supposed to keep an eye on Renfield. Renfield's acting was also superb and almost stole the marvelous acting done by Dracula. I really didn't enjoy the whole story line of just finding new people to suck their blood. Overall the film was done well with the acting and the scenery. The castles and where Dracula's earth was was spectacular. I don't think i would watch this movie again but it definitely wasn't the worst movie I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was shot very well and is one of the few older movies that I can honestly say I enjoyed watching. It starts off slow and jumps around for the first ten minutes or so. This could make some people want to stop watching but if you can make it though the first fifteenth minutes it starts to make sense. As most of the reviews I write, this is written from the stand point of 21st century movie goer.Taking this into consideration, this movie is what you would expect from one of the first ever horror movies. It's special effect are typical for the early 1900's and are almost embarrassing by today's standards.The fact that this movie does not rely on flashy special effects makes you appreciate the acting and camera work a little more. For example, the use of lighting around Dracula's eyes when he puts people under his trance was a great way to show the audience that his eyes are the key to this power of his. Little things like these are why this film was a huge success and set the stage for all future vampire films(excluding Twilight of course). Overall I would suggest taking the time out to view this classic. "},{"Title":"The Classic Dracula","Date":"7 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have always heard great things about the classic horror of universal studios. I have not been thoroughly impressed. This was my second film in that genre and it was not all that it was cracked up to be. Not only was it not all that frightening, and that's probably because my generation has been so desensitize, but I felt that there was much lacking from the film. The character development was so shallow and disappointing because you didn't know anything but the most basic facts about them! I could have read a one page report about the movie and not have missed a thing. The story was lacking so much as well, it all seemed to be implied due to Dracula's powers. Also much of what was happening was explained in short bursts by Professor Van Helsing (who came out of nowhere with his theory and explanations) and made the other men seem incompetent. Dracula also acknowledges Van Helsing as his enemy but nothing more develops from that, the dynamic between the hero and villain is not explored any further and it leaves something to be desired. Despite all that the film was lacking it did have some good cinema qualities that help put it in that classic status. The acting was well done and Lugosi did an excellent job as Count Dracula. He was able to carry himself with grace and also make you think twice about being alone in a room with him. Frye, who played Renfield, was also a well played character. The perpetually crazed look in his eyes was so impressive that it kept you waiting for that moment when he would finally turn his master over. The lighting was also very well done, especially when focusing on the vampiric eyes that held you captive until they used you or disposed of you. The sets were also very impressive. The castle in Transylvania and even below the abbey where Dracula sleeps. They are so elaborate, made to look abandoned and creepy, until you get to the living spaces, and even then, there is an air of grace. I did find it interesting that Tchaikovsky's Swan Lake was used in the opening credits. "},{"Title":"great","Date":"18 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This classic horror film was brilliant. This film made Bela Lugosi's career. He plays a sinister and completely creepy count. He truly takes on this role, along with all the other actors in this film. While watching, I felt as if I were watching a glimpse of someone's life, because they all seemed to take on their role and really become their character. The cinematography definitely adds to the film. The lighting, sounds, and camera angles throughout give off a creepy, haunting ambiance. Although it isn't like today's horror films, for the time it was made, it showed things like never before in a horrifying manner. If you're into the history and evolution of horror films, then it is a necessity to see this as it is one of the building blocks for the horror industry. "},{"Title":"The blood is the life, Mr. Renfield.","Date":"14 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Of all the original Universal horrors, Dracula is probably the most divisive. It does creak in places and the stagey elements will turn off a lot of those viewers who don't frequently watch older films. But it's undeniably a classic and I feel it still entertains, despite its flaws. The story, which I'm sure we're all familiar with by now, starts with Renfield (Dwight Frye) traveling to Transylvania to finalize the lease of Carfax Abbey in England to Count Dracula (Bela Lugosi). Once at the Count's castle, Renfield falls under his spell. When the ship they take to England arrives with everybody on board dead and drained of blood, Renfield is held responsible and committed to an asylum. But the real killer is centuries-old vampire Dracula, who now preys on the women of London. When Dracula sets his sights on Mina Seward (Helen Chandler) he arouses the suspicions of the distinguished Professor Van Helsing (Edward Van Sloan), who knows all about vampires and sets out to stop the evil Count.Classic Universal horror film that, along with Frankenstein, set off the 1930s horror boom as well as cementing the public image of Dracula for decades to come. The script owes as much, if not more, to the stage play than to Bram Stoker's original novel. It's a much more restrained film than you might expect considering it's about vampires. There are no fangs, no blood, and the stake-through-the-heart scene occurs offscreen. Even Renfield's depravities are only alluded to rather than shown. Tod Browning's direction is often stiff and receives a lot of deserved criticism. But there are some iconic scenes and images, helped in large part by the great cinematographer Karl Freund. Unsubstantiated reports are Freund actually directed a good deal of the movie, which may account for why sometimes the camera moves and provides for interesting shots while other times the camera is drearily static. Things are at their stagiest during the setbound scenes in London. Never is it worse than in the scene where David Manners' John Harker tries to shoo away an obviously fake bat (Look out, he'll get in your hair!). The scene is suppose to take place on a terrace but it's clearly a set with matte painting walls that poorly resemble the actual outdoors. It's one of the few scenes in the movie that even die-hard fans must chuckle a little over.Career-defining roles for Lugosi, Van Sloan, and Frye. Bela Lugosi's Dracula is the version by which all others are measured. Lugosi played the part on the stage and brings a level of theatricality to the role, hamming it up gloriously. His distinct way of delivering lines -- speaking slowly with his thick Hungarian accent and mid-sentence pauses -- would be often imitated over the years in a similar way to how people imitate William Shatner's line delivery today. Edward Van Sloan is the definitive Van Helsing. As much as I love Peter Cushing in the role, all vampire hunter roads lead to Van Sloan. Dwight Frye, another wonderful ham, is superb as the wild-eyed Renfield. Subtlety was never Frye's strong point and God bless him for it. David Manners and Helen Chandler are the film's weakest links, with overly affected performances that add to the criticisms of staginess.I caution everybody against watching the version with the new music score. Yes the film creaks at times and the lack of a music score doesn't help. But the version released in the '90s with the Phillip Glass score is just awful. The music is overbearing and very noticeably modern. It doesn't fit the movie at all and is more distracting than anything. So avoid that. But you should check out the Spanish language version, filmed at the same time as this one. While this filmed during the day, the Spanish version was filmed at night using the same sets and script, though its runtime is quite a bit longer. That version is often praised as being superior to this one. You can read my review on that film for my thoughts on it. "},{"Title":"Dracula I Bid You Welcome","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula starts off in Transylvania, you're immediately set into the tone of the movie. The tone is made because of the fog, sets and scenery it puts the viewer into a strange mood that really fits this movie. Dracula himself is introduced in a pitch perfect way, and Dracula himself is brought to life by horror icon, Bela Lugosi. Lugosi gives one of the best and most memorable performances ever put into a movie, he's sinister, threatening, his stare (which is focused on many time) and the way he says his lines in that Hungarian accent all of it makes Lugosi not portray Dracula but he IS Dracula. The movie doesn't have a soundtrack at all if there's no talking there is no noise, but that's good it again heightens the mood of everything. For a movie that's 80 years + it is surprisingly.... frighting. Not in the sense of pure fear but more in the way that the whole time your kept in total suspense, the entire movie just felt like a long scene with endless suspense, this is due to the lack of music, scenery and Bela Lugosi's performance, I love the feeling of it. Now something I must say, some people may find it boring and slow, I can see how some people would find it boring but it wasn't to me. To close off this review Im going to give it a 9.2 out of 10. This is the perfect movie to watch during the Halloween season. "}{"Title":"Count Dracula","Date":"11 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film, I do have to say I loved. I am a fan of horror movies and to finally see and understand the dictionary movie to all other scary movies I love is amazing. The version without the score probably is the better version. I only saw the version without the score however. The silence definitely empowered the power that was set in the scenes. It also helped empower and emphasize the power and control one man can have over an individual, his town, and his world. Although some characters were just plain weird, it didn't take away from the fact that this movie is a masterpiece and a set bar as to what a scary should look, feel, sound, and anything else it could give off to the audience. "},{"Title":"Hard to not take it for granted","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" With the way the industry has evolved it's hard to not notice the faults in these old movies, but that's what gives Dracula its eeriness. the environment puts you in a mood and Bela Lugosi is brilliant as Count Dracula. A somewhat predictable plot, and some clear amateur stuff that was common for the time hinder this film, but it must be watched with a different frame of reference to fully enjoy it. The movie was honestly more entertaining than I thought it would be, but it just made me want to watch The Monster Squad (1987). Dracula is a trend setting movie like Frankenstein and is a classic, and well made for its time. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This classic horror movie kept me interested through out the whole movie. The acting especially from Bela Lugosi, who played Count Dracula, was amazing. The other actors in the movie like Helen Chandler and David Manners were also really good, but Bela Lugosi really stood out. He really got into his character and actually made him feel realistic. Something that really stood out to me in this movie was the amazing set. The set towered over the actors giving it a real castle feel. The detail of it was so breathtaking and the whole thing was extravagant. The story is a classic, I had never seen it before but I had heard all the stereotypical Dracula voices. I am glad that I finally got to see the original. "},{"Title":"I Bid You Welcome","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have seen many portrayals of the tale of Dracula, and this one, despite being made close to a century ago, definitely creeped me out the most. The slow-moving, ominous vibe this film puts out from the very beginning to the very end permeates whatever rationale against the story you may have. The story of Dracula is obviously a monster story. These are sometimes the hardest stories to make to cause the audience to feel the targeted emotion fear. A truly successful horror film pries open the imagination of its audience and engulfs them in the terror of this alternate reality. Dracula does an excellent job doing this for its audience. Most of the credit of this film is due to Bela Lugosi. His depiction was perfect and, despite the numerous other versions of this story, remains the icon for the character Dracula. "},{"Title":"A real piece of horror history","Date":"5 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula (1931) is 1 of my favorite horror movie. If it wasn't for this movie Dracula wouldn't be like today. So it deserves a 8. Because its a classic. It isn't actually nothing more to say about this movie. I recommend this movie for hardcore horror movie fans (like me). But if you are not familiar with Dracula. And not so fan of horror movies i wouldn't see it. Thank you for reading this review if you liked it let me know. And 1 last thing. For me Dracula is 1 of my all time favorite horror characters he is of course not a inspirational character that would just be weird.Delayreview "},{"Title":"Great Horror Movie!!","Date":"15 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The mood of this film was definitely set in the beginning scenes, the ominous atmosphere made it spooky and at bit frightening to watch. Dracula's character looked and acted the part well, his tone of voice added to the scary aspect of the film. I would consider this another great horror monster movie by Universal in 193. Camera use was used great during this film, use of flowing movement up and down staircases. Another neat aspect was the transition of Dracula to bat always happened off camera. A ground breaking significance of the over all theme of the film was the fact that a powerful mind controlling vampire could be defeated by a human in the end. Considering this film was made in 1931, the pre-code area it did not have restrictions, so the use of female sexuality was another theme brought into the film. Overall great story and great acting that made the unbelievable, believable though the actions, connections and voices of the characters. "},{"Title":"Ups and downs","Date":"14 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula is definitely one of the very few classic horror movies I've been able to see in my lifetime and I feel like it's just stuck in the middle of good and bad. Sometimes the story threw me off, and there were some moments when I couldn't take the acting seriously, or something would always looked off, but the scenery, the settings, the sounds, the eerie feeling, all of the artistic qualities just made me really happy. I wasn't really happy with the story and how it was put together, but I just really appreciated the moments that really kind of made you uncomfortable, in a slightly horrifying way, which was what I had hoped for going into this film. "},{"Title":"Cinematography out of its time!","Date":"14 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" You'll be hard pressed to find someone who hasn't at least heard of Dracula, But Tod Browning's rendition, starring Bela Lugosi, as the title character is definitely not one to be missed. The superb cinematography alone is reason enough to watch it. The mise-en-scene that Browning creates is truly incredible when thinking about the time that this movie was made in (1931.) The attention to detail is so fine you would swear that it all actually happened. One of what is perhaps the most impressive scene in the movie takes place in Dracula's manor and when you see these giant cobwebs and the sweeping way the camera travels up the staircase you're so captivated you'd swear the movie was created in this century, not 40 years ago. Bela Lugosi also portrays what is probably the most incredible Dracula to date so with the cinematography and all too impressive acting, this film is not one to be missed. "},{"Title":"Classic Horror","Date":"14 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While this film is not the best horror movie I have seen, it is undoubtedly one of the classics. Bela Lugosi is fantastic in his portrayal of the Count, and his performance is what makes this movie work. Even if you don't typically enjoy horror movies you should see this movie. Even if it is outdated there are certain qualities that still make for some eerie moments, not to mention the chills from Lugosi's eyes during his many close-ups. I'm personally a horror fan, and it took me quite a while to getting around to seeing this film; Afterwards I wonder why, the ambiance is fantastic and you get drawn into the story, even if some of the other actors performance seemed lackluster. I recommend seeing this regardless of your typical taste in films. "},{"Title":"The blood is the life.","Date":"19 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie! All the little details of the setting really blew me away. I loved how Dracula and his brides hands crept out their coffin like creepy crawling insects. The insect coming out of it's coffin cracked be up. Bela Lugosi brought so much to the movie just with his eyes. So sharp, so evil. I think one of my favorite scenes was when Renfield collapses to the ground after being drugged. The three brides creep towards Renfield for a bite and then out of the mist appears Dracula. With a brush of his hand he casts the brides away, the mist fills the room as Dracula lurches down towards Renfield ...then screen fades to black. Everything in that scene, the setting, lighting, the mist, the character movements are so well laid out. At times wanted there to be more of a score, but the stillness added it's own sort of atmosphere to the movie. "}{"Title":"a must see","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" this is the best horror movie i have ever seen. without all the effects, modern horror movies are full of, it makes you fear the character of Dracula. the well written story and the performance of Lugosi, will bound you to the TV. the best thing about this movie in my opinion, is the performances of Lugosi and the actor playing renfield. there is no doubt that Lugosi is Dracula, and created the classic image of Dracula. the actor playing the insane renfield also does a great job. if you are a horror fan i will highly recommend this movie. it is a good break from all the slashing and special effects, that fills modern horror movies. i will also recommend it for not horror fans, because the story is so good, and the acting is a delight. "},{"Title":"Had good moments, not bad, not my favorite.","Date":"13 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was really expecting to like this a lot more than I did. The acting was very good in this film. Bela Lugosi makes it hard to forget his name with his cold and stoic expressions, as well as his wonderfully accented one-liners. He did a phenomenal job.However, I found the story to be very slow. The beginning started off at a good pace, but then it slowed until the end. The end actually seemed a bit rushed-Blink and you could've missed a very important part of the story. At times it also got very boring and I found myself losing focus on the film at multiple times. I did like the use of depth throughout the film. I liked it a lot actually. For example, in many of the castle scenes, the camera was set so you could see many different layers of a shot. I don't know if this was intentional, but they also has the ghosts of the women placed in different spots, really making the castle seem like a huge, deep place. I just really liked how they utilized the spaces throughout the entire film. Also, the use of lighting, especially over Dracula's eyes, I thought was really great. The lighting, acting and depth really made the film for me.The only thing this movie really wanted to make me do is pick up a copy of the book and see how the story differs. "},{"Title":"Dracula","Date":"13 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was definitely eerie. The recurring face that Lugosi made throughout the film was enough to scare a person. Not to mention that creepy laugh and look on Frye's face that happened on occasion during this film. Many other things were creepy about this movie as well, such as the castle in Transylvania, the fact that Dracula could walk through that giant spider web, and many more things. The acting was all around superb in Dracula. The pace moved kind of slow though, and the movie seemed to drag on a bit. The fact that there was no music in this film to accompany the acting made the movie seem slower. This movie is a classic however, meaning it is loved by most. This movie just seemed a little boring though. "},{"Title":"Classic Universal Studios Horror&#x97;what you'd expect","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Watching a Universal classic horror film is quite a different experience today than it would have been when it was released in theaters. Certain things are now amusing or bizarre that would have probably been very scary in the 1930's. For example, some armadillos (aardvarks?) emerge from the wall in Count Dracula's castle upon Renfield's arrival, at which I laughed, but perhaps not many people would have known what these animals looked like then and in that case yes, they would be freaky! IMDb lists things like being able to see the wires on Dracula's bat form as goofs, which I'm not denying, but considering the technology of the day such details were still overwhelmed by the atmosphere created by a thunderstorm or dimmed lighting. It was awkward getting used to the lack of soundtrack, but then again, you should feel uncomfortable in a horror movie. Perhaps director Tod Browning (point of irony Tod is Death in German) did this purposefully or for some other reason left it to the children of the night...what music they make. It is evident why Bela Lugosi was known for this movie, but I personally liked Frye's performance as Renfield most. He was stilted and awkward as the English businessman in the foreign land in the beginning, and transforms quite convincingly into a mad lunatic. "},{"Title":"Dracula - the iconic vampire movie","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula, based on the Bram Stoker novel, was released in 1931 and was one of the first of many Universal Pictures horror films of this period. Tod Browning directed the black and white movie with Bela Lugosi cast as Count Dracula. Lugosi ,having performed the same role on the Broadway stage, won the part and became the iconic model for future portrayals of Count Dracula.The story opens in Transylvania, with English businessman Renfield (Dwight Frye) traveling to visit Count Dracula's castle. The local residents warn Renfield of the dangers, but he ignores their concerns. It is here that one first observes Count Dracula with his penetrating eyes and haunting voice; subsequent scenes of Dracula will continue to mesmerize the viewer using the same filming technique. Facilitated by Renfield, Count Dracula moves to England, and death follows him throughout his voyage. In England, Dracula meets his nemesis &#x96; Professor Van Helsing (Edward Van Sloan). Van Helsing quickly becomes aware of the dangers this enchanting, mysterious figure presents. The story then follows the battle for the soul of a young woman &#x96; Mina (Helen Chandler). Only one of the adversaries will prevail. The early scenes had several 'bloopers' due to minor editing errors, but the sets for the castle in Transylvania and the Abbey in England are extraordinary and set the tone for this Gothic horror. The close-ups of Bela Logusi's character are striking and terrifying, and undoubtedly convey to the audience the evil persona of Count Dracula. Tod Browning also infused several scenes of light humor with Renfield and Martin (Charles Gerrard) providing comic relief; an effective technique to allow audiences to relax before the next horrifying scene of Dracula. With a run time of 85 minutes, the movie has a pleasant pace. Several scenes place much emphasis on visual context as opposed to dialogue, but this approach helps to build up the apprehension of the audience during the movie. "},{"Title":"More funny than scary.","Date":"8 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Being the second classic horror film I've seen after Frankenstein (1931), I enjoyed this one much more. However, after seeing a bit of the opening for the Spanish version and then the English version... I almost feel like the English one is cheesier. I'd like to see the other version in full with English subtitles.Perhaps I'm bad at following movies, because I couldn't quite catch all the information on the characters in the beginning. The movie seems to just start right in the middle of something that the characters have already been planning. So that was strange. But I really liked Bela Lugosi, he was quite funny. Which was probably very unintentional, but I'm watching this as a young person of 2013. So my reaction is probably very different than of those when this movie was new. But that at least made it more enjoyable to watch and kept my interest. I feel it's worth watching again in the future, to pick up on what small parts confused me. It would be good to watch on something other than my laptop, as the sound track is kind of hard to hear at times, even at my laptops loudest. "},{"Title":"A Time-Stamped Trip","Date":"29 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creaky, creepy and stodgy. This seminal icon of Popular Culture is a dated curio-so that is an attractive artifact of the early sound era. There is much atmosphere in this beautiful studio bound, very popular film that started the Universal Monster series.Bela Lugosi's forever hammy performance is upstaged by his unearthly handsome face and a voice that mangled the English language and set the tone for the character as a frightening foreigner from the Underworld. The cinematography is static but eerie and essential to this photo-play as are the dark and decorated sets that lend bizarre believability to this fan favorite. The movie does not hold up as well as its early Movie Monster cousins, but has it's own charm and hypnotic romantic appeal.A time stamped trip to celluloid history, this Vampire is a product of a post Victorian era of drippy Gothic and stiff but arresting artifacts of a dress up culture. Those conceits aside, this is a must see for the appearance of it all, but may alienate modern viewers that prefer their Vampires to be overtly sexual and not subtly sensual. "},{"Title":"A disappointing classic horror masterpiece.","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I know Dracula is the classic iconic horror film that started it all & paved the way for all the other great horror classics at Universal. Such as Frankenstein, The Mummy & The Invisible Man etc. But the truth is Dracula is a disappointing classic. It starts out excellent & strikingly atmospheric & visually creative for the first 30 minutes or so. Renfield's (Dwight Frye) visit to Count Dracula's Castle is amazingly dreamlike, surreal & chilling & scary & at first he's rational & sane as he encounters the vampire. Bela Lugosi is absolutely mesmerizing & chilling as Dracula.But as soon as the story shifts from Dracula's Castle in Transylvania to London, England the film deteriorates & falls apart & never really recovers from the excellent Transylvanian scenes. It becomes too theatrical & resembles a stage play with too much talking & not enough action. And too much of the film focuses on Renfield now under Dracula's hypnotic control & is reduced to a raving mad lunatic slave. Dwight Frye overacts too much & it gets old fast. The young couple John Harker & Mina (David Manners & Helen Chandler) are very wooden & boring.Professor Van Helsing (Everett Van Sloan) was a more interesting character who confronts & exposes Dracula. But even he is given too much screen time & there's only fleeting moments of Bela Lugosi. Tod Browning's direction lacks consistency & is uninspiring after the first 30 minutes & shows lack of interest & seems unsure where to go with it or maybe he just didn't care. As soon as the story moves to London the film just didn't seem to have a clear direction & just plods & drags on aimlessly with no conviction. It might've been better if Dracula after being exposed by the Professor returned to his Castle in Transylvania.And what was Dracula's reason & motive for sailing to London in the first place ? When he already has a Castle in Transylvania it doesn't make any sense at all. Oh that's right he purchased Carfax Abbey in London but why ?? & where would Dracula get the money ?? As soon as Dracula moves to London the film becomes a dull & boring stage play & it struggles a bit to sustain your interest & is hard to sit through. But the first 30 minutes are fantastic !! After that it's downhill & a disappointment but still worth seeing as Bela Lugosi was & is the definitive Dracula. It's just too bad Tod Browning fell asleep when Dracula moved to London. "},{"Title":"Dracula","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This 1931 film is definitely a horror film. It is probably the most influential vampire movie ever made. The setting for this film was very dark and eery, which helped play up the spooky horror feel to the film. It also had a lot of great low-key lighting scenes because of this. There is a great deal of fear and suspense throughout the film. Although there are a few scenes that are not the best editing or filming wise, this film none the less is a milestone in the film industry. It pushed the horror genre and the start of vampire type films. Though to people now a days, this film isn't as frightening as it was back than, it is still a classic and I would recommend seeing it. "},{"Title":"Dated","Date":"22 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If I had been in the audience in 1931, I would have awarded Tod Browning's Dracula, with Bela Lugosi making cinema history by reprising his stage version of the Count, a good nine out of ten - maybe nine and a half. Lugosi does a good cross between suave and creepy, and the story has always been an effective one.But this early sound movie betrays its stage origins and studio staging constantly (and far more so than FW Murnau's silent 1922 Nosferatu). This is a talky adaptation (meaning lots of talking as opposed to an early sound film), with a camera which is almost completely static - it might as well be stuck in the stalls filming the proscenium. Lugosi's performance now comes across as rather hammy, most of the cast are unmemorable (with the single exception of Dwight Frye's splendid Renfield), and Edward Van Sloan's Van Helsing doesn't inspire. There are no special effects to speak of, and even the spotlights intended to make Dracula's eyes look as if they are glowing sometimes miss.There have been better versions since. Value this film for its place in history, and for its impact at the time, and then watch a more modern version. "}{"Title":"Truly special to me...","Date":"7 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula, as well as the rest of the classic horror films, is a very special film to me. I've grown up believing these characters were real, and still to this day want to believe some of the events actually happened. As cynical as it sounds, I believe the story is beautiful. It is interesting that Bela Lugosi had to practically beg to be given the lead role as Count Dracula, and today the Lugosi Dracula is one of the most universally recognized vampire portrayals. If you have trouble understanding the subtleties of early black and white film, find it difficult to comprehend that in 1931 many theaters didn't even have sound yet, and struggle to stay awake during movies with extensive dialog rather than explosions(Michael Bay), I would advise staying away from this horror classic. On the other hand, if you can watch a movie made in 1931 and appreciate it for what it is given the time in which it came to the big screen, then by all means, this is a must see movie for any true film lover. "},{"Title":"review of Dracula","Date":"2 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I enjoyed this movie. Having it be as dry as it was and all the different little effects throughout the movie like the fog in the background and the light on Draculas face (which didn't always match up with his eyes) and the bats, I think that all made it comical and helped keep my interest. I thought Dracula was pretty corny though, the way he moved and little actions he made like quickly covering his face were a little weird looking. I thought the lighting was good, but some scenes were kind of blurry and camera positioning was alright. I would recommend this movie to someone else, I thought it was interesting and comical enough that it kept your interest throughout the whole film. "},{"Title":"Count Dracula goes on a voyage to England and finds himself as the target of a vampire hunter.","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In comparison to it's fellow horror films of this decade (the 30s) I was quite impressed. I enjoyed the absence of background music and sheer silence other than the dialog. I thought that gave it an eeriness that some movies may lack today. I was surprised to find myself a little scared in some of the scenes that were quite suspenseful and the silence would give me goosebumps. Bela Lugosi did a phenomenal job as Count Dracula. I found the film to have a little more light than the 1931 Frankenstein, which made it not only easier on the eyes, but easier to follow. I didn't find the storyline to be too predictable, many characters were introduced, making the film more interesting in my eyes. This film set the stage for horror movies to come, and the legend of Count Dracula has definitely not died. Vampires have become a bit of a phenomenon and the icon of Teen heartthrobs in today's media. I liked that almost everyone in the film succumbed to the will of Count Dracula. Bela Lugosi's way of bellowing and talking in a smooth manner also made the acting a performance of a lifetime. "},{"Title":"Amazing photography; slow story line","Date":"13 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Firstly before I review this I must say that I do have a great amount of prejudice because I've always been a fan of horror movies and this is really before 'horror' became the horror that it is today. This isn't the type of movie that will scare you nowadays, back in the 1930's it may have though. The photography is excellent and the picture is very clear throughout the movie. My main complaint is the acting. The movie is very drawn out and slow, instead of Dracula being dominant and being a scary blood sucking vampire he instead moves very slowly and gives the victim time to simple run away; but -- unrealistically the victims always seem to stand and scream and allow Dracula to bite their neck instead of simply running away while he is slow lowering his face to their neck. I'm guessing that this is the way it is because of the ratings board and censorship back in the 1930s. Today there are obviously much scarier movies and because of that this movie just didn't seem to frighten me whatsoever.Overall I rated the movie a 7 because the sound and photography are excellent; and it's one of the earlier horror movies. Truth is, without movies like the original Dracula; today's horror movies would be much different. "},{"Title":"Sweet.","Date":"15 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love all the old monster movies like Frankenstein and The Wolf Man and of course Dracula too. I love all the dark lighting throughout the movie and the spot of light right on Dracula's eyes when he does his trance thing on the guy near the beginning. The whole setting was awesome and I loved the architecture of Dracula's castle, it really added to the mood of the movie. And Bela Lugosi's performance was great as well of course. His voice made Dracula. I have not seen the Spanish version so I can't compare it but I really like this version so it would have to be pretty good to out-do it. Dracula should've survived in the end just because he's so awesome. Thankfully he comes back in the sequels. "},{"Title":"THE Vampire movie.... the one and only Dracula","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" as far as the classic universal monster movies go Dracula is probably the most famous... Bela Lugosi delivers one of the most well known performances in movie history... while the film itself is very straight forward and simple on many levels its the scenery and charisma of Lugosi as Dracula that bleeds (no pun intended) through all other things to truly define the film... he has a dominant personality that really drives the film... the scenery and other actors really just compliment what he does on screen... the elaborate combinations of sets matte paintings and miniatures sell the darkest of the locations Castle Dracula as genuine... as usual my complaint with this old monster movie is the lack of music during the scenes... the dead silence perhaps leads more attention toward the actors but i feel tension could have been mounted more... Dwight Frye gives another great performance as crazed Mr Renfield... the only complaint i have with this movie i have because the film did not end the way i thought it did... i had watched these movies as a kid and i could have sworn Dracula's demise was ore dramatic... it was really anticlimactic... i guess a frivolous complaint i have is about the comically huge cobwebs in castle Dracula... and another interesting fact is i don't think we ever see Draculas fangs... it could just be that Bela Lugosi doesn't show his teeth much when he speaks or they simply didn't think it was necessary to show the fangs... they are more implied.... the film is well made and well shot... it deserves its place among the horror greats although i cant relate with the terror of the 1930s audience... still a favorite "},{"Title":"The look","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The 1931 version of Dracula is a very classic movie to watch when it comes to horror films. The look is what caught my eye through the entire movie. Whenever Dracula is about to transform someone or give someone instructions to make someone into his follower, he expresses this very creepy, dark look on his face. It makes the character even more mysterious and haunting because the face is so dramatic, that it gives one the spooks. Bela Lugosi was a fantastic actor in this film. He portrayed this vampire so well that you would think that he is like this in reality quite and mysterious. Dracula had very few lines in the movie, but that lack of dialogue emphasized the character so much more. Everything he said, I wanted to make sure I heard because it was very important. But, although he did not say much, his facial expressions really did show what he was feeling or thinking. "},{"Title":"Dracula","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The horror film wasn't what I expected the film started off well and then just got slower and more drawn out as the movie went on. There was no music guiding the actions of what was going to happen next or lead us to think that something other than what happened was going to happen. Bela Lugosi was amazing as Dracula his voice and actions throughout the film just made the character come alive. The actor who played Renfield was hilarious his scenes were so well acted and believable and made the movie overall more enjoyable. Most of the other actors were very good and believable Mina on the other hand was a little too dramatic and there was no real transition between her emotions during most of the scenes. The movie is very different from the horror films today but it was a good example of the differences and it was a good movie to watch. "},{"Title":"The Count","Date":"5 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Not exactly my favorite forror move, but still a classic. Bela Lugosi stars as Count Dracula, and his image forever is the stereotypical vampire. I thought Dwight Frye played an excellent role as slave to Dracula.The he changes his voice to sound very creepy, the way he says Yes master. I really liked the reflected light put on his face when he is hypnotizing someone. Also when he is walking at night with the top hat and cane, he has that light on him. The thing I want from this movie is more action. Maybe have some sort of crazy scene with bats attacking Van Helsing and the other doctor when they arrived at his hidaway. I felt it just kind of stopped once they got there. "},{"Title":"I Vant to suck your Blood","Date":"5 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I never drink....wine this line really shows what kind of vampire Bela's Dracula is like, classy, polite, and bloodthirsty. The movie is a classic by ever mean and really honors Bram Stoker's vision for his Vampire King. All the mythology of the movie is right on with the book and its depiction of Dracula and his weaknesses and powers. I very much enjoyed the ship scene were they show a model ship that by the standards of today is obviously fake but back then was quite advanced. Dracula's romp through London is quite amusing because of the fact that he is walking around, kills a girl very nonchalant, hypnotizes a random girl at a play and then continues with his business. The best part of the movie though in my eyes is Dracula's height. Most monsters are huge and imposing but Dracula is slight and so much more dangerous then any creature around. "}{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"3 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tod Browning's film based on Bram Stoker's Dracula was in interesting movie that had some bright spots, as well as disappointments. The best aspect of this film was the performance of Bela Lugosi as Count Dracula. His unique and graceful movements, speech, and mannerisms brought Dracula to life, and has been the standard since. Lugosi, along with Dwight Frye as Renfield were the films true bright spots. The film moved at a very deliberate pace that succeeded in building suspense and horror, but also made the film which was very predictable feel drawn out. While the fear this film generated in 1932 was probably strong, it was not very scary by today's standards. The attempts to make environments scary with things such as spiderwebs and creaking sounds are pedestrian by today's film standards and hard to ignore. The film while well acted, seems predictable and slow. While it is easy to appreciate this film for its historic significance and solid performances, it is difficult to characterize it as entertaining or scary. "},{"Title":"Old School Dracula","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Now I definitely understand where all the reference to Dracula come from. I see that now, but to discuss the film, I wouldn't recommend it to someone who knows a lot about it. It was a boring film. But had good qualities and attributes that came along with it. I usually like music in a film, only because it HELPS with the mood that's supposed to be set. This film, didn't have any. Kinda disappointing. But the angles of the film were amazing. Even without the music, I could tell what was supposed to be important and what wasn't. Such as close-ups on Count Dracula and certain angles that the characters withheld. Other things that were meant to be important was the long camera pause of the bat. Very Interesting, but boring as well. "},{"Title":"A good film, but over-hyped","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There is no denying that Dracula is a classic film. Bela Lugosi's portrayal of Count Dracula is flawless and alone makes the movie worth watching once, that's where the major appeal of this movie ended for me. I found it very hard for this film to grasp my attention and keep me craving more. As with the 1931 Frankenstein, these movies aren't considered scary by today's standards, but Dracula didn't even surprise me in many ways during it. That being said, I would still consider this film to be a classic, because it still fostered ideas for countless masses of horror movies to come and still features solid acting, particularly by Lugosi, whose acting is flawless. "},{"Title":"Being classic isn't always a good thing.","Date":"12 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was a movie that I had really looked forward to as a classic horror movie, the original Dracula. I was sadly disappointed when I finally did get around to watching it. The best way to describe the film as a whole is cheesy. Rubber bats, lightning, spider webs, and crypts are common throughout the movie. There is also some sort of strange mythology mix up in the middle as Dracula becomes some sort of wolf and is repelled by wolfsbane, the classic way to deal with werewolves. The only real savior is Lugosi's portrayal of Dracula, which I found particularly moving. His voice, which represents most of the film's memorable sound, is simply captivating in the way a vampire's voice should be. Lugosi is the only thing I would keep in this film. "},{"Title":"Overrated a bit.","Date":"12 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Story Line The story is original, I give the film that. As well as Dracula being an amazing villain. Don't get me wrong the story line was fie i just found the ending ruined it for me. It seemed like everything happened in the last Min's and then it just ended randomly. 5/10Cast/Acting - Not really amazed by the cast, they weren't bad but neither were they good. 4/10Scares 1/10 Sorry guys, no scares for me on this one. Oh wait I think there was a small scary part of when he killed the little girl. But still.Location - The sets on this films are cute. 5/10Best Bit When Dracula first arrives in the UK Worst Bit The annoying woman the man was searching for. He was looking for her for about 10 hours whilst she was in the same room as her, ugh. "},{"Title":"Bela Lugosi is Dead","Date":"20 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bela Lugosi creates the modern vampire in a movie that is anything but modern. The iconic Count Dracula would become the template for nearly all vampires and similar ghouls. Bela's performance transformed the vampire from a cadaverous ghoul into an suave aristocrat dominating the weak willed. Most of the acting aside from Lugosi's, Sloan's and Frye's is awful with awkward pauses between lines and actions. Characters will often make a single appearance and disappear from the movie, never to be mentioned again(Dracula's brides). For all the fantastic and terrifying powers the Count is said to posses, most of his strength is portrayed through dialog between characters, probably due to budget and technical limitations. The character Dracula is a classic, forever memorable. The movie itself is not quite as timeless. "},{"Title":"It's all about Lugosi's unforgettable creation","Date":"30 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Universal's 1931 Dracula, and specifically the count's portrayal by Bela Lugosi has become so completely intertwined with pop culture it's virtually impossible to say anything bad about it. The reason we all imagine Dracula with the cowled cape, widow's peak and pale white face is entirely thanks to this film, and that kind of iconicity should not go under-appreciated.The film itself plays in stark contrast to what you think of when you think old movies. Whereas the Silent Era featured nothing but music, Dracula &#x97; due to certain Hollywood notions at the dawn of the Talkie era &#x97; completely avoids the use of any scoring. With nothing to enhance dramatic effect, the film becomes an exercise in creepiness.The gingerly pacing of most of the scenes, namely Dracula's attacks, and their lack of any satisfying conclusion thanks to cutaways forced of course by censorship requirements back in the day, could warrant a good share of criticism. Without the music to build toward these turning points in the film, it's almost awkward, but there's a sense of a deliberate, artistic choice behind each slow creep toward a victim, each shot of Dracula's face and his unforgettable stare. In a two-hour film it might be an unnecessary pain, but at 75 minutes, it has a place. Director Tod Browning gets his credit there to be sure, but he's not the reason we revisit this monster movie.Dracula comes from the stage adaptation of Bram Stoker's novel rather than the novel itself, specifically. In it, we follow Dracula to London as he secures the Carfax Abbey property with his recently converted servant Renfield (Dwight Frye) as he preys on young Lucy Weston (Frances Dade) and then her friend, Mina Seward (Helen Chandler). Mina's father (Herbert Brunson) and fiancé, John Harker (David Manners), turn to the help of Dr. Van Helsing (Edward Van Sloan) to prevent her from turning into a vampire. Lugosi played the role of Dracula on stage, and became known for getting a bit too into the character over the course of his lifetime. He made concessions to do whatever it took to be in the film, and we benefit from it. His stare and his mannerisms create the (at the time) wholly unique image of Count Dracula.It's not textbook suspense, but you can't help but be curious to see what Dracula will do next. He's a magnetic figure and he drives our curiosity to the point that we become wrapped up in the story, no matter how slow it might feel at times.You can't say Dracula is not a classic with a straight face. You might not identify it as a truly scary movie, or a truly suspenseful one, but its imagery has become so synonymous with the folk depiction of Dracula that it definitely did something very, very right.~Steven CThanks for reading! Visit moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"Not the best but still decent classic","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula is definitely a classic horror film and I definitely appreciate it for its time period but I really wasn't that big of a fan for it. It had some really great features like the scenery, plot and the acting was pretty good. I think it is a classic movie that deserves to be seen at least once but there was something about it that makes it just not that memorable for me I guess. It actually took me twice to make it through the movie. And I was actually really excited to get to see the original version of Dracula but honestly I wasn't that impressed, I'm still unable to put my finger on just why. One of the things I thought was kind of funny was how each time Dracula started trancing people he would just stare at the camera and I swear that they just used a photograph and played it for a couple seconds because it was so still. I will admit that the acting was really good especially Bela Lugosi as Dracula. Some of the props in the movie were fake which kind of turn me off to it as well. But I will saw it was a decent movie to help start of the horror in the sound era. "},{"Title":"Simply Superb","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For the modern viewer to fully appreciate a classic film like Dracula they probably need to understand the evolution in horror movies from the 1930's to today. As horrorfilmhistory.com explains, this was the very first talking horror film. Because of this, nobody at the time of production really knew how the audience would react to it. However, once they realized how successful it was, other movies (featuring various monsters and mad scientists) emerged to meet the demand. So it was this film, more than any other, that created the horror genre we enjoy today. That's quite an accomplishment in and of itself. And while it's true that the special effects were rather primitive in comparison to today's technology, it had some good features which tended to compensate. For example, I found the background scenery of the Carpathian Mountains and the way Dracula's eyes were illuminated to be quite impressive. As far as the acting is concerned, I thought Bela Lugosi was simply superb as Count Dracula. Likewise, Edward Van Sloan (Van Helsing) and Dwight Frye (Renfield) also perform their roles in an excellent manner. Additionally, Helen Chandler (Mina) was quite attractive even if her acting was only adequate. Anyway, while it might seem mild by today's standards, if a person has never seen it I think they might be pleasantly surprised if they just give it a chance. Especially on a dark night with the lights turned off. "},{"Title":"Dracula is simply a classic","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of those movies that you have to watch it like 4 times to fully understand every part of it. This is truly a classic horror film. Watching this movie in 2012, I wasn't afraid at all but back in the 30's the plot of this movie could easily scare someone.I like the fact that they didn't use any special effects. They didn't have special effects back then but it makes for a great raw horror film feel.You have to keep in mind that this is relativily the start of horror films and people were not used to being scared from a film. The Characters play very well throughout the whole film. Overall this is a great horror film and If you haven't already seen this movie you need to see it. "}{"Title":"I don't like the 1931 version of Dracula ... there, I've said it!","Date":"13 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I know it is considered film blasphemy to say that you don't like this classic, but I don't. Let me preface my opinion with the fact that I adore old horror movies, Bela Lugosi, and the Dracula story itself. However, I can think of many many examples utilizing each of those three qualities that are light years ahead of this comedic mess. There are so many things wrong with the film - Dwight Frye's annoying pantomimical performance, the convoluted mish-mash of a story, the mood-killing comic segments. Really, other than the iconic images, of which most people are familiar, there really isn't much to champion about this rendition. Bela Lugosi is excellent and intense, which only adds to the frustration of everything around him being sloppy and farcical. The Vampire Bat, a poverty-row production also from 1931 and featuring Frye, is known for its minuscule budget and even with its many flaws, I found it to be much more enjoyable than Dracula. For a truly creepy and entertaining story of The Count, I recommend Hammer's Horror Of Dracula - which perfectly captures the Gothic mood and style while channeling it through a far superior story and cast. "},{"Title":"not a bad movie","Date":"3 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula is an OK movie, it got a tad bit confusing and the way that the ending was is a little anti climactic compared to what my expectations are for this film, the lighting was good but the scenes where only there eyes were being focused on did not give the feeling of fear. Being a little scared is something that is expected when watching a horror film especially Dracula and that fear was not there throughout the film. The acting was great by Dracula but for the rest of the characters it could of been a little less dramatic. The overall movie was good but not to the level of being scary that I expected to see. There was not much suspension throughout the movie you could figure out what was going to happen in the end of the movie even if you have never seen a Dracula film "},{"Title":"Review for Dracula","Date":"2 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula being an all-time classic film did not meet my expectations and actually left me with a feeling of disappointment. I anticipated something spooky that would leave with an eerie feeling when quite honestly I feel asleep three times while trying to watch this film and had to continually re-start it. The movie started off good and indeed grabbed my attention, but shortly into the movie I was lost. They went from being in Transylvania to being on a ship then being in Europe or something I am not even sure. I did not see the point of this at all and it is where I started to drift off. I was ready for blood sucking excitement, not doctors and a scientist discussing what was taking place while a random victim here and there was murdered by Dracula. Another thing I found very confusing was Renfield, he was very distracting and somewhat annoying and I found him purposeless in the film. On a positive note Helen Chandler's acting was phenomenal as Mena; she played every aspect of her role to a T. The movie did have a few scenes that I enjoyed, but overall I'd have to say it was a mediocre film with a poor plot and average acting (besides Helen Chandler). The film was not necessarily bad, but it isn't something I would really suggest to anyone who is looking for an interesting all-time classic film. "},{"Title":"Drakulah","Date":"5 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Twilight ain't got nothing on these vampires. Count Dracula is just a downright creepy dude, living in his super secluded castle in Transylvania, going out at night as a wolf or bat, to stalk his prey. Nothing wrong with that. Bela Lugosi has the right look and gives off a good eerie vibe to his character, but I found the many close up scenes of him to be almost laughable. All you got is a creepy stare from him, it felt like every 10 minutes. Also, some of the fake screams you hear, from off screen, were hardly believable.The stage sets are also very good, like Dracula's burial ground and inside of his castle I thought were beautifully constructed. An interesting tale nonetheless, and Mr. Lugiosi and Dwight Frye (who played the insane assistant) play they're parts brilliantly, and are most entertaining to watch, although I found some of the other actors to be cheesy and almost lackluster. It sort of ruined the magic for me at points, but not enough to say it didn't entertain me. "},{"Title":"Good... but with some exceptions","Date":"5 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" So as I begin this comment, I understand that many, in fact most, will probably take what I am saying to be nothing short of blasphemy, as many idolize Bella's portrayal of the legendary Dracula as both epic and infallible. While I can certainly agree with that statement to an extent, for me this film, although enjoyable, was nothing particularly amazing. Bella does deliver a timeless performance as the blood thirsty count, but as someone who has grown up with shows and movies about vampires that mock the older myths, ie. True Blood, Cirque De Freak, et al... it seems to me as though this film was lacking. It is clearly understood that why this film was so revered in its time among both the common viewer as as cinema aficionados, but several elements of the film left me feeling quite disappointed. To be sure, all the scenes where Dracula is flying around as a bat are nothing short of hilarious, and while many would say that any laugh is a good laugh, for a film of such a serious nature that deals with the mortal questions of life and death, I do not feel as though laughter would be well served. I am almost certain that is not the response the filmmakers were hoping to elicit from their viewers. Secondly among this list of shortcomings was the character of Remfield. In Remfield the filmmakers had the chance to exploit and further a truly despicable character that would almost strike as much fear in the viewer as Dracula himself; however, the film never turned that corner, so to speak. While the close-up of Remfield staring maniacally on the bottom of the stairs after the boat massacre was indeed quite eerie and bone-chilling, I feel as though so much more could have done with that quality of unique character. That being said, it is not my intent to tear this film apart, for it is a piece of classic American filmmaking that does deserve a place in the annals of history, both for its grand performances, as well as its overall mis-en-sene. That, the overall feel of the film that is, is one area that was certainly not lacking or deficient in any way. I was able to relate to, or at the very least empathize with, the villagers fear of the night and all the things that it brought out. Additionally, the scenery and set design added to the overall feeling of a well-made picture, albeit the camera felt a little shaky and jerky, for lack of a better phrase. In comparison to Laemmle's Frankenstein, which featured exceedingly smooth camera work and shooting, this film possessed no such qualities. Nonetheless, this film is still a classic that should, and indeed is, enjoyed by audiences to this day, almost 81 years later. I would recommend it to any fans of Horror, especially fans of Dracula films in particular, who are seeking the film that stands as the patriarch to all subsequent versions. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"1 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I thought this movie was a really well made movie that kept the same mood throughout. Unlike most movies of this era and even horror films of this era, this film didn't have any kind of comic relief or light hearted parts to balance out the dark parts. I really appreciate that because it keeps me involved in the story, rather than making me angry at the fakeness of a movie. Bela Lugosi is the perfect person to play Dracula, he plays him mysteriously, yet suave. Besides the acting, this movie was really well filmed and edited, this movie is one of the best examples of good lighting of the time and the pacing of the movie is perfect. There was not one second I found this movie to be slow. "},{"Title":"Timeless","Date":"12 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For me, watching Dracula (1931) is always an enjoyable experience. One of the first horror movies made, it encompasses everything a scary movie should be. The film also stays true to the excellent novel by Bram Stoker that it is based upon, which combined with the cinematic world of vampires makes for an engrossing movie. By any modern means, Dracula(1931) is not a terrifying movie, it is clunky in parts and sometimes outright silly; but one must remember it was one of the first of its kind. So successful in fact was the movie, that for the rest of his life Lugosi was pigeon-toed into playing vampires (for good reason, Lugosi's entire demeanor is intensely vampire-like. Its no surprise that people still mimic Bela Lugosi's dripping vampire voice, I vant to suck your blood. "},{"Title":"Vampires through the ages...","Date":"10 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I liked how the film mixed in traditional mythology about vampires within it (although I guess that is expected since it is based on Bram Stoker's novel). Today, this mythology (vampires can transform, they have no reflection, and shy away from crucifixes, wolf's bane, etc., etc.) is more well known, but I am sure in the 1930s, society was not as well acquainted with vampires as it is today, therefore making Dracula (1931) stand out.I also found it amusing, although, I am sure it's intended effect was more successful and significant in 1931, was when they highlighted Dracula's eyes to make up for the fact that technology at the time could not show that they were glowing red. The light on his eyes showed that he was about to do something devious, such as sink his teeth into some innocent person's neck or use mind control. I also appreciated Lugosi's contorted face and felt that he portrayed a very decent Dracula. "},{"Title":"Where it all began...","Date":"5 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The year was 1931 Two years after the success of The Jazz Singer and the final introduction of sound movies into the mainstream, sound was still revolutionising the industry. But in 1931, a bit like 3D now, there was still much confusion over to how make films, with directors, producers and actors alike, were still moving over from the suddenly dated silent era, with varying success.Tod Browning was a man who would unfortunately find little success in the sound era, but not necessarily because he couldn't move with the times, but because his career was derailed a couple of years later by his disturbing horror pic, Freaks.Dracula was shot THREE times. One, this one, was the conventional sound version that we all know. An other was shot at night and in Spanish for the benefit of that audience, which the studio supposedly preferred. This was quite common at this time, but little known nowadays. And the third was a straight forward silent version for the many theatres still un-equipped to handle sound.But the styles of the silent era are all over this film. From the long silent reactions shots and the over acting, especially by Bela Lagosi in the titular role. This was also the adaptation of the stage adaptation of Bram Stoker's chiller, and was faithfully adapted from that source, hence the lack of more complex special effects, with bats on strings and fog machines, over more cinematic effects.The transformation scenes for example, where the Count morphs from a bat to the undead human occur off-screen, rather than some form of cross fade etc. Is this a choice driven by lack of money? Lack of cinematic ambition of a choice to stick to the stage material? To be honest, I have too little knowledge or experience of Tod Browning's work to suggest a reason, but when all's said and done, it did work.Let's be honest, this is 80 years old and is not the least bit scary and it is hard not to laugh, but in context, I'm sure it worked well at the time and the story is well conveyed. Lagosi's undead performance is hammy by today's standards but he was somewhat likable. He was very deliberate, slow and the silent era has certainly left its scars, as the subtly of sound performing was yet to take hold.But this is the sort of film were silent melodramatic acting still worked. This is of course a piece Gothic Horror, the home of melodrama if ever there was one. This is surly a product of its time, both as the industry went through one of it's most dramatic changes, which ended so many careers as well a created so many new ones, but it's also, let's not forget, the first direct adaptation of Bram Stoker's book, besides the 1922 German version, Nosferatu, which changes a fair few details to try to get around the copyright, failing to do so mind, resulting in failed bid to have every copy of the film destroyed.This is the film that ingrained the image of the Dracula that we know today into popular culture. This was were the Universal horror franchise began. For whatever faults it has by today's standards, it did something right. "},{"Title":"Winging It","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Some old movies age like vintage wine. Others turn more vinegary. Dracula contains a clever idea, a noteworthy central performance, and introduced sound to the horror film. It's just the execution that's lacking.There's a new tenant at Carfax Abbey in rural England, one Count Dracula (Béla Lugosi) who wears a dinner jacket and cape at all times and opts to leave his new home a dark, shambling ruin. As a nobleman, no one seems to think adversely of this stranger, even as people in his wake are found dead with marks on their throats, a madman named Renfield (Dwight Frye) hints of Dracula's darker purpose, and the Count introduces himself to a couple of young ladies with rather morbid banter.To die, to be really dead, that must be glorious! he intones in that often-imitated Hungarian accent of his. There are far worse things awaiting man than death...Dracula isn't worse than death, just deathly dull. For a film that runs under 75 minutes, there's a lot of slow stretches. Lugosi's surrounded by a cast seemingly determined to act more undead than he. Love interests Mina and John are played by actors as stiff as boards, while Herbert Bunston, the actor playing Mina's father Dr. Seward, declaims every line as if giving the Gettysburg Address. Frye is up and down in his manic characterization, while Edward Van Sloan's Professor Van Helsing is entirely too smug.Worse is the direction, or lack thereof, by Tod Browning. The first 20 minutes of Renfield's meeting Dracula at his castle in Transylvania sets a properly grim mood, but after that it's like this film is sailing as much without a captain as the poor, doomed Vesta. Scene after scene is shot in a flat, static manner. Dracula's confrontations with other characters are drained of any menace. Lame comic relief from a warder who wisecracks about his loony charge Renfield feels trowelled on, because it is.Lugosi gave better performances in other films, like his underrated turn as Ygor in Son Of Frankenstein. Here, though, he gives Dracula its one undeniable dynamic, and a badly needed star presence. His urbanity hints with gentle suspense at the fiend within, while many of his line deliveries hint at a kind of pathos that almost pulls us to his side. His silent staring at the camera are still chilling however they have been sent up comedically in later decades.But there are so many holes in this scattershot adaptation of the Bram Stoker novel that the contempt begins to drip off the screen. Why is Renfield kept around by the Count? What finally happens to Mina's tragic friend Lucy? How come the finale is so abrupt and easy, after we have been told of Dracula's great power?Browning apparently didn't care. History tells us he was so busy brooding about the actor he couldn't use in this film (Lon Chaney had died the year before) that he couldn't be bothered to work with the very formidable actor who arrived in his place. The end result was a movie that should have been great, but wound up just being very, very famous. "}{"Title":"Dracula","Date":"9 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula is a Hollywood horror vampire classic. There is a creepy, chilling silence throughout the film that truly leaves an impression. Although some things are a tad bit cheesy - like the rubber bats - the movie is legendary and enjoyable to watch, even if it may not be as scary today as it was back then. For being made in black and white, the lighting was sensational. Dracula's performance was almost mesmerizing. His horrifying eyes definitely made an impact. Many people today might find this movie to be dull and boring because it lacks almost everything that makes a movie scary now. Since there is no gore, extreme violence or technology to satisfy today's horror movie standards, some might find it to be unrealistic and far from horrifying. "},{"Title":"Review  for History of Cinema","Date":"2 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" this was the first Dracula film for me. I have seen many modern vampire movies always portraying a savage like beast so it was a surprise when Dracula was practically a gentlemen in his approach. The acting is superb, Bela Lugosi does a wonderful job instilling a strange uneasiness within the audience. His slow movements and creepy wide eyed stare definitely had me on edge. Also Dwight Frye as Renfield was amazing to watch, he put a different kind of spin on crazy; it reminded me a bit of Hannibal Lecter.the use of sound, or lack of sound really enhances the creepiness, although it also becomes a bit dull. the addition of music could improve the film in some areas. "},{"Title":"A True Classic","Date":"17 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tod Browning's 1931 classic, Dracula was Bela Lugosi's most famous role. Bases on a Broadway play by Hamilton Deane and John L. Balderston which that Bela Lugosi was the title character. The play itself is based on Bram Stroker's 1897 novel Dracula. Film itself its visually stunning. There is great use of silence and dramatic close ups that add to the creepiness of the main character. Todd Browning and many of the actors were trained in the silent film era. This comes across in the acting style and a lot of the special effects. The use of fog and rubber bats give the film a distinct style of the silents. Overall I would recommend this film to any fan of classic horror films. "},{"Title":"Landmark in Horror Films","Date":"17 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film certainly is unique. This roll of the dice on behalf of the director, turned out in his favor. This first of its kind stands to create a whole new genre of films in and itself. The concept of  horror  is well displayed in the movie. The main actor does an excellent job in playing his character. He brings about a style that is completely of his own, and the lasting effect can still be seen today in modern day Halloween costumes, or horror related hoopla. The shots are done wonderfully, they are dark and scary, giving the audience a true sense of horror. I think that its important to pay attention to minor details such as sound and lighting in a film such as this. Those little details bring together the whole picture for the audience, and create a true sense of what is trying to be portrayed. This film certainly gambled with its special effects and paved the way for many many years of horror movies to be made its its image. People enjoy being scared, they enjoy the excitement that comes along with it. A lot of time and dedication and attention to detail has to all come together on behalf of the crew and actors to create the magic. I have seen a ton of  horror  movies that were completely laughable, mainly because the lack of creativity, and the ability to take the extra step to make scenes more believable. For 1931, Dracula does well and spreads its influence throughout the generations. "},{"Title":"Review of Dracula (1931)","Date":"18 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula, similar to Frankenstein helped shaped the horror film genre. Although Dracula was released not long before Frankenstein, it seemed to have more flaws in terms of it's camera-work and acting. Some scenes are not up to the standard I had for the film. Overall the acting just wasn't convincing enough. There wasn't enough emphasis and expression of emotion to draw in the viewer, with the exception of when Dracula bites Mina's neck; that instance is a trademark for the film, and it provides a sense of fear, but really the only moment when things are slightly scary. Although Dracula is considered a horror film, there isn't much about it that's really frightening. The camera-work was great in some scenes, such as when the camera followed the horse-drawn carriage, as Dracula made his first appearance in the film. However, there were often too many static shots; the camera didn't provide enough movement in the film, to really draw the viewers eye, and give a feel of verisimilitude. "},{"Title":"Transylvanian terror transposed...","Date":"15 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The name Bela Lugosi has been carved in stone (so to speak) in Hollywood for good reason- and not because Martin Laundau did a very bad imitation of him in ED WOOD. THIS is the movie that put fright films on the map; and to have found a more perfect fit for the lead would've probably been impossible Lugosi was Hungarian, Count Dracula, Transylvanian (you can't get much closer than that). If a 500 year old vampire count existed, he would almost surely have spoken the way Lugosi speaks in the movie (though in Stoker's book his diction is precise and not noticeably regional). The first half of Dracula is brilliant; it's everything following his arrival in London that brings the movie to a screeching halt. Once it becomes slow and stagey, it loses much of the effectiveness of the early scenes. For this, blame must be laid with director Browning; Lugosi holds up his end of things well enough- it's the man behind the camera who drops the ball. It's interesting to backtrack Stoker and read the stories that in whole or in part seem to have inspired his novel in THE VAMPYRE (1819), by John Polidori, we come across the line ...death, he remembered, had already been mocked. Sounds more than a little like Van Sloan as Van Helsing, does it not? The finest prose prior to Stoker's novel would have to be found in James Malcolm Rymer's tight, descriptive VARNEY THE VAMPIRE (1845) Here suddenly had arisen a something at once terrible and inexplicable. The unfinished FRAGMENT OF A NOVEL (1816), by Lord Byron, is of interest for two reasons one, it contains a description of the death of a vampire that would've made a great scene at the end of Dracula (in which The Count's dying moments occur offscreen and are heard but not shown) ...his countenance in a few minutes became nearly black. THAT would've been a GREAT way to close the show. The second reason Byron's fragment should be of interest to fright fans is that it was written following the same historic gathering at which Mary Shelly was persuaded to start writing FRANKENSTEIN. "},{"Title":"best Dracula but not best Universal Monster","Date":"30 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula (1931)5 word summaryMost famous vampire attacks EnglandWhen it comes to all the Universal Monsters all of them are classics and influential, and Dracula is no exception. However, I don't feel Dracula is the best of them. Personally I prefer Frankenstein, the Bride of Frankenstein, and the Wolfman, but its still a classic.Bela Lugosi plays Dracula fantastically. He's so dark and ominous and pulls of the lines and actions better than anyone else I've seen play Dracula. Tod Browning also caught the darkness needed to help with the Gothic feeling of the movie, however I think Coppola also did that well his 1992 version. The 1931 Dracula I feel is defiantly the best, at least out of the ones I have seen (which isn't that much.) The 1992 Coppola version was too long that it got too boring. Its not the most exciting horror/ suspense film out there so I feel stretching it to over 2 hours was a mistake. Then on the other hand Nosferatu (1922) I also found a little boring and that one wasn't long at all. This version wasn't necessarily better told but somehow was slightly less boring, though it still wasn't highly entertaining. If you want to see old horror movies obliviously I would suggest this because regardless it is a classic. However I'd first go with Frankenstein or the Wolfman, or even King Kong. "},{"Title":"Dracula+ Bela Lugosi=Timeless Classic","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Many people do not realize that Lugosi played Dracula only twice on screen, once in Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein(his last appearance for a major studio) and Tod Browning's Dracula, even though he played the stage Dracula many times before. He wasn't even the first to be considered for the role, in fact, he had to fight for the role and received very little pay for it. The story begins with Renfield(Dwight Frye) going to see Dracula after he purchased a home in England, but Transylvanian villager warn him about Dracula and he does not listen to the people of Transylvania, and becomes a servant of Dracula. They then sail for England and Dracula kills the entire crew of the ship and Renfield is taken to a mental home. Dracula then attends a show, in which the head of the mental ward, Dr. Seward(Herbert Bunston) attends where he takes a family friend, Lucy(Frances Dande), his daughter Mina(Helen Chandler) and her fiancé John Harker(David Manners). Dracula kills Lucy in her sleep and making her a fowl creature of the night like himself, and then makes numerous attempts to lure Mina into his control. Along the way, Dr. Van Helsing(Edward Van Sloan) discovers Dracula is a vampire even though the other characters do not believe him. The highlights of this movie are Dracula, Renfield, and Van Helsing. Lugosi plays a very hypnotic seductive Dracula. Frye plays a man who is striving for his own sanity, and Van Sloan plays a wise, Van Helsing. The ending is not the best, but to be honest, this film makes up for that. Dracula has many scenes that have complete silence, and they work beautifully, but were also used because directors like Tod Browning, were afraid to deal with dialog and Dracula was the first talking supernatural-thriller. Thanks to Lugosi, Dracula has become immortal and is one of the greatest characters even made in history. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Good but Flawed","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula (1931) *** (out of 4) Count Dracula (Bela Lugosi) and his assistant Renfield (Dwight Frye) head to England where they set up shop as the undead vampire tries to get Mina (Helen Chandler) to join him in the afterlife. Her fiancé (David Manners) and Professor Van Helsing (Edward Van Sloan) must try and destroy the vampire before it's too late.Dracula is without question one of the most famous movies to come from Hollywood's Golden Era. It's also well-known and remembered even after all of these years but I've always had a rather love/hate relationship with it. There's no denying that there are some great things sprinkled throughout the picture but at the same time there are even more flaws and most of them can be blamed on director Tod Browning. If you've seen any of Browning's silent movies then you'll be shocked to watch this and know he directed it because it's just so stagey and poor looking that it's hard to believe it's from the same man.I say that because this movie has a very stagey look and very little life or energy to it. You watch this movie and can't help but wonder why there wasn't more done in regards to its visual style. After all, the director had a nice budget to work with yet you couldn't tell that by looking at the film. There are a few nice shots scattered throughout the picture including the introduction of Dracula and the stuff on the ship is well handled as well. With that said, the film certainly drags at spots and the lack of any real energy is something that hinders it.What works best about the American version of Dracula are the performances. I thought the entire cast was highly entertaining even if some of them are a bit too wooden. I'd direct that comment to David Manners who doesn't really get to do too much here. Chandler is certainly good in her role as is Frances Dade in the role of Lucy. Van Sloan makes for a very believable and classy Van Helsing and Frye is very memorable in his role. Of course, the film belongs to Lugosi. The image of Lugosi in the role of Dracula is pretty much set in stone with most considering him the true and only Dracula. He's certainly magical here and his presence on the screen really jumps out at you and especially if you're lucky enough to see this on the big screen.With that said, I'm not going to lie as I think, performance wise, his role in ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN is better. Still, even with the flaws there's no question that Dracula remains a very memorable movie that has stood the test of time. "},{"Title":"Great but dated","Date":"3 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This review is written by students who just recently watched this movie.It is weird to think that along time ago people would watch this in their free time and it would scare them. Today, we would watch Chucky or Friday the 13th to get our thrills.It was difficult to follow, but good. I didn't realize that Dracula could take any shape. It seems like one needs more knowledge of Dracula to fully understand this movie.Bela was great as Dracula. He is exactly what one would think of when they hear Vampire or Dracula. And his accent is great.Overall, it was very cool and we liked it. "}{"Title":"Essential viewing for horror fans","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Lofty timbers, the walls around are bare, echoing to our laughter as though the dead were there... Quaff a cup to the dead already, hooray for the next to die! What can I say that hasn't already been said about this famous adaptation of Bram Stoker's classic story? Not much, I'm sure. I will join others in my praise of Browning's version though. It must be one of the most well known and beloved horror movies of all time.Bela Lugosi is made for this role and has become the archetype of Count Dracula and the vampire. Countless later vampires have been based on his portrayal of the evil undead count and with good reason. He is charismatic and seductive with an air of menace that is palpable through the screen. Dwight Frye as Renfield and Edward Van Sloan as Van Helsing also give great performances.Despite being made more than seventy years ago, the Gothic settings and the mood created by lighting and camera work still are convincing and effective in creating an overall atmosphere of dread and foreboding.Excellent movie and required viewing for any fan of the horror movie. "},{"Title":"There are far worse things awaiting man than death","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was hoping that 'Dracula (1931)' would be more like 'Frankenstein (1931)' than the other Universal horrors I'd watched to date. Whereas James Whale's film shows a mastery of both cinema's visual and auditory elements, most of the horror directors of the early sound era seem to have little command of dialogue or music. They resort to extended sequences of silence between words, accompanied by a muffled din of background noise, which are presumably intended to heighten the suspense; instead, it makes a 70 minute story somehow feel much longer. Unfortunately, Tod Browning's film &#150; considered the definitive version of Bram Stoker's novel &#150; is more akin in style to 'The Black Cat (1934)' and 'The Raven (1935).' This isn't necessarily a bad thing Karl Freund's Expressionistic cinematography is frequently impressive, and Bela Lugosi's hammy theatrics, however ludicrous they might seem today, nonetheless keep you watching the screen. But I must confess an overwhelming preference towards Murnau's previous unauthorised Dracula tale, 'Nosferatu, eine Symphonie des Grauens (1922).'In the darkened hills of Transylvania (cue the thunderclap), a young lawyer (Dwight Frye) travels through the night to deliver legal papers to Count Dracula (Lugosi), despite the warnings of the locals. Drugged, imprisoned and driven insane by the scheming Count, he later returns to England, bringing along his new vampire master, who then proceeds to wreak havoc on the pretty young women of London. A scientist named Van Helsing (Edward Van Sloan; I find it amusing that, over seventy years, this old professor would somehow evolve into Hugh Jackman) comes to believe that a vampire is loose on the streets, and sets about capturing the enigmatic monster before it claims the life of the beautiful, virginal Mina Harker (Helen Chandler). This simple plot unfolds in a rather clumsy, stilted manner. Browning, an experienced director of silent films, appears unsure of how to use music in a sound picture, and so he omits it almost entirely. The gaping auditory void left by this absence emphasises the stage-bound roots of the material, a realisation that restricts the horror that one might otherwise feel.The performances are better than anybody experienced in Universal horror has any right to expect. Lugosi's role as the sinister Count justly made him famous, and, though he would only reprise the role once more for an Abbot & Costello comedy, strains of this portrayal are clearly evident in the likes of 'Murders in the Rue Morgue (1932)' and 'The Raven (1935).' Lugosi's Dracula wasn't as classy as I'd been expecting (the promotional photos somehow suggested a suave, charming aristocrat), and his fragmented line delivery and brazen mugging often brought a few chuckles, but the performance is nonetheless likable in its cheesiness. The beautifully-photographed sequences of Dracula majestically emerging from his coffin are well-orchestrated, and certainly one of the areas where the lack of music contributes to the chill-factor. Dwight Frye overplays frenziedly to try and steal scenes from his Hungarian co-star, largely to no avail, but it's always good to see such energy in an actor's work. While 'Dracula' may not be the masterpiece of which I'd heard, no horror fan can afford to miss it. "},{"Title":"The most famous Dracula film, thanks to Bela Lugosi","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An English solicitor Mr. Renfield (Dwight Frye) travels to Transylvania to sell an old abbey from England to an ancient vampire Count Dracula (Bela Lugosi). Not one to waste much time Dracula quickly makes Renfield his slave and travels to England, killing an entire ship's crew on the way. In London he settles to his new home that is next to an asylum run by Dr. Seward (Herbert Bunston). Dracula quickly becomes interested in Seward's daughter Mina (Helen Chandler) and her friend Lucy Weston (Frances Dade). It doesn't take long when Seward and Mina's fiancé John Harker (David Manners) notice that some strange illness has taken the girls. Professor Abraham Van Helsing (Edward Van Sloan) is summoned and the fight against centuries old evil begins.This is the Dracula movie most people remember and that has most influenced later anything even remotely linked to Dracula. Made in 1931 this film started the Universal Studio's production of horror movies that lasted over a decade and produced such films as Frankenstein (1931), The Mummy (1932), The Invisible Man (1933), Bride of Frankenstein (1935), The Wolf Man (1941) and remake of Phantom of the Opera (1943).Although the film is probably most famous adaptation of Bram Stoker's novel, it's not exactly based on book itself, but on a successful theater adaptation of the book by Hamilton Deane and John L. Balderston. The play was first run in London and was later brought to Broadway. In this lies one of the film's biggest flaws. Since it's very accurately based on a play, there are many scenes that are shot in the same sets with same people, without that anything would actually happen. The biggest difference between play and movie is the first 15 minutes that are set in Transylvania. The beautiful sets of Carpathian Mountains and Count's old castle with huge cobwebs and coffins, combined with cameraman Karl Freund's moving camera-work, are alone worth to see. However, very sadly, the moment the film moves to London the magic is gone. Film becomes suddenly slow, almost dragging, and especially the ending is very anticlimactic. The film only has its moments again whenever Dracula appears, most notably the scene where Van Helsing reveals Dracula's true nature with a help of a mirror.The biggest and possibly the main reason why the film is still considered classic is the impressive (and immortal) performance as Dracula by Bela Lugosi. Originally the part in the film was meant for Lon Chaney, who had done numerous silent films with Dracula's director Tod Browning in the 1920's. Chaney however died before the production was even started and the part was given to Lugosi, an Austrian-Hungarian actor who had starred as Dracula in the Broadway play. Many people still consider Lugosi to be the Dracula and I can't blame them much. His theatrical gestures, slow movements, hypnotic stare and an accent (that was his own and not acted) make him seem like he is from another era totally. Many actors who have later played Dracula, like Gary Oldman and Richard Roxburgh, have named Lugosi as the Dracula who most influenced them. Also the most stereotypical image of Dracula, with black hair, pale face, tuxedo and cape are all from Bela Lugosi.Beside of Lugosi the most memorable actor in the film is Dwight Frye, whose insane giggling has later been copied by other Renfields, mostly in Dracula comedies like Love at First Bite (1979) and Dracula- Dead and Loving It (1995). Edward Van Sloan also delivers a decent performance as Van Helsing, while the rest of the cast is trying to get used to the idea they're not making a silent film anymore and should speak to the microphone. Harker's player David Manners is especially bad in the film.So, Tod Browning's film version of Dracula may not be the best version ever made and certainly not the most entertaining of the Universal's 1930's horror classics. Yet it still holds its place as the most famous of many Dracula films made, and should be viewed at least once. The biggest credits goes to Bela Lugosi, who is most popular Dracula but whose other performances are not remembered that much. As Lugosi himself later said Dracula is a blessing and a curse, and he will never die. "},{"Title":"Evil's Fruity Face","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula is a mediocre 1931 movie, but the concept of the undead, blood-craving supernatural demon is so mythically instilled in the planet's &#150; ahem - bloodstream that this movie's ongoing mighty aura is more due to the CONCEPT of the vampire entrenched in society's psyche than any movie-making quality the film-makers might have aspired to. It was not THIS particular movie which launched the vampire legends, although being only the second film to deal with this theme (the first being Murnau's NOSFERATU, 1922), it surely warrants blame for savagely promulgating the myth. Bram Stoker's 1897 novel was fleshed out (and diluted) for the silver screen by writer/director Tod Browning and a host of other writers. The passage of time and innumerable bastardizations of the story have eroded Stoker's truly disturbing tale, making it inconsequential to the character at its center &#150; so though our memories composite Christopher Lee's Dracula debacles and Anne Rice's vampires and blaxploitation's BLACULA and Scott Bakula &#150; the original story should be remembered for its composting of ancient legends into a compelling original tale.Purely for the iPod-ders, the plot a young British solicitor, Jonathan Harker, travels to the Carpathian Mountains (in Transylvania &#150; yes, say it with the accent) to offer real estate advice to Count Dracula, who wishes to move to London. He discovers the Count to be a blood-sucking denizen of the night, who can shape shift into a bat or wolf at will, whose reflection cannot be seen in mirrors and whose incisors were badly in need of filing down. All the better to bite the neck and drink the blood of his victims, turning them into undead vampires like himself. Dracula travels to London and cultivates Harker's fiancée, Mina and her busty clubbing buddy, Lucy, with love bites and blood infusions via carotid. Dr. Van Helsing is called in to examine Mina and Lucy's strange anemic sickness and knows enough about vampires to eventually kill Dracula by severing his head and driving a stake through his heart while he sleeps in his coffin. Even the basic gist of the tale opens up so many dark avenues of discussion (possession, psychosis of blood-drinking, perverse sexuality, bizarre murders, sleeping in COFFINS?!) that it would be impossible to explore in a thousand rants.Hungarian stage star, Bela Lugosi, shot to fame as the eeevil Count Dracula; if it weren't for his presentational stage training, he would never have come up with that crippled hand thingy which Christopher Lee borrowed to such great effect not only as Dracula himself, but also Fu Manchu, Saruman and Count Dooky Del Rio in *Star Wars Episode Poo.* And Lugosi never actually says, I vont to zuck yor blud! File it in the Play it again, Sam bin &#150; merely misquoted Legend. Dwight Frye plays Dracula's horror movie sidekick, Renfield &#150; brainwashed by Dracula into subservience and psychosis, eating bugs and walking with a stoop like a horror movie sidekick; immortalized as the Igor-type when he accepted an identical role on Frankenstein (Nov 1931) as Fritz; further immortalized on Alice Cooper's 1971 album *Love It To Death* in *The Ballad of Dwight Fry.*Though the novel Dracula (written when Stoker was 50) is still a scorching read (the brooding words cascade off the page like that liquid nitrogen smoke all these movies use to blanket the ground in graveyards - coincidentally used to great effect on KISS and Alice Cooper stages), the movie is unfortunately made for another time, a bygone age; when people who hadn't yet touched each other called themselves lovers; when each question was presaged with, Why, as in, Why &#150; what's the matter, darling?; when the Hero ran like a girl and never appeared anywhere without a three-piece suit and his hat; when the simplest of gestures was a melodramatic flourish because that's the only way stage actors knew how to act; when interminable gaping holes of no audio have actually become dramatic silences in retrospect; when nakedness meant knees&#133; To quote the great Gary Oldman as The Count in *BRAM STOKER'S Dracula (1992), I have crossed oceans of time&#133; This movie has crossed those oceans &#150; and it shows. Even movies from ten years ago look dated - think about a film nearly 80 years old!And only the great Gary Oldman could truly instill the mind-blanking terror that a blood-drinking maniac should evoke. When we see him as the continental Count or the leather-skinned bat-man, it is a disturbing experience, worthy of a modern incarnation of the aged legend. Lugosi must have been frightful in his day, but nowadays just looks fruity; Christopher Lee's menace has dated embarrassingly; Tom Cruise and Brad Pitt were just too, too beautiful to be taken seriously and if anyone even mentions Mamuwalde I might have to put on mah mah mah mah boogie shoes&#133;. "},{"Title":"The brood","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One measure of a great film is how well it transcends the limitations of its era's technology. Filmmakers in the early sound period amplified the imperfection of new aural recording by writing staid, dialogue-heavy scripts, thereby spotlighting the mechanism and not the work for which it labored. Seen today, it's amazing how well Dracula manages to avoid this temptation. Karl Freund, the great visionary DP of Metropolis, creates a timelessly redolent atmosphere of macabre details ambiguously glimpsed in the Count's shadowy, crumbling lair, like the rodents of uncertain breeding skulking in and around his coffin or the somnambulistic walk of his brides as they seem to evaporate in the densely cobwebbed cellar. As we are gradually drawn in by such ephemerae, the plunge into the unrealities of this ethereal world is realized through sly staging, tricks of shadow and light, and the conviction of Lugosi's formidable glowing stare. Due credit must be shared with Charles D. Hall and his design of the castle and the matte-painted, Transylvania countryside, all jagged craters and mountainous peaks which threaten to consume the curious envoys that venture there. I dare say this prologue comprises one of the more strangely poetic passages in all of classic Hollywood cinema.Unfortunately, the farther the aesthetic focus drifts from these foreign haunts, the nearer the film approaches banality. The Count's initial arrival to London maintains the spell of eerie suggestion&#x97;in one memorable sequence, he bites a young woman beneath a gaslight in plain sight of a throng of exiting opera patrons, who blithely dismiss the spectacle as youthful infatuation&#x97;but with the introduction of Van Helsing, ornate parlor rooms become the dominant setting for a series of conversations about the vampire mythos with explication firmly supplanting evocation. This jarring aesthetic disparity accounts for Dracula falling short of the tragic heights of Frankenstein, or the dedicated strangeness of the earlier, brazenly expressionistic Caligari. Yet there is one significant element that remains consistent throughout Dwight Frye's manic, pop-eyed performance as the tragic Renfield. Half-vampire/half-mortal, Frye remains recognizably human even when raving about the nourishing properties of the bugs in his sanitarium cell, never more touching than in his final attempt at redemption. His performance, oft-parodied but never duplicated, is the poignant strand that binds the picture's disproportionate halves. "},{"Title":"The original film that made the Vampire famous.","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Back in 1931, this little movie starring Bela Lugosi in a role that would forever typecast him, made waves in the theaters much like The Exorcist did in 1973. It started a whole genre of horror movies including Frankenstein, The Wolf Man, and The Creature From The Black Lagoon. All these movies became major horror films which created original monsters that would be copied for generations in different movies.In this day and age Dracula is a movie that doesn't hold up well. The special effects were pretty weak, but of course you didn't have the technology that you have nowadays, so directors back in 1931 had to rely more on directing, script, characters, and atmosphere to make a great movie.Dracula has a great character in Bela Lugosi, and the man acted his chops off in this film. Renfield, as played by Dwight Frye, was also very convincing, but most of the others actors weren't as strong. The story begins on a carriage ride to Transylvania, and it is during this period at Dracula's castle and in Transylvania where this movie contains its best scenes. Once we leave the castle though the film slowly starts to fall apart. There were still a few scenes worth mentioning outside of Castle Dracula, like the scene with Dracula appearing in Mina's room, and the scene at the opera, but other than that nothing much more. It even ends very prematurely and we are left to wonder exactly what it was that happened, since we never see Dracula killed. We here a short shout, but nothing more. Still this movie had an impact on a generation and continued on through following generations, so it deserves some kudos.Other horror movies may come and go, but nobody ever forgets The Frankenstein monster, The Wolf Man, the Gill Man, and of course Dracula. "},{"Title":"Simply wonderful!","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" BRAM STOKER'S chilling tale is brought to life with yet another (It's a remake) version that is considered by some to be the best Dracula film ever made next to NOSFERATU. And it's easy to see why! the film is very scary, very suspenseful, wonderfully acted, excellently directed & is wonderfully atomospheric, BELA LUGOSI is perfection as Dracula & over all, the better actor to have ever played him (& the most memorable too!) the film has led to a lot of spoofs, spin-offs, different takes & several sequels & remakes throughout the years, yet through them all, this remains the best. Sequel - DRACULA'S DAUGHTER.**** stars "},{"Title":"Horror enters gloriously into the sound era...","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1928, Laemmle, Sr. made his son, Carl, Jr. head of Universal City Studios as a 21st birthday present. While this was undoubtedly an act of nepotism, it started the modernization of the Studio and just as the sound films was becoming the norm rather than the rule, Laemmle Jr. began the production of a horror film based on one of the most important horror novels of all times Bram Stoker's Dracula. Directed by Tod Browning, Dracula would be the beginning of the Universal Horror era, and the film that would make Hungarian actor Bela Lugosi an immortal icon of the genre.While the film was the first official Dracula in film (F. W. Murnau was unable to obtain the rights to the story for his 1922 silent horror Nosferatu, Eine Symphonie Des Grauens), several financial problems and the Great Depression truncated Laemmle's dreams of making a faithful adaptation, so writer Garret Fort adapted the Dracula play written by Hamilton Deane and John L. Balderston, which already had been a success in Broadway. The play was less faithful to the novel, but the core story was still there, Count Dracula (Bela Lugosi) is an ancient Transylvanian vampire who, aided by his new servant Renfield (Dwight Frye), moves to London looking for young blood. There he'll meet Prof. Van Helsing (Edward Van Sloan), a man of science who is decided to stop Dracula.An experienced director of silent films, Tod Browning was already known for his taste for macabre and irreverent stories. Along with actor Lon Chaney he had directed horror classics like London After Midnight, The Unknown and The Unholy Three so the genre was not new to him. Dracula shows Browning going for a more mature and serious Gothic horror (it's for the most part void of comedy), showing a Count Dracula that is at the same time charming and terrifying. Just like his Count, the imagery he crafts is beautifully haunting, with the static shots and the lack of musical score enhancing this unnatural feeling of being stuck in time, pretty much like vampires do.Personally, the adaptation of the play version is not a favorite of mine (as it omits interesting supporting characters and situations), but considering the film's budget and the time the film was done it's quite fitting. The main problem I saw was that other than Van Sloan's Van Helsing, the heroes are very weak, and underdeveloped, with John Harker (David Manners) being the most damaged character. Still, the plot is quite well written and the essence of Dracula is still there.Three actors in this film have become legendary, and not without a reason, as Lugosi, Van Sloan and Frye completely own the film. Bela Lugosi is fantastic in the role that would become his own personal curse, portraying the Count with the dignity required for an ancient nobleman and the savage sex appeal of a vampire predator. Van Sloan is equally effective, as the scientist that represents the good values and moral of Victorian society. Finally, Dwight Frye gives the best performance of the film as the deranged Renfield, easily stealing every scene he is in. The rest of the cast is a mixed bag, ranging from OK to bad, although a lot of it can be blamed on the script that focuses entirely in Dracula's fight against Van Helsing.Tod Browning's Dracula is a classic without a doubt, but it's far from flawless. The static look of the film at times feel too stagy, and Browning is definitely not entirely familiar with the sound era (he would overcome this in the superior Freaks). The poor acting of some members of the cast is another little flaw, although in the end Lugosi and Frye make up for it. Honestly, the big turn off is not exactly related to the film itself, the main problem is that nowadays there have been countless versions of Dracula that this one may look dated to modern fans of the genre.While not the first Dracula (Murnau's film can claim that title), this film opened the gates to a new era of horror, and brought it to a wider audience that finally accepted it. Flawed and maybe dated by now, Dracula still holds up a certain unnatural magic that lures audiences worldwide, surrendered to the Count's charm and willing to do his bid. A very recommended classic. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Dracula A Study in Atmosphere and Sound","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tod Browning was a director who could almost do-no-wrong. Warner had the Gangsters, Universal had the monsters, and movies made in the backlots were pretty good from the Great War-on. The onetime carny-barker was one of Hollywood's best directors in a period that is now legend. What is so remarkable about Dracula's staying-power is that this film isn't really scary, but is very forward-looking in its use of atmosphere and silence.Browning did the majority of his movies during the silent-era (seven with Lon Chaney), and it is known that he was one of the many directors in that transition from silent-to-sound who was afraid of the new technology. Dracula is a 75-year-old film, and it looks and sounds great for being made in 1931. And a surprise the Spanish-Language version is even more visually-innovative! The other crew that shot this version at-night saw the rushes of Browning's, and decided to outdo- them, and they did in many areas of their version. Most DVD-versions contain this version, and from some excellent-prints.Like the others, he feared that there would be a deemphasis on image, and this did happen with a lot of early talkies. The reason they were called talkies is because they weren't good, and all the attention was on how much dialog you could fit-in. Many movies became like filmed-plays, and a lot of hard-won work in creating a visual-language got lost for a time. Dracula doesn't suffer from this fate, however, because of Browning's fear of sound in films. This is why we still find Dracula watchable today, it isn't too-chatty and talky with too-much dialog that plagues many of the early-talkies (many-of-which are now forgotten and even lost).Utilizing the German-cinematographer, Karl Freund, the film has that touch of Expressionism. Freund worked with both Fritz Lang and F.W. Murnau, and Dracula is a visual-feast because of this. Karl Freund was DP on many of the greatest German Expressionist films, such as Murnau's The Last Laugh (1924), Lang's Metropolis (1927), and even Der Golem (1920). We have stunning dolly and tracking-shots that were uncommon in early sound-features, and like Lang's M, Browning's use of sound is sparse but effective. The absence-of-sound and the timing of where sound should be is very clever here, much like in Lang's M. Silence in both-films is often the prelude to something horrible--something Americans understood all-too-well in the heart of the Great Depression. A fear of war was also high, and isolationism and anti-immigrant sentiments were everywhere. Lugosi perfectly-embodies the American-fear of being overrun by immigration, and the actor was the very-thing! The character of Renfield is also interesting, being a fear of human-bondage to forces we do not understand.1931 was a bad year for Americans, so you have to consider this when you encounter the stories that women fainted and audiences screamed and yelled at screenings of this film. It was the worst year of the Great Depression, and to many, the world seemed to be ending. In a way, they were right, the world was going to change forever in a few-years. Some of it was good (the New Deal), and a lot of it was bad (the rise of Fascism and totalitarianism in Europe and Russia). From the Great Crash in the Fall of 1929, to the bitterest-year of 1931, Republican President Herbert Hoover did almost nothing to alleviate the suffering of Americans hit-hardest by the Depression. For this, he was overwhelmingly voted out-of-office, and his name has been a curse on the lips of the WWII-generation into our time.So angered were Americans by the Republican Party's decade-of-corruption, that they elected FDR three-times to the office of President, and the Democratic Party generally controlled Congress for over forty-years. No other American political-party can claim such a sustained-loss of legitimacy. Indeed, people were starving-to-death, and Hoover did nothing, these were uncertain-times. Nothing seemed to be what it seemed, and all assumptions about modern life were upturned. Horror and anxiety were everywhere as the Western world economy collapsed. Fear reigned, and Dracula was released into this storm of angst and anger. The timing couldn't have been more-perfect, and this is why the film doesn't resonate with us as much--it is a film of its time, very-much so. H.P. Lovecraft hated it, but when he wrote this to a friend, he was basically a white-supremacist, an anti-Semite, and a snobby, effete, intellectual-snob. He was also conservative at this time, but he had changed at the end of his life for-the-better.And so, horror is about the experience of generations. If you search-out what the other generations went-through, these films can be appreciated better. But, on a basic-level, Dracula is still a solid atmospheric-horror that was innovative. Its camera-work is innovative, as is its use of sound. And now, we have the good-fortune to have it restored with a new score commissioned by Univesal Pictures by American composer, Phillip Glass. If you truly want to enjoy this film, and to feel it more-deeply, it must be viewed with this score. Universal deserves credit for the new-score, it was a wonderful idea that works so well in-practice.Amazingly, Glass's score makes Dracula seem very modern and more-relevant to our times. The original had no real working-score (a few motifs), which is probably one of the few strikes against-it. Expertly-performed by the Kronos Quartet, Dracula shines as-never-before for our eyes and our ears. The restoration is incredible. After years of watching inferior 16mm television-prints, it is a revelation, this is a gem. At one time, it was hard to even see a lot of the movie, as it was murky and clouded, unstable. Watching it today, we can marvel at how good high-end film-making really was. "},{"Title":"comparison English vs Spanish version(s)","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Until I'd seen the Spanish version, I had no standard of comparison to judge this film against, even though it seemed rather oddly put together even for its own time. The acting is very wooden and stiff, much as the entire cast is acting out a stage play, only on film. The storyline itself is very good, scary and creepy enough, and the theme music Death of of the Swans from the Swan Lake Ballet, gives it need period class, I still enjoy watching Dracula for its historical outlook. But The Spanish version is much more fluid, the story moves smoothly, not in fits and jerks, as the English version. My copy of the Spanish has a lead-in by Lupita Tovar, very interesting to listen to her tell of what she went through for the job! "}{"Title":"A Universal Horror Classic","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This great adaptation of the excellent Bram Stoker novel gets better each time you see it. Not many films can start out as one of the best ever made and just keep getting better like that, so this one is definitely special.It tells the story of the vampire Dracula's rise back into power after a visit from Renfield at his Transylvania estate. When Renfield becomes a servant to the Count, they're off to London where the vampire hunts down a beautiful woman.After the woman becomes ill, her friend brings in Prof. Van Helsing to find out what's wrong. Even Dr. Seward, the man who now has Renfield in an institution, comes to check on the poor woman.Finally, Van Helsing and his band of counterparts realize what they are up against and decide to finish off Count Dracula once and for all.Bela Lugosi delivers the performance of his career as the ferocious Count. He'll always be remembered for the role and it's no wonder why. He's definitely the best villain of these old Horror movies and he's probably the most memorable.I do have to mention Dwight Frye as Renfield though. In my opinion, he's the best part of the film. He's the only Renfield that I've seen that really brought the character to life and he really delivers a fantastic performance. If only there was a supporting category back in '31.The only thing that Stoker would be mad about is the deleting and switching of characters. In the book, it's Jonathan Harker, not Renfield, that goes to Transylvania in the beginning of the story. His character is much more developed and Renfield is pushed into the background. For a true adaptation, see the 1992 version, but for the best adaptation, see this. "},{"Title":"Universal Monster Movie Classics Dracula.","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula (1931) was one of the crown jewels of Universal Studios monster movie releases. Like Frakenstein, this movie was based more upon a stage play than the actual novel. Due to budget restraints, the film makers opted to use the stage play more than the Bram Stoker classic. The real stars of this movie are Bela Lugosi and the brilliant directing from genre master Todd Browning.The movie barely reaches past the seventy minute mark. But the basic parts of the novel can be found in this film. Browning uses the shadows and lighting to his advantage. The phonetic English spoken by Lugosi gives his character Count Dracula a more eerie persona. One of my favorite scenes involves Dracula's ladies as his hypnotic grip that he has over them. Not as great as the first adaptation of Count Dracula (Nosferatu). But if you look at the film from a different view point, you wont be as disappointed. Instead of being a nasty and vile creature, Dracula is more of a mac daddy instead of a disgusting beast.,HIghly recommended. "},{"Title":"Dwight Frye is GREAT!","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw the movie 5 or 6 years ago and the thing I loved most from it was the version of Renfield portrayed by Dwight Frye. He was absolutely great! The rest of the cast(saving Lugosi and Van Sloan)is plain. Dwight Frye is the real deal (even though Tom Waitts is outstanding in Coppola's version)using all his ability to bring us the most interesting character of the movie, or maybe the only who shows some emotions and deepness. The way Frye delivers phrases like Rats...thousands...millions! is so desperate, and the way he constantly begs to his master blows me up. In my humble opinion he's the best of the movie. Dwight Frye's Renfield is a suffering and lost soul. No doubt about it! "},{"Title":"although the movie itself was kinda silly, you can always count on Bela Lugosi","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bela Lugosi sure lived an adventure. Back in his native Hungary, he was involved with Communist leader Bela Kun. When Nicholas Horthy de Nagybanya overthrew Kun, Lugosi fled the country. Making his way to America and speaking little to no English, he eventually got to play the most famous vampire of all time. And I guess that he will forever be associated with this role.That said, the movie was actually sorta silly. They based it more off of a stage play than off of the original novel. But Lugosi had some great lines I am...Dracula. I never drink...vine. So, Dracula remains a classic, if only for the one-liners. "},{"Title":"Time has ruined this classic","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The gloomy castle of Dracula, the hypnotic eyes, people turning into vampires and superstitious villagers &#150; are they frightening anymore? I'm afraid no. People who produced Dracula perhaps did not know how to make good movies or perhaps the people in the old days were so much different than people today. This may sound silly, but it is really difficult to tell people of today why the first Dracula film is a classic. All elements what Dracula includes are known even before people get to see this film. The reason is that the story of Dracula has become an essential part of cultural history and that's why this film deserves all the attention it has.Spoilers for the film lay everywhere outside the DVD package. Worst spoilers are found within everyday life in America the Halloween and probably even the Simpsons TV-series. People can encounter Dracula today even in children's programs, though in much more humorous context, and Dracula for grown-ups is represented with special effects and masses of blood and scream and perhaps sex. In the gloomy castle where the original Dracula (by Bela Lugosi) lived, now lives the over-produced Dracula and his stupid brother, who stars in parodies.Sad to say, but the old Dracula film offers only the basic clichés of a horror movie and of course himself, Bela Lugosi the 'real' Dracula. It may still be interesting to see how it all started, but to discover the excellency of this great movie requires much of special interest from the spectator too. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Only this film and Nosferatu have achieved what a true vampire film should achieve. I can't put my finger on it, but I guess that it's because of the fact that rather showing everything, they suggest it - like when Dracula goes for his victims. It always fades out or happens out of the view of the camera.Also, this film captures an atmosphere that has only been captured during this time period. Young Frankenstein got close to being a perfect representation of this atmosphere, but that was a comedy.I don't think it would work that well with young audiences today that haven't been exposed to these old horror classics. Usually when they are exposed to movies like Dracula, they're unable look at them in their historical context, therefore not enjoying them. They may be cheesy and not really scary now. But for the time period they were released in, this was incredibly creepy and scary.So I rate this film a 10, simply because it was top notch horror for the day, and you can't change it to make it to today's standards unless you remake the film. And hey, Bela Lugosi still freaks ME out! "},{"Title":"One of the scariest movies I ever saw.","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I first saw this film on TV when I was 12 or 13 years old and it scared me so much that I wore a crucifix around my neck every day after that until I was 20. I watch it whenever I see it is being broadcast  and every so often I take the video out and watch it again.  I am still looking for it on DVD.  I have seen almost all of the other Dracula and vampire films and judge them all by this one.  It still takes first prize for eerieness. "},{"Title":"I want to suck your blood","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The original Dracula is still the best.  I think it's better in black and white and this is a masterpiece.  It's creepy and atmospheric and beautifully shot.  Sometimes the film is criticised for being played out like it is on stage rather than like a film.  You can see what people are saying.  Early films, and this is an early sound film as well, sometimes have these problems.The film actually sticks quite close to the book but not as close as Bram Stoker's Dracula from 1992.  Of course Bela Lugosi is brilliant in the lead role as Dracula.  Although it is from 1936 and the erotic and sexual overtones are more subtle, you would certainly say that Dracula is a romantic figure in this film.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Has a Lot Going For It Despite Its Age","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  While it shows its age at times, this classic version of Dracula still has a lot going for it.  The atmosphere is done very well, and Bela Lugosi is still unsurpassed in his distinctive portrayal of the Count.  It will probably best be enjoyed by fans of older films who won't mind a few rudimentary special effects and the like.Lugosi's stilted, heavily accented English works very well here, and his eyes and gestures also fit in well with his role.  Most of the rest of the cast is pretty good too, though of course slightly exaggerated at times.  There are times when the pace is very deliberate, although there is usually enough to look at to hold your attention.  There are some good atmospheric details, although these are occasionally marred by shoddy special effects.  There are also a couple of odd gaps in the plot, where it looks as if a scene or at least some lines were omitted (some of the other comments here confirm this).If you like older horror movies, this is a fun movie despite a few small flaws, and certainly worth a look if you've never seen it.  "},{"Title":"I am, Dracula","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I found the movie to be incredibly enjoyable. Ever scince I heard of the vampire movie staring Gary Oldman when I was three, I thought He doesn't sound like the vampires ive read about in my Halloween books! Then I heard about Bela Lugosi several years later during a time we rented The Mummy. I thought His accent is perfect! After reading several books about monsters from the school libary, I took a liking to all those old B rated monster movies on American Movie Classics. For christmas last year, My uncle aunt, and parents gave me Frankenstein, Dracula, and The Invisible Man. I liked dracula the best. Strange effects. Perfect actor for the title. And at times funny. My favorite charecter in the movie was this one doctor at a mental instute (fun fact. That doctor actor played frankenstein's proffesor in frankenstein)  "}{"Title":"Masterful","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If a Dracula movie was remade like this one, it would be a hit.  The 1992 Bram Stoker's Dracula was gory and overly long.  This Dracula had no blood and was masterfully filmed, with closeups of Dracula eyes.  In the same way, the movie is corny and campy.  Yet Dwight Frye played a great role as the lunatic slave to Dracula, Renfield.  Bela Lugosi was a masterful Dracula, with a certain charm to add to Dracula.  Helen Chandler was at times funny to watch her panic but was overall good.  David Manners was also good, but very FAGGY as Jonathan Harker.  The movie was very enjoyable and very good to see on the new DVD with the new score by Philip Glass. ***1/2/***** "},{"Title":"Children of the night. . . what music they make.","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Tod Browning directed one of the most visually eerie films ever made. It is so visually eerie that it wasn't given a score. I always felt that the bleak silence added to the powerful visuals and disturbing mood of the movie. I feared a score would detract from Bela Lugosi's sublime and sexually charged performance. I bought a CD of the new film score by the genius composer Phillip Glass and the brilliant Kronos Quartet some months ago and found the music to be understated and moody. So I decided to give the new scored version of Dracula a try. And While there is much to be said for the stark bareness of the unscored original -- I have to say that the full background that music gives a film is probably essential for making this classic more accessible to modern audiences. Glass does a wonderful job of complimenting the atmosphere of each scene and I did not find the score to be detracting in any way. I enjoyed this viewing of Dracula as much as I ever have. I should have realized that a little music could not steal a scene from the hypnotic tour de force of Bela Lugosi, the enigmatic performance by Dwight Frye or Browning's lusciously decaying sets of sugary webs and crumbling vermin infested stones. Dracula (1931) is one of the moodiest and most unsettling films ever made-- despite the fact that there is virtually no on-camera violence-- only threat and menace-- which comes exclusively from Lugosi's rich presence. Each frame is like a work of art -- meticulously painted by Browning. Lugosi moves through that painting as if he were artwork as well. It's probably been too long since you watched this movie and the new scored version is as good an excuse as any. Children of the night. . . what music they make.   "},{"Title":"BELA LUGOSI REMAINS THE DEFINITIVE SCREEN VAMPIRE","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  *** out of ****There is no denying that DRACULA is slow going much of the time; but if you know what to expect and concentrate on the mood, you might discover that it actually works.Bela Lugosi remains the definitive screen Dracula, and it is due to his magnetic performance that this classic endures, despite the leisurely pacing. He doesn't run and jump across tables, he doesn't snarl and spew blood from his mouth...this renowned Dracula creeps and slithers slowly, with a sinisterly evil glee in his eyes. His manner of speaking, long considered camp, is actually very eerie. From his first scene meeting Renfield we can sense that he is not of this world.Dwight Frye's Renfield characterization is likewise chilling (nobody can laugh as menacingly as he does), and his performance manages to be both unnerving and sympathetic at the same time.DRACULA is the first true horror talkie, and everything else that has come since owes a great debt to it. Though not up to par with its contemporary (FRANKENSTEIN - 1931), Bela gives us an impression that we shall never forget. Bela Lugosi IS Dracula...and Dracula IS Bela Lugosi.Accept the slow pacing and let it work to add quiet suspense, and you might enjoy it more than you would think. "},{"Title":"The Bible of Vampire movie!","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is THE best vampire movie of all time.Bela Lugosi made a terrific job at playing Count dracula.The script and the way they made this movie is very unique.It's one of those movies that once you've seen it you will never forget it.Fantastic! "},{"Title":"I bid you....welcome","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have seen countless remakes of this movie; and, none of them measure up to this one for one reason Bela Lugosi. What can you say about such a wonderfully perfect performance.  Lugosi didn't just play Dracula, he WAS Dracula. Yes he was that good. From dark, damp locations to creepy acting this movie has everything to satisfy anyone who wants to see what real horror is all about. I have two copies of this movie. One with the score added by Glass and one without the score. I for prefer this movie the way it was-without the score. It's just creepier that way. But with or without the score, this is one classic you can't miss. "},{"Title":"The original Nosferatu doesn't even come close to this one.","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love this movie. Bela Lugosi as Dracula and Dwight Frye as Renfield are especially good. The German Nosferatu isn't even half as good, and the vampire in that one doesn't even have the redeeming social graces that Lugosi's Dracula did. The movie has all of the unfortunate limitations of early talkies, and therefore is quite creaky to today's audiences. David Manners' romantic lead is a one note role, which is unfortunate because these are the types of roles for which he is best remembered. This movie was released a year after his stunning performance in James Whale's Journey's End, in which his role was much meatier. "},{"Title":"The spider weaves it' web for the unwary fly.","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the movie which set our standards for Vampire films owing to Bela Lugosi's effective performance as the seductive and evil Count Dracula who plots to relocate from his home in Transylvania to England in search of fresh blood to appease his unholy appetite. Before he acquired the role from Universal Studios Mr.Lugosi had performed Dracula on stage for two years.Due to the fact that he was an Immigrant from Hungary who spoke little English so he learned to speak his lines phoneticly giving his manner of speech a deliberateness.With a strong well disciplined baritone voice he spoke with a chilling other worldliness.Prior to each stage performance he dressed in costume and make-up early and for an hour stood before a full length dressing mirror? and looking himself in the eye he spoke aloud I am Dracula!.The results was that when he made his entrance on stage and spoke those same words the audience was to convinced that he wasDraculaSo effectively did this carry over to the screen that even when Bela Lugosi happened to be seen in public wearing casual dress that people fled in fear It's Count Dracula! AS good as Lugosi and other supporting actors were the film did suffer from budget problems imposed by the production staff.Director Tod Browning became discontented about having his hands tied and the latter part of the movie became stiff and wooden and camera work stultified.Yet the film endures to this day as a classic for still having plenty to offer to the fans of the genre.  "},{"Title":"It's Better Than The Remake!!","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I Like Dracula it is a very good movie! Bela did very good as Dracula! I have the movie! also renfield he is funny i think he is known as the old fly eater! Everyone in the movie is great! The Movie is about renfield goes to count dracula castle enough said.... I'm 13 years old i love this movie!!  "},{"Title":"A true classic","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first fifteen minutes are superb, the definitive introduction to the Count from Transylvania.  After our blood sucking boy moves to London, however, Todd Browning's film becomes slow and creaky, yet those qualities are somehow appropriate for this story of the undead.  Whereas Frankenstein cries out for a musical score, the deathly silence throughout much of Dracula adds to its eerie ambiance.  Lugosi is simply magnificent, and Dwight Frye is almost his equal as the maniacal Renfield.  A true classic. "},{"Title":"A Classic!","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Having seen both the English & Spanish versions of this film, I have to admit that the Spanish version is slightly better in several ways  camera angles, and the actors/actresses don't seem as wooden as the English version.However, the Spanish version doesn't have BELA LUGOSI, and THAT makes all the difference in the world!This was the film that forever stereotyped Lugosi with horror films, something he regretted for the rest of his life. (He wanted to do romantic leads & comedy).My only criticism of the English version is Jonathan Harker's constant shouting Nina! Nina! Nina! over & over at the end. It gets on your NERVES! "}{"Title":"The One We Always Think Of","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have had so much fun with this movie in my lifetime.  From knowing virtually every line, to doing very bad impressions of the Bela Lugosi vampire.  We all know him.  The accent that is always used when we talk about Dracula.  The parts of the movie I have learned to love start at the beginning.  As Mr. Renfield travels through the ancient town at the foot of the Carpathians, the man with the huge mustache, when hearing of the young lawyer's plans, says with terror Drak-oo-la!  Renfield has that puzzlement on his face.  He can't understand the fears of the people.  I love it when he leans out the carriage window and sees that bat (on the end of a string), flying before the horses. When he is finally dropped off at the Borgo Pass, the suitcases are flung to the ground.  This guy should have got a clue, but he doesn't.  Then, of course, there are the famous lines as he enters the castle.  Listen to them, the children of the night.  The spider spins his web to catch the unwary fly, eh, Mr. Renfield.  That light is focused on Lugosi's eyes to make them stand out.  From that point on, we have a wonderful presentation of atmosphere.  The fog, the darkness, the suavity of the Count.  There is a sexual undercurrent here that is really provocative. The subplot of Renfield at the asylum, eating the bugs (flies, flies, why should I eat flies when I could have nice fat juicy spiders).  It is such a treat to watch the work of Tod Browning, using almost no soundtrack, still pulling us along.  Then there is Professor Van Helsing, who is almost as unsettling as the vampire himself.This was Lugosi's shining hour.  It's too bad Hollywood didn't meet him half way.  Nevertheless, I feel so fortunate to have this delightful film to watch as often as I wish.  It is such a part of our culture; everyone should see this and know why.  "},{"Title":"What music they made","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Classic horror but maybe a little stilted by Dr. Van Helsing's  crash-course lectures on Vampirology.  I personally agree with Renfield - Van Helsing knew too much to live.  Yet he lived.  Lugosi is unparalleled as the Count and deserved a more dramatic finish than he got in this film.  Frye goes from fey to intense as Renfield, Dracula's deranged slave.Apart from Swan Lake, the film incorporates the end of Wagner's Overture to Die Meistersinger - this is the number the orchestra is playing when Dracula first introduces himself to his new neighbors, in the theater box.  "},{"Title":"Dreadfula. Ghastly, in fact.","Date":"25 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" By steadily repeating to myself be charitable; 1931 make allowances, I almost managed to watch this all the way through, but finally had to fast forward the two or three last sections. If anyone wants to call this an American classic, then they are of course wery velcome. It's American, that's for sure. Otherwise, however, this simply devalues the meaning of what is classic. Strangely fantastic and deeply unimaginative at the same time. Lugosi has a kind of strictly one-note presence, a limited creepy charisma; the girls look quite pretty; van Helsing has many more than four goggle eyes; and Seward is actually not too bad. The medical students in the post-mortem operating theatre are truly petrified. The basic truth is that this is just a hopelessly incoherent mess; and I won't be watching it again for a long time. Lee and Cushing are the only Dracula and Helsing on the cinematic map, in the hall of fame, and I can't see them ever being bettered. "},{"Title":"Dracula","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula (1931) just did not do it for me, horror films from the early 1900's I'm just not really into. I thought maybe Dracula would change my thoughts on early horror but it did not.There was a few scenes that i though were just really awful, even for the time period. For example early in the movie when a women is handing over a necklace, the camera zooms in close on her holding the necklace and its almost like a picture of her holding the necklace was put into the camera. Also the fake bats and spiders were just to unrealistic. But i did think the fog and clouds coming through the scenes looked pretty good.Overall not my kind of movie. Wouldn't recommend "},{"Title":"The original Dracula","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Shot in 1931 by Tod Browning (Mark of the vampire, Freaks) for Universal, this is the first official adaptation of Bram Stoker's tale of Count Dracula (Bela Lugosi), a vampire leaving his native Transylvannia for England, looking for new young (and usually female) victims.There is no denying the landmark status of Dracula in movie history. This was the first supernatural thriller produced by an American studio and its success spawned the whole Universal horror series (Frankenstein, the wolf-man,...) and in some way, the whole horror genre in American cinema. It crystallized the character of Count Dracula (the elegant gentleman dressed in a black cape, nowhere as it looks like in Stoker's novel) into popular culture and set the standard for all vampire films to come. It jump-started the career of Bela Lugosi. His interpretation of the count, with his heavy-accented and hesitant English, remains iconic.Yet Dracula is not a good movie, even by 1931 standard (compare it for instance, to James Whales' Frankenstein, released the same year). The first 20 minutes, set in Castle Dracula, are simply wonderful the atmospheric Gothic set serves as a perfect backdrop to Lugosi's performance. The scene where Dracula and his brides emerge from their coffins remains powerful even today.But once the action moves to England, the movie becomes am unimaginative bore. The Gothic sets are replaced by mundane well-lit rooms without any atmosphere, a context where Lugosi's performance suddenly appears quite goofy. I also always found Edward Von Sloan's overacted performance as Dracula's nemesis Van Helsing, extremely annoying with his fake German accent. Inspired more by the play than the original novel, the script is too talky. Moreover, Universal considered that a movie about a walking corpse was already extremely risqué and do not dare going to far with the script, hence most of the action seems to happens off screen. For instance, when Van Helsing and Jonathan Harker kills one of Dracula's victim who has turned into a vampire, we know it only because we see them exiting from the cemetery where she was buried.The movie is barely directed. Apart from a few scenes (like the one mentioned above with Dracula and his brides and attributed usually to cinematographer Karl Freund), Browning usually puts his camera at the least imaginative play, never moving it, adding to the feeling that we're not watching a movie but a filmed stage play. Browning's lack of interest in the project is also clear by the many goofs and mistakes that can be spotted through the film. The clearst example of that is Renfield's meeting with Dracula at Burgo's pass at the beginning of the movie. Dracula is driving the coach that will carry Renfield to the castle and, according to the script, a scarf around his head is hide his face, explaining when Renfield meets the count in the castle, he doesn't recognize him as the driver of the coach. Dracula wears such a scarf in the Spanish version shot at the same time but not in the English speaking version yet, despite this obvious goof, nobody bothered to reshoot the scene.Browning's later movie Mark of the vampire, with a much superior performance by Lugosi in a Dracula-like character, seems almost like an attempt to make-out for Dracula Mark of the vampire has all the atmosphere and Gothic imagery that Dracula lacks past the 20-minute mark. It remains influential but is, in the end, an extremely disappointing film. "},{"Title":"THIS IS ONE OF THE GREATEST UNIVERSAL MONSTER MOVIES EVER TO BE MADE.","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the best Universal monsters in cinema history stars Hungarian actor Bela Lugosi as the infamous Count Dracula and his ongoing terror among the living to preserve his own existence and his first battle with Dr. Abraham Van Helsing.This film version of Bram Stoker's classic novel is the first remake of the German classic Norsferatu (1922).Tod Browning wanted silent era Universal monster star Lon Chaney Sr. for the part of Dracula but sadley he died before production started.Also while the English cast of Dracula went home for the night there was a Spanish cast filming at night using the same sets and shooting it scene-for-scene, but some of the camerawork was actually better and the women were dressed better.My thoughts on the film is WOW! this is the greatest film ever made only competition in all the remakes is its Spanish version.  "},{"Title":"The first twenty minutes are absolutely stunning; the rest is largely a big snooze.","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the film that began the Universal horror cycle in the 1930s that bestowed on us such gems as WHITE ZOMBIE, THE MUMMY, and, of course, the sublime-masterpieces-in-any-genre-full-stop of James Whale, so for that alone we should be grateful, as the studio may not have pursued this direction if DRACULA had not been a success.  However, there is a received opinion about the film's quality, and, as usual, the received opinion is correct.  DRACULA begins with twenty minutes of astonishing cinema, and degenerates into talky, stagy, stilted tedium.Well, when I say 'correct', I must qualify that.  There ARE great things in the second half a deranged performance by Dwight Frye as Renfield, by far the film's most interesting character, whose plight verges on the genuinely tragic; the consistently eerie cinematography of Murnau cameraman Karl Freund, who would later direct that unaccountable miniature, MAD LOVE; a remarkable, haunting play with mirrors; a splendid finale, which forswears conventional action and thrills, in favour of beauty, poetry and chills; and especially the astonishing sequence opening with a view of Seward's Sanitorium's lawns - this placid, classical garden is suddenly disrupted by the cries of Renfield, and the camera's smooth gliding jerks into an alarming mimicing of the insect the madman is trying to catch, utterly shattering the calm of a scene which, being set in a glorified madhouse, was always waiting to be rent.Overall, however, the second half is rather dull (maybe this is a comment on the England it deals with?).  You see, the film is not based on Stoker's novel, which is amazingly cinematic, rattling along at a hurtling speed, offering a profusion of characters and scenes in disparate locales, and providing plenty of colour and frisson, as well as using proto-cinematic techniques like cross-cutting and ellipsis; but a play based on the novel, a rigid, respectable, dead thing.  The book's primary motor is sex - Dracula is not simply an Other his desire for Mina is mirrored in the trio of her admirers; the latter's staking of Lucy Westenra is described as a horrifying gangrape rather than a righteous exorcism; the rampant homoeroticism of the book is also denied.  Instead we get one planklike lover; Seward becomes Mina's stiff father, (which, if you've read the book, does add a frisson of its own); and a rather asexual Count.The novel's tension between spanking modernity and technology, and submerged, Old World Gothic terror is ignored in DRACULA in favour of a vague Victorian fug.  The acting is almost universally (!) execrable, and, in the 'play' scenes, Browning unsurprisingly seems to lose interest.  What does remain from the book, and is actually intensified, is the link between the powers of Dracula and Van Helsing, both steeped in superstition, anti-modern lore, slightly complicating the battle between good and evil.All this is not to put you off.  Those first twenty minutes are treasurable, and unmatched in early talkie cinema, until FRANKENSTEIN at least.  Unlike Whale's awesome parodies, the opening is genuinely chilling, a terrifying trip into the unknown.  The journey to Dracula's castle is even scarier and more beautifully rendered than the otherwise superior NOSFERATU, filmed with a mixture of starkness and folk tale.  In these twenty minutes the spare, knowing, suggestive direction; the discomfiting lack of music; the evocative use of sound effects; the extraordinary set-design, dripping foreboding and evil; Lugosi's otherworldly face; the haunting and poetic use of ghostly imagery; the strange, oneiric permutations of the characters; all combine to created a dreamlike, horror masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Cult status the only reason to watch","Date":"27 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I know a lot of people love Lugosi. His Dracula has many admirers, and the Spanish version is considered by some to be a technical triumph. But I wonder what might have been if, in the late 1920s, Universal's top director Paul Leni had directed Conrad Veidt in the role of the Count. I have heard that Papa Laemmle wanted Veidt and Laemmle Jr. wanted Lon Chaney. Whether or not this is true, German director Leni and German actor Veidt had developed a rapport, teaming twice before in the the German film Waxworks and in The Man Who Laughs for Universal. If you want to know how much better the performances and camera-work would have been, watch these films.It was obvious in 1931 that Tod Browning, without his old pal Chaney, could not get excited by the project. Some in the cast gave German émigré cinematographer Karl Freund credit for directing much of the film.But in spite of the troubled production Dracula was a box office smash. Critics, however, focused their praise on Freund's eerily atmospheric photography in the Transylvania sequence, commenting on the film's stiffness when the action shifts to London. Unsure of Lugosi's appeal, Universal hadn't risked any more than absolutely necessary on production, and Browning's lack of interest made the budget limitations even more obvious.You hear excuses for Dracula's staginess, but you only have to see the Spanish version to realize sound equipment didn't necessarily immobilize the camera. And it isn't enough to blame depression-era production cuts. The limits of a sound stage didn't limit James Whale's creativity on The Old Dark House. The film may have come alive if it had been made as a silent a few years earlier. In non-talking film you have to show the horrors; you can't convey horror through dialog as was attempted in 1931. Too much dialog makes any film static. Lon Chaney might have changed that. While his acting may not have matched Veidt's, his make-up would surely have been a revelation, and most likely would have followed Bram Stoker's description of the Count, his pallid aquiline face, his peculiarly arched nostrils, hair growing scantily round the temples but profusely elsewhere, his massive eyebrows almost meeting over the nose, with a heavy mustache, and sharp white teeth protruding over his lip. For the rest, his ears were pale, and at the tops extremely pointed.However, B-list directors seemed to have a knack for this kind of material. They never felt the subject matter was beneath them. Therefore George Melford, director of the Spanish version, was challenged by the project in a way Tod Browning was not. Later Browning, as if to prove he could match Melford, directed Mark of the Vampire, a remake of his own silent London After Midnight, with a flair that Dracula lacked, and followed it up with another stylish horror flick, The Devil Doll. Alas, Leni died of blood poisoning, Chaney died of cancer, and Veidt returned to Germany in part because he believed his German accent was too strong to appeal to American audiences. Irony of ironies, Universal cast Lugosi whose struggles with English are well documented. Lugosi quickly, and deservedly, faded into obscurity, and what might have been a cinematic achievement is nothing more than a cult classic. "},{"Title":"If not for Lugosi...","Date":"27 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This must sound like sacrilege to all fans of classic horror, but I am not a fan of this film. This is probably the weakest adaptation of the Bram Stoker novel I have ever seen. Lugosi gives an engaging and unforgettable performance as ,(who else?) Count Dracula, and Dwight Frye gives a delightfully loony performance as Renfield, Dracula's slave, but this movie shows it's age in many, many ways. First of all, there was no musical score, (unless you see the version with the irritating Philip Glass score), which made an already dull film even more boring. Then the effects of the bats and spiders are obviously fake and attached to strings. I know it was 1931 and all, but I think they could have done better than that. Next, all of the performances other than Lugosi's and Frye's are very poor, since sound in film was somewhat of a novelty, and the actors were acting as if they were in a silent picture. If it didn't have Lugosi and Frye, and the fairly chilling atmosphere of the set, it would be a total loss. So, the good points Good atmosphere and performances by Bela Lugosi and Dwight Frye. The bad points Sloppy editing, bad special effects, bad audio, and bad performances by everyone else. Besides, I'm a Frankenstein man myself anyway. "},{"Title":"No doubt influential, but a letdown","Date":"9 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I will always respect and appreciate Dracula for what its done to cinema. It is very much one of the most influential horror films of all time, but I find it to be the most underwhelming of the Universal Monster titans.It begins promisingly with a thick, and palpable Gothic atmosphere, entertaining performances and a well told story. But then about half way through something goes wrong.The budget seems to have dried up out of nowhere and the film becomes incredibly dull and talky. It seems to wonder aimlessly without any indication of where it wants to go. All the dread and fright seemed to be sucked right out of the film. This is by no means the best vampire film of all time, but it is the most important.5/10 "}{"Title":"Nothing Like The Original!!","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Imagine how horrifying it would truly be for someone to assume the physical characteristics of a bat!! The early days of motion pictures brought on a bevy of horror films which would fascinate all American movie viewers for basically all of eternity!!! (In the movie world perspective anyway!!) Bela Lugosi is tremendous in this movie, and the whole eerie genre of frightful horror which made this film a classic has been marked a a legend in the silver screen!! I love watching this movie!! Black and white movies spark a nostalgic familiarity with me!! By the time I was born, almost everything was in color, but, black and white television still had maybe 25% of everything that people watched. As a result, my generation identifies with black and white television and movies, and down and outright prefers it when viewing a horror film or a 1930's gangster flick!! Dracula was one of my favorite horror films ever!! I would say that Wolfman is my all time favorite!! I give Dracula a perfect ten, and I could watch it at least 100 times, come to think of it, I probably already have!! "},{"Title":"It doesn't have to be good to be a classic","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was hugely disappointed when I finally saw it as a kid, and although I appreciate it a little more now I still think by and large it's not a very good movie. The first fifteen minutes are wonderful. The photography and set design are outstanding and capture the eerie atmosphere of Bram Stoker's novel. These opening scenes are the only ones taken from the book; after that the movie becomes merely a photographed record of a tedious stage play. As has been mentioned previously Universal originally planned to film Dracula as a super-production based entirely on the book and starring Conrad Veidt. Had the depression not killed those plans this might well have been the definitive version of the Stoker novel. Veidt was (to my mind) a better actor than Lugosi and physically better suited to the role, and as I said the first fifteen minutes show what a superb job Universal could do when basing the material on the book and not the play. As it is this Dracula is pretty tough to sit through. Hammer's version with Christopher Lee still captures the spirit of the source better than any other I've seen. "},{"Title":"A severely disappointing Dracula movie","Date":"22 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Prior to seeing this 1931 adaptation of Bram Stoker's Dracula, I had seen the 1922 adaptation of the story, F.W. Murnau's Nosferatu, as well as the 1931 adaptation of Frankenstein, both of which did not fail to please. It seems this version of Dracula was the first popular one after Nosferatu, and came out the same year as the first full-length adaptation of Frankenstein, so it's hard not to compare this horror film to those two, and sadly, this one cannot compete.Renfield, a real estate agent, travels through the Carpathian mountains to the castle of Count Dracula to complete the Count's purchase of a home in London, England, despite warnings about the dangers of going to the Borgo Pass any time between dusk and dawn! What Renfield doesn't know is that Count Dracula is a vampire! While at the castle, the real estate agent is drugged by the vampire and becomes his slave! After Dracula arrives in London, he soon sucks the blood of Lucy Weston and successfully turns her into a vampire! After this, his next victim is Mina Seward! Technology has obviously come a long way in the past 76 years, and I realize that horror films from the early 1930s can seem very tame compared to more contemporary films of the genre. However, seeing 1931's Frankenstein and 1933's The Invisible Man, I also realize that they could do better than this at the time. This 1931 adaptation of Dracula is almost painfully listless, and sometimes mildly suspenseful, but rarely. It also has pretty much no musical score whatsoever, apart from during the opening and closing of the film, the acting is fairly weak (at least early on in the film), and the way some of the characters talk slowly is ridiculous! Horror films from around the time this one was released are obviously not the same to today's viewers as they were to their original audiences, but even with that in mind, this early movie adaptation of Dracula is disappointing. I had fairly high expectations when I rented it, but they were far from reached! Compared to the likes of other horror films from the '20s and '30s that I've seen, this one seems awfully amateurish. In conclusion, if you haven't seen this film, then even if you are a fan of old horror cinema in general, don't be surprised if you find this particular film disappointing! "},{"Title":"I'm gonna be accused of blasphemy for this","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I know this is The Classic version of Dracula. I know it was made decades ago. I'm well aware I'm gonna be accursed of blasphemy for this. I know people were easier to scare then. Oh well, might as well get on with it.The Bela Lugosi version of Dracula was so inaccurate to the book that I actually had trouble following the story. The Francis Ford Coppola version was much closer to the book.BOOK; first few chapters are about Johnathan Harker's travels to and stay in Transylvania. Renfield already in madhouse by start of movie.MOVIE; Harker never leaves England, Renfield goes instead.BOOK; Madness seems to fluctuate. Sometimes he seems normal, sometimes he's even a philosopher, but once he bit Dr. Stewart's arm, screaming, Blood is the life! Blood is the life! But most of the time, either eating life things or catching flies, spiders and birds so that he can feed them to each other and later eat them. MOVIE; You don't see him acting sane much. (In an odd way, although it never happened in the book, the scene in the Mel Brooks version with Stewart and Renfield in the garden gives a much better example of Renield's frequent fluctuation between sanity and insanity.)BOOK; Dracula is described as an old man with werewolf-like features, glowing red eyes and a mustache, and gets younger as he drinks blood.MOVIE; Not even close. And, although fangs are alluded to, you never see them.BOOK; Dracula only ever converses directly with Harker. (Although he also yells something at Van Helsing)Preys on Lucy only when asleep and/or sleepwalking. Main characters spend most of their time hunting down Dracula and Lucy. MOVIE; Dracula meets and converse with main characters at opera and later at Lucy's house. (In fact, this seems to mostly be all that happens in the movie.)BOOK; If you've seen any version of Dracula you'll be well aware of the scene with Harker and Dracula's three brides. As well as a child in a sack. (Note to MATRIX fans; watch Bram Stoker's Dracula again, you may find it interesting that Neo and Persephone have met) MOVIE; This happens to Renfield, but nothing interesting happens.BOOK; Dracula's arrival in England is very similar to Eddie Murphy's arrival in New Yourk in A Vampire in Brooklyn; a ship with a dead crew crash-lands on the beach, with a cargo full of boxes full of clay, and a wolf jumps out. MOVIE; Doesn't seem to happen. And only seems to assume the form of a bat.BOOK; main characters chase Dracula all the way back to TransylvaniaMOVIE; doesn't happen.MOVIE; He uses hypnosis on various servants.BOOK; Well, why the hell not? He does, possibly, have some power over Lucy, she seems to sleepwalk exactly where Dracula wants her to.Other problems with the movie;-Seems to be all talking, almost no action. -Never see Dracula's fangs.-Extremely limited by early censorship -Armadillos? "},{"Title":"Disloyal book-based movie","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Even before I'd seen this movie as a kid, I'd heard much about it - it was my only knowledge of Dracula, actually. But I was determined to find and read the novel beforehand, to learn less-known information about the most famous vampire...I almost regret doing this now (almost because if I hadn't I would've liked the film a bit more since, though I found it confusing WITH the book, so without it would've left me baffled but still entertained) because my experience of watching this was tainted. For those who don't know the novel's plot Jonathan Harker is sent to Transylvania to see a mysterious client of his company's, and there notices many odd things about Dracula he neither dines, drinks, nor reflects in mirrors, seems to covet human blood until prevented with a crucifix, is nearly nocturnal, seems to summon his neighboring wolves who prevent Jonathan from leaving, and intercepts 2 letters he sends home via gypsies and burns the one written to his lover Mina since it's shorthand. While defying his host's orders to sleep nowhere but his own room, he encounters 3 women who appear to be demons they nearly attack him till Dracula offers them a child. As he recovers from a brain fever in a nearby mental hospital, Mina Murray and Lucy Westenra witness a ship enter port whose only occupants are the captain, dead with crucifix-tied hands, whose journal mysteriously hints something caused his crew's disappearance, and a gray dog who flees after landing. Shortly after, Lucy's sleepwalking finds her nearly attacked by something unidentifiable to Mina, who believes the 2 marks on Lucy's throat are from the pin she used to tie her shawl - though Dr. Van Helsing, friend of Lucy's suitor Dr. John Steward, believes it's more when she continues to weaken after being given 4 blood transfers. After death her wounds heal, and Van Helsing reveals to Steward and her fiancée Arthur Holmwood that she is un-dead. With another of Lucy's suitors, Quincey Morris, Van Helsing summons Mina and Jonathan to confront the vampire responsible, and attempts to question Steward's insane patient Renfield, who appears subservient to a vampire - and must save Mina when she's attacked. The movie leaves out and/or changes much of the plot - Renfield is the business worker who goes to meet Dracula but returns possessed with him via ship. Jack Steward is Mina's father and her lover John Harker is too practical to believe in vampires, Lucy Weston is barely introduced and is interested in Dracula whom she actually meets, Arthur and Quincey are absent - and the suspense is reduced by Dracula's directly socializing with the protagonists in London rather than their having to hunt him down across the Black Sea, such as Van Helsing fighting his hypnosis in a battle of wits which occurs before he can convince anyone around him of what Dracula truly is. The Count's true identity - a descendant of an old Transylvanian family/Turkish War veteran who practiced witchcraft - was never revealed. Even Renfield's death is pitiful as he falls downstairs rather than dying directly from a beating. I was bored and managed to forget the ending, of 1 of the greatest horror films of all time, no less. I can safely say that if it hadn't been for Bram Stoker's work, I'd have been confused by the hurried plot, so even on its own merits - I try to give at least 5 stars to be fair - this film wasn't enjoyable to me. I wish I wasn't such a purist, but I thought this was beyond help either way. "},{"Title":"Vampires aren't scary. Then or now.","Date":"9 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I, personally, hate Twilight. I was told that the earlier vampires were actually scary. Um... Not really. This is a story about vampires, right? Do we get to see blood? Barely any, if at all. Last I checked, vampires drank blood. We see Dracula bite his victims, but any blood? like, a drop. Again, I understand the restrictions of the time, but weren't there ways to get around them? Screwball comedies essentially revolved around circumventing the Code. And while this isn't a screwball comedy, I expected to see some creativity in how the vampire was portrayed. Nope. Although, I will give points to Dracula for, if not being horrifying, being creepy as all hell. He legit sent shivers up my spine. He's a psychopath in purest form. "},{"Title":"A vampire hiding his identity in a massive castle. Can Count Dracula keep it together?","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie had some good aspects to it. The acting was pretty good, the actors made the scenes feel pretty creepy, and really shaped the characters; especially Dracula. The lighting was well done for this kind of film. There was enough darkness to set the eerie feel but was great when focusing in on contrast and contouring. The camera did a great job with different angles. It really gave a 360 view and didn't have random, unimportant shots. This was especially present in the staircase scene. The sound effects were pretty good when it came to creaking noises in the castle but was fairly quiet with the dialogue. The plot could get a little boring but the message was pretty clear so it wasn't a difficult film to figure out. Pretty well done overall. "},{"Title":"Not as much of a slog as the 1931 moonlighting version . . .","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" . . . shot on the Universal back lot in Spanish at night with a Hispanic cast, but directed by an English-speaking dude who habla non Espanol. Either it takes 20% longer to say things in Madrid than it does to convey the same message in Peoria, or it is not smart to have diverse mono-lingual people mismatched together on a major project. At any rate, the American version of Dracula benefits from its foreign-born star taking the time to learn the language du jour when he came to the U.S. and, eventually, Hollywood. (Though this would seem to make common sense, about half of today's major league baseball players choose not to follow Lugosi's path to success in America, which probably is why they seem prone to ingest so many outlawed substances with labels they may not be able to decipher.) There's an expression that begins When in Rome . . .  and it certainly applies to the United States even more so. Though this version of Dracula is filmed in black and white and seems to leave out many of the vampire movie bells and whistles today's TWILIGHT crowd has come to expect, the special effects are less cheesy here than Jacob and his friends turning into wolves every 10 minutes. Plus the lack of spurting blood in Lugosi's Dracula makes this more suitable for the younger crowd than TWILIGHT, with its emphasis on sex and gore. "},{"Title":"Cheesy and Badly Acted","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was the first Hollywood version of the celebrated Stoker novel about a vampire terrorizing London. It is regarded as a horror classic, but it has not stood the test of time. The sets and special effects are cheesy and scenes that were once regarded as scary are now laughable. These moments of unintentional comedy and impressive cinematography are the only reasons for watching this historical curiosity piece. Lugosi is quite hammy in the role that he is best known for. However, he is a model of restraint compared to Frye, who chews the scenery and spits it out. The film lacks narrative flow, causing it to drag despite the short running time. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I think that this movie was pretty good. The low lighting used in the movie makes it more creepy and eerie. The greeting scene for example,it seems to be bare with just stairs and large windows, but i think it adds to the mood and emphasizes it. When both Dracula and the man are walking up the steps the camera angles are switched a couple of times, it goes back and forth. It shows Dracula's back going up steps, then it shows the front of the man going up showing his frightened and concerned looks.It shows off a different atmosphere of Dracula, moody and creepy. When the reflection of the woman is in the mirror of the jewelry box, she and Dracula are unaware of the men looking at them across the room. You notice that you cannot see Dracula in the mirror at the same time that the men notice that. I noticed that the camera angle did not change when Dracula knocks out the jewelry box of the mans hand, it just zooms in a little bit. When the woman is coming out of the coffin it is almost like slow motion. "}{"Title":"Not a great film..","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was the first monster movie for American cinema. Again the movie does not really follow the book but does a pretty good job getting the overall view. To start Dracula was quite the corny movie. Bela Lugosi did do a great job portraying Dracula, the way he walked, talked, and interact with the other characters was very funny at times but also creepy. The film itself was put together pretty good, there are a couple of spots where you can see they over lapped the film and also the camera angles were not great. They either zoomed in on Dracula's face or had a wide shot. Though overall I also have respect for this movie because it was the first monster film and it paved the way for all monster films. "},{"Title":"Bad-rapping of a Well-Dressed Guy With Anemia","Date":"27 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Scary? Sure. Hilarious? Oh, so.. Dracula gets my vote for best (dark) comedy on film. Why didn't Renfield's (Dwight Frye!) obsession for fat juicy spiders start a diet craze? It would have been understandable in the early Depression years, when food was difficult to come by. Also on point, we have over at the chaffing dish, rats,..Rats,..RATS! Thousands, millions of them! The special effects were just so much cotton-candy cobwebs and dry-ice fog, which is why I'm not all that torn up that the most scary passage in the novel was excluded, unless it landed on the cutting-room floor Renfield looks out the window of his room in Castle Dracula, to see the Count as a giant spider running along the outer walls! I would have made a cartoon exit. "},{"Title":"What Dwight Frye as Renfield really said about spiders & flies","Date":"1 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" So much good reviewing has been done here that any opinions I might have are redundant. (Also I am disabled, quite sick & am not up to it anyway!) However, I do feel compelled to correctly quote what Dwight Frye as Renfield really says about spiders and flies. For some reason, Renfield's words always seem to be misquoted, and it has happened here yet again (in didi-5's otherwise fine review). I suspect it's because nobody ever forgets the creepy scene in which Frye all but steals the movies, but they quote what he said from memory. Well, it's hard to get this right when you're doing it from memory, because it's actually back-and-forth dialogue between Renfield & Martin, his Cockney keeper in the lunatic asylum. For the record, here is what Renfield & Martin actually say Renfield Flies, flies? Poor puny things! Who wants to eat flies? Martin You do, ya loony! Renfield Not when I can get nice, fat spiders! "},{"Title":"Those catacombs...","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm going to have to say that rubber bats don't work for me, unless they were in the movie for a sec or two, but they weren't. Bela Lugosi did a good job of playing a creepy blood sucker though, and the catacombs he found when he moved from Transylvania did a great job of creating a dark atmosphere. It's often copied. Even characters' names are stolen and changed, as in Dr. Van Helsing's. He's made into an acrobatic vampire and werewolf killer in the movie by the same name some 65 years later. I was disappointed in the ending for it felt very anticlimactic. In summary, suspending disbelief is extra hard when watching a dated movie (rubbers bats, rubber spiders, silly webs) but overall pretty good flick. PS- Is garlic now what wolfsbane was then? "},{"Title":"The Original and Still the Best","Date":"27 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bela Lugosi nailed this one. He's by far the best part of this movie as his interpretation of Bram Stoker's Dracula is quite obviously the best that's ever been put on film. The movie is unfortunately dated (just look at the over acting, bats on strings and incredibly convenient timing of dialogue) but it's legacy isn't. When you think of Dracula and what he should look like according to your experiences with the character, chances are you think of the role assumed by Lugosi. He turned Bram Stoker's idea of Dracula into a cultural icon and 80 years later we're still relating the character Dracula to the vision of Lugosi. I'm sure at the time this movie was much better than what it is perceived to be by people of my generation but it's a classic in terms of launching a global vision of a particular character and that's what makes it so great. "},{"Title":"It just wasn't not my cup of blood","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tod Browning's Dracula(1931) is another visually arresting Universal monster picture with very little story and character depth. Like Frankenstein(1931) the lighting and the settings of Dracula(1931) create a great tone and mood but the story, the characters and the performances don't live up to the quality of the images. Again, I can certainly understand why Dracula(1931) was a commercially successful film in the early days of sound films but commercial success does not equate to quality. The countless cutaways to Dracula's creepy eyes and the image of a the huge stationary bat flapping it's wings in the window became quite comical after a while as it became quite obvious that the filmmakers had zero trust in the audiences ability to infer anything about the story and needed to be told over and over again the the monster was scary and that he liked to watch people from windows. The scariest of scary movies tap into real human fears and emotions and a film like Dracula(1931) is so other-worldly and unrealistic that it seems impossible to me that audiences could be genuinely scared or frightened by this film. "},{"Title":"Set the way for horror movies","Date":"8 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a fantastic eerie movie that is probably the first vampire movie ever made. It definitely set the way for all other vampire ideas.The tone and even the black and white of the movie (although it was not an option to have it any other way for a film made in the early 1930s) definitely gives you a feeling of eeriness and slight horror.A classic scary movie that I recommend everyone watch at least once in your life. Even if you do not really like horror movies (like me) this is definitely one you should give a chance. You may even find yourself liking horror movies after this, or at least wanting to give them a chance. "},{"Title":"Scary Movie, classic","Date":"1 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula is a classic no matter when you see it, I liked it a lot better than Frankenstein, I feel like it played out a lot better with a lot better story line. I saw the 1991 Dracula before I saw this one so maybe thats why I like it better than Frankenstein. Personally I like the newer movies better compared to the older ones and part of that is my fault because i grew up watching the new ones, and never took advantage of the older movies. I never learned to appreciate what the old movies meant to people and how far they have come until i took this class. I think Dracula is a classic for an older movie though and you will not be disappointed in it! "},{"Title":"Dracula","Date":"16 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film, the original Dracula is just outstanding. The film is unbelievably eerie and spooky. This is a true classic horror film that horror fanatics must see. The film being made in 1931 demonstrates what a real horror movie is. In most modern contemporary horror films are intelligence is insulted by most directors lack of ability to allow us to imagine and fill in the blanks of the suspense. They do this by simply revealing to much information and showing to much of the action and drama. (when you see a movie with so much gore, blood and violence). This modern style of conventional horror films is just to revealing and quite honestly just disturbing. It transforms the movie from being scary, eerie and/or spooky to just down right disturbing, gross and revealing. In doing that, we as the audience have no room to imagine or re-create the plot and story. But the wonderful genre of horror was not always like that, classic horror films can be some of the scariest movies ever made because they keep the horror aspect of the movie very hidden so by the climax it can completely unexpectedly surprise you. That's what makes a good horror, it's what you don't see that is truly frightening. Dracula is a perfect example, this movie was not to revealing and that's what made it so spooky. (Plus Bela Lugosi's classic stare of death is just one of the scariest images in cinema). Everyone knows the story of count Dracula, but the fact that the film's dramatic events stayed somewhat hidden is what allowed us to imagine the movie ourselves and really fill in the Verisimilitude. "},{"Title":"An Iconic Movie","Date":"16 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Although I did not find this movie to be horrifying or thrilling, it was enjoyable to see where many of the influences of modern vampire films come from. Bela Lugosi's Dracula is truly brilliant with his intense scare and twitching fingers which crawl along surfaces and on to bodies.One thing I found particularly interesting was the two characters from the asylum. They provide ample comedic relief throughout the film. The use of comedic relief is now used in every horror film to this day.I would recommend this film to anyone who has ever enjoyed a vampire film. Although you might not find this film to be scary, its great to see the work that inspired every vampire film made over the last 80 years. "}{"Title":"'Listen to them.  Children of the night.  What music they make!'","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Based upon the novel by Bram Stoker, 'Dracula' tells the classic story of the titular Transylvanian Count, an ageless vampire who has existed for centuries. Seeking fresh blood, Count Dracula travels to England where he moves into Carfax Abbey and focuses his attentions upon an innocent young woman named Mina. He transforms a man named Renfield (Dwight Frye) into a raving lunatic who acts as Dracula's slave and who lives upon a steady diet of flies and spiders. Dwight Frye is a real scene stealer in this film; he is so charismatic that Alice Cooper even wrote a song about him (1971's 'Ballad of Dwight Frye')!Director Tod Browning and Karl Freund (an uncredited co-director) have crafted a wonderfully creepy Gothic horror film. Although I am not sure why the Count would have armadilloes roaming his dusty and cobweb-riddled castle! As Dracula, Bela Lugosi is splendid; he manages to be both creepy and elegant at the same time. The film is atmospheric and very detailed, and richly rewards multiple viewings. You will want to come back to this one again and again. Also, if you like Tod Browning's work, then his disturbing, uncompromising, and very controversial 'Freaks' is highly recommended. "},{"Title":"out of the coffin","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula directed by Tod Browning is the unique story of a lonely count looking for a soul mate. Dracula is a Universal Studios classic that helped put them on the map, turning them into the major production company they are today. A storyline like no other before its time. Using his vampire powers and gentleman charm he travels off to find his mate. Bela Jugos played the role of Count Dracula perfectly. His pale complexion and creepy behavior catches your attention and helps put you in the horror mindset. Another great addition to the over feeling of the movie was the dark shooting and dim lit sets. I enjoyed every minute. "},{"Title":"classic vampire joint","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tod Browning directs this movie well with a very Gothic style that is somewhat detached and has an ethereal feel too it. Most of the acting is pretty ham-fisted and most of the bit players are relics of the silent age blabbering on about vampires loudly, wide eyed and waving their arms around dramatically. Bela Lugosi completely owns the Dracula role, he is Dracula and not even Gary Oldman can take that away from him. Its his role and his role only. He brings a great intensity and theatrical flair to Dracula, he'll reach almost silly heights with his voice and then suddenly he will just change into an intense monster which sometimes can come as a shock to the viewer because this transition happens so rapidly and so unexpectedly that you barely have any time to brace yourself for what happens next. When they go to England in the film the acting gets better and the film begins to move along pretty well.There is no background music, just an unsettling silence and the silence is only broken by rare background noises or talking. The silence and the almost always static camera shots that linger almost too long on certain disturbing images enhance the creep factor of this movie. The creepiest camera shot I think might have to be the shot of Renfield standing at the bottom of some stairs looking up at the camera and laughing insanely. The film is covered in shadows, huge ominous shadows that slither along the sets or completely envelope characters. Browning also tries for a bit of realism especially in the early scenes with the peasants, they seem to have real accents and some actually speak in Hungarian. The set pieces are pretty big for the most part and creepy as hell. The special effects by today's standards are pretty lame and they tend to rely on using things off screen like a noise or someone talking about something happening off screen. There are also a few instances of blatant cut away techniques, like Dracula walking towards the cobwebs, cut to Renfields shocked reaction and then cut back to Dracula on the other side of the cobwebs.This is a pretty good movie. Its a little slow at times and some of the acting is either really bland or its really ridiculous. Lugosi keeps things moving along though and steals every scene he's in. Its really a shame that he didn't go on to have a better career because he really was a talented actor who was typecast because of his accent. Its a good movie but not the best Dracula movie though it does feature the ultimate Dracula performance. "},{"Title":"To die, to really be dead, must be glorious. -Count Dracula","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula was a tremendous movie. It is a great horror movie for the time in which it was made. It is not so scary that it will keep you up at night, but it definitely gives you chills and gets your mind thinking and questioning. I loved the setting of Count Dracula's castle. It really sets the scene for the movie and gets your mind right into the castle. It was a big old stone castle, with spider webs up and down the walls; you hear wolves howling in the background, and a dark lit set. Count Dracula's accent makes him all the mysterious and eerie. The story of the film was also great, a mysterious man who needs blood to live. The actor played the role of Dracula perfectly.The only negatives of this film were the special effects. For example the flying bats were very unrealistic. They were massive rubber bats on a string, and the wings would barely flap, which made for a good laugh. Another negative in my opinion is that I wished they actually showed when Dracula actually bit his victims. It always seemed to move on to the next scene right when he was about to bite! The ending was also very questionable, it leaves you hanging. Was Mina actually a vampire or not&#x85;? "},{"Title":"Creepy for it's time!","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I think of early horror movies I think that most of them would be silly and or poorly done. This movie is one that surprised me. There was quite a bit of suspense and the way Dracula was portrayed in most scenes, he was creepier than I expected. For instance, whenever they showed him staring at someone longingly, they showed a certain light only on his eyes to show the seriousness and intent that he had. Also, Dracula's castle was really interesting with all of the long, thin candlesticks to light everything; it emphasized the dark and creepiness within the movie. Also, Dracula's first victim in the movie, I loved how crazy he was, I felt that it wasn't silly, I felt it was neat how crazed he had become in his search for blood and doing what Dracula wanted him to. The only problem I had with this movie was way it had ended; I felt like it was so abrupt. I thought there was a lot of unanswered questions that needed to be resolved. I was impressed with this movie and would enjoy to watch it again and would recommend this to anyone. "},{"Title":"A whole lot of blood sucking family fun?!","Date":"18 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What was the hit feel-good comedy of the 1931? Why, good sir or madame, it was of course Dracula. The family will laugh out loud at Dracula as he attempts to be a cool dude. I watched in disbelief as he charmed the men and the ladies. He turned Renfield into an idiot, and he may do the same to you. Like Superman, Dracula seems to be in possession of unrelated powers that suck, like a make believe wolf transformation(which he tricks everyone into believing he has(watch out He may do the same to you!), and a dangerous transformation into a Party Warehouse bat(the top offender). My favorite scene was where John was gracefully swatting away the bat from Mina, while muttering concerns about it getting in her hair. God, that really hit home. I mean, who the heck wants bats in their hair?! I sure as heck don't. And the director's camera and editor seems have a fetish with Bella Legosi close up shots! This movie just reeks of hit comedy. David Letterman even went back in time under the name of Edward Van Sloan to make a cameo appearance as Van Helsing. In the words of Renfield Stupid, stupid, stupid! "},{"Title":"Vampires blood and love...","Date":"6 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie creeped me out quite a bit. I know when I saw the look over the edge of the cliffs while John was on his way ti see Count Dracula. I was trying to figure out why he's called count Dracula but i couldn't figure it out. The make up I thought was amazing for that time; it definitely helped Dracula look like a vampire. I really adored the costumes/outfits they wore because they look so real and official looking. That cape looked so heavy, warm and like such good quality They would be awesome Halloween costumes! The lighting played a big role in making this movie what it was; it made it look suspicious, dreary which is the perfect weather for this type of movie and mysterious; the fact that it was in black and white made it that much better (I never thought I would say that!). Another aspect I found interesting was the accent Dracula had because they were in England and everyone else had an English accent however Dracula had a different accent. Either way this is definitely a great movie to watch for Halloween! "},{"Title":"The Definitive Count Dracula","Date":"3 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Count Dracula (Bela Lugosi) buys Carfax Abbey in London and sets sail, with the real estate agent Renfield (Dwight Frye) now under his control. Upon reaching London, he goes after lovely young Mina (Helen Chandler), while Renfield is confined to an insane asylum and all the ship's crew are dead.Director Tod Browning is a master here and the film has a crisp look well beyond its years. While he may also be known for Freaks, there is no doubt Dracula is his feature work. Likewise with Bela Lugosi, who defined the look of Dracula forever... making the creature more sensual, less monstrous.The man who deserves a good bit of credit is Dwight Frye, who plays Renfield. I have always felt the Renfield character was one of the best in the book, and often the most impressive on film (see Tom Waits in the Coppola version). Frye sets the bar high for crazy henchman types.Dracula is so ingrained in American pop culture that despite seeing it for the first time only now, there was no scene that did not already seem intimately familiar to me. It is iconic and unforgettable. "},{"Title":"The First Classic Hollywood Vampire Thriller!","Date":"28 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bela Lugosi is the eponymous vampire in Dracula. Many actors have played Dracula since Lugosi originated the role in Tod Browning's landmark horror chiller, but only one has matched Lugosi. Christopher Lee portrayed the immortal fangster seven times for Hammer and a couple of times for other producers. Ironically, Lugosi only played Dracula twice during his disappointing Hollywood film career. Seventeen years later in the twilight of his career, Lugosi donned the cape to play Dracula in Abbot and Costello Meet Frankenstein. Although Browning's movie introduced one of the most popular horror villains in cinematic history, nothing about Dracula is remotely scary. First, Universal Studios made the film so as to not incur the wrath of the Hollywood Production Code or offend pious church groups. Second, Dracula never bares his fangs. Furthermore, we never see the infamous vampire feeding off his prey. After all, he couldn't have kept his evening clothes looking pristine if he got blood splashed all over himself from draining a rebellious human of their life essence. Third, when Van Helsing stakes Dracula in his coffin at the end, this important action occurs off screen with only the anguished groans of the Count to let us know that the vampire is dead. Originally, the Production Code Administration had Universal remove these sounds of death. Indeed, Metropolis lenser Carl Freund photographed Dracula, and he makes this nonsense look genuinely atmospheric. The close-up shots of an unblinking Lugosi as Dracula with pen lights brightening his lupine stare make this vampire look appropriately intimidating.Initially, the studio sought Lon Chaney, Sr., for the part, but cancer claimed Chaney before the great thespian could make the film. Lugosi landed the role for a minimal $500-a-week and he never topped Dracula, though he came close with White Zombie. Eventually, he would thrive in Poverty Row studio chillers and comedies and ended his career in director Ed D. Wood's preposterous Plan 9 from Outer Space. Browning went on to make the controversial Freaks with genuine freaks about intrigue and murder in a small traveling circus. Universal produced Dracula for about $341-thousand, but curiously enough they neglected to capitalize on their surprise hit until four years later when they produced Dracula's Daughter with no Lugosi in sight. Granted, Van Helsing had destroyed the Lugosi monster in the first film, but later films dismissed this consolation to realism. Lee's Dracula reconstitutes himself in virtually all the Hammer films. Dracula opens with a long shot as a real-life, horse-drawn stagecoach threads its way through the Carpathian Mountains. Renfield (Dwight Frye of The Doorway to Hell) is a London real estate agent who has come to Transylvania with a lease for Count Dracula to sign. Renfield is riding with several other passengers when an anxious native explains that they must reach the inn before sunset. It is Walpurgis night, the night of evil. He pauses and then continues, Nosferatu. On this night, Madame, the doors-they are barred and to the Virgin we pray. Meantime, at the inn, the workers are reciting the Lord's Prayer in Hungarian. The coach pulls up at the Inn, but Renfield has no plans to stay. I say, porter, don't take my luggage down. I'm going to the Borgo Pass tonight. The innkeeper struggles to persuade Renfield to remain until sunrise the following day because the coachman is frightened. Renfield explains that a carriage awaits him at midnight at the Borgo Pass. He adds that his destination is Castle Dracula. The innkeeper warns Renfield not to enter Castle Dracula. We people of the mountains believe at the castle there are vampires! Dracula and his wives. They take the form of wolves and bats. They leave their coffins at night and they feed on the blood of the living. Renfield discounts all this hokum. He believes they are all superstitious, something that Renfield isn't. The innkeeper's wife thrusts a crucifix into Renfield's hand. If you must go, wear this for your mother's sake. It will protect you. The crucifix was a standard weapon in any vampire hunter's arsenal. In this 1931 production, the crucifix can stop a vampire. When Universal Studios remade Dracula in the 1970s with Frank Langella, the crucifix bursts into flames in Dracula's presence. Renfield swaps stagecoaches at Borgo Pass and rides off to Castle Dracula. The coach is making good time when Renfield peers outside and sees a huge bat flapping its wings in front of the horses as if it were leading the steeds. Once they reach the castle, Renfield searches for the coachman who is nowhere in sight. Of course, we know from the instant that we saw the coachmen that he is Dracula and can shape-shift. Renfield enters the imposing but dilapidated Castle Dracula. The count guides his guest through the cob-web infested premises to more comfortable quarters. Dracula scrutinizes the lease to his future home in Carfax Abbey. Afterward, Renfield cuts himself accidentally with a paper clip. Dracula darts forward impulsively at the sight of blood on Renfield's middle finger. Just as he closes in for the kill, Dracula shrinks backwards in revulsion at the sight of the crucifix that topples onto Renfield's bloody hands. Later, Dracula bites Renfield after the head vampire has scared off his three wives. Dracula boards a sailing vessel, the Vesta, for London. He arrives in London and tours the town dressed up in a silk top hat and a cape. He approaches a flower girl and bites her, but we are shown nothing. Dracula introduces himself to Dr. Seward, Jonathan Harker, and Professor Van Helsing at the opera house. Not long afterward Dracula strikes and kills Lucy (Francis Dade of Raffles). The mirror scene where Van Helsing exposes Dracula is good. The count exits the premises as a wolf so nobody will follow him. Later, Van Helsing and Harker track Dracula down and kill him in his coffin. Dracula qualifies a spooky classic horror thriller. "},{"Title":"monster film","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An iconic version of Dracula with bela lugosi like christopher lee version. Bela lugosi played film role much fewer times than christopher lee. Universal film's first Dracula horror film is good standard like Hammer's first Dracula film in 1957. Bela's character smiles as well as being dark persona. He is drawn to females to satisfy blood lust. Arch enemy is van helsing who quick to know Dracula is vampire. Film first set in his transylvania castle then normal surroundings in London with Dracula still after victims. An early film in sound, sound new to films and is black and white where hammer films are colour. Hammer films were noted for horror and this Dracula film one of 'universal's monsters' based on different monsters. There are good scenes in this film with wine, mirrors and wolfbane...; part of vampire legend. A successful film making money and bela Lugosi became well known Dracula. He has good tone of voice and expression "}{"Title":"Listen to them. Children of the night. What music they make.","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There are many lists of the best vampire movies. There may be argument about the placement of this Bela Lugosi classic, but it will certainly appear somewhere on the list.Lugosi established the character of Dracula, and everything else is just a copy (Nosferatu, the silent version, excluded). Those eyes will haunt you forever. I seem to remember them used again the following year in White Zombie, the first zombie film.There is no score accompanying this version, so it has a certain creepiness that accompanies silence.Dwight Frye as the unfortunate Renfield is a sniveling character that acts quite mad.A great movie! "},{"Title":"Outstanding Philip Glass score","Date":"7 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This classic has all of Todd Browning's trademark features, the lighting, cinematography, stark yet vivid backgrounds, grand, sweeping sets, etc. etc. Overall the film does not compare all that favorably with his other works, especially Freaks although it has its moments the confrontation of wills between Van Helsing and Dracula where the vampire hunter almost succumbs to Dracula's will, the transformation of Mina Harker from a plain, frightened child to a sensual and radiant creature, and of course Renfield's outbursts. Some might also object to the many departures from the original plot. But for me the one and only reason to watch this film is the alternate Philip Glass score. I'm a fan of his music anyway but what he has accomplished here is to put it simply, outstanding. He has imbued a film that by modern standards is rather simplistic and at times even laughable with freshness and magic. The dialog and the plot are almost irrelevant. So if you're tempted to watch this film, get the Legacy Collection edition from Universal, select the Philip Glass score, and prepare to be enthralled. "},{"Title":"Fantastic but is marred by the ending","Date":"9 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is indeed a classic in spite of the shortcoming of the abrupt ending .First , Lugosi was born to play this role , he is Dracula in every way .Be sure to see the version with the Kronos Quartet music it adds a lot to the atmosphere .Also Dwight Frye is great as Renfield and Sloan as Von Helsing does well too . Todd Browning's direction is questionable in spots though , mostly at the end , where it looked as if they rushed through it far to quickly .The scenes where Renfield goes to the castle are mesmerizing .''I am Dracula'' you believe every second of it ! The man had the look and the voice , the film deserved another half an hour .But a must see anyway ! "},{"Title":"Mediocre version of the 1920's play","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am a fan of the Dracula story and mythology, find Stoker's Dracula a memorable and eerie work, and directed and wrote stage productions based on the Hamilton Deane play from the 1920's (altered by Balderston for the 1927 New York run, in which Lugosi first played Dracula) in high school and university, and as you may have already guessed I have few if any issues with the script for the film (it is certainly not in any way faithful to Stoker's novel outside of the very basic plot, however, but that does not affect its quality in my opinion).What makes Dracula a mildly interesting diversion as opposed to the classic it could have become is Browning's awkward and stiff direction in his second talkie. I enjoy many films by Browning and West of Zanzibar is nearly a masterpiece, but his work here is transparent and uninspired. Simply comparing this film to the Spanish-language proves how flat it is and how much it lacks cohesion due to the terrible editing. George Melford's direction in the Spanish-language version, shot on the same sets and released in the same year, is so superior to Browning's work that you begin to wonder why Universal didn't switch directors once they saw footage Browning shot.What the Spanish-language version doesn't feature, however, is Bela Lugosi. It does star Carlos Villar as Conde Drácula, though, and the less said about that monstrosity of a performance the better. Lugosi is still quite possibly the definitive Dracula, and so many moments here capture him in all his glory. Dracula is worth seeing not simply because it is a film with an important legacy but merely for Lugosi's take on the Count. He really is superb here. Dwight Frye's Renfield is also excellent.Dracula is far from a perfect film. It's also pretty far from being the sort of classic many claim it is. It really is nothing more than a middling, average filming of a great play with a great lead performance. Thankfully the script and acting save this film from the inexplicable ineptitude of Browning's work here, and the sheer lack of cohesion in the flow of the film.6/10 "},{"Title":"Creatures of the night... what music they make","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tod Browning's Dracula suffers so many decades later for one simple reason, and a second one that's more subjective first, we all know Dracula, like a quintessential Shakespeare or Jack and the Beanstalk, we all know what Dracula is about because the lore is given to us as kids and it's taken as it is, which leads to a lack of surprise at what will occur in this film (lets face facts, some of us have even watched the Coppola Dracula before this one); second, it is, sadly, dated in some aspects. Luckily, for the latter, what makes it dated doesn't really have a negative impact on enjoying the picture overall- when one sees the bat flying about- or, sorry, swiveling and nearly crashing and breaking against the scenery- it's cheesy and corny and all those things that show it was 1931.But aside from these minor liabilities, Browning's film succeeds because of, to use the oft-repeated and tired description, atmosphere (make no mistake, a chill will run up your spine as fog rolls in and Dracula appears to suck the blood of poor Renfield), and Lugosi's monolithic performance. Has any actor come close with just a deranged look in the eye and Hungarian/double-jointed curl of the fingers to acting this creepy? While Max Schreck and Klaus Kinski, both playing/inhabiting Nosferatu in those film versions, could arguably be considered far more creepy, Lugosi has the aid of sound and a odd control of the English language that adds just that necessary edge on a scene. So many years later, it's the definitive performance of Lugosi's, for better or worse this turned out for him.Back to the atmosphere though, as the only other truly notable and crazy turn among the sturdy cast is Dwight Frye as spider-eating/schitzo Renfield. The sets, the lack thereof a score, and the mesmerizing lighting and gliding camera-work of Karl Freund (who, apparently, directed some parts of the film), not to mention the moments of fog, make up much of the classic quality of the picture. This side, even so many eons later it seems, hasn't aged too badly, and practically all variations of Dracula or vampire movies only come a hair's edge close to imitating or emulating the Gothic stature of the technique presented here. Even when a scene of dialog might lack some density due to it being mostly pure exposition, it's impossible to take your eyes off what's going on or being less than absorbed in the action. No matter how familiar, Browning's Dracula deserves all its accolades and attention as the first Hollywood movie on the Count. Whether or not it's the greatest of all time I'm not sure. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Fantastic!!!!!!","Date":"25 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love classic horror and the reason for me collecting the old horror films is Bela Lugosi's role in Dracula (1931). This was the first horror film with sound so you can't really have a go at it for having a disappointing musical score. Bela Lugosi had been playing Dracula on Broadway for two years so after the unfortunate death of Lon Chaney Sr (he died of lung cancer) he was the obvious choice to replace him. Bela didn't know much English but his heavy Hungarian accent has been mimicked countless times. My favourite parts are when Dracula says to Reinfield I never drink........wine and when Reinfield does his insane laugh aboard the ship. Dwight Frye portrays Reinfield amazingly. Edward Van Sloan does some beautiful acting as the wise Professor Van Helsing. This is one of universals best creations and by far Bela Lugosi's greatest role. A must see fantastic movie!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"I Am Dracula. I Bid You Welcome.","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There are great films, there are masterpieces, and then there are these classics that every film fan has to see at least once. The great Tod Browning's Dracula of 1931 belongs to all three categories. Generally speaking, this is neither Browning's best film (that honor goes to Freaks of 1932), nor is it the best adaptation of Bram Stoker's great novel. The most ingenious film about the Dracula legend is still F.W. Murnau's silent masterpiece Nosferatu - Eine Symphonie Des Grauens of 1922 , the most entertaining is the Hammer Studio's Horror Of Dracula (1958) with Horror dream-team Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee. However, this most famous version of 1931 is absolutely essential for one reason - the great Bela Lugosi. The immortal icon Lugosi delivers one of the most remarkable performances ever in a Horror film as the bloodsucking count. Lugosi does not only play Dracula, he becomes Count Dracula. From the first moment of his appearance, Lugosi immediately dominates the film, and he does not cease to do so whenever he is seen. Other than brilliant, breathtaking and unforgettable, here are hardly any appropriate words to describe such a wonderful performance - performances like this have to be seen! I don't find it necessary to deliver a plot description, as I assume that everybody knows the Dracula story. Bram Stoker's brilliant novel has been filmed on various occasions, some of the adaptations (such as Nosferatu, Horror Of Dracula, or this one) were excellent, others (such as Bram Stoker's Dracula of 1992) were quite lame, and all of them differed from each other quite immensely. There is little action in this interpretation of the story. What makes this film tense is the overwhelming presence of Bela Lugosi, as well as a wonderful black and white photography, eerie sceneries, and a gloomy and menacing general mood. There is hardly any music, just the eerie and unforgettable tune in the beginning. The film's one small weakness is a middle part in which little happens. This tiny fault, however is easily made up for by the film's eerie atmosphere and the brilliantly haunting Bela Lugosi. What makes the difference between a great actor and an icon? To me, what makes an icon is the predestination for certain roles, which no one else would be even imaginable to play. This is definitely the case with Bela Lugosi in the 1932 Dracula. In Short This is essential cinema. An absolute must-see and a classic that no film fan could possibly afford to miss. "},{"Title":"The king of all vampire movies!","Date":"8 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A man named Renfield heads to Transylvania where he meets the fiendish Count Dracula (Bela Lugosi) at his castle where he the count drugs him as he's actually a vampire and turns Renfield into a slave. Later they set sail to London where Dracula strikes at night to pray upon innocent people especially a lovely girl named Lucy (Frances Dade) and seeks the blood of a woman Mina (Helen Chandler), for only her fiancée Dr. Jack Steward(Herbert Bunston) and professional hunter Dr. Abraham Van Helsing (Edward Van Sloan) to protect her from the count.A true masterpiece of horror! while Nosferatu (1922) is the queen of vampire movies, this happens to be the king of every vampire movie there ever was and the greatest Dracula movie ever. While some other adaptations of Bram Stoker's classic horror tale are good on film, nothing can beat this classic. Lugosi is still the best actor to play Dracula besides Christopher Lee, Frank Langella and Gary Oldman but Lugosi's portrayal of Dracula blows them all away with his charm and was born to play the character.It's an important film of the horror genre that will never grow old and be a film that will remain timeless. "},{"Title":"The First Half Makes it a Ten","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Yes Dracula becomes stage bound when the action is transported to England. The opening half of the film is so loaded with eerie and dreaded mood however that it's enough for me to give it the perfect 10. The silence accompanying the rising vampires (much of it comprised, off camera, of coffin lids falling) brings an absolute terror to the mood. Lugosi's Dracula is perfection. Even his brides are otherworldly and terrifying. What is unfortunate is that over the years, Lugosi's performance has been watered down for many (not me) by the countless imitations of Lugosi's delivery including mostly humorous ones (remember Count Chocula?). Try to look past all that and watch his performance in this initial film. There is just no equal. "},{"Title":"The Classic","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What is there to say about this classic of the vampire genre? I will admit that although it's based off the Deane/Balderston stage play, there are some moments that still call to the original book. For example, when Renfield encounters the Count, it recalls the moment that Harker enters Castle Dracula. Who can forget when Dracula intones Listen to them. Children of th night! What music they make! or when the men investigating the ship open the hatch to reveal a low-laughing (that laugh gave me goosebumps!), insanely grinning Renfield staring up at the camera. All in all, this film is the one to start yourself on if you want to become a vampire fan. "}{"Title":"A Groundbreaking Film Better Than Ever After 76 Years!","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I was young I thought this film was flat, except for Bela Lugosi's not on screen enough presence. After spending years watching and ploughing through the history of silent films, 'Dracula' now comes on like a mind boggling ground breaking wonder! How it must have terrified audiences in 1931!Of course, we know the minuses it doesn't follow the book, there's too much off stage action, Tod Browning's 'direction' is weak, the male lead is feeble, the acting is too stagy (especially by Van Helsing), and there's not enough Lugosi, etc. But consider the pluses they get better with every viewing! Even after 76 years! The first sound version of a 'grotesque and horrible theme' (=the undead drinking blood to survive); the pioneering way of presenting it-- laying the groundwork for countless versions to follow (including the vast, bleak, decrepit castle); the eerie, creepy, atmospheric use of silence (the lack of music was not unusual for films of 1931); the scary, creepy editing; the amusing Charles K. They're all cry-zy Martin; the amazing work of Dwight Frye (including his floor crawl towards the maid), who would have stolen the film if it hadn't been for Bela's imposing presence; and most of all, the manner, movements, voice, dialog and delivery of Bela Lugosi himself. Whew!The Universal Legacy collection's David Skal informs us that the depression caused Carl Laemmle to scrap plans to film the book in favor of the popular play. In the book (published in 1897), Jonathan Harker is the solicitor dispatched to Castle Dracula, where he becomes trapped by Dracula, whom he sees turn into a lizard, and whom he also tries to kill before Dracula leaves Transylvania disguised as Harker; Renfield is already a patient in the sanitarium; and Lucy is beheaded in her tomb by Van Helsing and her lover, after her many nightly kills as the Woman in White (this latter part being mentioned in the film). Too bad we didn't get any of it in the film!In fact, while the fate of Lucy as a vampire is left out of the Lugosi version, it is present in the Spanish language one (included in the Universal Legacy Collection), in its more exciting climax. Speaking of that version, produced at the same time and on the same sets with the same costumes, and mostly the same script, it comes off as a wonderful, more detailed, variation of the English version, with additional scenes, dialog, and a really great Renfield. A fuller version visually and story wise, but... no voice of Lugosi.I haven't seen all of Lugosi's films but my favorites are clearly, 'Dracula'(1931); 'White Zombie'(1932); Lugosi amazing as Ygor in 'Son of Frankenstein'(1939); as the romantic hero and star of the serial 'The Return of Chandu' (1934); and his speeches (Pull the String!) in Ed Wood's 'Citizen Kane''Glen or Glenda' (1953).As Skal points out, in no future Dracula movies did 'The Count' try to imitate Bela Lugosi, but as viewers we would always hear his voice, see his mannerisms, and measure the current actor against Bela's being conspicuous by his absence. So finally, watching this film takes you back to a genteel, drawing room world, where the gruesome theme is treated with skeptical normalcy and decency (not the horrific silliness and unbelievability so prevalent in modern horror films). When Renfield opens the door of Dracula's castle and introduces us to the world of evil we now know all too familiarly in our own time on and off screen, it's a ground breaking moment in the history of cinema. For all the pluses in it, this film just gets better and better! "},{"Title":"The Saga of Bringing the Screen the Story of the World's Biggest Blood Sucker (other than the I.R.S.)","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The debate over which films are better, the old or the new will doubtless rage on, perhaps forever. Apologists for either extreme position can express,debate and rehash their cases. We can all listen, but this is the sort of feeling for particular type of film and the Particular Era that gave rise to them. For the most part any debate winds up to being a case of preaching to the Choir, with like minds proving to be both The Preacher and The Preachee at any gathering or forum of ideas.In our own case, we prefer the Old School horror film. We enjoy the Black & White Photography, both in the 'Movin' Pichers' as well as in the Movie Stills. The varying tones of grays, whites, silvers and blacks make for the perfect visual accompaniment and underscore to the moods to be conveyed. Also the compatibility of B & W with any sort of Archival Program has made it the favourite choice medium for news files. Black & White cinematography sends subtle, sub-conscious messages which adds a certain perception of being authentic.As for Sound vs. the Silents, we'll leave that debate for another day. Suffice it is to say that the Silent Screen provided us with so much really great and frightening films. We had so many of the German Films, John Barrymore as DR. JEKYLL AND MR. HYDE and so many unique and eerie Characterizations of one Lon Chaney* as examples.As for Dracula (Universal,1931), we have been familiar with this cinematic version of the Brom Stoker tale, ever since 1957. It was in that year that Universal Pictures released its SHOCK THEATRE package of their Horror Masterpiece(and 'Boobie Prize')Films. This was the moving factor in creating a new Local TV Station Position, that of the 'Late Night Horror Movie Host Personality' This was period of having people made into overnight successes as being the Host/M.C. of the SHOCK THEATRE films. The most famous being John Zacherle as Roland who started at WCAU, Philadelphia before moving on to WABC TV, New York. Virtually every market had its own Magnetic Conduit Character/Host, acting like a Lightining Rod in drawing the viewers to their telecasts.In our own local Chicago SHOCK THEATRE as seen over Local ABC TV Affiliate, WBKB TV(now known by the call letters of WLS TV). Our show was hosted by a bespectacled, dark suited, flat topped character called Marvin. In real life he was one Terry Bennett, a talented Ventriloquist and Comedian.So, we had the old sound films, and in this case, the older the better. And none 'older' nor more frightening than Bela Lugosi as Dracula. The sets, the Transylvannia scenes, the Castle Dracula, and the long periods of silence on the sound track all help to add up to a hauntingly eerie screen presentation. And in Dracula's case, the quiet times added to say, the three Vampire brides of the Good Transylvanian Count, only prolong the horrors and tend to personalize them.Among the fine supporting players who helped make this the classic that it is and always will be, we have to mention Edward Van Sloan (as Van Helsing)who gave us both the wisdom of the older Scientist and Expert on the phenomenon called 'the Nosferatu',the 'undead'.(Yeah, this guy really uses the term in the story!) But of all the rest players we have to give proper praise to is Mr. Dwight Frye(Renfield). He had the proper intensity and off beat insanity to bring the role of the unsuspecting servant. And he possessed the most haunting stare, which when combined with his crazed laugh, provides the most horrifying of experiences.And ironically, Dwight Frye did not initially done these creepy characters in horror films. In fact this scene stealer of Dracula, FRANKENSTEIN(also '31) and BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN('35)was not a film actor at all. Mr. Dwight Frye was a Stage Actor. And the Forte of this most notorious 'Professional Creep' was, the same as Sydney Greenstreet's, which was the Musical Comedy! We recently obtained a DVD of the original Universal 1931 Dracula with the newly created original score. We enjoyed the experience. This score is definitely tailored to this Dracula film and this one only. It is lively, moody, highly atmospheric and does underscore the action of the story.And you know what? The original Dracula with no music to speak of beyond the opening Title Theme(an eerie adaptation of Swan Lake by Tchaikovsky)is much better. I really prefer the creepy, quiet stretches of soundtracks, punctuated by the occasional dialog by Lugosi, Van Sloan or Frye. Even the crackling of the old soundtrack and old equipment was part of the old experience.What's more, I've incorporated the technique into my own Nightmares, shown and dreamed in Black & White, of course!NOTE * Universal Studios boss, Carl Leamele had planned to make Dracula a project starring as the Transylvanian Count. Mr. Chaney died in 1930, leaving the part to Bela Lugosi, who had essayed the role in the Stage Play of Dracula. "},{"Title":"One Of The 5 Best Horror Movies America Has Ever Produced","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bela Lugosi is the greatest choice ever to play Dracula.He was the legendary actor,who changed the face of horror.the story is known for anyone even to sexy nightclub girls whose favorite movies are American pie and fast and furious or something like.Dracula is a timeless novel by Bram Stoker.Dracula has the greatest out of print after the bible.it's it was it is and always will be one of the greatest and one of the best novels in the history of literature. still after 75 years this movie still of the one biggest hits in the horror world.this has almost no violence and few blood. and it's good that it's not silent movie it's more fun to watch movie with sound.nowadays horror movies are mostly crap like i mean in chain saw stylish killer where some idiots running around with chain saw or with Axe.this is pointless.and of course those teenage horror movies are crap too likei know what you did last summer.When Bela Lugosi died he was buried in his Dracula cape. he was and he is and he always will be one of the greatest and best actors of cinema before and today.RIP Bela you are one of the greatest horror actor if not the BEST.I recommend it to everyone. 8.5/10 maybe even it should in the top 250. "},{"Title":"I am Dracula...","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The bloodsucking monster Count Dracula (Bela Lugosi) travels from Transylvania to England with his companion Renfield (Dwight Frye).Everybody's neck is in danger when this dreadful undead is around.First he attacks the young Lucy Weston (Frances Dade) turning her into a vampire.Next in line would be her friend Mina (Helen Chandler), the daughter of Dr. Jack Seward (Herbert Burnston).Mina's fiancé John Harker (David Manners) is very worried of his sweetheart.Professor Abraham Van Helsing (Edward Van Sloan) finds out the secret of Dracula when he doesn't see the reflection of him in the mirror.He knows a wooden stake through the heart will kill the beast.Will he be able to stop Dracula? Dracula (1931) is an early dramatization of Bram Stoker's novel.Tod Browning is the director.It's a horror classic that has been copied many times.The actors are just right.It's hard to picture anybody else for the leading part than Bela Lugosi.The look, his eyes alone make him one of the most terrifying creatures of all time.Dwight Frye also gives some chills as Renfield.Edward Van Sloan is brilliant as Van Helsing and so is Helen Chandler as the young Mina.Then I have to mention Carla Laemmle, the young lady wearing glasses who spoke the very first words of this movie.She's related to one of the producers.One thing about this movie.Dracula drinks blood but there is no blood seen in the movie.Horror movies without blood is something very rare to the modern viewers.It's the atmosphere...The atmosphere is there.That's the one thing that makes the horror movie.Then a little warning.Beware when you walk in the shadows of the night... "},{"Title":"Dracula","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I know that over the years many do not consider Tod Browning's Dracula film to be as great as reputed to be, but I just continue to love it each and every time I view it. I certainly believe this is a crash course in how to shoot Gothic horror the real way. The opening is just astounding with all the cobwebs, possums, the lady vampires and how they submit to their awakening master, and Lugosi appearing for the first time in all his splendor. His eyes, as the light glistens upon them, wreak of power and lust..whoever faces these eyes have to submit their will to his. Few weak minds, if any, can outlast the power of Count Dracula. Such richly macabre dialogue stands etched in horror lore from, I bid you welcome, to The blood is the life, Renfield..each line becomes so eerie when rolled off the tongue of Lugosi. Some consider Lugosi's performance hammy, but I just revel in the way he stretches his dialogue..it becomes so quotable. Lugosi was simply born to play this creature of the night and when someone says Dracula, some might think Chris Lee, but most envision Lugosi with his vile stare that penetrates the very soul. His equal, let's just admit it, is Dwight Frye as the crazed Renfield, once quite a sane, intelligent, soft-spoken office type reverted to a blood-thirsty maniac because of Dracula. It's that fiendish, stark-raving madness that is so intensely memorable..no one can match this performance, so why even try? But, it's the way director Browning and cinematographer Karl Freund set up creepy darkened shot after creepy darkened shot of Dracula waiting out in the darkness commanding others to do his bidding that makes this such an endearing horror classic. Some might think Edward Van Sloan might be a bit too theatrical as Van Helsing, but I can't imagine anybody else in that scene where Dracula tries to pull his rival towards him with mind control only to find his adversary's will is too strong even for him.My favorite scenes, to be honest, occur in Transylvania before the film settles in London because the castle and way Lugosi is shot are so burned in my mind. Just the way Dracula looks inside his decrepit abode on the stairwell as he stares at Renfield with that fiendish blood-lust so apparent or where we see an armadillo climbing from a coffin with this skeletal hand peeking ever slightly out. Or, the scene where Renfield receives his ride on the horse carriage as Dracula hides enough under a black cloak to remain anonymous..each Gothic set-up is a hypnotic entrapment for the fan in love with the moody set up of atmospheric horror. I watched this with the Philip Glass score and must say I prefer it..something majestic occurs when we hear the eruption of strings as Dracula appears. The score, for me, takes away the creaky criticism that so often accompanies one's insult towards it. "},{"Title":"1931 Dracula Presentation","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This early rendition of Dracula starring Bela Lugosi, is fantastic and a must have for any Dracula aficionado. True, it moves a bit slowly and is choppy at times, but it is still a great movie. From the haunting strains of Swan Lake, to the innovative shots of the horse drawn carriage as it heads towards Dracula's Castle, to Dracula's eerie welcome, to the creepy crypt shots, and so on, it's worthwhile watching. Bela Lugosi, of course, defined Dracula for generations to come. I had never heard of Dwight Frye prior to seeing this movie, and was very pleased with his amazing performance. At first I thought he was Jonathon Harker, as he was the one arranging for the sale of Carfax to the Count. I thought it was a mistake that he was called Renfield, but then realized that was the way the movie was done. I've so far, in my Dracula education, found Jonathon Harker to be singularly unappealing, but Dwight Frye's rendition (in this sort of duel role) was fantastic. When later on in the movie, John Harker showed up, he was, (for me anyway) as boring and lackluster as ever. This movie is a must see for any student of Dracula, and should be on all collector's shelves. "},{"Title":"Original, Excellent and Stylish","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am Dracula, I bid you welcome. What great opening lines from the first screen Dracula, and the first sound horror film. With this gem Universal would rule over the horror film genre for nearly twenty years, and with the possible exception of Frankenstein, The Wolfman and The Mummy never equal this first grand effort.Taken from the Hamilton Dean stage production of Bram Stoker's book the play actually was a vehicle for Dean to star as Van Helsing, the actual lead character in the play. The Broadway production brought together the two talented stars of this film who went on to bring it to the screen, Bela Lugosi (Born Bela Blasco from Lugosi in Rumania) and Edward Van Sloan (the only Dutch Actor to date who has played the Dutch professor Van Helsing.) To round out the superb performances of the cast is Dwight Frye as the tortured and maniacal Renfield, reduced to being Dracula's creature.In 1999 this wonderful horror classic was re-released with an all new music score by composer Philip Glass performed by the Chronos String Quartet, which adds to the tension of the film. While it may seem a bit dated today it has set the standard for all other Dracula films. "},{"Title":"Swan Lake still there?","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Is the Swan Lake excerpt that plays during the opening titles from the original release still on the new (75th Anniversary) DVD? If so, can I listen to that Swan Lake excerpt by choosing the silent-scene (i.e. the non Phillip Glass-scored) option on the new DVD?I guess I just love the movie the way it was and would like to buy the new version for its careful restoration of the old print. Phillip Glass' score for Koyaanisqatsi is annoyingly jarring but really an essential part of the crazy life-effect in that film, but with Dracula, I'm a little bit old school-- leave the soundtrack (or what little there is of it) alone, and sure, give us the option of the Glass score only if we'd like to hear it that way. "},{"Title":"Fangless Dracula","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Universals Dracula is a classic that made Bela Lugosi a star,made around the same time as Frankenstein and later released together. its an eerie creepy film,there's no music on the soundtrack except the title and end credits,like Frankenstein.the second filming of Dracula the first being;Nosferatu in the 1920's(silent)armadillos play rats in Dracula's castle.the rest of the cast Helen chandler as Mina,David manners as Jonathan harker,Edward van Sloan as van helsing(good choice) and Dwight Frye as the fly and spider eating renfield.Mr.Lugosi plays a great Dracula 2nd to Christopher lee.but without fangs,rely on imagination.for some trivia;Bela Lugosi was going to play Frankensteins monster in golem like make-up but turned it down because the monster had no speaking lines.well anyway Boris Karloff took the part and made history.i don't believe Bela and Boris were rivals.they were both great actors in what they did.imagine if Boris Karloff played Dracula.universal struck a gold mine with their monsters,like MGM was to musicals.i totally recommend dracula.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Movie That Started It All","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am Dracula....I Bid You Welcome. Although perhaps not the first vampire film - many regard Nosferatu (1922) (which, by the way, was a more horrific interpretation of a vampire) as the first - it is clearly the most popular. When one thinks of Dracula, you think pale face, black cape, eerie, spooky settings, mist, the thirst for blood, Trannsylvainia - and that's exactly what you get in this magnificent version of the classic tale of Dracula (a role that Bela Lugisi was born to play).The plot is simple and well known... Dracula is a vampire and thirsts for blood. He travels to England with his newly transformed sidekick Renfield (Dwight Frye) and sets his eyes on Mina, an engaged young woman.In my opinion, no one plays the part better of Dracula like Hungarian born Bela Lugosi, who acted in the stage version. Strangely, he was not the first choice for the film role, but he won it eventually. I believe he was the perfect choice and brings the essential strange, chilling element. His ominous, eerie presence... his long, thirsting, desiring stares and generally his intriguing and often sexy performance as Dracula. His unforgettable articulation and his mysterious entrancing tone of voice are just perfect. Imagine anyone else saying I am Dracula....I Bid You Welcome! The best thing about this movie is how wonderfully it created the dark, chilling atmosphere unparalleled by any other movie on such a tiny budget. A great example of this is at the start where Dracula's brides slowly creep out. Their emotion is truly haunting. This doesn't have the now typical 'boo!' moments of modern horror flicks but I would not miss the hypnotizing performance of Dracula and the eerie settings. This is the movie that set off a whole generation of vampire movies, but I believe this is the greatest of them all. It makes others pale in comparison. Great to own on DVD. "}{"Title":"The world's first genuine all-out horror film.","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" And why should I say so? Because the term wasn't invented until Dracula, a huge box office hit, forced Universal Studios into making another horror film to follow it. 75 years on the impact Dracula had upon the audience is difficult to understand - we live, after all, in an age of blood, gore and sadistic horror. What would 1931 viewers have made of Hostel? Dracula remains the Grandaddy of all horror films; its opening reels are eerily magnificent, as we accompany innocent traveller Renfield (Dwight Frye) through the Transylvanian countryside, arriving at Castle Dracula in his bat-driven coach to deliver the deeds to Carfax, an old abbey in England, to the most infamous Hungarian nobleman of all time. We know what's in store for poor Dwight, as we have already glided softly through the castle to alight at Dracula's coffin as he emerges, brides in tow, to prepare for the arrival of his guest.In the opening twenty minutes the template for the horror film is laid out for all to see - the moody atmosphere, supernaturalism alive and well in our world, and the superstitious villagers' mounting dread as they discover Renfield's destination. It's a superb beginning, from the stately camera-work of Karl Freund to the man in black awaiting on the stairs of his castle for his visitor; and his chilling opening line I am...Dracula. I bid you welcome! Bela Lugosi has become for millions around the globe the definitive vampire. The role he was born to play he makes the most of it, all leering smiles,looming presence, penetrating stares and his old European cadence used to disturbing effect. Lugosi is more suggestive of evil than a thousand modern psycho-slashers.It's a great shame that the rest of the movie does not live up to this opening, which adapts the American stage play rather than Stoker's book. Once the action moves to Dr. Seward's asylum the film becomes static and talky, with shots held for far too long on several occasions. Tod Browning, the director, reportedly lost interest a few weeks into the production and turned over many chores to Freund. Yet Dracula's drawing room confrontation with Van Helsing (Edward Van Sloan) holds the interest, and you simply can't take your eyes of Bela.I confess a genuine affection for this film. Costing around $330,000 dollars to make, it scooped over a million back for its studio and was its biggest hit of 1931. Watch it late at night, with the lights out, let its strange pacing and macabre atmosphere take grip, and it will still hold you in thrall. Horror fans owe it so much. It was the first of many Universal horrors, and it's still one of the best. "},{"Title":"Creepy classic","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've seen this many times throughout the years and also have the version with the music score that was added in 1999 by film composer Phillip Glass and I do like the music he added to it. Based on the Braqm Stoker this film version was adapted from the 1927-1928 Broadway play. Bela Lugosi reprises his role from the stage play written by Hamilton Dean and John L. Balderson as Dracula in this film version and Herbert Bunston reprises his role to film of Dr. Steward from the same play. Director Tod Browning was successful in a number of films he directed in the horror genre in the Devil Doll and Mark of the Vampire. He also directed the unusual film about circus freak show performers called Freaks. Browning got his directing start in the early days of silent film and was also a successful writer and had written the story The Hypnotist that he adapted to the Lon Chaney film London After Midnight. Chaney was to star as Dracula in this film but he died before the film began and Browning turned to the original Broadway star of the play, Lugosi to star in the film. the role of course made Lugosi a household name but typecast him in the role and similar vampire roles for the rest of his career. Austrian-born cinematographer Karl Friend who had a long career as a cinematographer, director and producer photographed this film. He had come from the German Expressionist movement of film-making and had photographed Fritz Lang's Metropolis among many others. his career would include such films as The Good Earth, Camille, conquest, Key Largo and The Pride and the Prejudice and he received several Academy Award nominations and also went on to be an innovator in television film. As a director Freund directed the classic The Mummy. Among the cast are Helen chandler, David Manners, Dwight Frye and Francis Dade. This is a creepy classic and a trend setter in sophisticated horror and did much to re energize the Dracula story and I would give it a 9.0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Vampire land!","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The music, at the beginning, sets you in the mood for what follows. After that, no more music, just sheer terror. In fact, I shouldn't say there's no more music. There's always the one made by the wolves. The best music of all as the Count would say.Bela Lugosi is terrific as Dracula. He's creepy! And the supporting cast is good, especially Edward Van Sloan.Great one-liners in this movie The blood is the life or The superstitional of yesterday can become the scientific reality of today.Too bad the special effects of the time didn't permit for a better looking bat! And who needs a Colt or a Magnum when you've got a crucifix?!? I agree with others who say the movie has the allure of a stage play. But it doesn't make it less enjoyable. But even though I really liked Dracula, I would say that after a great start, the movie goes downhill. Not at full speed, but I suspect my overall impression would have been less enthusiastic if the movie would have kept running for another half hour.Seen at home, in Toronto, on March 5th, 2006.85/100 (***½) "},{"Title":"Brilliant Performance in an Otherwise Unwatchable Film","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There's really only one reason to watch this film now, and that's because of Bela Lugosi's remarkable performance in the title role. Without benefit of bizarre makeup or any really special effects to speak of, Lugosi was able to project sheer malevolence on the screen. Lugosi really knew how to make himself look supernaturally evil on demand. And of course there are Lugosi's ominous vocal intonations, still instantly recognizable to many people almost seventy-five years after the film's initial release. That's a pretty remarkable feat. Purists may quibble that Lugosi was a little too solid to match up to Bram Stoker's written descriptions of the Count, but Lugosi's brilliant acting overcame not only those discrepancies, but what would otherwise have been a lousy and forgettable film. If you want to see what this film could have been with some decent direction and supporting performances, you'd better view the Spanish language version that was shot simultaneously with the Lugosi classic. That film was much better in almost every way, except that it didn't have Bela Lugosi, unfortunately. "},{"Title":"Dracula","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of my all-time favorite films-first of all the atmosphere of the movie was unmatched in any other horror movie and set a trend for all other horror movies. Bela Lugosi IS Count Dracula-He signified the role a The Count and in doing so created a look for the whole Vampire Genre that would be copied in the industry and our minds forever-rightly so.No other movie star besides John Wayne and Boris Karloff had done that in the history of movies-that being said,Lon Chaney also made his mark as The Wolfman-Thanks Bela Lugosi for my memories of Dracula and thank you Universal Studios for making a wonderful movie...Allen Cranfill "},{"Title":"To die, to be really dead, that must be glorious.","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the definitive films of the early horror genre, Dracula still maintains it's classic appeal. From his first words muttered on screen - I am Dracula... I bid you welcome - Bela Lugosi sets the brooding, menacing tone that pervades throughout the film, heightened by each sinister close up as he measures his victims. What better way to greet agent Renfield, than to describe the howling of a wolf outside of Castle Dracula - Listen to them... children of the night, what music they make. The Count makes Renfield his first victim, who now swears allegiance to his Master, surviving the ship voyage to England by devouring ants, flies and other small creatures for their blood. Dwight Frye's portrayal of Renfield is accompanied by a diabolical, guttural cackle that portends more misery to come. Upon arrival in London, Dracula makes himself at home at Carfax Abbey, adjoining the grounds of the Seward Sanitarium where Renfield is placed upon his discovery as the lone survivor of the Vesta's ocean voyage. From there, he casts his sinister eye on potential victims. In turn, the Count's presence is signaled by a flying bat or the howl of a wolf, creepily suggesting unspeakable horror.Contemporary fans of modern day horror films may find Dracula slow moving and even boring, but I find the pacing to be measured and deliberate. Even Lugosi's speech pattern, delivered with over enunciation due to his newness with the language, is perfect in defining the Dracula character. You come to believe it when The Count proclaims - There are far worse things awaiting man than death. "},{"Title":"A Great Film","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Dracula, based on the book by Bram Stoker, isn't quite as good as FRANKENSTEIN, but none the less it is still an excellent work of art. A True classic.So we have this man, Renfeild, who is sent to Count Dracula's castle so that he can try to sell him a house. Once he gets there, Dracula takes over his mind, and makes him go insane.So Renfeild is sent to a mental institution. An old man runs the institution, and he actually lives there with his daughter. Now these older movies are kind of hard to keep up with, so I could be wrong, but I am pretty sure that they live there at the institution with the crazies.So Dracula comes to meet this old man's daughter, and wants to make her his wife, and he will stop at nothing until he gets her.I must say I liked this movie a lot. I had always wanted to see the Dracula series and the Frankenstein series, because Bela Lugosi and Boris Karloff were big horror icons back in the old black and white days.Dwight Frye's performance of Dracula is absolutely nuts! I bet back when people saw these movies when they were first made, the character Renfeild scared them to death! His eyes will haunt you for days after the credits roll.As for the late, great Bela Lugosi, I can definitely tell why he was such a big horror icon for his time. He did such a good job at playing Count Dracula, and I am going to be watching more of his films later on in the week.Now, go make Dracula and Nosferatu part of your collection today!  "},{"Title":"Thank goodness they chose him.","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Thank Goodness Lugosi was chosen by Universal to play Dracula.This was the only way we can imaginehow it would have been to see Lugosi perform on stage (aswell as Herbert Bunston and Edward van Sloan) at the Fulton Theatre inNew York.The stagebound atmosphere of Dracula really does give the viewer areal sense of how it was in the theatre, except that every seat is agood one!Had it been any other studio but Universal, with its European look,I wonder if Dracula would have been the hit it still is today.Same thing with FRANKENSTEIN some of the way it looks on screen canbe attributed to James Whale but it was the Universal technicians thatactually gave the picture that Universal Studios look.  "},{"Title":"A Cure For Insomnia!","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First; I love the old Universal Monster Classics...er...most of them. Any that has the Frankenstein Monster and/or the Wolf Man; George Robinson's lighting; Salter, Skinner or Waxman's music and Universal's trademark backdrop settings; and it's fantasy land I can revisit over and over.But unlike the others, 'Dracula' hasn't aged as well. It's near unanimous that the film's opening reels are a staple in horror history. But after that it becomes a yawner. Too stagy, too talky...and too bad! It could of (and should have) been a definitive 'Count' movie, but like the book, its midsection becomes terminal. It's forever unfortunate that Universal didn't give Lugosi the role for 'Son of Dracula', 'House of Frankenstein' and 'House of Dracula' (and also his proposed involvement in 'Dracula's Daughter' before negotiations fell thru), because he's much more relaxed, smooth and three dimensional in 'Bud Abbott & Lou Costello Meet Frankenstein'. What a contribution he could have brought to those other films.Part of the reason why Dracula doesn't go over as well is (maybe it's a guy thing) that I never saw the Count as a romantic, hypnotic, smoothie. Dracula is first and foremost; a monster with rank breath, powerful strength and evil cunning. And I never bought the accent either. If actors like Meryl Streep, Russell Crowe and Guy Pearse (and even James Doohan) can master any accent after a few years in the acting profession; you'd think that Dracula would be capable of the same skill; after all he's over 500 years old (in the book Jonathan Harker flatters the Count about his English being excellent). But Lugosi (who had recently just learned English) has influenced other interpretations including Frances Coppolla's Dracula and the more recent Van Helsing...unfortunately it remains a camp imitation. It worked in 1931 and the ensuing years of re-release and TV airings, but it just doesn't cut it now.As for the Phillip Glass score; did he bother to run the film while composing??? I thought I had a tough time staying awake without the music; this was an instantaneous ass kick from the sandman. Thanks to the score, I'll never have a sleepless night again. Ten minutes and forty three seconds and I'm down for the count(no pun intended).Still moody and creepy...but too slo-ooo-ow for me.  "},{"Title":"Watch the movie, but read the book, too.","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bela Lugosi's Dracula is the standard by which all other Dracula stories are measured, but it has basically 3 fundamental flaws1) Plot lines are not developed very well2) It deviates from vampire legend and from the Bram Stoker novel3) It lacks the religious undertone of perverted resurrectionSome spoilers follow-1) Plot lines not developed- for instance- Lucy Westenra dies after one vampire bite instead of having a slow torturous death that involves heroic efforts from 3 suitors and recruiting of Van Helsing. There doesn't really seem to be a good reason to write Van Helsing in the first place.2) Plot deviations- for instance- Dr Seward should be Lucy and Nina's contemporary, but he is portrayed as Nina's father. Renfield is unrelated to the rest in the story and is separately recruited by Dracula, but in movie he acts as the real estate agent (Jonathan Harker's role)...3) Religious undertones- Dracula is a story about an anti-Christ who is resurrected to undeath rather than to life. The parallels to Christ are numerous- he lives after death, he is both corporal and spirit, he must be invited to enter a house while Christ bids us to invite Him into our heart, etc and the contrasts are also important- he hates light where Christ is the light of the World, he gropes about in darkness, he seeks to destroy, he pollutes blood.Bela Lugosi's acting is superb, almost too good. The book's Dracula is repulsive while Lugosi is suave. The book's Dracula speaks English perfectly, while Lugosi has permanently cursed the character with a Romanian accent.The movie is tremendous, but the book tells a different story. Watch the movie, but read the book, too. Both are great in their own rite.  "}{"Title":"Very Good Despite The Age!","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This Dracula film is still very good, even though it's near it's silver anniversary and older than most of our parents. It had the right elements to be a classic, which included a great story, as well as tremendous acting. Just as Sean Connery was the definitive James Bond Bela Lugosi was and will always be the definitiveDracula. Although this version did not have the outstanding special effects and violence that todays movies have, it is still the very best of the Dracula movies or any other vampire flicks. None of the later actors who would portray the legendary vampire could even be compared the late great Lugosi, even though he was in his middle ages by the time he took over the role. How could you deny that magnificent Hungarian accent. I can't wait to purchase the brand new DVD version of this classic!  "},{"Title":"Creepy","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Real estate Agent Mr.Rendfield(Dwight Frye) is on his way to Transylvania to help Count Dracula(Bela Lugosi) move to London.Dracula soon gains control over Mr.Rendfield.Mr.Rendfield protects Dracula on his way to London,Where Dracula thinks ther will be lots of victims.When he gets there,He mets Mina Seward(Helen Chandler).He puts Mina under a kind of spell,And know its up to her boyfriend Johnathan Harker(David Manners) And Dr.Van Helsing(Edward Van Sloan) To keep her from becoming on of the evil undead blood suckers...Dracula is an amazing film.Creepy sets And WONDERFUL Acting from Bela Lugosi and Dwight Frye.Amazing camera work and errie visuals.Cool plot and and good dialoge.It is a little anti-Climatiic.Still a wonderfully Gothic film. "},{"Title":"I bid you velcome.","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the great talking Dracula. It is not an exact filming of the Bram Stoker novel, but rather an adaptation of the popular Dracula stage play. However, potential viewers should not be discouraged, particularly if they have seen other Universal Horror Classics like the Invisible Man and Frankenstein.Bela Lugosi as the title role gives a magnificent performance, often parodied, but rarely equaled. Every movement he makes, every syllable he speaks conveys the character. The supporting cast are also excellent, lead by horror character actor Dwight Frye and stage performer Edward van Sloan.The only unfortunate part of the film is that these wonderful actors received sub-standard direction. The film is great, but with a more skilled horror director, James Whale for example, it could have been even more. See for instance the Spanish version, which has a better director, but a lesser leading man.I highly recommend this movie.  "},{"Title":"great, great movie","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'll tell ya......I have seen most of the Dracula films now, and STILL, this is my favorite. Only Bram Stoker's Dracula was close, and it wasn't all that close! Easily, one of my favorites, along with Frankenstein from the same time. And the Wolf Man a few years later. I mean, just look into Lugosi's stare - it's real. and it's Dracula.Bela Lugosi, Lon Chaney Jr. and Sr, Boris Karloff.....jeez, i'm getting emotional!WATCH THIS MOVIE!Bela Lugosi was THE man for this part. Unbelievable. RIP Bela.  "},{"Title":"better with the Glass score or not?","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have seen both versions, the original and the one with the Philip Glass score throughout, and personally I don't think there is much in it.  The thing that makes this early version of Stoker's classic novel (or the play based on it) is Bela Lugosi's creepy count (who doesn't drink ... wine).  He'd played the part on stage and it stayed with him for the rest of his life, right to the shambling last years when he was reduced to walk-ons in the films of Ed Wood.David Manners is rather a colourless Jonathan, but Dwight Frye is superb as the giggling Renfield (he really did corner the weirdo market in the early 30s, also being memorable in James Whale's 'Frankenstein', also in 1931).Tod Browning had been working in movies for some years by this time and although 'Dracula' is impressive in fits and starts, his best film was to come the following year, the truly bizarre and long-banned 'Freaks', which shocked the sensitive viewers of its time. "},{"Title":"Lugosi's Classic *Possible Spoilers within*","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Dracula tells the story of the famous Count. It doesnt follow the most excellent Stoker Novel,but it follows the play that made Lugosi famous. Though Lugosi was not the first choice for the role of the Count. Lon Chaney Sr was,sadly Poor Lon Sr died of throat cancer,after being acclaimed as The Man of a Thousand Voices,after his first talkie The Unholy Three Enough with my history lesson on with the review. The film starts as a young Real Estate worker named Reinfeld makes his way to the eerie Borgo Pass. He seems nice enough,but once he meets The Count he goes mad,and turns into his slave. Dwight Frye is excellent as Reinfeld,too bad he would be trpecasted as Monster sidekicks for the rest of his screen career. Lugosi was made if not born to play the infamous count. We despise the Count towards the end of the film. Edward Van Sloan is also top notch as Dr. Abraham Van Helsing. Perfect for Lugosi's arch nemesis. The rest of the cast arent memorable but flow with the film. I loved every minute of Dracula. A classic film.4/4 "},{"Title":"The Best Universal Horror Picture Ever","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Before there was ever blood and gore. This film had the cast and crew have ways to make it scary! What makes it scary was the mood and atmoshere. It was a bit like looking at art. The music (by Phillip Glass who did THE TRUMAN SHOW) was great! Van Helshing was the protagonist, and Count Dracula was the antagonist. Here's an unforgettable quoteThe Count Good evening. I'm Dracula.The Count I don't drink wine.This film is referencing the Braum Stroker novel. It got spoofed (DINGBAT AND THE CREEPS, SESAME STREET, DUCKULA), homaged (SON OF THE BEACH DRACULA 2000), and remade (1958, 1979, 1992) just like FRANKENSTEIN went through. Now, I never read the book, by I did see the spoof in DRACULA DEAD AND LOVING IT (1995). Here's some brief history. Dracula was originally called, Vlad Tepes, or Vlad Tempes, something like that. Dracula means Son of Draco (meaning 'dragon') and half devil. Creepy eh? Now here is what I saw, the special effects was OK for its time. The bat was a puppet. And the rats were armadillos. Did they have armadillos in Transelvania? Who knows.I should read the book, sometime. This film is a classic. Now Dracula is making a comeback in May 2004. It's a film with Hugh Jackman called VAN HELSHING. This from the director of the 1999 remake of THE MUMMY, gives the comeback of Dracula, Frankenstein's monster, and The Wolfman. ILM does the special effect here. I can't wait to see that film. But bottom line DRACULA is a classic.  "},{"Title":"More of a Silent film than Nosferatu","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was surprised at all the silence Dracula has. Filmed in 1931, this was done to please the present audience that was use to watching silent pictures. Still, Bela Lugosi steals the show. Every time he is on camera, it is worth watching. For today's audience, Dracula is only appreciated by its die hard fans of horror. Most will take its long and tired some scenes and missing moments of action a drag. No blood and gore, no sex and nudity. Most will appreciate the style of acting and not forget that this was filmed over 70 years ago. Moments of having a plastic bat hanging off a tiny screen is funny, but back in 1931, it was considered true horror. The character of Renfield is just as interesting as Dracula. It remains a classic because of Renfield and Bela Lugosi. Bela's performance has been the gold standard of Dracula for the past 70 years of vampire movies. "},{"Title":"Stylish horror classic.","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Along with Alien this is the most stylish horror movie I have ever seen.This version of Dracula is different from others since this movie is based on a play. There are still some surprises and interesting elements even if you have seen some of the other many Dracula movies that has been made and in many ways this movie is better then all the other Dracula movies. One of the reasons why is the cast. Bela Lugosi with his crazy accent puts quite some passion in his role and Dwight Frye is simply amazing as Renfield. But the rest of the cast is also more than excellent. The acting is different from other movies made at the time, the acting can be described as timeless and even after more than 70 years it is still not outdated.But there are of course many other things that are outdated. Such as especially the special effects of course.An interesting element in this movie was the gentlemen battle between Dracula and Van Helsing. There was really some chemistry in the scene's between those two and there was a real tension without them both fighting each other.There was a really nice moody atmosphere that was very stylish. The great sets and locations contributed to this. But also the cinematography was wonderful and I especially like the way they filmed the character of count Dracula it was done really well!But of course an old movie like this is far from flawless. At times there are some serious pacing problems and it was a bit weird to see Renfield walk around freely in the house most of the time and there are dozens of more tiny things like this that makes the movie far from perfect. Still there are lot of things that compensate this and make this movie a real horror classic and a must see.Still after many years of movie making the best Dracula movie ever made and the movie leaves no question about it that Bela Lugosi is and always will be the one and only Dracula as much as I love Christopher Lee as Dracula...9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Golden Age of Horror","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wow, horror has changed quite a bit in 70 years.  Still, old school horror has a key charm that today's standard's severely lack.  I love the old films for their slow pacing.  Now it's a requirement to have X amount of bodies in X amount of minutes and X amount of false scares and X amount of real scares. . . and it usually amounts to crap.  Old school horror, real old school horror, had class, it had atmosphere, and it had very strong visual style. Does it make you jump?  No.  Does it scare?  Not really.  But it does leave impressions in the mind, which is more than, say, Dracula II Ascension has going for it.Bela Lugosi plays his inescapable role here, one that would define the portrayal of Dracula for decades to follow, and one role he'd play again and again all the way until his final role for director Ed Wood nearly thirty years later.  But there's always something intriguing watching the original performance . . . seeing where all the imitations came from and seeing why all the imitations followed.  Much has already been said about Lugosi and much more has been said in the countless imitations, so I'll not waste my breath repeating it here.Actually, Edward Van Sloan as Van Helsing caught my attention more than anyone else (including Lugosi).  Once again, Van Helsing may be the thick-accented half-mad professor whom we've seen dozens of times in the films, but in 1931 I imagine it wasn't quite the cliché it is now.  Van Sloan and Lugosi have a nice on screen, gentleman's, rivalry; together they bring the central conflict of Stoker's novel to life.And it's interesting because this conflict has a sense of almost Shakesperian stage elegance (granted, it was adapted from the stage play and Lugosi was the big name stage-Dracula at the time), but it's performed on film sets which gives it a strange surreal nature.  Even the little rubber bats bobbing up and down outside the windows add to that surreal charm Dracula possesses.One last note, though, I do find it very interesting how many film critics will bash a newer film for an off-the-wall bit of dialogue regardless of if it fits the character or not.  It's like only classics have the right to stop for apparently no reason, gesture to the outer wall and say, `Listen to them, the children of the night . . . what music they make.'  Oh well, that's not a complaint against Dracula.  Just an observation.  "}{"Title":"What Music They Make","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a masterpiece. A classic horror film. Lugosi is amazing as the Count and the sets are stunning. Yes, some of the acting is over the top and dated, but taken in context, this movie is about as good as it gets. Slow, eerie, sexual, powerful. My favorite moment - as Dracula hears the wolves howling Listen to them, children of the night, what music they make. "},{"Title":"70 years later, Lugosi is still the penultimate Dracula.","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  70 years later, Bela Lugosi is still the penultimate Dracula. Without all of todays special effects, it still works, and imparts the sense and power of the evil count. Bram Stoker would be proud. Still biting after all these years, and worth a look on a gloomy fall night. Of note is Mr. Lugosi's real Hungarian accent, and not a made up stage accent. "},{"Title":"Still The Greatest","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is still one of the greatest horror films of all time.  Bela Lugosi showed why he got rave reviews for his stage run as the Transylvanian count and Edward Van Sloan is perfect as Doctor Van Helsing, the man who won't stop until he destroy's Dracula and frees young Mina from his influence.  However, the main thing that I love about this film is the fact that it doesn't rely on on an over-abundance of gore to get its point across and that everything that Dracula does is more implied and is not graphically shown.  Today's would be horror directors should watch this film and take notice.  This is definitely a perfect horror film. "},{"Title":"Lugosi is still the man!","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I first saw this film as a child and it instantly became one of my favorites.Years later, I am still quite fond of it although I am more aware of its shortcomings. The acting is a bit wooden and the movie is slow when Lugosi isn't on screen. I wonder if this movie would even be discussed today had Bela Lugosi not played the Count. He revolutionized our image of Dracula with his entrancing stare and Hungarian accent. The mood of this movie is really eerie also. Call me old-fashioned, but I still love seeing old castles and plenty of fog in my horror movies. My only other gripe about 'Dracula' is that the film makers should have taken some cues from their Spanish counterparts who made their version simultaneously. There's a lot of great stuff they did that the Lugosi production didn't. Plus, that version was almost a half hour longer. Overall though, 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I love this movie...","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love vampire movies because of how involved you get. Dracula is a suductive, spooky, and devilish little thriller. It's dry at some scenes but good at others. If you don't like the scenes when Dracula tries to bite Mena's throat, then your not a vampire fan. The movie is bloodless but, thats ok because Dracula needs to saver every drop of blood. I love his words too I vant to suck your blood, Come to me, You have strong veins, I am Dracula. Good stuff. My Take 10/10 My MPAA Rating PG for some vampire scariness.  "},{"Title":"Bela's best","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  DRACULA (1931) **** Bela Lugosi, David Manners, Helen Chandler, Dwight Frye, Edward Von Sloan.  Lugosi is the personification of Bram Stoker's vampire count exuding dignified evil and became an icon in horror films.  Eerie set design is perfect as are Frye as the giggling, insect craving Renfield and Van Sloan as Van Helsing, the arch nemesis of the undead.  I bid you... welcome.  Classic chiller. "},{"Title":"Falls apart in the end","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a great movie. The show provided by Renfield is great When they first find him below the deck of the ship, his laughter was really creepy. The expression emoted by the other actors s stupendous and they do an excellent job of getting into their roles. Unfortunately, the end of the movie is ridiculous and just plain bad. Nonetheless, it comes off as a great film. "},{"Title":"Lugosi steals the show!","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bela Lugosi was a great actor. This is his best work. It was the first of Universal's Monster Madness,one of the best. Dwight Fyre is one of the reasons this film is so great. But Lugosi stare into his eyes,and you meet terror,it creeps you out.No wonder at Lugosi's funeral,a little boy didn't want to go up to his casket. He was scared that Dracula would get him. And I can see why. The plot isn't at all like Stoker's novel,probably the worst adaption ever made. But it still gives loads of scares. Lugosi is one of the best vampires to hit the screen. After 73 years you'd think it wouldn't be so bad,but Lugosi still scares me.5/5 "},{"Title":"I am Dracula.  I bid you welcome.","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Tod Browning's Dracula, although a tad dated, is a masterpiece of horror cinema.  Based on Bram Stoker's immortal literary work, Dracula is one of the earliest genre pictures that still holds up today.  It's been referred to as the strangest love story ever told, but that's not why I enjoyed it.  I enjoy it because it made a legend out of one Bela Lugosi.  Bela Lugosi is one of horror's leading men that can never be forgotten.  He is a true horror icon.  Lugosi's Dracula is a suave, lady's man who is probably the most charismatic Count ever to grace the silver screen.  He's a handsome, rich, and powerful figure, everything that a woman could want.  The man's a lady-killer, literally.  There is also a presence about him.  When he is first shown and the camera zooms into him slowly, his eyes are exotic and hypnotising.  He's just intense.  If Lugosi provides the heart of the picture, Tod Browning's near flawless direction and pacing is the brain.  He's a brilliant director and knows how to captivate his audience.  I love his use of shadow.  Bela's face is always hidden, only his eyes are revealed in the light.  It's an extremely creepy effect.  Another unusual aspect of the film is the lack of a soundtrack.  I can't make up my mind about that (I plan to watch the re-released version in which a score was added and compare the two).  Browning has created some standout scenes here as well.  The first scene is when Renfield first arrives at Castle Dracula and walks through the spiderwebs.  Dracula says The spider, spinning his web for the unwary fly.  Renfield has no idea how true this is.  The second occurs when Van Helsing is examining Miss Mina's bite marks.  He is enquiring what caused them and the maid announces Count Dracula when Bela enters the room.  It's timed perfectly and it makes me laugh out loud.  My only quibble with this presentation of Dracula is that all of the action and gruesomeness is offscreen or hidden.  Whenever the Count kills someone, he shrouds them with his cloak.  He is also destroyed offscreen, everything is hidden.  It's the climax of the film and we don't get to see it.  I suppose this reflects the day and age and my own desensitized youth though.  All later presentations of Dracula would date back to Lugosi's legendary performance.  He was so attached to the role that he would be buried in his costume.  At Lugosi's funeral, fellow screen legends Vincent Price and Peter Lorre paid their respects together.  It is rumored that Lorre said to Price upon viewing Lugosi in his Dracula outfit in his coffin Do you think we should drive a stake through his heart just in case? "},{"Title":"First authorized Dracula ...","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...and still one of the best!  But why didn't they lure Max Steiner away from RKO to write some music for it?Music, some fresh foley, and digitally improved bat effects -- now you're talkin'!  Who's up for a restoration with improvements?Lugosi became world famous for this role, and it's easy to see why.  His Count is charismatic, darkly handsome, and has a cool accent (and it's for real!).  He has some memorable lines -- Children of the night!  What music they make! ; I never drink ... wine. -- and some good action sequences -- creeping around the mansion, creeping around the cemetery, creeping around his new London quarters -- making this film a winner, even sixty-plus years after its first release.Not bloody, and not as creepy as Murnau's Nosferatu, this is my second favorite vampire movie. "}{"Title":"Fantastic Interpretation Of The Dracula Legend","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This version of Dracula starring Bela Lugosi is a classic rivaled only by Christopher Lee's interpretation of the wicked Count.Dracula is not simply a bloodsucking fiend in this movie-he has other layers as well particularly when it comes to romance. That was the thing I liked about this movie.Out of all the early horrors Dracula was certainly the most atmospheric and creepy. The whole film is brilliant and the scenes in Dracula's castle are just great.I won't give away any plot spoilers but there are some great scenes in this movie. Dracula is a classic which I would advise any serious horror fan to track down. This version of Dracula along with the Christopher Lee movies is the best. "},{"Title":"A timeless classic.","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I recently watched this film again. The last time I saw it was probably three years ago. So, realizing this, I decided to give it another looksee. And I loved it. Being not the first version of Dracula to be made, this is certainly the most enduring. Many people consider this one superior compared to the many other versions. As do I. This is one of the most original ideas of all time. And so many versions have been made and so many times has it been ruined. But this film is the one to watch. Bram Stroker's tale is handled marvelously. Bela Lugosi does a great job of acting as our lead vampire. And upon learning that he did not speak English during the time of production, made me think of him as an even better actor. This is one of the better films of the Universal Classic Collection. If you like this title, I also suggest seeing FRANKENSTEIN and THE INVISIBLE MAN. But, for now, DRACULA gets 5/5.What music they make. "},{"Title":"Children of the Night...What Music They Make.","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I recently bought this movie and I've seen it 100 times I'm sure. This version I bought, however, has the new Philip Glass music score played by the Kronos quartet. It added quite an eerie and mysterious aura in my opinion. I have some of Glass's music on CD and feel he was quite qualified for this undertaking of an old classic such as Lugosi's Dracula. "},{"Title":"A true classic","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Universal's 1931 production of DRACULA was not the first vampire film, nor even the first Dracula film, but it has become the standard by which all subsequent versions (and there have been many) are judged.DRACULA was directed by Tod Browning, a successful stage director whose theater experience had a great influence on the film.  Watching DRACULA is very much like watching a stage play.  There are no camera zooms or pans. The camera is static.  This gives the viewer (especially the modern viewer, so used to flashy camera work) an uneasy feeling.  It's one of those situations where something just doesn't feel right, but is subtle enough that you can't quite put your finger on it.  Another technique that has a similar result is the use of no musical score.  Other than a brief scene at the opera where the music from the stage can be heard in the background, there is no music.  This is especially effective in creating an eerie, creepy atmosphere.Bela Lugosi is obviously the star of the film, though he was given the role only after first choice Lon Chaney died prior to filming.  Lugosi gives the title character a cruel elegance, lots of style and sophistication. Despite this, his eyes really can project evil.The remainder of the cast is made up of what would become part of Universal's A team for horror films. Edward Van Sloan and Dwight Frye, as Van Helsing and Renfield, respectively, are both excellent, as always. David Manners is his usual, bland self, and Helen Chandler plays a nice damsel in distress.DRACULA is one of the true classics of the horror genre and, despite its age, remains an enjoyable film to watch, over and over again. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A masterful, superbly made, and brilliantly atmospheric vampiremovie, the one which began it all.  Influential and basic, itspawned innumerable sequels, copycats and offshoots, and sentits home studio off on a horror-monster jag that lasted more than25 years. By itself a marvelous film, full of little things and touches you don'tcatch the first time.  Though much of the vital plot activity takesplace offscreen, as it did in the play, there's no denying anightmarish quality to the retelling of the Dracula legend.  WithBrowning at the helm, Lugosi in the driver's seat and BramStoker's work to guide them, they couldn't miss.  And they did not. Mr. Lugosi was a genius in this signature role, but the memorablechar here may be the fly eating lunatic Renfield.  Dwight Frye issplendid thruout, in what may be called a difficult role.  I sawDRACULA at the Fox Redwood Theatre (with FRANKENSTEIN) onMay 15, 1952.  Saw it three more times in theatres, 11x on TV, andthree times on stage.  It's an American treasure, if we can claim it. Those who complain because it's old, are young.  30s movies arevery old, the calendar will tell you that.  Most of 'em are archaic andhard to watch, but a few hold up as if they were made yesterday. Dracula is one of those. Kudos to the guy who ripped Citizen Kane as overrated.  Bingo, butnot so Dracula.  It's a classic.  "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Dracula is a great horror movie that never threatens to deteriorate into camp.  Bela Lugosi gives the superb performance that made him one of the most typecast actors in history and became the model for most vampires to follow, with traits such as the cape and the slick backed hair.  Dwight Frye also gives a career defining performance as the crazed Renfield.  He overacts brilliantly as the stereotypical laughing crazy man and his explanation of his business with Dracula to Van Helsing is one of the great moments in horror.  The movie features very little music which allows Lugosi's intimidating presence and piercing stares to more effectively penetrate the viewer.  Edward Van Sloan makes a decent Van Helsing and his first meeting with Dracula is a high point in the movie.  The opening sequences in Dracula's castle are also highly entertaining and brilliantly methodical with the standard fun, creepy sets.  The black and white also works well with the night scenes, of which there are obviously plenty.  The movie only vaguely follows the book but can't be judged negatively simply because it chooses to follow a different path.  Great, thick horror.7.9/10     "},{"Title":"Simply Superb","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you are in the mood for a horror movie, this is the  one!!!!Bela Lugosi is wonderful as Dracula. Everyone did well. It's just how a Dracula should be. If you want to watch a Dracula tonight, I truly say this is the best idea. MPAA Rating Not Rated, but like PG-13 for terror. 1 hour 10 min.  "},{"Title":"C'est Magnifique!","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There's a certain mystique around the Spanish-language version of `Dracula,' filmed simultaneously with Tod Browning's English-language version.  Legend has it that director George Melford would screen the English dailies and make improvements as they went along.  There are those who say the Spanish version is better, more atmospheric than Browning's static, stagebound film.Well&#133; the Spanish `Dracula' has a lot going for it.  The camerawork is much more mobile and expressive the scene where we first meet Dracula is a prime example.  In the English version, we simply see Dracula walking down his castle's grand staircase to meet Renfield; in the Spanish version, the camera's point of view swoops up the stairs and frames the Count in a dramatic low-angle pose.  I particularly enjoy the way the Spanish version shows Dracula emerging from his coffin the coffin lid raises, a puff of smoke, and Dracula appears out of the gloom, much more atmospheric and innovative than the cutaways used in the English version.The acting is a mixed bag.  Carlos Villarias does his best, but his Dracula pales to Lugosi's (many have said that a `Dracula' directed by Melford and starring Lugosi would have been a wonder to behold, and they might be right).  Lupita Tovar makes a sensual and appealing Eva, contrasting favorably with the bland Helen Chandler in the English version.  Eduardo Arozamena does a credible Van Helsing, but his potato nose and Coke-bottle glasses makes him look like Henry Kissinger, Vampire Hunter.From a stylistic viewpoint, the Spanish `Dracula' does a lot more than Browning's film, and it's certainly worth a viewing.  However, it lacks one vital ingredient that keeps it from eclipsing the English version Bela Lugosi as Dracula.  "},{"Title":"Good for it's time","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was the first major movie of it's type and firmly established Bela Lugosi in Hollywood. However, while doing this, it also typecast Lugosi in a role he would never be able to shake off. Really surprising to think that while one's mind instantly jumps to Dracula when one thinks of Bela Lugosi, he only played the role on screen twice, and the second time was twenty years later opposite Abbot and Costello.The first fifteen minutes of this film must rank among the most atmospheric piece of film making ever created. However, the rest of the film is more talky than scary. Lugosi is very effective as is Edward Van Sloane although the movie as a whole really does not stand up to the test of time.On the whole though the film is worth watching, and the first fifteen minutes more than makes up for any negative aspects. "},{"Title":"worth watching, but ridiculously overrated","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i guess i just don't see eye to eye with most horror fans when it comes to tod browning's 1931 version of Dracula with Bela Lugosi as the title character. The whole thing looks hokey and fake, the acting isn't all that hot, and after the movie ends you're just sitting there saying to yourself oookkaayyy...where does the classic part come in? it is worth watching for certain scenes, (such as when renfield is first discovered, a few genuinely eerie lugosi stares), but on the whole i would class this with citizen kane as one of the most overestimated movies in the history of film. this may have been hot stuff in 1931, but i suspect that most people who claim to adore it may just be striking a pose and the ones who mean it are really, really old. "}{"Title":"Great horror classic","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bela Lugosi as Count Dracula really makes this movie tick.The story is not told to the best of it's ability.The combination of Lugosi as Dracula and Dwight Frye as Renfield is timeless.All in all it's definitely a 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the classics of all time","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is one of the all time classics and is one of my favorites as well.  Although Bela Lugosi is quite rightly the focus of the film, for me the best performance has got to be Dwight Frye as Renfield, probably the creepiest character in all of horror and certainly the creepiest in this film.  In the novel, he's even stranger!  Brrrr!  Definitely a must-see.  Recommended. "},{"Title":"Okay camp","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of those clunky old relics that doesn't hold up too well, altho Bela is a nice choice for the lead. Too bad this role type cast him forever. Not really scary or deep, but the atmosphere is well done and that mountainous staircase the Count walks up and down is a masterpiece of set design.Francis Ford Coppola's version of Dracula or Werner Herzog's Nosferatu are better examples of tragic Vampire folklore. This one is just full of cobwebs. "},{"Title":"if you didn't understand the ending...","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...of this movie, watch the Spanish-language version! It was also made by Universal in 1931, on the same sets, but with a different cast. The censors must not have paid much attention to it, so we finally find out what Renfield did with the fainting nurse, how Miss Lucy was stopped, and why Van Helsing stayed in Dracula's basement after the hero & heroine left.(Drácula, dir. by George Melford--through an interpreter! More info on the database.)  "},{"Title":"a Dinner with Drac was served....","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I finally saw this for the first time last night. I think I did catch it some 15 years ago, but that is a long time, and not all the way.Had heard it was slow, trend setting, creaky, stage-bound. Yeah it is all that, BUT....it is also atmospheric, decently acted-especially by Helsing and Legosi, and deserves to be considered the classic it is.Legosi is great, no wonder the guy could never get away from the Drack stereotype-he was simply that good. I liked whomever it was that played Mina. She was quite striking in her looks and I thought carried the role well. They guy playing her fiance was terrible, but then he was another stage stiff who didn't belong in front of the camera.Loved Renfield, though it honestly took me awhile to figger out it was the same Soddish guy who had gone up to the Drac Castle in the stagecoach. Quite a change in persona, eh? The whole 'Master/Slave' thing there made me wince, ala bad visions of the Village people showing up-but ya hadda love the bug eating stuff.Rubber bats on strings, a stake pounding, some eerie 'off camera' sightings of wolves, Drac nails 4 or so gals on the way through the film-seems to me that this had it all. And ya have to admit, the ghoulish Trio harem of his was kinda risque for 1931 too.So what do I give it? The fiddler-gone-kookoo score was OK but irritating at times, the slow parts dragged-yet I was never once put off or bored.I give it *** bites outta ****, Drac is at the heart of it, and it is definitely worth yer time.  "},{"Title":"A Trend Setter That Is Not Very Good","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  No doubt that Dracula started it all. The first real, talking horror film that launched a genre and started a trend no one could imagine at the time. But truth be known, this is not a very good film. Bela does an ok job and utters some great cinematic lines, but the movie is without a doubt extremely slow moving and very wooden. After a promising and atmospheric start, the second half comes to an almost complete stop. The sets are impressive but the one, standing, non-moving camera work gives one the feel that a stage play is being filmed thus reducing the pace to almost zero. Dwight Frye's Renfield is a joy to behold but the cop-out ending when Dracula is staked OFF-SCREEN really puts the capper on a hard to digest viewing experience. I will give Tod Browning and Dracula kudos for launching Universal's horror factory but purely as a film, this one falls well below par. Universals next pic Frankenstein became a much deserved bigger hit then Dracula and as a matter of fact Universals follow up to Drac, Dracula's Daughter was a much better film then Lugosi's. "},{"Title":"Lugosi is brilliant, but...","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Lugosi is brilliant as Count Dracula.  He was perfectly cast in this part. In retrospect, one wonders why there was ever any hesitation about his selection for the role.  Unfortunately, just about everything else in the film is mishandled.  I don't know whether this was the fault of the director, the editor, or the producers who perhaps thought that English-speaking audiences were too delicate to be fully exposed to the horror implied in the screenplay.  In any case, this film only becomes alive (or should I say undead) when Lugosi is on the screen. "},{"Title":"Massively overrated and dull as anything","Date":"15 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first official screen adaptation of Bram Stoker's decent novel is the equal of Nosferatu in every respect &#x96; like that film it's hammy, boring, dated, sluggishly paced and has an over-rated central performance. For a film that's constantly praised for its visuals, Tod Browning's direction does nothing to open it out from the stage play on which it's partly based, preferring instead to bore us with a series of agonisingly static scenes in which characters stand about in rooms doing nothing.This movie may have given cinema an iconic character in its visualisation of Count Dracula &#x96; every kid ever to do a vampire impression has used Bela Lugosi's accent &#x96; and the film is undeniably influential, but, like Boris Karloff's creature in the same year's similarly over-rated Frankenstein, Lugosi has very little to do besides stand still and stare a lot while someone shines a torch in his eyes. Like Karloff, he's given better performances in better (and worse) films than this, and here he's pretty unremarkable.He sure does better than the rest of the cast though. Edward Van Sloan as Van Helsing has the unenviable task of slogging through lumps of dialogue about the vampire mythos and Dracula in particular, convincing the other characters with very little effort that Dracula can transform himself into a bat and a wolf. Helen Chandler and David Manners, as the lovers whose romance is rudely interrupted when Dracula bites her on the neck, are as bland as you like and fail to make you care about them. Everyone else is either the cockney comic relief so beloved of '30s horror or overact so chronically that it makes you wonder how this was ever considered scary.There's one good bit, which is where a couple of characters are musing about who could be responsible for the neck-bite deaths and the next words we hear are Count Dracula as the maid shows him in. Aside from that and what charm Lugosi can muster up in his one-dimensional role, there's not much to it. I've never been a huge fan of this story but surely there are better versions out there than this one; with the stolid cast, the bats on strings and castle Dracula done up like a students' Halloween party, nothing here has survived the transition from 1931 intact. It's more like a musty old book that you find in the attic and smells like your gran. "},{"Title":"Draculaz boring....","Date":"20 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Boring and confusing to watch like many other films of its era. Dracula is considered to be a classic in the horror movie genre but it is not a good film. I understand it is dated now a days and it was a major influence in film history at the time. Frankenstein has aged a lot better. The camera angles and the dialog are awkward and underproduced even for a 1930's movie. Additionally, most scenes tend to drag along becoming very uninteresting. Don't expect to be able to follow the plot easily unless you have read the novel. This film may have been terrifying to audiences when it was originally released, but today it lacks enough suspense or action to startle a toddler. Bela Lugosi get so much praise for his role as count Dracula but I think his performance sucks the whole way through and found it hard to stay awake. I would recommend this movie to someone interested in seeing the roots of vampire/horror movies but this is definitely not a film for everyone and its not to entertaining at all. "},{"Title":"Horror","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have never been a fan of horror films, scary or not, but i really didn't enjoy Dracula. I think that the acting was very over done most likely due to the recent switch to the sound films from the silent. I felt that it was somewhat unrealistic in that aspect. Although the story line was pretty good, the props that were used really took away from what the movie could be. Had they used real bats for example instead of the fake ones, I think the movie would have felt more realistic and probably at the time much scarier. Now a days you can't have a horror movie with out gruesome deaths and beyond creepy killers so I guess that this movie was very far from what I am accustomed to. "}{"Title":"Dracula","Date":"3 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have to begin by saying that i was very disappointed with this movie, as a huge fan of horror; vampires especially i couldn't believe how hard it was for me to stick to watching this film. I felt like the story moved so fast you got a simple understanding of the plot and no relationship with the characters, and for me, when you can connect to the characters in a movie it is so much more likable. i suppose for its time it isn't so bad but i was greatly disappointed. My favorite parts were when Dracula is using his mind powers on his victims and his eyes become the brightest thing in the scene, it made me smile to see this power rendered this way. "},{"Title":"Classic horror film, based on a classic book and lead by a classic career-best performance","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It is fitting that the first American horror film to feature spoken word was based on what is possibly the most famous, and most important horror novel of all time; Bram Stoker's Dracula! The story, of course, is great; and when combined with Tod Browning's directorial vision, and a career best performance from the great Bela Lugosi, it's hardly surprising that the 1931 version of Dracula is the most enduring version of the classic tale of all time. This is the film that, along with James Whale's Frankenstein of the same year, ensured that Universal studios would always be remembered as one of the major forces in horror cinema, and deservedly so. The classic story starts off with a man named Renfield travelling to Transylvania to finalise the sale of Carfax Abbey to the mysterious Count Dracula. It's not long before Renfield is going insane and looking after Dracula on his sea journey to England. In England, Dracula becomes obsessed with the beautiful Mina, and after sucking her blood, her father calls in the scientist Van Helsing, who discovers the cause of Mina's problem...Even though he only played the role once on screen (not including a role in the comedy Abbot and Costello Meet Frankenstein), Bela Lugosi managed to get his name forever associated with the character. His Eastern European accent and melodramatic persona ensure that nobody has ever delivered a more memorable performance as the great vampire, and many believe that there has never been a better Dracula than Bela Lugosi (although I've got to admit that I prefer watching Christopher Lee in the role). Tod Browning's direction is assured and perhaps the most striking thing about it is the lack of a score. Browning's lack of music ensures that the film has a slow pace, but this also makes it very eerie; with the only sounds present being the actor's voices and the creatures of the night. When combined with the thick Gothic atmosphere, we have an environment that is perfect for this sort of Gothic horror story. The story of Dracula is incredibly famous, and I wager that there's barely anyone on the planet who doesn't at least know the basics of it. This does harm the film a little, because it means that you always know what's going to happen - but it's a small criticism of an absolute classic horror film. There are some films every horror fan must see, and this is one of them. "},{"Title":"Another great adaptation of Dracula","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula (1931)directed by Tod Browningstarring Bela Lugosi, Helen Chandler, David Manners, and Edward Van Sloanplot Count Dracula (Bela Lugosi) travels to London to prey on a real estate agent's (David Manners) beautiful wife, Mina (Helen Chandler). The only one who can stop the vampire is Prof. Van Helsing (Edward Van Sloan).thoughts In my opinion, this is not the best Dracula adaptation. To me, NOSFERATU (1922) and Francis Ford Coppola's 1992 version were a lot better. But this still holds up as one of the greatest horror classics of all time.The one thing this adaptation holds above the rest is the amazing performance of Bela Lugosi as the Count. He was charming, creepy and even a bit sexy (and I'm a guy). I also loved Edward Van Sloan, who was great as Van Helsing.Two more things that made this a classic were the creepy and atmospheric directing with Tod Browning behind the camera, and also the creepy score. I'll also give a special mention to the version with Phillip Glass' beautiful score, although it sometimes distracts you from the dialog. "},{"Title":"Goood Evvenning.  I'm...Drracoola.","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hey, it's still the best of the lot. Lugosi who was Hungarian, hailed from Lugos which is a Hungarian enclave in, yep, Transylvania. Much ink has washed over the Dracula myth, much of it pure crap. But, Lugosi, always a great actor, brought the suave, urbane character to the Count, which was a radical departure from Stoker's book. The seemingly hokey lines and over-dramatized presentation in the film reflects the stylized performance Lugosi brought to the film from his stage role. Now, the opera cape, the tux and evil leer are part and parcel of the Dracula image which has become indelibly stamped in everyone's mind. Lugosi's accent, so prominent in this film, was so pronounced as he was only partially conversant in English at the time. There's no question that this film has legs. It still has the creepy Gothic effect on me and I've watched it dozens of times, since my first viewing of it as a kid in the early 40s. Hey, it was old then! Dwight Frye and Helen Chandler went on to other roles but Lugosi put his name in the history book of cinema with this film. "},{"Title":"A flawed classic","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ** Spoilers ahead! **Watching Dracula today leaves you feeling a little frustrated - you get the feeling it could have been so much better.As it is, its dated rather badly, let down by mainly by some very sloppy direction and editing.Things start off very well. Tchaikovsky's Swan Lake works very well as a haunting opening theme and the initial scenes in Transylvania as Renfield goes to pay Dracula a visit evoke an air of real impending menace. The sets for Dracula's castle are still superb, and with Bela Lugosi starring as a very effective vampire Count then you can't help but wonder why the director couldn't make these scenes work more effectively - instead they are a little pedestrian. There's still that awkward feeling though - there in this ruined castle high in the mountains, full of cobwebs, lives Count Dracula who is dressed like he's about to go out to the opera. This mode of dress is fine when he's mixing with the rich socialites in England, but here?The scenes on the ship as it sails in treacherous waters to England are brief in this version of the film and nowhere near as effective or creepy as they were in the earlier Nosferatu, although this part of the film does give us the first glimpse of Renfield's descent into madness - Dwight Frye's laugh is truly scary.As the action shifts into Dr Seward's Sanitorium the whole thing becomes much more stagey - long scenes of dialogue with almost static direction and a total lack of incidental music. The lack of music is made even more noticeable by the audible hiss and crackles on the soundtrack. Thankfully Edward Van Sloan gives a strong performance as Professor Van Helsing and makes these scenes more interesting than they might have been without him and his interplays with Lugosi are highlights in this middle section of the film. But it seems as though the director was conscious of working within a budget as many of the most interesting moments happen off-screen, such as Dracula turning into a wolf (wolves are frequently heard in this film but never once seen on screen). Curiously even simple actions, such as Dracula getting into or out of his coffin are avoided - perhaps they could only afford one cape and didn't want to tear it?The climax of the film is more of an anti-climax - considering Van Helsing has already spoken of killing Dracula by driving a stake through his heart, when he comes to do it there is surprisingly little resistance he simply breaks into the abbey where Dracula is hiding out, opens the coffin and does the deed. There's virtually no suspense in it whatsoever.Lugosi, Van Sloan and Frye aside, the acting is at best average and we have to suffer some stereotyped cockney accents. But one of the film's saving graces is the dialogue - there are many memorable lines, some of which have rightly gone down in film legend.So Dracula is okay, but you can't help but wish someone like James Whale had directed this film, given the fine job he did with that year's best horror film, Frankenstein. "},{"Title":"Pitiful film - Really great vampire eyes!!!!!","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I laughed through much of the film, due to some serious actors who showed how much they had missed their true calling in comedy.  Take for example the character Renfield, who was soooooooooo funny I actually blew rootbeer through my nose on one scene.  It is hard to believe he (Dwight Frye) might have taken himself seriously in that film.  I'm not knocking 30's genre movies, but come on, to give it an average 7.5 is a really big joke.  Bela Lugosi is the greatest Dracula ever, with piercing eyes that can chill your blood and make your heart seize, but you don't say Hear, hear, bravo, great movie!!! for that alone.  Some of the lesser supporting parts were fairly well acted, but the main characters were terrible.  I guess it was difficult making the transition from silents to talkies.  Watch this 1931 release movie if but for curiosity alone.   "},{"Title":"Bela Lugosi...do I need to say more ?","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Normally, I'm not a big fan of vampire movies. In the great genre that is horror, I think vampires are the least interesting characters. But of course there are exceptions. Like the very original vampires in Near Dark and Fright Night and the Dracula legend !! I liked Gary Oldman in the role of the bloodsucking count. I loved Christopher Lee and I WORSHIP Bela Lugosi in the part. Bela Lugosi doesn't play Count Dracula...he is count Dracula. I've never seen a person so appropriate to play a character. His eyes...his body language. Those elements make the entire movie. A legend was born in 1931 with this film. It'll be told many times but never again shall it be so magical with the use of so less material. In fact, there are no effects or make-up ( except the face of Bela ) and this is one of the only movies that doesn't need that. The things that are suggested are frightening enough. It must have been a great thrill to see this movie when it came out back in 1931. I would have loved to be there. I surely wanted to live the feeling of fear when Bela looked you straight in the eyes from the big screen. The story is known by everybody. Count Dracula buys Carfax Abbey and together with Renfield ( who was made to his slave ) he travels to England. He meets Mina, the daughter of the owner of the mental institution which lays next to Carfax Abbey. Dracula is intrigued by her and tries to make her his bride for eternity. Mina's beloved Jonathan Harker fights back and also the very bright Dr. Van Helsing who seems to know a lot about vampires. He's the only one who can beat Dracula but the time to do so is limited since Mina is already under the influence of Count Dracula. This movie is part of the great Universal monster classics. Brought out in the same year as Frankenstein (starring Boris Karloff) this film made a little less impact on me, but still it's an undeniable masterpiece. The atmosphere hanging around it never saw an equal. I didn't knew anything the further life of Bela Lugosi until I saw Tim Burton's film Ed Wood. Bela sure did deserve a more respectful ending to his career. Oh, well...he shall always be immortal for his role here as the father of all vampires. "},{"Title":"This is a classic Dracula film!","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bela Lugosi is great as Dracula! His castle is very scary and so dusty with bats,rats,and spiders! There are some other films Bela plays Dracula and Dracula-type characters but this is to ME he best one of all. If you like all the current dracula films and other Universal Monsters classics and have not seen this yet then see it soon and make sure the sun is down when you do! "},{"Title":"A Classic?","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have tried to like this film....tried very hard but I can't convince myself that this is a classic.  I realize that it is the vampire film that is most often used as the measure against all others but I can't figure out why. The acting is simply atrocious....Lugosi's mannered and wooden delivery, which seemed to be his stock in trade, is laughable.  The supporting players run the gamut from looking dazed to going over the top. There are huge gaps where there is no dialogue and everybody looks at each other as if waiting for somebody to say something.  The overuse of Swan Lake is irritating.  And what about the armadillos!!!...a little out of place in a middle European castle. Granted, there are some classic lines, such as Children of the night, what music THEY make (the Lugosi inflection)....and some good scenes such as Renfield at the bottom of the steps when the hold of the ship is opened and he is stark, raving mad. I love old films and expect to see somewhat mannered acting but this is beyond me. Besides, they changed the story line of Bram Stoker's book....why? Sorry to all those fans of this movie but here's one movie buff that can't agree on the classic status of Dracula. "},{"Title":"There are far worse things awaiting man than death.","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Yeah, and this film is one of them. Is this really the original vampire classic, the one against which all others are judged? Well I guess it must have been good at the time.WARNING REVIEW CONTAINS MAJOR SPOILERSIn fairness the version I got to see was one where a music score by Philip Glass was added. The modern strings jar badly with the creaky old picture, subconsciously distancing you from the action. In fact, they go together like Keanu Reeves and a decent acting performance.Continuing the Universal tradition of an abrupt set-up, meandering middle and uncertain end, the opening rushes through a plethora of folktales and crucifixes. Maybe it was subtle at the time, but poor old Renfield (Dwight Frye) can't walk an inch without someone telling him the owners of the Count's castle are vampires. Much of this is due to its age, a factor for which it cannot be criticised. So I won't mention the obvious studio backdrops for exterior locations, the rubbish shaking carriages and pathetic bats on string. There, that's that settled then.The direction is staid and rigidly blocked, and it's generally acknowledged that the simultaneously recorded Spanish version is technically far superior. However, the saving grace of this picture is said to be Bela Lugosi in the titular role. With a performance clearly indebted to the silent era (we even get an on-screen caption seventeen minutes in) Lugosi creeps about like Max Schreck, possessing all the insidious menace of Julian Clary. Anyway, turns out old Drac can't go anywhere without someone shining a spotlight in his eyes, a fact which drives him to drink the blood of all and sundry. (Though to the film's credit, the only blood you see is a cut thumb, the rest is all implied). Look out for the scene where he glares balefully at Lucy in the royal box - doesn't he look like he's suffering from constipation? Dracula is eventually defeated by a stake through the heart. Steak? I would've thought ham was more appropriate...It's the sort of thing that could have been superb under the reins of James Whale, his direction moulding it into the camp classic it cries out to be. As it is, it seems to be one long exercise in melodrama, with Charles Gerrard chucking in a cod Cockney to Frye's wild-eyed vamp victim.There are some brilliant moments though. Like when Lugosi (Despite the campness, superbly charming) is seen, or rather not seen, through a mirror. And while not standing up with the best of the studio's output, its iconography puts it well above the usual conveyor belt fare. Ending sees Van Helsing (Edward Van Sloan) staying behind in the crypt with a (Aren't you coming?) Not yet. Presently. Why does he stay behind? What does he have to do that the others cannot see? It's not implied or resolved, causing the conclusion to feel less like an ending, more the film grinding to a premature halt. 6/10. "}{"Title":"Not up to Nosferatu, but still worthwhile.","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I think that Nosferatu is the best vampire film ever made, but this movie is still pretty good. Bela Lugosi is A+, top-notch in the title role, he only pales beside Max Schreck. As for the film itself, I can't say that I was scared, but then, I don't find these old Universal horrors scary. While not as good as the Spanish version, still worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Underwhelming","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After reading the book, I must say that I am quite underwhelmed by this film.  The acting all around is some of the most wooden I have ever seen - the characters were utterly without any interest whatsoever.  The storyline was simplified and distilled down to the point of being Dracula for Dummies.  The sets were very nice, and Bela Lugosi and the special effects for the movie were fun in a campy sort of way.  However, the movie on the whole was just boring.  It didn't have any of the intensity of the book.  The 1992 version of Dracula is much better, although it has its own problems.  If you want a good horror movie from the 30's, I would recommend The Old Dark House instead, which is great fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Classic Horror Movie Sorely Disappoints","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I knew Universal Studios excelled at low-budget horror in the 1930s, but I didn't realize just how low budget this movie would be.Tod Browning's Dracula looks and moves like an Ed Wood movie; you can practically see the crewmen hiding just outside of the frame, holding the strings of the fake bats that come flapping up and down and blowing fake fog on to the screen with a fan. This movie only has one or two creepy scenes; I was sorely disappointed with the rest. Bela Lugosi is effective as the famous Count, but everyone else is terrible, the pacing is sluggish, and the movie just ends, as if the director ran out of film. Did Monty Python direct this? I expected much more from Tod Browning, who did such compelling work, and on no bigger a budget, with Freaks a year later.Grade C "},{"Title":"Bloodless","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The central problem with this is not that it isn't creepy (sure, I suppose it is), or that Lugosi doesn't play the lead well (he does). The problem is how this utterly fails as a visual story...Not to be too cute with the metaphors, but instead of coming to cinematic life, this staggers about in an undead state. Not even Lugosi's uninterrupted passage through the spider webs shows much visual imagination. There were plenty of film techniques available at the time that could have broken this free from the bonds of the written word.Of all the vampire movies ever made, I would have to say the most clever one is The Lost Boys. It's effective at the visual game it plays with the viewer, at how it toys with our preconceived notions and how it manages to be both dark and tongue-in-cheek. Browning's treatment is not even close to what we would call 'entertainment' today. Not all classics matter. "},{"Title":"Memorable, but not great.","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have not seen this version in a few decades. Bela Lugosi may be the most famous Dracula, but I still would not suggest this version to most people that I know. My main complaint is the dialogues. In every conversation there was a consistent overly long silence between lines. Sometimes characters would begin talking to each other without first looking at each other.SPOILER --- Dr. Van Helsink's last line is,I have to do something. We not see him nor hear of him after that. Ordinarily, that would bother anyone, until you realize that there is a sequel. "},{"Title":"Badly Dated","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Despite Bela Lugosi's iconic visage and the film's classic status, Tod Browning's 1931 version of Dracula ranks as one of my least favorite cinematic versions of Bram Stoker's vampire tale.  The camerawork is far too static, and key elements of the action (Dracula's vampiric attacks, shape-shifting abilities, etc.) occur offscreen, betraying the screenplay's stage origins (the old Balderstone-Dean play).  Also, Lugosi's performance, which was probably very effective in a theater setting, is far too obvious and theatrical for my (or perhaps modern) tastes.The film also suffers in comparison with the other Universal horror films, especially James Whales marvelous Frankenstein movies (Frankenstein and The Bride of Frankenstein).  Those films have plenty of strong visual images (as opposed to special effects), good pacing, plus a dash of black humor that allow them to bridge the gap with today's more sophisticated filmgoers.Though far off the mark in terms of being a faithfal adaptation of the novel, I find the Hammer film Dracula/Horror of Dracula to be a much more memorable depiction of the Translyvanian bloodsucker. "},{"Title":"famed vampire villian talks like he has a mouthful of manure.","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  DRACULA is a great film...forget the fact that BELA LUGOSI talks with a euro trash accent and sounds like he has a mouthful of manure, this film is a classic. In fact, i prefer this version to any other version. Today's horror films are not scary, they just go for cheap gross outs. This film actually is creepy!!! This is done by use of light and shadow and Lugosi's acting ability. The style of filming used in this film would never fly today...however, for the day in which this film was made, it was ahead of it's time. "},{"Title":"Dracula","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Based on the story by Bram Stoker, this is probably the most well known of all the film adaptations, from director Tod Browning. Basically Renfield (Dwight Frye) is summoned to the castle of vampire Count Dracula (Bela Lugosi) to finalise the purchase of Carfax Abbey in London, and after which he is turned into an obedient servant. Dracula, in his coffin, travels the sea to London to suck the blood of female victims, including young Lucy Weston (Frances Dade). He then turns his attentions to her friend Mina (Helen Chandler), engaged to John Harker (David Manners) and daughter of Dr. Jack Seward (Herbert Bunston). It is when Mina's health is deteriorating that Seward calls specialist Prof. Abraham Van Helsing (Edward Van Sloan), who realises Dracula is a vampire, and he takes Jonathan and Seward through measures of dealing with vampires to prevent Mina becoming one of the undead. Lugosi with his strong Hungarian accent is perfect in his debut role as the Count, and being essentially the first sound horror film, it is still considered one of the great classics of cinema. Count Dracula was number 33 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, the film was number 83 on 100 Years, 100 Quotes (Listen to them. Children of the night. What music they make.), it was it was number 90 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments, and it was number 85 on 100 Years, 100 Thrills. Very good! "},{"Title":"Actually even worse than the book","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" At first I'd like to say that I have read the book by Stoker. It was one of the worst books I can remember of. It was unbelievably naive, too long and the story was really inconsistent. I hoped that the movie would do better and I was looking forward to its creepy atmosphere.I was really disappointed. The film was a bad abstract from the bad novel. Some very important persons were just left out, another were swapped. The story was told so quickly that the film was even more inconsistent than the book. Some scenes were made useless because they were told so quickly that it was impossible to understand what they were about, unless you didn't read the book.And what I found really rude was, that we didn't see Dracula biting into anybody's neck, we didn't see even those two little holes in the victims' necks, we didn't see him getting out of his coffin, Lucy died just by the way (you don't even realize she dies, actually you don't even realize she was ever there) and so on and so on. This film totally failed in telling the story. Unfortunately, the atmosphere was not worth remembering either.Compared to Frankenstein, which was made in the same year, Dracula is a good amateur video. "},{"Title":"Have to agree with most of you  An important snoozer","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hmmm... what can be said that hasn't already been said at this site?  What have we already established?  NOSFERATU and DRACULA (Spanish Version) are superior.  Bela Lugosi, Dwight Frye and Edward Van Sloan are priceless. First half is classic, essential viewing.  Second half is duller than dirt. Phillip Glass  Beautifully moody at first listen, painfully repetitive on closer inspection.  Biggest (unintentional) laughs  The rubber-bat-on-a-string and David Manners.I suppose there's just as much to like in DRACULA as dislike.  If you're an avid historian of film or a fan of horror/monster movies, you without-a-doubt have to see this film at least once.  If you consider yourself only an average movie-buff, it won't kill you to miss this one.By the way... my personal favorite line/delivery in DRACULA?  Dwight Frye as Renfield  Dracula?  Dracula?!  I've never even HEARD the name!  Cracks me up every time. "}{"Title":"I`m sure that it was scary then.","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Many peole regard this as the definitive adaptation of Bram Stoker`s classic vampire novel. However, as with most adaptions, the original story has been butchered, and the remains moulded into a surprisingly weak script. Lugosi is fine as the seductive, menacing count. However, we see some shocking overacting from Dwight Frye as Renfield (before and after he goes mad). But perhaps I am examining this from the wrong viewpoint In 1931, this film had people turning green and marching briskly out of the cinema. It now seems theatrical and dated. Despite Frye`s performance, the first quarter of the movie is great, with impressive, atmospheric sets of Dracula`s castle. The cobwebby, crumbling rooms were brilliantly constructed. However, when the count arrives in London, things slow down considerably.  This movie is worth seeing, but don`t expect anything great It`s highly overrated. Overall, 6/10  "},{"Title":"Extremely Overrated","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For some reason, this film is considered a classic. This was adapted from a stage play and it shows. It is very slow moving with most of the sets so dark that the viewer has a difficult time making out the players and scenery. I loved Bela Lugosi in most of his subsequent roles, including those as a Dracula clone, but each time I sit down and try to watch this film I find that it simply cannot hold my attention and I am forced to give up and do something else. Gunner "},{"Title":"Horror Movie","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"8 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was so bad, not only did my girlfriend almost fall asleep, but I could not stop yawning. I thought it was a 3 hour movie, it was only about 1 hour ! The acting is very bad. The sound is very bad. There is no action. There is no good scenery. The actors talk so slow, that I think it was intended for people with either bad hearing or the mildly retarded. Even the newspaper clip was held on screen for a few minutes, did people read slower back in 1931 ? There are only about 9 people in the cast, and they forget about Lucy. I guess in 1931 they couldn't count too well either. Then there's the scene on the ship which is rocking wildly in a storm, and Dracula is standing perfectly still looking at the crew. Ooops, I guess they thought the audience wouldn't catch it. I could go on, but whats the use. This movie is so bad, I now appreciate the crap that is in the theaters today. "}]