[{"Title":"Simply sublime.","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"43 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This is a magnificent picture, photographed sublimely by Charles Lang (who deservedly won an Oscar).  Cooper and Hayes are brilliant as the World War One lovers - and the ending will bring you to tears.  How wonderful to see Coop so vulnerable and so in love, and Hayes just shines from the screen like a diamond.This film is very under-rated.  The camerawork is ground-breaking and original - look for the shot when Hayes kisses Cooper as he is wheeled into his hospital room.  Amazing.  I really love this film. "},{"Title":"All's Fair in Love and War","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"33 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" A FAREWELL TO ARMS (Paramount, 1932), directed by Frank Borzage, is the first, so far, of three screen adaptations to Ernest Hemingway's classic 1930 novel. It is a tender love story set against the background of the Great War (World War I) involving two young people, Frederic Henry (Gary Cooper), an American lieutenant and ambulance driver in the Italian unit, and Catherine Barkley (Helen Hayes), a war nurse, who are kept apart by Major Rinaldi (Adolphe Menjou), Frederic's Italian friend, who not only loves Catherine, but doesn't want him to lose his head over a woman.In the supporting cast are Mary Phillips (Helen Ferguson, a nurse and Catherine closest friend who objects to her continued romance with the young American); Jack LaRue (the soft-spoken Italian priest); and Blanche Frederici (the stern head nurse). Adolphe Menjou offers fine characterization of an Italian, convincing, right down to his spoken dialect.A highly popular war drama in its day, which concentrates more on the relationship between a lieutenant and a nurse than soldiers on the battlefield, A FAREWELL TO ARMS earned itself an Academy Award nomination for Best Picture of 1932-33, but none for its acting. Director Borzage brings out the tenderness and simplicity of the young couple in love as he had done many times during his career, especially those starring Janet Gaynor and Charles Farrell over at Fox Studios. In fact, had Hemingway sold his novel to Fox, A FAREWELL TO ARMS would definitely have been awarded to the popular Gaynor and Farrell team under Borzage's direction. Yet similarities between Gaynor and Farrell and Hayes and Cooper go by the way of their sizes. Both Gaynor and Hayes were short in appearance while Cooper and Farrell stood very tall, especially opposite their shorter leading ladies. Because of the sensitivity and care as enacted by the central characters, it goes without saying that Hayes and Cooper appear to be far better suited than Gaynor and Farrell had they been offered this assignment. At first glance, Cooper gives the impression of being an odd choice for playing Fredric Henry, considering solid actors as Fredric March or Clark Gable (on loan from MGM) might have made a go of this. For the finished product, the film conveys Cooper to be properly cast after all, ranking this as one of his most finer performances of his career. The pace to the story is occasionally slow, with the early portions lacking in underscoring, but does get better during its second half. Other than the character study and battle scenes, the movie offers some fine bonuses in ways of effective camera technique, including the hospital scene where the injured Frederic Henry is being wheeled in the hospital from a platform table where the camera assumes the place of the character, taking focus as to what directly looking down and talking into the camera range as Frederic answers the questions. This is concluded with an extreme close up of Catherine's face with only her right eye in full focus into the camera as she kisses and talks to her wounded soldier. The camera taking the place of the character technique would be used memorably more than a decade later in the film noir mysteries, LADY IN THE LAKE (MGM, 1946) and DARK PASSAGE (WB, 1947). While these films have used this method to an extent to most of the story, A FAREWELL TO ARMS presents this technique briefly but effectively.Remade twice during the 1950s, first as FORCE OF ARMS (Warner Brothers, 1950) starring William Holden and Nancy Olson, and later under its original title in 1957 for 20th Century-Fox starring Jennifer Jones and Rock Hudson, the third, being the better known of the earlier two, might have surpassed the original had it not been so awkward, overlong (two and-a-half hours) and overblown. The original 1932 production, eliminating many key elements from the novel, is better acted and not long enough to cause any viewer lose interest. Because of the remakes in the 1950s, the 1932 original was taken out of circulation, with availability for viewing the original very hard to obtain, and chances of it never to be seen or heard about again. Fortunately, prints did survive, leaving chances of A FAREWELL TO ARMS to surface again. Finally, as early as 1981, the initial version to A FAREWELL TO ARMS made its long awaited rebirth, on public television, initially as part of its weekly SPROCKETS series. Ever since then, television and later public domain video prints presented the original Hemingway drama 10 minutes shorter to its original 90 minutes of screen time, along with occasional poor picture quality, and even worse, the elimination of the original opening and closing credits taken from reissue prints with newer opening title cards and the substitution of the Paramount logo with that of a 1950s Warner Brothers shield, and the elimination of the closing casting credits. When A FAREWELL TO ARMS premiered on Turner Classic Movies on Sunday, February 15, 2004, as part of the cable channel's annual 31 days of Oscar, it became another long-awaited event. Aside from having it shown in its original 90 minute presentation, the Paramount logo that opens and closes the movie has been restored along with the closing cast list, as originally played in theaters back in 1932. Has A FAREWELL TO ARMS stood the test of time? Chances are with its newly restored and clearer picture quality presentation currently available on TCM, it may stir up much more interest than the latter remakes. It also gives an incite look to the early film career of famous stage actress Helen Hayes (1900-1993) at her peak. As it stands, A FAREWELL TO ARMS, a poignant love story, which may not stir up as many tears and sobs as it once did way back when, it is, however, a worthy novel to screen offering, ranking this the first, and best, of two remakes combined. (****) "},{"Title":"What Did Papa Expect?","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" When this version of A Farewell to Arms came out, Ernest Hemingway hated this film. They turned his novel and put too much emphasis on the romance angle. When Papa Hemingway said that he obviously did not know Hollywood well at all. If he did just knowing Frank Borzage directed this film should have told him something. Borzage did a whole slew of tender romantic stories in the Thirties like Three Comrades, The Mortal Storm, stuff like that. A Farewell to Arms is definitely in keeping with that tradition.The one thing that Hemingway did like was the casting of Gary Cooper as the hero Fredric Henry. He and Coop became fast friends right up to when they both died in 1961. He saw in Cooper the ideal Hemingway hero and when Paramount acquired the rights to For Whom the Bells Toll, Hemingway insisted it be done with Cooper or nobody. Cooper and Helen Hayes made a tender romantic couple in the Borzage tradition, probably more Borzage than Hemingway. But Adolph Zukor and Paramount also knew what sold movie tickets and Paramount was having a lot of financial troubles at this time. The studio nearly went under during the Depression. But Paramount's saviors turned out to be Bing Crosby, Mae West, and Cecil B. DeMille who returned to the studio he helped found.Helen Hayes made several good films in the early thirties, this one and the one she won an Oscar for, The Sins of Madelon Claudet. But she never became a movie box office draw so she returned to the Broadway stage where she reigned as a Queen.Adolphe Menjou replete with Italian accent plays Cooper's friend and romantic rival, Major Rinaldi. Menjou was great at playing both American and continental types. Soon he would sign a long term contract with MGM and gain his greatest roles during the sound era.Hemingway purists might shun A Farewell to Arms, but those who love their screen romances, soggier the better will rave about this film. "},{"Title":"Impressionism in the Cinema","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The works of Ernest Hemingway have not always translated well to the cinema. The Gary Cooper/Ingrid Bergman For Whom the Bell Tolls and David O. Selznick's version of A Farewell to Arms, although attractively photographed, are two of the dullest and most slow-moving films ever committed to celluloid. The Snows of Kilimanjaro is slightly better, but still by no means as good as it should be, given its stellar cast. Howard Hawks's version of To Have and Have Not is a good film, but that is probably because its plot has very little to do with that of the novel on which it is supposedly based. The 1932 version of A Farewell to Arms was the first time a film had been based on one of Hemingway's works, and there is an obvious difference between it and the 1957 remake; it is only slightly more than half the length, at 80 minutes as opposed to 152. Over the quarter-century between the dates of the two films there had been a change in the way Hemingway was seen. In 1932 he was still an up-and-coming young author; by 1957, although he was still alive and only in his late fifties, he had achieved the status of Great American Novelist, and the film that was made in that year suffers from an over-reverential attitude to his work, treating it like a solemn classical text that needed an equally solemn cinematic treatment to do it justice. The film tells the story of the romance between Frederick, an American volunteer serving with the Italian Army as an ambulance driver, and Catherine, a nurse with the British Red Cross. Frederick deserts and crosses the border into neutral Switzerland, to be with Catherine, whom he has secretly married and who is pregnant. It has been pointed out that the moral of the film is precisely the opposite of that of Casablanca. In that film Rick and Ilsa give up their chance of happiness together because the problems of three little people don't amount to a hill of beans in this crazy world. What matters is the war, and the Allied struggle for victory. In A Farewell to Arms, however, the moral is that the personal happiness of Frederick and Catherine matters more than the great historical events from which they are escaping. This reversal in emphasis between the two films probably reflects a reversal in public attitudes which took place in the intervening decade between 1932 and 1942. In 1932, a year before Hitler came to power, there was a sense of disillusionment with war, even in those countries which had finished on the winning side in 1914-18; the First World War was widely seen as senseless slaughter. Ten years later, the rise of Nazism and the outbreak of the Second World War had changed attitudes so that it was once again fashionable to talk about a just war against evil. (By 1957, during the Cold War, the pendulum had partially swung back in the opposite direction; Selznick's film might have been a flop, but there were some very good anti-war films from that period, such as Kubrick's Paths of Glory). Seen from a modern perspective, the film looks and sounds very dated. The sound quality is poor and the action looks jerky. These problems were, of course, common to most films from the early thirties, the very dawn of the sound picture era. (It is remarkable how quickly those problems were overcome, when one compares the likes of A Farewell to Arms with, say, Gone with the Wind from only seven years later). In some respects, however, the director Frank Borzage was able to turn the technical limitations of the period to his advantage. Large-scale realistic battle sequences would not have been possible at this time, but Borzage nevertheless wanted to give some idea of the horror of war in order to show what Frederick is fleeing from. In order to do this he resorts to a wordless montage sequence composed of brief shots of the battle, backed by some highly dramatic music. The result is a sort of cinematic equivalent of Impressionism, serving to give as vivid an impression of warfare as a more detailed picture ever could. (This sequence was probably the reason the film won the Oscar for Best Cinematography).The film is better acted than the 1957 remake. Helen Hayes was less glamorous than Jennifer Jones, and has an even less convincing British accent, but makes a much livelier and more convincing Catherine. Gary Cooper's Frederick is similarly far more animated than Rock Hudson's stony-faced interpretation of the role, and he receives good support from Adolphe Menjou as Frederick's comrade Major Rinaldi. The action is better paced and the film, even if it looks primitive by today's standards, nevertheless has a vigour lacking from many more polished films from more recent times. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A Memorable Film In Need of Restoration","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The 1932 film version of Ernest Hemmingway's A FAREWELL TO ARMS will never challenge the likes of ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT--but while it fails to capture the horrors of World War I it is remarkably effective at capturing the novel's sparse and unyielding prose. A good deal of the credit goes to writers Garrett and Glaizer and director Borzage--but the real interest here is not so much in the cinematic interpretation of the Hemmingway novel as it is in the cast, which is remarkable. Actress Helen Hayes was already among the leading lights of the New York stage when she was lured to Hollywood for a handful of films in the early 1930s--and it is easy to see what all the fuss was about. Plaintive beauty aside, unlike most stage and screen actors of the era she is completely unaffected in her performance and proves more than powerful enough to overcome the more melodramatic moments of the script. She is costarred with Gary Cooper in one of his earliest leading roles, and while the pairing is unexpected, it is also unexpectedly good they have tremendous screen chemistry, and in spite of the film's dated approach they easily draw you into this story of an ill-fated wartime romance between a nurse and an ambulance driver. The film is also well supplied with a solid supporting cast that includes Adolphe Menjou, Jack La Rue, and Mary Philips, and while clearly filmed on a slim budget--something most obvious in the battlefront sequences--the camera work is remarkably good. Unfortunately, all this counts for nothing unless you can find a print of the film that you can stand to watch. It is sad but true the 1932 A FAREWELL TO ARMS seems to have fallen into public domain, and the result is a host of DVD and VHS releases that range from the merely adequate to the incredibly dire. Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"A gesture...a look...the inflection in a voice...","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  A gesture...a look...the inflection in a voice. An ambulance going up a mountain... a dead soldier...rain pouring down.  Farewell to Arms  evokes emotions without being overly dramatic.  It is based based on the Ernest Hemingway novel with the same title.  It sets the scene for the story with images from the camera.  Make no mistake, this is a love story, not a war movie. It is a love story set in the midst of World War I and it takes place in Italy and Switzerland.  Not only do the images set the scene for this film but the actors make a love story unfold in the midst of the terrible taking place.  Helen Hayes is a stand out in her role as the nurse from Great Britain.  Gary Cooper has never been more handsome and charming as an American Ambulance driver.  Their romance and struggle to be together are poignant and convincing.  Gary Cooper has a marvelous friendship with a doctor played by Adolphe Menjou and some touching scenes with a priest portrayed by Jack Larue. Time has been kind to this movie which goes beyond era and place and develops its characters and story well enough so that they transcend the 1932 style of making films and the WWI setting to shine in a classic movie for any age.  This movie was directed by Frank Bozarge and it won a well deserved Academy Award for Best Cinematography.    "},{"Title":"The Great War and the devotion of two people","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" There's World War I going and Lieutenant Frederick Henry is fighting for his life.The war becomes secondary when he meets and falls in love with nurse Catherine Barkley.Having big emotions for another person during the war is dangerous since there's the chance of losing that person.They're both afraid.He may not admit that, but they're both afraid.Frank Borzage's A Farewell to Arms (1932) is based on Ernest Hemingway's novel.It won two Academy Awards from best cinematography (Charles Lang) and best sound, recording (Franklin Hansen).It would have deserved awards for acting, as well.The charismatic Gary Cooper and the admirable Helen Hayes do a fantastic job as the leading couple.Then there's also the great Adolphe Menjou as Major Rinaldi.The dialogue is brilliant.Lots of lovely words are spoken about love.I know there are many people who would say a movie from 75 years back is too old for them.I'd say that's their lost.A Farewell to Arms offers great feelings from the first meeting till the tragic ending. "},{"Title":"Ernie Goes To Hollywood","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Frank Borzage's 1932 version of A Farewell To Arms has the distinction of being the first film adaptation of an Ernest Hemingway novel. It's more Hollywood than Hemingway Long blankets of dialogue are condensed, sharp edges softened, and the romance between Lt. Henry and Catherine made into something more befitting Douglas Sirk than the unsentimental Papa. Yet a surprising amount of the novel's spirit does survive the transition.In a story not much different than what you might have read in high school, Lt. Henry (Gary Cooper) is an American ambulance corpsman serving with the Italian Army as it fights the Austrians along the Piave, a bloody backwater campaign of World War I. Henry meets nurse Catherine Barkley (Helen Hayes) and they quickly fall in love. But the violence of war, and the interference of friends like Capt. Rinaldi (Adolphe Menjou), threaten to tear them apart.The differences between book and movie are more in the matter of treatment than storyline. When Catherine and Lt. Henry first meet, they talk about her former lover, a war casualty. In the film, she says If I had to do it all over again, I'd marry him. In the book, though, Catherine wasn't regretting sending him off to war unmarried, but without their having had sex.Yet a minute later, her lines come directly from the book, Catherine noting her daydreams about her old lover turning up at her hospital with a saber cut, then adding He didn't have a saber cut, they blew him to bits. For Hollywood, violence was always easier material than sex.Since this is a film made before the inhibiting Hays Code (Will, not Helen), Borzage and his writers are able to get away with a bit more than they would have just a couple of years later. Catherine and Henry still make love, and she gets pregnant.There IS a lot of Hemingway here. Catherine is a still somewhat mixed-up woman who hates the rain because I see myself dead in it. The folly of war is openly expressed. If nobody would attack, the war would be over, one soldier muses. Lt. Henry is wounded, and embarrassed because it happened while he was eating cheese. Even some small exchanges survive, like one between Lt. Henry and a nasty nurse.She Pity is wasted on you.He Thank you.But the film also strikes out for its own territory, successfully in the case of building up the role of Capt. Rinaldi. Menjou, who had been a real ambulance corps captain in World War I, creates a marvelously ambiguous figure, a cheerful cynic who befriends Henry and is put out by the romance with Catherine. Why don't you be like me? Rinaldi asks his war brother. All fire and smoke. Nothing inside.Rinaldi's role here is a change from the original story, a gamble by Borzage and writers Benjamin Glazer and Oliver H. P. Garrett that pays off, devising some needed tension to the central storyline and underscoring the core message of the rottenness of war. If it wasn't for war, Rinaldi might value something more than his next bottle or bedpartner, and Menjou, in a final triumphant moment, lets you know it.Pacifism, in movies as in life, only takes one so far. The film makes a mistake near the end by more consciously making a stand as an anti-war film, with much hysteria, bells ringing, even Cooper chanting Peace...peace. It made those points much better as sidenotes, like an opening tracking shot where a seemingly sleeping soldier is revealed to be dead, or later on when Cooper trudges through a muddy path and notices the corpse everyone's been walking on. By contrast, too much of the movie's finale is played for the cheaper seats, and doesn't stand up today.But the film does stand up better than many later Hemingway adaptations, with its strong cast, inspired tracking shots, and a mostly successful effort by Borzage to translate Hemingway's terse prose style into film. What you get is a short but deep examination of life during wartime. "},{"Title":"A good war/romance movie","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  A Farewell to Arms features the expected good performances from Gary Cooper, Helen Hayes, and Adolphe Menjou. For its time, it also features impressive sets. The dialogue also does justice to its source material, the Hemingway novel of the same name. This movie must've been appreciated much more at the time of its release, given the imminence of war sentiment and Hitler's rising power in Germany. All in all, a very good, though not great film, 7/10. "},{"Title":"The First Hemingway Novel Brought to the Silver Screen","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The opening narrative Disaster as well as victory is written for every nation on the record of the World War, but high on the rolls of glory two names are inscribed &#x96; the Marne and the Piave. Of course, the Marne refers to the Western front, and the Piave refers to the Italian, wherein lies this movie's focus. A Farewell to Arms is based upon the semi-autobiographical novel of Ernest Hemingway's experiences when he served as an ambulance driver for the Italians who fought the Austrians and Hungarians in World War I. In the opening sequence we see a dead soldier draped with the Alpine background. Then we observe several Italian ambulances moving along the winding mountains away from the battlefield. Our hero Lt. (Tenente in Italian) Frederic Henry (Gary Cooper) casually reports to Headquarters just as young and attractive English nurse Molly is being rebuked and dismissed for getting pregnant. She had fallen in love with a soldier; Disgracing the uniform we all wear, proclaims the head nurse. Regulations are regulations.Lt. Henry is good friends with Major Rinaldi (Adolphe Menjou), who is also a surgeon. The two men drink and visit brothels together. Rinaldi happens to like English Nurse Catherine Barkley (Helen Hayes), but early on, after she is introduced to Henry, she and the young lieutenant are greatly attracted to each other. They become lovers right away and just before Henry has to return to the front. Meanwhile Rinaldi uses his influence to have Barkley transferred to Milan. Just before the shelling begins on the battlefront, we see the Italian soldiers eating their rations of bread, cheese, and pasta . . . and even wine. While the men are eating an Austrian shell scores a direct hit, wounding Henry in the right knee and foot. Henry is removed to the military hospital in Milan where Barkley is stationed. Their love affair resumes, but because the Italian Chaplain (Jack La Rue) knows that they are not married, he conducts a proxy marriage (not in the book, however). Later the hospital head nurse, after catching Henry with his hidden liquor bottles under the mattress, reports him to authorities who deem him healthy enough to revisit the front. While Henry is thus away, Rinaldi, who has censorship authority, censures the letters of both Barkley and Henry because he feels that it is wrong for the lieutenant to lose his head over a woman. The soldier and the nurse lose contact.Meanwhile a great Austrian and German offensive has succeeded in breaking through the Italian defensive line at Caporetto (October 1917), and the Italians are in retreat. They are constantly blasted with bombs and raked with aerial machine gun fire. Displeased with the Italian high command (perhaps not without reason), Frederic Henry deserts the army. His main goal is to link up with Catherine somehow. He meets up with Catherine's best friend, Nurse Helen Ferguson (Mary Philips) and is genuinely surprised when she unenthusiastically tells him that Catherine is pregnant. But Frederic still does not know where she is located. And the Italian police (carabinieri) are still searching for him. Events are fast-forwarded because a newspaper headline reads, Italian Armies Successful in Great Piave Offensive. (This event occurred in June 1918.)Eventually Henry meets up with Major Rinaldi, who relents and shows compassion when Henry tells him that Catherine is with child. He gives Henry Catherine's location (Brissago, Switzerland) and cash to help him. Time is fast-forwarded to November 1918, as a newspaper headline now reads, L'Austria Capitola (Austria Capitulates). Now the scene inter-cuts with Catherine's most difficult childbirth event in the Swiss hospital. Her baby boy is stillborn, and her health is failing. Soaked with rain Frederic arrives in the hospital in time to share some words with Catherine. Their last moments are tender ones. He lifts her dead body as doves fly and the church bells ring, proclaiming that the Armistice has ended the Great War. Peace, Frederic utters.Hemingway's novel actually ends during the middle of 1918, at the height of the great German offensives on the Western front. And in the novel Frederic Henry dejectedly leaves the Swiss hospital and walks out into the rain. All in all, the movie is a very successful tearjerker, and is better than the 1957 version, although the latter's cinematography is at a high level, and even though Cooper is over a foot taller than the diminutive Hayes. Director Frank Borzage, who began filming in 1913, was the first person in Hollywood history to win the Academy Award for Best Picture (Seventh Heaven, 1929). He won again in 1931 for Bad Girl. Borzage's version of A Farewell to Arms belongs among the top 15 or 20 movies of 1932 even though his adaptation is loose. His well-known trademark was in identifying the feelings of young lovers in the face of intense trial, as in wartime. His montages here, like the retreat from Caporetto and Henry's twenty mile-trek to Switzerland through storms, are both expertly done. Charles Lang won the Academy Award for Cinematography. The acting is fine all the way around although Hayes sometimes overacts. Both Adolphe Menjou and Jack La Rue, who have French surnames, do very well acting as Italians. Menjou as Rinaldi is the worldly one; La Rue as the priest prays for the end of suffering and war's end. Gary Cooper was destined to win the Academy Award for Best Actor twice Sergeant York (1940) and High Noon (1952).(PS I also reviewed the 1957 version of A Farewell to Arms for IMDb on 2 April 2014.) "}{"Title":"Let's Love Tonight, We May Not Have Tomorrow.","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Gary Cooper stars as Lieutenant Frederic Henry, an American ambulance driver serving in the Italian army during World War I. There he meets and falls in love with a nurse named Catherine Barkley (Helen Hayes) but the war looms heavy over the couple's chances for happiness.While this movie feels a bit dated and the war scenes go on too long and seem to be too darkly lit, this is epic romance that ultimately proves hard to take one's eyes off. You root for the characters and want to overcome the odds despite all that stands in their way making the final reality of what ultimately happens all the more potent. A real tear-jerker for the soft hearted this one. Great romance! Let's love tonight for we may not have tomorrow...the harsh reality of war. "},{"Title":"A TRUE movie Classic","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This is one of those films that everybody (well, OK, MOST everybody) should appreciate. It can be either a romance or a war movie, whichever you want it to be. There are elements of both in approxiamately equal amounts, so both the war buff and the romance buff should be appeased. The acting is superb, by Gary Cooper and Helen Hayes. The story is set in WW I and this was filmed in 1932, so some of the dialog will seem a bit dated, but make no mistake, this is film making at its best! "},{"Title":"Classic Tragic Love Story","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Be warned! The ending of this movie is enough to make a grown man CRY! At least if he's not as wooden as one of the other people who posted a comment here claims Gary Cooper is. That's just a crock of BULLS%#&. I sometimes think of this as the ultimate f%#&-your-buddy movie. But not all love stories have happy endings. Coop did a bang-up job portraying Lt. Frederick Henry, an American who volunteers with the Italian Army as an ambulance driver, who falls in love with a British nurse named Catherine Barkley, (Helen Hayes, who also was wonderful). Lt. Henry's friend, Major Rinaldi (Adolphe Menjou), is a surgeon who's also attracted to Nurse Barkley. He interferes with the romance, justifying it to himself by saying it's just a wartime fling. There's also a drumhead kangaroo court scene that's a classic of injustice. The romantic scenes are tender and sweet, with Coop and Hayes having great screen chemistry together. I just can't watch it too often, as my life is unhappy enough without watching movies with sad endings. "},{"Title":"Admirable Hemingway Adaptation","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This film is certainly not a great of the cinema, yet it is a fine, rewarding Hemingway adaptation that will stay in the mind for some time.For me, Cooper seemed to suggest Hemingway's protagonists better than any other actor. He was still on his way to stardom when cast in this film, and is an interesting choice to play Frederic, yet not a bad choice at all. Cooper's quiet, contained style of acting equips the film well and his delivery of ironic lines such as('I was shot while eating spaghetti') is subtle and measured. He interacts well with Helen Hayes as Catherine Barkley, a nurse whom ambulance driver Cooper enjoys a passionate romance with in the midst of World War One. Menjou creates a memorable Rinaldi.This is a neatly directed and surprisingly tidy film, one that holds up remarkably well for modern audiences. It contains some very memorable images, not least the stunning shot of hundreds of sad, white crosses across the battleground landscape.It is interesting to note this was made Pre-Code, so Cooper and Hayes do get some romantic scenes that probably would not have made it past the censors in just a couple of years time (one of their kisses is surprisingly erotic in nature). Also notable is that touching final scene between Cooper and Hayes, with Catherine in Frederic's arms- it would be used again, more famously, in Wuthering Heights (1939), with another dying 'Cathy' being carried to the window by her love.A definitive 'Farewell to Arms' has not yet been made, however this comes the closest when compared to the overblown Selznick adaptation starring Jennifer Jones and Rock Hudson. "},{"Title":"Gary Cooper...what a dish!!!","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Watch for some James Dean look-alike glances in this black and white movie.  It also plays a lot like The English Patient, but not as boring.  The continual bombings and chaos of the fighting was very realistic, but it didn't move the plot along as well as it might have.Helen Hayes as the love interest does a delightful job, but it's hard not to judge this picture by the technical improvements of today's cinematographers.  I too have either outgrown Hemingway, or a lot of his dialogue was cut.  I suggest you go back and give the book a read, and decide for yourself.  I have promised to return and see the movie again, afterwards.  Gary Cooper was a really great-looking, and good acting guy.....and I've never appreciated him before so much.  He had a lot of stage business that made him appear quite natural.Adolph Menjou as the fun-loving captain did an admirable job, as well.  "},{"Title":"Hasn't aged well","Date":"17 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Based on the Ernest Hemingway novel and starring Gary Cooper, this has the potential to be a classic. The setting and sentiment are reasonably original, especially for their time, and the movie is reasonably gritty.Yet, it doesn't feel like a classic. The romance seems trite and contrived. Overly schmaltzy and sometimes just plain dull. The acting is patchy. Gary Cooper is okay, but Helen Hayes' performance is quite flat. Most entertaining performance comes from Adolphe Menjou as Rinaldi. It was probably quite good in its time, and might well be regarded as one of the first anti-war movies, but it now feels quite dated. "},{"Title":"Purple Hayes","Date":"27 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Perhaps I should state at the outset that I have not read Ernest Hemingway's third novel, the 1929 classic A Farewell to Arms, and thus can only comment on the 1932 filmization that I recently watched on DVD. Hemingway, as the story goes, actively disliked the picture, and with its relatively brief running time of 78 minutes, it's easy to imagine that a good part of the author's original was given the Hollywood glossover. (The 1957 remake, generally regarded as the inferior of the two, is yet almost twice as long!) A somewhat dated, slightly creaky affair, the film is of interest today mainly for the excellent performances turned in by its three leads and for the Oscar-winning photography of Charles Lang (his only Academy Award, despite a more-than-impressive filmography).In the picture, we meet an American ambulance driver named Frederic Henry (played by Gary Cooper), who is serving on the Italian front during WW1. A doctor friend of his, an Italian named Rinaldi (Adolphe Menjou), introduces him to a British nurse, Catherine Barkley (Helen Hayes, riding high after her recent Oscar win for 1931's little-seen The Sin of Madelon Claudet, and who largely forsook Hollywood after 1935, to become The First Lady of the American Theater). The two instantly fall in lust (American nurse Agnes von Kurowsky, Hemingway's inspiration for the Hayes character, who he'd met while injured in Italy, had rebuffed the author's amorous advances), and after Henry is wounded at the front, Catherine tends to his wounds in hospital, becoming, uh, knocked up in the process. Forced to leave her nursing group as a result, Catherine hides out in Switzerland to have her baby, alone, leading to the mother of all tear-jerking conclusions....Released in December '32, shortly before the stifling Production Code came into being, A Farewell to Arms is, surprisingly, sexually frank. Catherine and Henry, scant minutes after being introduced in a hotel garden, are busily engaged in the ol' horizontal tarantella, their randiness attributed to the war more than their own natural inclinations. Still, Henry tells his newfound galpal I love you immediately afterwards, and, as events subsequently demonstrate, he means it. Cooper and Hayes do have a certain chemistry here, although they make an odd-looking couple, with Cooper towering over his girl by a good head and a half. Much of the dialogue that they utter is of the florid, purple-prose variety, and Hayes seems to occasionally overact a tad. Also (and please don't think me a superficial pigdog here), lookswise, Hayes was far from the comeliest actress on the lot, although Rinaldi refers to Catherine as the prettiest nurse in the area. Given her plain-Jane decent looks, this instant lustful infatuation on Henry's part becomes a bit incredible; a sweeter-faced actress of the period, say Claudette Colbert, might have been a better casting choice. Cooper, with his shy smile and diffident delivery, is always ingratiating, however, and Adolphe manages to convince as an Italian doctor. (Like many folks, I have a feeling, I've long thought that Menjou was French, whereas he was actually born in Pittsburgh, U.S.A.!) Director Frank Borzage, who would go on to work with Cooper in the 1936 Marlene Dietrich vehicle Desire, does a thoroughly admirable job here, while Charles Lang certainly did earn his Oscar, especially by dint of two powerful scenes the POV shots from Henry's moving hospital gurney, and the montage sequence of Henry's trek to find Catherine in Brissago, Switzerland. In all, a perfectly respectable film, and one that I might have appreciated a little more, had I not seen the WW1 classics Grand Illusion (1937) and All Quiet on the Western Front (1930)--two infinitely superior pictures--at NYC's Film Forum just a few weeks earlier. Still, those immortal classics are more antiwar films, whereas A Farewell to Arms is a romantic drama with a WW1 backdrop. The film concludes most ambiguously, with Henry proclaiming Peace, peace as doves fly high and the Great War ends. But whether he is praying for world peace, or peace and surcease from his tragic memories, or peace for the pitiful woman in his arms, is anybody's guess.... "},{"Title":"A bit dated but it improves the better print and longer (closer to original) version you can see!","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Some interesting facts in a story loosely based on Hemingway's experiences, but he didn't like it. 1) Semi-autobiographical novel by Ernest Hemingway, published 1929, still in print. 2) The title is from a 16th century poem by George Peele. 3) Hemingway was an American ambulance driver for Italian army during WWI.4) Hemingway, known for being ornery cuss had little use for people in the film industry. But he did like Cooper and they became close friends for the rest of their lives.5) The studio shot two different endings so theater owners could pick which their audience would like best. Hemingway hated that but liked the $24k for the rights.6) Helen Hayes, although happily married at the time had a crush on Cooper admitting in her autobiography&#x85; 'like half the women in the world, I was, in the words of the Noel Coward song, Mad about the boy.'7) Helen Hayes, First Lady of the American Theater, was born in year 1900 in Washington D.C. a) On stage at age 5; Broadway at 9 and by age 18, she was a star. b) In 1928 she married playwright Charles MacArthur, they moved to Hollywood and she won her first Oscar for THE SIN OF MADELON CLAUDET (1931). c) She won a Tony Award the first year they were presented, in 1947, for HAPPY BIRTHDAY. d) She won Televisions Emmy award in 1952 & 1958. e) She returned to films as the Dowager Empress in ANASTASIA (1956) and won another Oscar for her role in AIRPORT (1970). f) Her son is actor James MacArthur (of HAWAII FIVE-O fame). 9) Gary Cooper born on the Montana ranch of his wealthy father, and educated in a prestigious school in England &#x97; Cooper was a rugged frontiersman with the poise of a cultured gentleman. a) Because he failed at political cartooning he sought work as a cowboy extra in movies. b) While making THE WINNING OF BARBARA WORTH movie star Clara Bow also took an interest in Cooper seeing that he was in more of her films. c) Silent films taught him how to act. d) Cooper's first talkie success was THE VIRGINIAN (1929), in which he developed the taciturn, laconic speech patterns that became fodder for every impressionist on radio, nightclubs, and television. e) Cooper alternated between tie-and-tails parts in DESIGN FOR LIVING (1933) and he-man adventurer roles in THE LIVES OF A BENGAL LANCER (1935) for most of the 1930s. f) In 1941, he was honored with an Oscar for SERGEANT YORK, and was nominated for, PRIDE OF THE YANKEES. g) Even those co-workers who thought that Cooper wasn't exerting himself at all when filming were amazed to see how, in the final product, Cooper was actually out-acting everyone else, albeit in a subtle, unobtrusive manner. h) Some of my favorite Cooper films MR. DEEDS GOES TO TOWN, MEET JOHN DOE, BALL OF FIRE, FOUNTAINHEAD. i) In the 1950s he made mostly westerns like HIGH NOON, Cooper retained his box-office stature. Privately, however, he was plagued by illnesses finally dying of lung cancer in 1961. 10) Adolph Menjou, who plays Cooper's drinking buddy and an Army surgeon actually served as a captain in the Ambulance Corps for 3 years during WWI. a) Made more than 100 films moving from silent film leading man to talkies and later supporting roles. b) Menjou was Oscar nominated for THE FRONT PAGE the year before tonight's film in 1931. He played the newspaper editor later played by Cary Grant in the remake HIS GIRL Friday. c) In the 1950's Menjou was a friendly witness before the HUAC commission. d) His last notable film was the classic anti-war picture PATHS OF GLORY (1957) playing the villainous WWI General for director Stanley Kubrick.11) Director Frank Borzage was one of the early major directors of Hollywood and like his contemporaries JOHN FORD, HOWARD HAWKS & KING VIDOR they all made the transition from silents to talkies but only Borzage won an Oscar as a director in both eras. His Academy Award for Best Director was for his earlier romantic WWI film, SEVENTH HEAVEN.Remade with Rock Hudson and Jennifer Jones, A Farewell to Arms (1957) and as a TV miniseries with George Hamilton and Vanessa Redgrave, A Farewell to Arms (1966).In reality, she (the nurse) dumped Hemingway as he was 5 years younger (too young in her eyes) and she went back to the older Italian man!!! Hemingway was so hurt that when he wrote the novel he killed her off. "},{"Title":"Compares interestingly to the book","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" A real mess but in many ways better than the book. In fact the film version is more A Farwell to A Farwell to Arms because only the relation ship between Henry and Nurse Bartlett resembles the novel as the rest takes the essence of the book but is very free in interpretation. The two main characters Henry and nurse Bartlett are fleshed out and made real thanks to the talents of a young Gary Cooper and especially an excellent natural performance by Helen Hayes. Aldoph Menjou is also very good as the Italian Doctor although unlike in the book he is made out to be the villain who keeps the two starcrossed leads apart. The production value and direction of the movie owe more to silent film than sound and there are some painful miniatures in the beginning and middle of the film. In fact the portrayal of the war is limited to a number of nightime scenes of soldiers staggering through rain. Nevetheless the performances of the main actors and some clever succinct and meaningful dialogue make this movie in many ways an improvement on the book which is emotionally static. Too bad they didn't have better production values and a director with more cinematic skill than Borzage. "},{"Title":"Finding a heart in the heartless.","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Two legendary stars and a movie that evokes the meaning of classic. Based on the Ernest Hemingway novel, A FAREWELL TO ARMS is a brisk adaptation by play-writer Benjamin Glazer. This yarn takes place during WW1 finding an ill-fated romance between ambulance driver Lt. Frederic Henry(Gary Cooper)and British nurse Catherine Barkley(Helen Hayes). Circumstances of war are not usually a pretty thing. Lt. Henry is injured and nurse Barkley is his vision of an angel. The two are separated and Henry vows to reunite; but his Major Rinaldi(Adolphe Menjou)makes it harder for the lovers to be together. Rinaldi proves to be a true friend after all and with uncertain approval of his priest(Jack La Rue), a healthy Lt. Henry leaves his post to track down his beloved. Although the war is ending, the deserter drags himself through one hardship after another to find Catherine, who now is in failing health herself.Two endings were filmed...a sad one and an uplifting one implying hope's triumph over all. Of course, the sad one was used and Hemingway liked neither. Cooper, Hayes and Menjou were superb as to be expected. Rounding out the cast Mary Philips, Blanche Friderici and Mary Forbes. The visions of war are quiet dramatic and the special effects seem very good for the early 30's. Shot in shades of Black and White, A FAREWELL TO ARMS is a solid classic. "}{"Title":"Deeply felt, and if it seems overwrought, so what?","Date":"22 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" A Farewell to Arms (1932)An unabashed over the top war romance (by Hemingway) and two young actors at the peak of their abilities. Add some really vigorous filming (some of the actions scenes in the battle are frightening and awesome), and you can see why this is such a powerful movie.There is a little sense of familiarity to this kind of story, and an old fashioned romantic flavor to it (the book is similar in outline but slightly cooler, more prosaic, more intense, more true). I think Helen Hayes is perfect but only from the director's point of view--she gave him what he wanted for this kind of high drama, and I love the performance. Gary Cooper never sits right for me--his facial twitches remain twitches, his woodenness you can knock on with your knuckles--but this is one of his best performances, alongside High Noon. The photography by Charles Lang is really one of the highlights, and in weird way there are so many wordless part of the film, it has the strength of a great silent film with sound effects. Which pushes the burden further on the visuals. Another of the great early 1930s testaments to pure filming.Does it work in the end? Partly. But it's really sentimental, and you have to like uncomplicated emotional conflict, and resolution, complete resolution. "},{"Title":"Good adaptation of topical novel","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  A Farewell to Arms was a fairly controversial novel when it was published. When I first saw the movie, I was a little disappointed at how the movie understated the tone of Hemingway's irony, but thought it was excellently acted.  Cooper, Hayes, and Menjou all give top-notch performances.  The dialogue is not as pointed as it could be in a few key sequences.  Overall, well worth watching. "},{"Title":"excellent details but insufficient drama","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Interest sustained throughout by art direction, Lang's photography, the battle sequence editing, and Helen Hayes' performance. Cooper is satisfactory but overall the main fault is lack of narrative drive, the story principally devoted to the romance between the two leads. The anti-war theme is present but hardly developed in any intelligent fashion, apart from Menjou's comments on capturing successive mountain ranges. Far better treatment of anti-war themes can be found in All Quiet on the Western Front. "},{"Title":"the quiet sorrow, a very good role from Helen Hayes","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The movie achieves evoking pity and suggesting the secret, unknown, unsuspected abyss of a life, the life of the one near you (which is the very great psychology of the eponymous novel, a young person's work about a youngster's experiences during the war), by giving an insight of Katherine's wasted and unglamorous life, and thus making her authentically mysterious, and giving a sense of the dignity and sacred mystery of a being, and this in her humbleness; the story is one of pity and remorse and sadness. With the acting, we are on the threshold of the sound cinema.Now Helen Hayes' acting is very much unlike what nowadays' audiences are accustomed to, in an entirely different key, but it's a great role, and, as I wrote, mysterious and heartrending; stylistically, it belongs to the symbolism and extroversion, the symbolical extroversion necessary for the many years of the silent cinema, a leftover of the silent age of the screen, suddenly made obsolete by the sound.Cooper is very unlike my idea of the novel's protagonist, and so is his acting, sometimes like doing a Valentino impersonation, though not always, as in the beginning of the scene where Ferguson foretells their death, when he's a gallant, nonchalant officer, perhaps also in the 1st few scenes, when he gropes a couple of nurses, but before he falls in love with her, and it has been my impression that the two lead actors didn't enjoy very much each other, as they should have for most of the movie; but Cooper was naturally righteous and dignified, very protestant, and his character should of been a bit more earthly (like Powell, perhaps?). Then, at the end, he communes with a brioche, and such things remind of the chilly religion in Ford's and other movies; here, they show a priest, and a secularized Eucharist, yet it's a very protestant movie. Menjou as the jealous, duplicitous surgeon decided to wreck his comrade's life is by turns demonic and annoying.One example of wry humor is when the scene of the 1st kiss (of Cooper and Helen H.) cuts to a bedroom scene of &#x85; Cooper and Menjou.Cooper is supposed to be less handsome than Menjou, who seems a lecherous oldster.Both Cooper and Helen Hayes play their roles according to the mainstream style of acting of the age, and he hasn't enough time for the months of their peaceful living, the life they had together needed to be given more time on screen, instead the script picks the eerie priest &#x85;; she had the right idea of unglamorous humbleness. Her role is that of a very unhappy woman, as one can gather at least from her deathbed words to him.So, Helen Hayes' role is the better one. "},{"Title":"Not a very good film","Date":"14 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Based on Ernest Hemingway's semi-autobiographical 1929 novel of the same name, this seemed like the perfect film to watch after the Hemingway biopic In Love and War (1996) but it is not a very good one. I read the relevant novel seven or eight years ago so my memories of it are admittedly not terribly fresh but this is not a great adaptation. The film is slowly paced, disjointed and often boring in spite of its short running time. The ending is far too melodramatic for my liking. The script largely trades the novel's cynicism and fatalism for sentimentality and romanticism. Hemingway hated the film but, to be perfectly honest, I wouldn't have had a problem with these changes if they had been handled well. Sadly, they weren't as the script is not exactly strong.That said, there is an underlying sense of fatalism when it comes to the treatment of the First World War and the manner in which it impacted on its participants. The scenes dealing with the war are considerably better executed than the romantic ones. The film is interesting in its depiction of premarital sex, particularly since it would have been toned down considerably if it had been made after the Hays Code came into effect in 1934. Hemingway would have probably hated it even more if, say, it had been made in 1937. The novel's language was toned down as well but that was hardly surprising given that Hemingway used several words that would not be commonly heard in films until decades after his death.Gary Cooper became a better actor as he got older but he is not a great leading man in this instance. His performance as Lt. Frederic Henry is very variable. In contrast, Helen Hayes is excellent as his beloved Catherine Barkley, a war weary and somewhat emotionally damaged English nurse. I've never seen her in anything young before so that was interesting. However, she and Cooper have next to no chemistry so their romance is tepid at best, which is obviously never a good thing in a romantic film! The film also features strong performances from Adolphe Menjou as Henry's unreliable war brother Captain Rinaldi, Mary Phillips as Catherine's best friend and fellow nurse Helen Ferguson and Jack La Rue as an Italian priest who has difficulty comprehending the scale of death and destruction that the war has caused. Cooper later became close friends with Hemingway and chose him to star in the film adaptation of his 1940 novel For Whom the Bell Tolls.Overall, this is not a very good film when it comes to the romantic elements but much better when it comes to its more limited war elements. "},{"Title":"Simply sublime? Simply Soap","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" A very curious coincidence. Watching, in luminous black and white cinematography, Adolphe Menjou in army uniform walk around the rooms of some fairly palatial chteau requisitioned by the military in WW1, instantly recalled an all but identical scene shot some 25 years later (same actor, same war, same costume, b&w photography, setting, character, adjacent country). It seemed far too close to be just a coincidence - did director Stanley Kubrick make a deliberate connection in his 1957 film Paths of Glory?But what an extraordinary difference in tone however between the two films? A Farewell to Arms is surely exclusively a traditional woman's picture, classy soap in fact. Shirtless young star Cooper - eye-candy personified - has an untroubled war, fussed over by a minor army of female nurses, and, presumably pre-Hays code, quite explicitly takes the virginity of a young nurse he has not long met; and, central drama in the film, nature takes its course. Tragedy when it comes is played out in comfort, the best medical attention, where the loved ones are together and able to say their full good byes in dignity and privacy.In contrast the grittiness of WW1 drama Paths of Glory, the blistering attack on officer ambition at the cost of the common soldier, the cynicism - unsurprisingly too strong to be shown where it was set France - had few equals in its tone of moral indignation. Its central character, played by Kirk Douglas, held to the flames of forced moral choice. IMDb gives it thoroughly deserved 8.5, this film just 6.6. Hovering in judgement too over A Farewell to Arms is the authentic story of front-line WW1 nurses Testament of Youth where duty and sacrifice was the iron rule, not fluffiness.So how did this silly soap-fest come to be made just 15 years after the events depicted? Europe was scarred by WW1, France by its immense loss of fighting men and suffering of civilians caught in the fighting. Hollywood in 1932, it seems, just sought bums on seats. History was safely in its graves and could be left to turn as it wished. Was Paths of Glory Kubrick atoning for Farewell to Arms? I strongly suspect it was.what does this war mean to me? What does anything mean to me? I must find her "},{"Title":"A Bright, Golden Hayes ...","Date":"9 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" In many ways Frank Borzage was the Douglas Sirk of the late twenties/early thirties churning out the same kind of fodder albeit without the gloss that Sirk was able to achieve via colour. Here Borzage weighs in with the very first adaptation of an Ernest Hemingway book - both Hems novels and short stories were eventually adapted for the screen) and on the whole he makes a decent fist of it. The novel itself was barely in the bookstores when the film was made which meant that literate filmgoers would have room to criticize the films' several departures whilst non-readers would accept it on its own terms. Leading lady Helen Hayes was primarily a stage actress - indeed so eminent was she that a Broadway Theatre was named after her - who made a late impact on the screen in Airport some thirty years after 'Farewell'. Watching the film for the first time some 80 years after its initial release I was unable to detect much real chemistry between Coop and Hayes albeit it was good to see Coop doing vulnerable, not a quality readily associated with him but if anyone walks away with the movie it is Adolph Menjou as Rinaldi, Frederic Henry's surgeon friend who, for various reasons, contrives to keep the lovers apart and even break them up. Certainly worth seeing without being memorable. "},{"Title":"Great photography and solid performances cry out for better presentation on DVD","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" DVD rental. Though I'd only previously seen one or two Borzage films, and those long ago, I decided that he was going to be my next big discovery. Oh woe is me to find out that only this of his dozens of films is widely available on DVD, and the VHS are not easy to find unless you want to buy them all off of eBay. Anyway, I don't have a lot to say about this one, thanks largely to the very very poor sound mix on the DVD (most of the dialog between the two principals is very low, the rest rather loud, so I had to keep raising & lowering the volume which really distracted me). Also, it really wasn't that involving despite good to stellar work the cast Gary Cooper as American Lt Henry, an ambulance driver in Italy during WWI, who falls instantly and madly in love with nurse Catharine Barkley (Helen Hayes) despite the insistent warnings from cynical friend Major Rinaldi (Adolphe Menjou, the very definition of the cynic). The early parts carry a fairly light tone despite the background of the war; when the lovers are parted Cooper makes a perilous trek to Switzerland, through hell itself it seems in the film's finest apocalyptic war-to-end-wars moments, courtesy of Charles Lang's cinematography, the real star of the show. It's beautiful, well-acted, but it just didn't move me the way it was trying to. I've never really gotten the appeal of Hemingway, from whose novel this is adapted, so perhaps that's part of the problem. "},{"Title":"A Critic's Look at the film","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" A Farewell to Arms, originally a novel by Ernest Hemingway, is a classic movie from 1932. The story follows the love between Lieutenant Fredric Henry and Catherine Barkley in Italy during WWI. The story is told from the view point of the Lieutenant. The love between Fredric and Catherine all starts when Fredric comes to Milan to visit an Italian friend Rinaldi, when Fredric and Catherine spend a night together. She is deeply hurt by this, thinking that Fredric is just using her, but he calmly tells her that it meant something to him and that he would be back. He did come back, but it was with a big injury, which allows him and Catherine to really get close to each other. Rinaldi doesn't like it, as he liked Catherine first, and tries to get Fredric to come and drink with him constantly. Later, when Fredric is healthy again, he gets sent back to the front lines, and Catherine leaves for Switzerland without telling Fredric first. She writes to Fredric constantly, even telling him that she is pregnant and can't wait to see him. He writes to Milan, where he thinks she is, and somehow all of his letters get sent back. Catherine's letters get censored by Rinaldi, saying that he doesn't want his friend to lose his head over a girl, little knowing how serious they actually were. Eventually Fredric can't take it anymore and goes back to Milan to find his love, who isn't there. Rinaldi tries to make him forget about her and is roughly refused. Rinaldi then realizes his mistake and tells Fredric where she is and helps him get there, as Fredric is now a traitor for going AWOL during the middle of the war. Catherine stills expects letters to come to her from Fredric, and is greatly surprised to find that there are letters for her, but they are all her letters that have been sent back. She faints to the floor and is sent to the hospital. Fredric arrives soon after that, but can't see her until the morning. He is told that the war is over, but he doesn't even begin to care, as his love is dying in the hospital. He gets to see her in the morning only to be there when she dies, and the story ends. One of the glaring things about this story is the main character, Fredric. He is not in tune with the people or events around him, but that is almost always the case with Hemingway. He is always out for only himself and doesn't really care who he hurts as long as he can get what he wants. As a case, he is introduced to Catherine by Rinaldi because Rinaldi is in love with her and wants her. That night, Rinaldi is left out by Fredric moving in and taking advantage of Rinaldi going to get Catherine and him drinks. Rinaldi is hurt, but Fredric makes it seem like he is the one being intruded on. This is a constant theme through the movie, most evident when Fredric goes AWOL during the middle of a battle, leaving all of his comrades there to work it out for themselves. Another theme of this movie is the camera angles. I love the camera work and how there is only one shot that is not from eye-level or above, and it is solely for impact. The shot is the scene where Fredric comes in from getting injured. The camera is a Point of View shot, from Fredric's eyes, unmoving, staring straight up. It becomes a more powerful scene because of it; it makes us be more in tune with Fredric and his injury. I also liked the lighting of the movie. Most of the lighting is natural, or at least it is made to look that way. Most of the lighting on the people's faces was blurry, like actually looking through a lens. It is most apparent when doing close ups on Catherine, it makes her look more innocent and makes her stand out more because the close ups are what you remember seeing of her, and you pay more attention to her. There is also no shot like that of any other character, again making you pay more attention to her than everyone else. This film, I think, doesn't use the mise-en-scene to its fullest. All of the cuts, except one, are just straight cuts with no delay or fading in and out. The one scene that does use a different cut is at the end when Fredric is traveling after he goes AWOL. It fades in and out of shots of Fredric and shots of the war and nature, all blurry. This gives a great effect on the passage of time and the sorrow that is all around, especially on Fredric. I think that they could have done more with the passage of time in the cuts, not the time in the narrative, but the time in the cut itself. Slower cuts might have made it a little more powerful, especially in times where the viewer is sitting on the edge of their seat waiting for more information. "},{"Title":"Short and bittersweet examination of love in war.","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Despite the fact that the source novel's author, Ernest Hemingway, was repulsed by this film adaptation of his famous work (primarily due to its focusing on the more romantic aspects of the story rather than the effect of war on man), the film pleased many cinema-goers then and now. Cooper plays an American ambulance driver during WWI (before America's involvement) whose buddy, and superior officer Menjou, introduces him to a petite British nurse (Hayes.) Though Menjou has his eye on Hayes for himself, Cooper steps in and claims her for his own. The couple forms a deeply felt relationship, though Menjou remains resentful about it. Later, the couple strives to be together, or at least to keep in touch, but circumstances and people keep them from maintaining contact. Soon, Cooper must decide whether to desert the armed forces in order to get to Hayes or to let her slip through his fingers. Meanwhile, feeling abandoned, Hayes start to degenerate physically and emotionally. It's great to see Cooper looking young and handsome. Though he is occasionally a bit awkward and gangly, he shares a great chemistry with Hayes and turns in a memorably tender scene near the finale. Hayes is appealing, reasonably unaffected (quite unaffected by the standards of the day!) and intensely romantic. An actress who had little good to say about any of her film work (despite two Oscars on her mantle), she did have fond memories of making this movie, especially where director Borzage was concerned. She and Cooper seem like an unusual pairing at first, but wind up as a very memorable couple. Menjou lends solid support, though it is surprising to hear him continuously refer to Cooper as Baby and see him pawing all over the young Adonis. One half wonders if he's more interested in Coop than in Hayes! The film offers up some very striking imagery at times and a fair share of inventiveness. One notable scene has the camera taking Cooper's point of view as he's wheeled into a hospital following an injury. One of the final shots has a bed sheet that somehow forms perfect pleats as it's removed from the bed, forming a memorable image. Reworked into the rather routine Force of Arms and then officially remade by David O' Selznick in 1957 (in an expensive, attractive, but overlong and miscast box-office failure), this remains the definitive big-screen adaptation of the book. "}{"Title":"borzage not hemingway","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I came very late to both the classic novel and the less-than-classic early film version, having read the Hemingway book just 3 years ago, and seen the film yesterday.  There is no comparison, well, very little.  The novel was so adult and daring for its time, the mid 20s, and while the movie tries to deal with premarital sex and amoral soldiers, it must capitulate to the Hollywood moral code as well as that of the audience.  Of course 99% of novels lose a lot in screen treatments, so it's not surprising that this one comes up well short of its masterpiece source. "},{"Title":"Highly over rated soap opera","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" It's time to explode a few myths here. Like the so-called ideal marriage between the Kennedy's that was propped up by the media for years and was finally shown to have been wrought with serial infidelities by both parties, so in the world of movie land we have some sacred cows that have to be taken out to the slaughterhouse and be ground up into decent hamburger. A Farewell to Arms is one such sacred cow. Gary Cooper struts through the movie like a tall, lanky, slow-talking, goofy string bean with an amoral attitude towards women, the army and life in general. He chooses to desert his comrades - so much for Semper Fidelis - to run back to a woman he impregnated in a night of passion. Helen Hayes is the love interest, whose acting resembled nothing so much as a cut-out paper doll in a puppet show; her cardboard expression and lifeless lines were so two dimensional it was painful to watch - Olive Oil in the Popeye cartoons had more sex appeal. There was no chemistry between her and Cooper, how could there be, he was over six feet tall and she was so short he had to hold her up in order not to stoop to kiss her in one scene. IMDb can cut this next comment out if it is not permissible to talk about other review sites, but those fawning idiots over at Rotten Tomatoes gave this movie a 90% rating in true Rotten Tomatoes lock step fashion, while giving a truly great movie, The Mission, with standout performances by Robert Di Nero, Jeremy Irons, Liam Neeson and Aidan Quinn, and that won an Academy Award for Best Cinematography and whose musical score by Italian composer Ennio Morricone, ranked 1st on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation's (ABC) Classic 100 Music in the Movies, well Rotten Tomatoes only gave THAT movie a 65% rating. That's why I take Rotten Tomatoes with a pound of salt and always go to IMDb to see if any movie is any good. "},{"Title":"Soldiers of Love find Other Arms to Hold Them","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Helen Hayes is a World War I nurse who falls for wounded soldier Gary Cooper. The war, and Adolphe Menjou, threaten to come between them...This film features some startling, indelible images. The acting is also first rate. Mr. Cooper and Ms. Hayes make their characters' courtship very believable - with performances transcending what could be acted, or shown on-screen, at the time. Their closing scene is classic. Mr. Menjou leads a strong supporting cast; interestingly, his interest in Cooper looks highly ambiguous, intentional or not. Arguably, Menjou's character shows more interest in him than her.The story is just a little too soapy; and, it lacks a certain cohesion. It's unsteady, at times. Yet, director Frank Borzage elicits some dazzling performance and images in A Farewell to Arms.Peace. ******** A Farewell to Arms (12/8/32) Frank Borzage ~ Helen Hayes, Gary Cooper, Adolphe Menjou, Mary Philips "},{"Title":"Very good, buy disappointing ending","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I read that Hemingway rewrote the last page of A Farewell To Arms some 32 times before he was satisfied with it.  Unfortunately, the film totally ignores the last page.  The ending of the story is far more tragic and heartwrenching than the one in the film.  Where the book's ending left one with a cold, almost sick, sensation, the movie has to have a feel good, Hollywood ending.  Too bad.  "},{"Title":"Found this online and really enjoyed it!","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Im a massive fan of these type of films! I found it here http//www.videoarchive.talktalk.net I wasn't able to find this on DVD but was able to watch it online in excellent quality, well worth it. Old black and white ones are a favourite with my dad who is just fed up with the current rubbish that they have on TV these days - most of which are repeats. So this is easy to navigate and is a firm favourite - quite an achievement for someone of his age who is a complete technophobe. I bought him a laptop and told him it was a TV - I am hoping he doesn't find out its a computer he has been using all this time There are some others on the site too. http//www.videoarchive.talktalk.net "},{"Title":"Ugh.","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I just watched this dreadful film for the first time.  Gary Cooper is horribly wooden, the dialog is flat and boring, the love scenes are totally unengaging.  It strays way too far from the book.  Overly melodramatic, even moreso than other films of the period.  It lacks any sense of real tension, maybe because it jumps around too much.  Okay, the cinematography was ambitious, but not enough to save this stinker.  Just watch Casablanca. Or even a good silent picture, like Sunrise or something, which has a lot more meat, much more worth your trouble. "},{"Title":"Nice version of Hemingway, but far from sensational.","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I was surprised,through further research, how few versions of Hemingway novels we have had adapted to the screen. After viewing A FAREWELL TO ARMS, I can see why. I'm not saying that this film doesn't have power or any of that genuine Hemingway magic, but it just doesn't have the strength of imagery or feel that Papa could deliver. Gary Cooper and Helen Hayes star as an injured soldier and a nurse who meet during World War I. Of course they fall in love, but not without threatening codes of behaviour in both of their posts. I liked a lot of Hayes' lines and Cooper has a nice solemn appeal, but the ending is so melodramatic it's like Shakespeare without the meat. This is a well-written piece, and Hemingway does show his special flair, but a little something is missing. Maybe you can fill in the blank. Rating Two stars and a half.  "},{"Title":"An emotional Gary Cooper","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I have never read the book by Ernest Hemmingway so i cant really compare this film with it.However i do love this film and own a copy which you can purchase now in most DVD stores in Britain usually for about 4.99,so its well worth owning for your collection if you love early talkies.The film was made in 1932 so the dreary,misty sort of setting gives the right atmosphere for a film depicting WW1,infact i think its perfect as it really looks depressing,so you wonder how are you going to get a romance story out of this as everything looks cold and clinical and not a bit appealing for a romantic story.What you get is a very good love story about an American serving in the Italian Ambulance corps who fools in love with an English nurse,their relationship is more or less doomed from the start,and after being parted for a while in the film they briefly reunite towards the end where sadly Catherine(Helen Hayes dies after giving birth to FredericksGary Coopers stillborn baby.But don't be put off by this storyline as this film is really worth watching for some fine performances from Gary Cooper and Helen Hayes.The supporting actors are also very good such as Adolphe Menjou as Coopers interfering friend,Mary Philips who plays Hayes friend Ferguson and an excellent performance from Blanche Friderici as the battle axe head nurse.I have seen this film so many times now and i never lose interest in it, Gary Cooper never looked more handsome,and if your interested in seeing him in one of his more emotional roles before he turned into the strong silent type then this is probably the film to watch. "},{"Title":"Decent Movie, But Not Up the Standard of the Novel","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This is a decent movie, but if you have read the novel first, it is hard to avoid comparing the two.  While there is nothing really wrong with the movie, and while Gary Cooper and Helen Hayes work all right in the leading roles, it doesn't really match the standard of the Hemingway novel.  The film takes the World War I setting and basic story of the book, but as filmed it is essentially a conventional story of lovers faced with a series of obstacles, simply with the distinctive setting.  Perhaps that is an unfair comparison, since it would probably be impossible to recreate visually the way that Hemingway's distinctive writing so effectively establishes settings and themes (and the book A Farewell To Arms also drew on many of Hemingway's personal experiences).In its own right, the film works pretty well most of the time.  Cooper is a little too one-dimensional at times, but otherwise pretty good.  Adolphe Menjou helps out as Cooper's military colleague.  The main part of the story is followed fairly closely, and it's a good story that is worth watching - it's just that the novel is much more memorable.  "},{"Title":"The Best Hemingway book-turned movie ever!","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I love this version! But don't be misled by the image of the film case on the ad. It says Helen Hayes and Cary Grant when the leading man is Gary Cooper. Who else could play the part better than Coop? My favorite scene by far is when he is in the tavern praying to God that Helen's character (Catherine) wont die. It's a beautiful moment and I'm glad that there are (or were) actors in Hollywood who can put themselves into the heart of their character and make them that believable. Yes, I cried a little but who wouldn't cry at a beautiful moment like that? It's a great film with a great cast. A timeless romantic epic. "}{"Title":"The Movie That Lost Its Way","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I don't get it. Other than the characters' names, relations, and WWI, I felt like this movie changed a whole lot of the actual plot of the book. It was good, would've been good had I not read the book -- as a classic Hollywood romance, and Cooper and Hayes are excellent actors. But the problem is I have read the book, and this is hardly an adaptation of the novel. Nowhere in the novel does Rinaldi get jealous and try to sabotage Frederic's letters to Catharine. And Frederic and Catharine are together when she goes to the hospital; there's not this whole scrambling scene of Frederic trying to get to the hospital on time when he hears Catharine's in danger. It was almost like the writers/directors of this film were willing to follow the book closely to a point... then all of a sudden they lost about 100 or so pages in the middle and felt like they could fill in the gap by writing in an entirely different sequence of events, so long as they all led back to that final hospital deathbed scene. And yes, the deathbed scene was very melodramatic and somewhat missed the point of the ending of the Hemingway book, but had that been the film's only flaw I would've been able to put up with it; this was, after all, the overly-theatrical 1930s when a cold, understated ending like in the book wouldn't have sold tickets. Unfortunately, the added plot and character dimensions could've graciously been done without. I guess I'd probably give it 5 out of 10, only because of what it potentially could've been, or could be, had it not been attached to Hemingway's novel. "},{"Title":"Film as a study of human behavior","Date":"9 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This film has, at the beginning several instances of behavior that many films utilize that make me wonder if the behavior was intended by the author, director, or actor. A natural plot point was exhibited when the ambulances were going uphill & someone in back pleaded for the truck to stop because a wounded soldier was 'bleeding to death'. The ambulance could not stop because it was on a grade and stopping was impossible. This would show the cruelty of war. However, when the ambulance reaches the hospital the lieutenant in charge of the ambulance flirts with nurses before arranging for off-loading patients at the hospital. Gary Cooper, as Lieutenant Henry, does his cute-character bit while wounded soldiers are dying in the ambulances.Did the author intend for the lieutenant to behave with such cruelty? The lieutenant will later desert out of love for his wife. Maybe his whole manner is of a self-involved dandy. But the author has characters mentioning the cruelty of war all the time. But if these people are cruel also, how can they complain.The character doctor Rinaldi says something along the lines that Christians should not mind being killed, presumably because they go on to their 'reward' of heaven. Did the author write this? Did the author intend the flippant way that the doctor says it? The director shoots a shot of an uncaring lieutenant immediately after the ambulance attendant complains that a soldier is bleeding to death. Was this the intention of the author, the director (or editor) making a statement of their own. Maybe this was a decision by Gary Cooper.The nurse and lieutenant may complain about the cruelty of war, but their whole affair was the result of them volunteering to be there. Then they proceed to abandon there posts repeatedly.To me any case to be made for the importance of humanity is undermined by everybody in the 'play' lacking it. The doctor friend of Henry keeps calling Henry his baby & then proceeds to destroy his life by pushing him to alcoholism. Each character seems to say 'I'm human and it is important to be human' & then proceeds to do something cruel. Presumably, the war only ended because of exhaustion and not because of intelligent human thought.I guess what confuses me is the way the characters (or actors) work very hard, which tends to make me sympathetic to them, but when their behavior is cruel a dissonance is created. "},{"Title":"Creaky Hemingway tale badly in need of restoration...","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Even given the fact that the film looks rather primitive when seen on TV these days, at least GARY COOPER and HELEN HAYES do considerably better than ROCK HUDSON and JENNIFER JONES in the Selznick remake.But still, this is just another example of how difficult it seems to be to transfer Hemingway to the screen. The author himself disclaimed the film version (as he did with the later remake), and it's easy to see why. So many plot elements from the book are missing in order to focus on the love story between deserter Cooper and nurse Hayes in the midst of World War I.HELEN HAYES was a great stage star lured to Hollywood who soon discovered that her talents were more suited to the stage, even if she did win an Oscar for THE SIN OF MADELEINE CLAUDET. Here she has a conventional romantic heroine role and does fairly well with routine material.Frankly, the story of A FAREWELL TO ARMS never resonated with me. I'm not a Hemingway fan either, which may account for my general dislike of the film. I have yet to see a good print of it in which the sound track sounds better than tinny and the photography can best be described as murky.Summing up Not one of the better films of the early '30s. "},{"Title":"This just doesn't age well","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Back in the early 1930s, this film probably played a lot better than it does now. Over 70 years later, the film just seems to creak with old age--with a very, very, very melodramatic and unconvincing plot. This sort of over-done schmaltziness was much more accepted in its day, but now it just seemed pretty hard to take. And this is a shame, really, as there are STILL some excellent elements in the film. Underneath it all, there is the germ of an interesting romance. Gary Cooper and Helen Hayes play a young couple united by the war who fall in love. As a pre-Code production, the plot was much more adult than you might have seen just a few years later, as Hayes' character becomes pregnant with Cooper's baby! He is shipped back to his unit and they lose contact with each other. As a result, both suffer immensely--though having Cooper eventually become a war deserter did make it hard to really care about him. Yes, it was a stupid war (WWI cost millions of lives for pretty much nothing), but Cooper just seemed like a guy with a lack of character--especially since, as an ambulance driver, his deserting may have cost lives. So, on one hand, I felt for the young couple, and on the other, I felt they were just,....stupid and selfish.Apart from these problems, the film also suffers from SEVERE sound issues. I tried two different videotape versions and finally a DVD and ALL of them had horrible sound--so bad, that I almost gave up trying to watch it. "},{"Title":"the best film ever made","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" well there are many movies made every year but very few leave their impact so hard in the minds of its viewers and this movie in on the top slot of them.those of you who have not seen this movie--a piece of advice--just rush and watch it if u like romantic movies and like to cry a lot.u will love it.it depicts the life of a nurse who fell in love with an army officer and how they get separated and then meet after a long time with same enthusiasm.-=-=-=-=-=-=-= -=-=-=-=-= -=-=-= -=-=-=- =-=-=-=-= -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=- =-=-=-=-=-=-= -=-=-=-=-=-=- =-=-=-=-= -=-=-=-=-=-=- =-=-=-=-=-= -=-=-=-=-=-= -=-=-=-=- =-=-=-=-= -=-=-=-=-=-=- =-=-=-=-=- =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=- "}]