[{"Title":"Dated, melodramatic...and MAGNIFICENT","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"95 out of 106 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen Grand Hotel at least fifteen times -- more than any other '30s film with the possible exception of two other classics King Kong and Astaire and Rogers' The Gay Divorcee.Quite a few others reviewers here have commented negatively on this creaky old film.  They are correct -- it is -- and yet, who cares?  It's utterly wonderful!The whole cast is superb -- charming, desperate, vulnerable John Barrymore; cynical, sad, appealing Joan Crawford; pathetic, whining, irrepressible Lionel Barrymore; coarse, selfish, all-too-humanly cruel Wallace Beery; and of course, the great Greta Garbo.  The supporting cast, led by Lewis Stone and Jean Hersholt, are equally good.Those who criticize Garbo as over-the-top in her portrayal of the prima ballerina are right.  She IS over-the-top, AND she is absolutely glorious, whether wallowing in self-pitying, suicidal despair or radiant as the spring with a new love which astonishes and transports her.  What a unique, unforgettable screen presence!  What a Goddess!Grand Hotel holds this viewer, anyway, entranced from beginning to end.  In addition to the superlative acting, the art deco design is stunning and the music always appropriate.Creaky?  You bet.  Do they make movies like this anymore?  Nope.  Do I wish they did?  I sure do. "},{"Title":"Check Into This Establishment","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"64 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A world-weary prima ballerina, desperate for love. A noble cat thief, desperate for money. A dying clerk, out on a last fling. His industrialist boss, passionate & brutal. A pretty young stenographer, willing to do almost anything to get ahead. A hotel bell captain, anxious to hear about his pregnant wife. And a cynical, war-scarred doctor. Destiny awaits them all in one of Europe's most renowned establishments - Berlin's GRAND HOTEL.This is considered to be the first `all star' movie. It was certainly MGM's most opulent film up to that time. The studio loaded it with an A List of star performers Greta Garbo, uttering her trademark phrase, `I want to be alone.' Radiant in love, one can only imagine the despair that awaits her after the film ends.John Barrymore, suave, sophisticated & ultimately tragic.Lionel Barrymore, in a performance that will stay in your memory, slowly dying.Wallace Beery in a heavy role, all bullying bluff & bluster.Joan Crawford, tough as nails & good as gold.Lewis Stone, Jean Hersholt, Rafaela Ottiano & Ferdinand Gottschalk all lend sterling support.There was concern that putting so much talent into one film, instead of spreading the stars out over 4 or 5 films, would lose the studio money. Not to worry. It was a great success, financially & critically. Watch how the plot weaves the threads of the characters' lives into a finished tapestry. One of the great movies. Tremendously satisfying.  "},{"Title":"Hotel Berlin","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"61 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" GRAND HOTEL (Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, 1932), directed by Edmund Goulding, from the stage production by Vicki Baum, marks one of MGM's most prestigious projects. Other than being one of those rare films from the 1930s to be frequently revived, if not overplayed, on television over the past decades, it has stood the test of time solely due its impressive all-star cast. Of the five major leading actors, feature billing goes to Greta Garbo, MGM's most important box-office star to date. Unlike other Garbo films, GRAND HOTEL, is not all Garbo. She shares screen time with other top-named MGM performers, ranging from John and Lionel Barrymore, Wallace Beery and Lewis Stone. The only other major actress to appear in this production is the youthful and down-to-earth Joan Crawford, who, in fact, is on screen more than the legendary Garbo. While many might consider Crawford the best of the two female stars, Garbo, who's acting style is somewhat different from the others, should be observed and studied. Her role as Grusinskaya, the Russian ballerina, is performed two ways, that of a lonely, depressed dancer striving for success, then, after encountering the Baron (John Barrymore), becomes full of joy and laughter. Watching this transformation on screen is like seeing the two sides of Garbo.Edmund Goulding directs this 113 minute drama at a fast-pace, starting its opening with overhead camera shots of numerous switchboard operators connecting the incoming calls, followed by the brief introduction of the central characters conversing on the telephone in the hotel lobby Senf (Jean Hersholt), the head hotel clerk, awaits the news of his wife who is about to give birth to their child; Otto Kringelein (Lionel Barrymore), a bookkeeper, diagnosed with an incurable disease who quits his job to enjoy his remaining days to the fullest; Preysing (Wallace Beery), a no-nonsense industrialist staying at the hotel to negotiate a business deal with important clients; Suzette (Rafaella Ottiano), the maid to the famous Russian dancer, Grusinskaya, who expresses concern about her employer; Baron Felix Von Greigern (John Barrymore), an adventurer traveling with his Dachshund dog, desperately in need of money to pay off a heavy debt, planning his latest robbery by stealing valuable jewels from the famous ballerina; and Otternschlag (Lewis Stone), a scarred doctor who walks about the hotel lobby, observing the goings on, and reciting to himself quietly, Grand Hotel, people come, people go, and NOTHING ever happens! Things start to happen as Flaemmchen (Joan Crawford), a stenographer with ambition, is hired by Preysing as his personal secretary. She soon makes the acquaintance of the handsome Baron and the poorly dressed Kringelein. Later that evening, after the lonely and unhappy Grusinskaya (Greta Garbo) leaves the hotel for the theater, the Baron sneaks into her room from the outside window to rob her. After she returns, the Baron, still there, hides himself, only to take notice that Grusinskaya, unhappy, intends on taking her own life. He suddenly appears, telling her he's one of her biggest admirers. In spite of telling the Baron that she wants to be alone, the Baron remains and confesses everything. How will the Baron be able to get money he so desperately needs? As for the other guests, will Preysing, a married man with two grown daughters who has made Flaemmchen his mistress after working hours, succeed with his business negotiations? Will Flaemmchen continue to get something out of life by not being particular on how she does it? Will Grusinskaya marry her beloved jewel thief Baron or will she go on with her career? Will Kringelein find the happiness he deserves before he succumbs? What will his hotel bill be after checking out from most expensive hotel in Germany? Will that kill him before his illness does?While GRAND HOTEL could have told its stories in separate installments, it's done as one film focusing on separate characters through different time frames. Of the central characters, only Senf, the hotel clerk (Hersholt) is the least important, appearing only in a few scenes unrelated to the plot. Lewis Stone's role is also secondary, but memorable, especially with his opening and closing lines. Wallace Berry, is cast against type, sporting glasses, a short haircut, mustache and the only American actor speaking with a German accent. Lionel Barrymore, sporting a derby, over-sized clothing, thick mustache and glasses, is almost unrecognizable as Kringelein. In fact, he almost comes off best over all the major actors. Although playing a tragic figure, he does have a classic drunken comedy bit, along with a poignant scene where, after winning a large sum of money playing cards, discovers that his wallet containing all his money, is missing.Fortunately, GRAND HOTEL does not play like a filmed stage play. The art deco and luxurious sets are a sight to behold. And why not? The Grand Hotel happens to be the most expensive and luxurious hotel in Berlin. GRAND HOTEL obviously registered well upon its release. It won the Academy Award as Best Picture of 1931/32. In later years, GRAND HOTEL has become imitated and spoofed many times. MGM remade GRAND HOTEL as WEEKEND AT THE WALDORF (1945), modernizing the story to contemporary New York City with World War II background, featuring its top marquee names of the day Ginger Rogers, Lana Turner, Walter Pidgeon and Van Johnson. It was later adapted into a Broadway musical in the 1990s. Both screen versions are available on video cassette, DVD and Turner Classic Movies cable television. For a good time with a film classic, check in the GRAND HOTEL and see what the stars are doing for the weekend. (****) "},{"Title":"Ominous","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"45 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Setting aside the fact that this is a landmark in the history of Hollywood, it has an unintended effect of foreshadowing the Second World War. GRAND HOTEL, filmed in 1932, is set in a luxury hotel in contemporary Berlin. There are several moments (during scenes with the disfigured doctor in particular) when characters refer to their sacrifices in the First World War. The most pointed remark runs something like we won battle after battle, only to be told we'd lost the war.) At the time this film was made, Hitler was about a year and a half away from becoming Chancellor. GRAND HOTEL, based on a work by Vicki Baum, who wrote for a German readership, is less a story of the idle rich and the poor who serve them than an observation of the quiet rage stealing over a society whose war wounds only seem to deepen as time passes. Wallace Beery's character, a corrupt industrialist, was, in 1932, a staple of German art and theatre. An American audience in 1932 would merely have seen him as a fat-cat, but, in the Weimar Republic, particularly just before the Nazis took power, such a stereotype was provocative. Watching GRAND HOTEL with a sense of what was about to happen in Germany, one sees not so much a sophisticated soap-opera as a macabre meditation on the genteel side of a very dark phase in history. "},{"Title":"The Last Days of Weimar","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"39 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's interesting that the Best Picture of the year before Hitler came to power in Germany, set in Germany, made no mention of the political situation in the country at the time. There was mention of the Depression Germany and the rest of the world was in and all five of the principal players were affected by it, one way or another. John Barrymore, Lionel Barrymore, Greta Garbo, Wallace Beery, and Joan Crawford all check into the Grand Hotel one day and their lives are never the same. Greta Garbo is the temperamental Russian ballerina Grusinskaya and her artistic tantrums are getting less and less tolerable in many ways because of the Depression. John Barrymore is the aristocrat now living in genteel poverty. His world ended with World War I, but the Depression reduced him to being a sneak thief. Lionel Barrymore is the terminally ill bookkeeper who now just wants to spend his last days living it up. He's just going to ignore the Depression. Wallace Beery is the Prussian industrialist who's used to high living having married the boss's daughter, but his firm as so many others is about to go under unless he can pull off a merger. Lionel Barrymore is one of hundreds who work for him and know what an extremely little man he is, that Beery is really lacking in any real ability for business. Finally there's Joan Crawford who's a working class girl, hired as a stenographer by Beery who has other things on his mind for Crawford.Whether in Germany or America Joan Crawford is the eternal shop girl. To her credit she does not attempt any kind of a Teutonic accent and her performance rings true. This is in complete contrast to Susan and God where she was consciously trying to imitate Gertrude Lawrence from the stage. This was the Depression in America too and many could identify with her.No one epitomized class and old world elegance like John Barrymore, he was not better on film than here in Grand Hotel. He hates the life that poverty has reduced him to. Using his old world charm as a facade for being a thief tears him inside. Meeting Greta Garbo gives him a last chance at redeeming his life.Garbo's performance is one of her best as well. I'm not sure any other actress could have made you sympathize with the temperamental ballerina. In the hands of anyone less skilled, the audience would have sympathized with the management of her ballet company who want to can her. When John Barrymore enters her life he's like the audience she entertained over the years rolled up in one person who still cares about her the individual. It's a last chance for happiness for her as well.Wallace Beery had a funny thing not happened to him in Grand Hotel which I won't reveal might have been quite comfortable with the regime to come in Germany. Beery is the only one in the film to attempt any kind of Germanic speech and he does succeed in his portrayal of the hateful industrialist Preysing.My favorite in Grand Hotel has always been Lionel Barrymore. Lionel may very well have been the most talented in the Barrymore family. Playing the gentle, terminally ill Kringelein is light years different from Mr. Potter in It's A Wonderful Life or Captain Disko Troup in Captains Courageous. Three very different roles yet Lionel Barrymore imprints his personality on every one. A meek little man, he's got courage enough now, courage that comes when you have absolutely nothing to lose.Grand Hotel is now 75 years old. The style of acting you see here is old fashioned indeed, no one could remake Grand Hotel today in the same style. It's melodramatic, but it works. It's a fascinating look into the last days of the Weimar Republic as seen from the balcony of a suite at the Grand Hotel in Berlin. "},{"Title":"A true classic with a brand new formula -the all star cast","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"30 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The idea of a multi-level story peopled by an all star cast was brand new with this feature which deservedly won an Oscar for Best Picture though it received no other nominations.  Garbo is marvelous as the world-weary ballerina who finds ill-fated romance and John Barrymore is perfect as the suave Baron.   The brilliant supporting performances of a young, fresh Joan Crawford as Flaemchen, the stenographer, and Lionel Barrymore as the dying Kringelein deserved Oscars but the category hadn't been invented yet.  The cast works together superbly and the direction moves along at a good pace, giving us both romance and drama in equal doses.   The script is excellent and MGM's production values are quite fine. Truly a film classic and a must-see. "},{"Title":"Impressive Star Power","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The impressive array of stars is what makes Grand Hotel worth watching.  It's also a pretty good feat of writing to create enough room for Garbo, Crawford, the Barrymores, and Beery all to operate.  Each of them gets good characters and plenty of screen time in which to perform.  The plot is not really that great, but it is written so as to bring all of these characters together in one place.Which of the stars gives the best performance probably depends on which character you like the best.  They all have their own story lines, and while much of the plot is rather implausible, the acting is such that you don't notice it that much most of the time.  The ways that the characters react and change according to circumstances lets you see some fine performers show what they can do.While it may be old-fashioned now in a number of respects, it's still a good film, and a rare chance to see this many film greats all at once. "},{"Title":"A Grand Classic!","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" More than 70 years later and it stood the test of time. Edmund Goulding directs the movie which starts at a slower pace but towards as things proceed, pace picks up. Greta Garbo was definitely the star of the time but here she's quite a drama queen. It's Joan Crawford who gives the best performance (and has a more fleshed out role than Garbo). The actress indeed has a stronger presence than Garbo and she's simply terrific. Lionel Barrymore and John Barrymore are equally impressive. Lionel is particularly good in balancing his characters tragedy and comedy. The supporting cast is adequate.The cinematography is amazing as it gives us a marvelous glare of the grandness of the Grand Hotel, the overhead shot of the operators who're connecting the incoming calls, and then focussing on the different characters who're all either desperate for money, happiness or nothing (as they are satisfied with what they have e.g. the head hotel clerk). Everyone is shown to be busy with their own individual life and this is further stressed on in the final scene.In addition to that, the set designs are spectacular reflecting the indifferent atmosphere and the beauty of the hotel. The reference to the War is also put in a very subtle way (as the film was made in the 30s) through the Baron's story and the scar on the doctor's face. Some might be bored in the beginning (due to the slow pace) but just bear with it, the film does get better and one will indeed understand why it stood the test of time. A grand classic it is indeed! "},{"Title":"Five Desperate People.","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"28 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Some seventy-odd years after its release in 1932, GRAND HOTEL today holds an interesting attraction more for the presence of its two leading ladies than from its cinematic power, although there will be some purists who will state that because the images of Joan Crawford and Greta Garbo have been immortalized in their own respective canons, that in itself is cinematic power. I personally won't argue, preferring to stick to my own personal views instead of following the herd.I've seen GRAND HOTEL twice now, and I'll grant it that despite its soap-opera like story lines, there seems to be something a little deeper going on which is only alluded to in the sidelines the delicate tightrope which Flammchen (Joan Crawford) walks on as she is courted by Presyling (Wallace Beery) and later on decides to stay by Otto Kringelein's (Lionel Barrymore) side. This was most probably unintentional since sources state that the screenplay follows the story closely, but today's values would have Flammchen behave much differently. I find her character to be the moral opposite of Barbara Stanwyck's amoral Lily Powers in BABY FACE, another woman who uses her sexuality to advance to the top. Joan Crawford's Flammchen doesn't actively use her charms as sort of glide by while positively glowing and stealing all of the light from Garbo, and one can sense that were she of a much different nature, all of the men in GRAND HOTEL would have a dangerous young woman to deal with, and Barrymore's end would be similar to J. Howard Marshall's demise in the hands of (a much smarter, less coked-up) Anna Nicole Smith. She'd more than likely wind up owning the hotel herself in no time.But not to digress. The plot moves along in a nice pace thanks to Goulding's direction; never does it linger on too much on one specific character, though at least for me, anytime Garbo was on screen the story came to a crashing halt. I'm going to get a lot of flack from rabid Garbo fans, but I don't get her allure, her mystery, the essence that made her so intriguing. At twenty-seven, she already looks ten years older thanks to her severe nature. Her face is constantly in a frown, moody, full of angst reflected in her throaty voice. Her performance is so atrociously mannered I can see Jennifer Jason Leigh easily out-doing her, but better, more authentic (anyone who recalls her exacting yet eccentric portrayal of Dorothy Parker can easily see her becoming and improving Garbo). I never got to see what her character with the unpronounceable name was all about; no true trauma, just this death-wish to be left alone. Then she capriciously takes on with the Baron von Geigern (a dashing yet shady John Barrymore) who is more interested in her jewels but tells her he could love her; he out-acts her at every turn with subtlety and genuine charm even when his part seems underwritten. In short, Garbo, for all her mystique is the sore thumb of GRAND HOTEL.I much prefer the events surrounding Crawford and the older Barrymore. Lionel Barrymore, the horrible villain from IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE, plays a meek former bookkeeper who is at the end of his life and wants to enjoy his stay at the hotel. His wish is quite simple he wants to enjoy his last days, a diametric opposite to Garbo who wants to be alone (and she says it three times). He teams up with Crawford, enjoys a dance with her and falls for her even though she's much too young. All the time I got the sensation he knew the character of Kringelein, a man who has been pushed around by Preysling and is still not quite free of his micromanaging shadow. There is not a shed of ego in his performance. One can imagine seeing Crawford reach out to the older gentleman and actually making his days happier and is a fitting ending to her own storyline as she is lecherously pursued by Wallace Beery and romanced by John Barrymore. If anything, her character is the most sympathetic of the five main characters and the symbol of the emerging modern woman of the Thirties ambitious but girlish, efficient but not a workaholic, smart and independent despite struggling to make ends meet.GRAND HOTEL hasn't aged well. Its values were the thing back in the Depression era, showing glossy characters who were all looking for some form of security while surrounded by the exuberance of the hotel and who were not given much depth in their characterizations. The characters are more or less archetypes and are predicted to act in a certain way, and when their fates collide, it's (now) not a surprise. Now, what it did do was set the standard for lavish productions involving a roster of well-known actors and stars in a perfect balance of talent and star-power, most notably seen today in the films of Woody Allen and Robert Altman, but closer to the less intellectually challenging type of high-profile film seen in the 50s and throughout the 70s. I enjoyed it then and now and regard it as a classic film set in a pre-Code Hollywood that has its own ancient beauty, for more reasons than Garbo's mannered face. "},{"Title":"She wanted to be alone","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Vicky Baum's novel Menschen I'm Hotel serves as the basis for this 1932 film that was a vehicle for Greta Garbo. Grand Hotel, as directed by Edmund Golding, was a magnificent film that had a lot of first class stars of the era in prominent roles. In fact, this seems to be one of the first films to have relied in the prominent names it gathered to portray the different characters in the movie.By today's standards, the film is dated, but for a discriminating film fan, Grand Hotel is a classic because of the star turns one witnesses. Also, today's fans have to make concessions for the style of acting that was prevalent at the time. The movies have begun talking not long before this film was made and the stars of those silents were still doing their acting in front of the camera as though no one was going to hear them talk. In fact, most of the complaints in comments submitted to this forum would have been different if this was 1932 and the film had just come out.The best advice for anyone new to this film is to sit back, relax, and enjoy the trials and tribulations of the people seen at Berlin's Grand Hotel.The biggest surprise of the film is the shortness of Greta Garbo presence in the film, in which for some unknown reason, she looms large above the rest of the players. As the Russian ballerina Grusinskaya, Ms. Garbo played one of the best characters of her career. Her way of acting is still imbued with what was expected of her.John Barrymore as the Baron Von Geigern, the impoverished nobleman, is key to the story. The moment he meets the great Grusinskaya, he is lost forever. Lionel Barrymore is excellent as the poor Otto Kringelein, who thinks he is going to die real soon. Joan Crawford, is the stenographer Flaemmchen who seems to arise passion among all the men she meets. Ms. Crawford does excellent work in a role she discarded later on in favor of more dramatic appearances.What makes Grand Hotel the timeless classic it became is the magnificent camera work by William H. Daniels, a man who knew how to get the best out of Greta Garbo in their many films together. Also the music which is from Franz Lehar's The Merry Widow serves as a nice distraction in the background.The most famous phrase in the film I want to be alone, seems prophetic in retrospect as the divine Garbo had about eight more years in the movies. "}{"Title":"Lavish Early-Era Oscar-Winning Soap Opera","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A drunk doctor, an eccentric dancer, a high-class thief, a businessman, his mistress and a terminally-ill bookkeeper cross paths in Grand Hotel, the Best Picture Oscar winner from 1932. One of the first true soap operas ever produced by Hollywood follows an array of colorful characters as they all stay at a luxury hotel in 1930s Germany. Sub-stories, amazing performances and a clever screenplay keep this very large film above water. The film is also a strange footnote in Oscar history as it was only nominated for Best Picture and won that honor. Edmund Goulding became only the second of three people to direct a Best Picture winner and not be nominated himself (William A. Wellman for Wings in 1928 and Bruce Beresford for Driving Miss Daisy in 1989 are the only other two). The all-star cast acts as an ensemble with John and Lionel Barrymore making the biggest impressions on the audience. 4.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Very melodramatic - and pretty good","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Edmund Goulding's 1932 film Grand Hotel, about 48 hours in a plush German hotel has a dream cast. Grusinskaya (Greta Garbo) is a Russian prima ballerina in town for several performances, who is lonely, a drama queen, and suicidal. She meets Baron von Geigern (John Barrymore) a hotel thief who inadvertently is in her room (having been in the process of stealing some jewelry) when she is about to commit suicide, and stays the night with her, convincing her not to end things. The two fall in love, of course, much to the disappointment of Flaemmchen (Joan Crawford), a woman that von Geigern was romancing the day before. Flaemmchen is a stenographer, and her boss, German tycoon Preysing (Wallace Beery) is having a hard time with a merger he is trying to transact. One of Preysing's employees at a factory he owns is bookkeeper Otto Kringelein (Lionel Barrymore). Otto is staying at the hotel because he only has a short time to live, so he takes his entire life savings and decides to live the rest of his life in luxury. Throughout the 48 hours that the action takes place, friendships are made, loves are found and lost, and a murder changes the lives of all of the main characters.Grand Hotel won the Oscar for Best Picture of 1932, and it is easy to see why. The film is an epic without having an enormous cast or exotic locales. From the films that I have seen of this decade, this is one of the first examples of an intertwining narrative structure. We are used to seeing this now; (think Altman, in particular) where characters are all somehow connected, even though they may not even know each other. Another fine early example that I can recall was a decade later with Tales of Manhattan. The acting is incredible, though Garbo's REALLY over-the-top performance was a bit much. Realizing that she was a drama queen as a profession, I excused a lot of it, but it got to a point where I was really snickering to myself after awhile, because she was acting just like Gloria Swanson later would in Sunset Boulevard. One explanation could be that this was still a really early stage of the talking picture, and silent films solely relied on gestures and facial expressions to convey emotion. I was very impressed with the performances of the Barrymore brothers (I've always loved Lionel Barrymore), and was stunned by Crawford's talent as well as beauty.Grand Hotel is rife with melodrama, but it was not hackneyed or maudlin. I am actually quite surprised it isn't on the IMDb top 250 list; I found it to be that good. I am a big fan of Douglas Sirk's melodramatic films of the 1940's and 1950's, and Grand Hotel is a great predecessor of that genre. 7/10 --Shelly "},{"Title":"Over the Top!","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Grand Hotel is considered to be a fine example of the work of Greta Garbo, but I like other critics of this film on this website seem to agree that her performance is over the top, and on par with acting that took place in silent films, exaggerated and unreal.The best performance in the film is Joan Crawford. Early in her career her acting and the genuine and real quality she brings to the role shows why she has remained at the top for so long. Great performances as well by both Lionel Barrymore and brother John. This is the film where Garbo utters I vant to be alone. The fine cast of Jean Hersholt and Lewis Stone are wasted as they are both in the film for only a few scenes each. "},{"Title":"Yes!  It is Grand!","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Grand Hotel remains surprisingly effective even today, and as some reviewers have suggested, is a precursor to Robert Altman's style of film-making, in which many characters interact and bounce off one another in unexpected ways. The action moves at a quick pace, as the scene constantly shifts between the characters. Director Edmund Goulding even utilized wipes to change the scene, which must have seemed very high-tech back in the early 1930's.The narrative form is fluid, allowing each character to nicely develop his or her storyline in relation to the others. A story like Grand Hotel could easily become staid and set-bound, especially considering it was taken from a play, but the interesting sets, exquisite costumes, and the countless players keep the excitement level high.The performances are certainly first-rate, as one would expect from the A-list cast. I do realize that many of today's viewers find Greta Garbo's aging Russian ballerina to be an exercise in over-indulgence, but I do enjoy her immensely! And who here today actually knows for certain how an aging Russian ballerina would act out when alone in her hotel room or with her entourage? Have today's critics spent time with Garbo's contemporary Pavlova, and found her by example to be much more subdued and controlled? It is not too much of a stretch to believe that Garbo's Grusinskaya may have existed in the actuality of 1932.And what fun it is watching her as she goes through every emotion imaginable! Her great voice was always one of her best tools, and she certainly uses it to advantage here, throwing away lines that other actresses would have played up, and vice-versa. And the tight close ups of her beautiful face are breathtaking! I will only mention one scene specifically when she futilely attempts to telephone her lover, the Baron, in the middle of the night. Alone on the screen she pleads for him to pick up, at times excited and joyful, quickly turning into desperation and despair and back again. She cradles the telephone receiver as if it were her lover.Another knock-out performance comes from the young Joan Crawford, who in this huge production proved to the world she was an excellent actress who could hold the screen with any seasoned pro. As the shapely stenographer Flaemmchen, Crawford is absolutely stunning, as beautiful as Garbo, and a sexuality that certainly made guys in the audience take careful notice. And the profile of her extraordinary face was surely as great as John Barrymore's more famous one! She lends a distinct eroticism to her role, as she expertly delivers her character's suggestive dialogue, often with an resigned air of cynicism or jaded pessimism.Of the male characters, Wallace Beery definitely commands attention! His portrayal of the desperate industrialist Preysing is both repellent and charismatic. As a man who exudes power and slowly begins to lose control, his performance is expertly crafted and layered. And I'd be remiss not to mention the Barrymore brothers, who round out the cast superbly. John charms both the men and women on screen with natural ease, while Lionel whimpers and whines like no other ever could. Both their characters are heartbreaking, each in his individual way. Even lesser characters, like Lewis Stone's horribly scarred doctor (in make-up that truly is disturbing) and Rafaela Ottiano's maid have their moments in the spotlight.Minor spoiler aheadOne scene that I found poignant was the bell boy quickly escorting the Baron's poor pet dachshund out the hotel lobby by its leash. They pass a janitor sweeping the floor with a large push broom, who without reason shoves the small dog along with the broom, causing it to stumble. The poor thing, wondering what hit it, turns around as it scoots along, only to have the janitor sweep a cloud of dust into its face. A truly sad small moment, as the viewer is left to wonder what will become of the dog now that it has lost its status as the beloved pet of a nobleman.End of minor spoilerYes, Grand Hotel still remains splendid entertainment! "},{"Title":"Grand Cliché","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The only production of Grand Hotel I've ever seen that actually worked (that, in fact, was deeply moving) was the Broadway musical from the early '90s. Of course, it didn't do so well, being head and shoulders above both the original play and this all-star M-G-M romp.There is a reason why this is the only film to win Best Picture at the Academy Awards -- and nothing else.If it ain't on the page, it ain't on the stage, actors have maintained since, oh, Euripides.Here, what's on the page is cliché after cliché -- pretentious conceits that were already old and tired by 1932.What's fascinating is certainly not Goulding's hackneyed direction, but the various actors' more or less successful attempts to breathe real life into cardboard roles.At the top of that list is Lionel Barrymore. In retrospect, and considering his entire filmic career, he was a far more versatile and better actor than John. One always gets a vivid character, and not Lionel Barrymore playing one. (Watch him in You Can't Take It With You, for instance, when he had to work on crutches because of his advancing arthritis. Amazing.) Next, Joan Crawford. Third-billed, and even with added Garbo scenes to keep Crawford from walking off with Grand Hotel, she still does.Crawford and Lionel Barrymore not only make their clichéd lines and characters wholly believable, they literally walk off into the sunrise together at the end, as clichés often do.Wallace Beery is wonderful and dimensional and even heart-breaking as Preysing. (He apparently only accepted the role because he was promised he would be the single star with a German accent.) John Barrymore, next, does the best he can playing a Baron who wears more eye shadow than Garbo. Oh, wait Barrymore ALWAYS wore more eye shadow than his leading ladies. Whether a carryover from his theatrical makeups during his stage career, or a misguided attempt to give his puffy alcoholic's face some screen definition, it's hard to say. What's easy to say is that he's occasionally effective here, and affecting; but mostly self-conscious. Why is that man wearing all that eye-shadow? leads to an awareness that one can almost count, beat by beat, his stagy timing of even so simple a gesture as gently chucking Crawford's chin, or his vain attempt to make a mediocre script sound like iambic pentameter. In Bill of Divorcement, with Katherine Hepburn, in this same year, he still wears more eye shadow than she, and is still given to the odd sing-song stage (as opposed to film) line reading. But he's much better. Then again, so is that play.Then there's Garbo. Truly, a stunning film actress, an immortal phenomenon (and, as always, photographed by the brilliant William Daniels, breathtakingly beautiful). But please, out of courtesy to her talent and legend, don't compare her performance here with any of her others (Camille, say, or Ninotchka or Anna Karenina). Director Goulding allowed her favorite mannerisms to get the best of her the constantly dancing eyebrows in closeups, the tilt-back of the head to gaze soulfully at ceilings (were cue-cards pasted up there?).Lewis Stone gets nothing to do but embody a one-man Greek Chorus, over and over, about (to paraphrase) People come and go. But nothing ever happens in the Grand Hotel. Adrian's costumes and Cedric Gibbons' art direction provide as much drama and character as the script. Possibly more one finds oneself admiring the detailing in a hotel room door, or the sweep of a moderne upholstered chair in Lionel Barrymore's suite during his ecstatically played (and largely silent) drunk scene, at the expense of what's happening between the predictable characters.Watchable? Certainly. A revelation? Yes, when Crawford and Lionel Barrymore are on screen. Great? No. It's a pretentious novel turned into a pretentious play turned into a pretentious film -- pretending to be profound, timeless and enduring.Instead of the Grand Cliché that it is. "},{"Title":"There is a Grand Hotel in every city in the the world","Date":"2 June 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A hotel is merely a transit station. People come, people go. Guests partake in dinner, dancing and gambling; occasionally, something more dramatic unfolds &#x96; a man and woman fall in love, a heart is broken, a person is murdered. Then the guests leave, and new customers take their place, oblivious to the events that unfolded just the previous day. The slate is wiped clean; the hotel has a short memory. As Dr Otternschlag (Lewis Stone) knowingly muses, Grand Hotel&#x85; always the same. People come, people go. Nothing ever happens. Edmund Goulding's Oscar-winning 'Grand Hotel (1932)' is a mere snapshot of several days in the life of Berlin's finest rest-stop, in which lives are changed forever, and yet the guests' full stories can never be known. An astonishing cast &#x96; Greta Garbo, John Barrymore, Lionel Barrymore, Joan Crawford, Wallace Beery, Jean Hersholt &#x96; introduced a new style of storytelling, with ensemble casts of unrelated characters whose lives inexplicably interweave. A slew of imitations followed in the early 1930s, and author Graham Greene was inspired to write his first successful novel, Stamboul Train.In 1932, the United States was still in the midst of the Great Depression, but Hollywood was optimistic. Producers knew that audiences flocked to cinemas precisely to escape their own worrisome lives, to temporarily imagine themselves beside their favourite movie stars in glittering surroundings. Films like 'Grand Hotel (1932)' and 'Top Hat (1935)' delivered on this promise, with extravagant hotel rooms and wealthy businessmen flaunting their wealth. The dreams of the working-class are depicted through Otto Kringelein (Lionel Barrymore), an unremarkable clerk whose impending death prompts him to splurge his savings and enjoy his final weeks. The cycle of life is used allegorically to symbolise the circular narrative of life at a hotel. While hotel porter Senf (Jean Hersholt) awaits news of his child's birth, a guest awaits his own death. By the film's end, one man is dead, and a baby is born. Other characters are abandoned before their stories have reached a satisfactory conclusion, mimicking the continuous nature of life itself.The film's cast is occasionally hampered by an acting style left over from the silent era, but is otherwise excellent. John Barrymore is suave and charming as a good-hearted pearl thief, and brother Lionel is even better, offering a poignant portrait of a dying man who finally understands what living life is all about. Joan Crawford and Wallace Beery provide able support, but aren't quite as memorable as their co-stars. 'Grand Hotel' was my first film to feature actress Greta Garbo, and for a few minutes I was left wondering exactly why she is held in such high regard. Where was the subtlety in her performance? Then she smiled, and it was like the sun had risen on a new day. Perhaps Garbo hadn't yet moved on from the silent era, communicating her emotions with thick brush-strokes, but when your face can so dazzlingly light up the movie screen, there's no hurry. A modern remake of 'Grand Hotel' would be difficult. The film's impact rests largely on the glamour and reputations of its main stars, and I think it's safe to say that today's Hollywood doesn't create stars like it did in the 1930s. "},{"Title":"Nothing Ever Happens ...etc.l","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I still like this film. It has some grievous over-acting by Garbo as a ballerina on the skids. But the film works for all that. Grushinskaya has passed her prime as a ballerina, and her world weariness masks her awareness that her days of international greatness are over. She has nothing to look forward to - in fact her position is not that different from Anne Bancroft in THE TURNING POINT, who can teach ballet, but has no family life to comfort her like her old friend/rival Shirley MacLaine does.She momentarily does get a shot for happiness in retirement she meets Baron Geiger (John Barrymore) and finds he would be able to satisfy her. And he finds she would be fine for him. But his problem is he is broke, and owes his criminal partners for the money that set him up in this great hotel in Berlin. He has to pay them back - he was going to steal Grushinskaya's jewels, but he won't do that now.GRAND HOTEL is like that, every time you watch it. It was written in the aftermath of World War I, and keeping that in mind you see the fractured bodies and lives that are colliding in the hotel. Lewis Stone, for example, is the man who makes the famous statement about nothing ever happens at the conclusion of the film. His Doctor Otternschlag is the hotel doctor, and is not very observant (by the time he makes the comment a murder has occurred in the hotel, and he is unaware of it). His face is scarred by a gas attack in the war. The war has probably made the doctor relatively quiet - and seeking quiet as much as possible. Hence his blindness. Wallace Beery is Preysling the textile manufacturer who is there for a big business conference and is facing bankruptcy - as was all of Germany (which had terrible inflation in 1923, due to war reparation and debt). Geiger's Pre-war cushion of wealth and position were swept away with the Hohenzollern dynasty in 1918. He was unlucky enough to survive his world, and most of his friends. And the small fry in the film Kringelein (Lionel Barrymore) and Flaemchen (Joan Crawford) find their futures in considerable doubt too. Lionel is dying (we are never quite sure of what, but it sounds like it's industrial related - he works for Preysling's firm), and Crawford is aware that secretaries are a dime a dozen and needs to better herself - even if it means sleeping with the likes of Preysling. One can also add Senf (Jean Hersholt) who has to stay at his hotel job, while his wife is facing a dangerous childbirth which is worrying him to death.The collisions between the characters is fascinating too, as the Pre-war standards of social class is up in the air now. Preysling is aware of his feet of clay but he is still known as a big textile manufacturer to the public. So he is not deeply impressed by John Barrymore's Baron, but every time they confront each other, the Baron's superior breeding outshines Preysling's pompous bluster. Kringelein too is confronted by Preysling who thinks the bookkeeper's appearance at that expensive hostelry suggests embezzlement. Kringelein not only shows that he is not in a position to be threatened by police or discharge, but adds that Preysling's blunders are such as to have merited being fired if he hadn't been boss. Preysling does make a kind of headway with Flaemchen but it is only on a cash basis - she really is far friendlier to the Baron and Kringelein.GRAND HOTEL had been a major Broadway stage success when it was acquired by MGM. Preysling was originally played by Siegfried Ruman (later Sig Ruman) and the Baron by Albert Van Dekker (later Albert Dekker). Neither ended up in the MGM production, though both had distinguished film careers later on. The producer of the film was Paul Bern, who would be found dead in his home in 1932 just before the final cut was made on the movie. This is not the spot to analyze whether Bern was a suicide (officially he was) or was murdered by his wife (Jean Harlow) or some other person (a previous wife who killed herself a day or so afterward), but it led to Bern's friend and mentor Irving Thalberg completing the film as producer. Neither man's name is on the credits. However, Bern's hand is on the film - including the casting. He would have been facing a great producing career if he had lived.The most notable thing about the leads is that (except for Garbo's Swedish accent - here as a Russian ballerina) only Beery tries a German accent. It comes and goes, unfortunately, but Beery's lost bull in the china shop performance is good enough not to be harmed by it. Preysling is a weak man, who married the boss's daughter to get ahead but lacked the brains to keep the firm going. In the end he has to lie to try to survive his conference with rival Tully Marshall. Unfortunately he cannot control his passions and anger.It is said on this thread that Buster Keaton was supposed to play Kringelien. Presumably his alcoholism prevented it. But Lionel Barrymore gives a good accounting as the dying man. Yet Buster actually liked the idea. He tried to create interest in a comedy to star himself, Edward Everett Horton, and Marie Dressler called GRAND MILLS HOTEL, set in the infamous flop house in Manhattan. The same blending of the film's plots would have occurred. It never got beyond the drawing board. Laurel & Hardy would have been in the Tully Marshall and Wallace Beery roles, as button manufacturers who are trying to make a contract. Pity, it might have been a good comedy. "},{"Title":"good now, great then","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What was a great movie in 1932 is still a good movie in 1999.  In the Grandest Hotel of them all as People come, people go. (but) Nothing ever happens. This is a story of a day at the hotel.  Nothing out of the ordinary occurs, except lots of drinking, gambling, a love triangle, .... This film is one of the last big-budget studio Hollywood movies from its era (20's-30's) and is frequently studied for both this aspect and its photographic techniques (like the revolving doorway).  The two hours is well worth it.  Lionel Barrymore's performance is also really memorable.  "},{"Title":"Strained Social Cocktail","Date":"28 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cabaret meets The Love Boat in this revolving sequence of interlinked stories set in a Berlin hotel in the early 1930s.There's John Barrymore as a penniless baron reduced to thieving for unguarded jewels in order to hold off a vicious creditor; brother Lionel Barrymore as a dying clerk determined to spend away his life savings in what's left of his life; Wallace Beery as a struggling, bad-tempered industrialist; Joan Crawford as a up-for-anything stenographer; and Greta Garbo as a legendary but fading ballerina.People coming...going observes the facially scarred lobby lizard Otternschlag (Lewis Stone). Nothing ever happens. Well, that's kind of true in the larger cosmic sense. Grand Hotel posits a notion of life's circular nature, with big dreams and great loves falling apart as people make fortunes or are destroyed with seeming randomness. The meaningless bustle seems a foreshadowing of the war we know is coming to destroy this world for good, even if the only Adolf in evidence is the Baron's faithful dachshund, Adolphus.But the movie is hurt by the triteness of the story lines and the thinness of the acting.Lionel Barrymore's gentle Kringelein is an assay in scraping obsequiousness, pointing up the class difference between himself and the baron with a mawkishly heavy hand. Love me, I'm going to die soon seems the whole of his character's message.Garbo overplays her scenes with a broadness quite shocking when one considers her singular reputation in film. Some reviewers here suggest it's in keeping with her ballerina character, but she's simply too much, sucking all the air out of her scenes with the baron and delivering lines with affected vibrato Pearls are cold. Everything is cold and finished...So the-red bah-eyre.The other actors are good, though. Beery was a ham, but he squeezes some empathy from his blubbery bluffer Preysing without losing needed menace. John Barrymore was even more of a ham, but nails the central role of the baron by nicely underplaying his scenes with the right blend of condescension, compassion, and command.Crawford is the real star of this piece. She looks like a '30s Eva Green with her lean, angular body and deep, flashing eyes; playing her scenes with a subtle coyness that hints both at the sexual abandon of Europe after the Great War and the nature of being a woman in what was then still decidedly a man's world.Have you ever seen a stenographer in a decent frock? she asks the baron.I have indeed, he says, eyeing her.One she bought herself?Grand Hotel plays with libertine notions here and there, but doesn't really declare itself as much more than a costume drama and an event picture where the stars gathering together IS the story as much as any plot point. Director Edmund Goulding presents some magnificent mise-en-scene tracking shots of the hotel lobby, one single take from behind the front desk until Joan Crawford's first entrance runs over four minutes and moves effortlessly from character to character.But the static quality of the overall vision becomes stifling before long; people coming, people going; people expressing their unhappiness in their gilded cage. By the end of the movie I was feeling a bit cooped up, too. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, Influential, But Increasingly Obscured By Passing Time","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Published in 1921, Vicki Baum's German-language novel MENSCHEN IM HOTEL was an international bestseller. MGM purchased the rights and employed William A. Drake to adapt the novel to the stage. Titled GRAND HOTEL, it proved a great success on the Broadway stage, and with its fame as both novel and play the studio made the property the focus of its powerful array of contract talent. It was smash with both critics and audiences and won the Academy Award as Best Picture of 1932.Although the 1930s was notable for social dramas, audiences of the Great Depression wanted an escape from the hardship of their lives, and no expense was spared to create the glittering and very high-gloss image moviegoers craved. Designed by legendary art director Cedric Gibbons, who mixed Deco and Moderne styles to tremendous effect, each set was built specifically for the film and no detail was overlooked; Adrian's costumes were also meticulous in their combination of high-fashion and romance. No detail was overlooked, and in terms of production values alone few films before or after have bested GRAND HOTEL.But if GRAND HOTEL is distinctly of its era in terms of visual style, it is also distinctly of its era in terms of performance, and it is here that we run into a bit of trouble. Most actors of the silent era relied on a mannered performance style that compensated for the lack of sound. The arrival of sound forced them to invent a new performance style, and some proved more adaptable than others. In many respects, GRAND HOTEL is a study of the struggle to invent this new way of acting; some of the performers are excessively large, some are in transition between silent and sound modes, and some are distinctly modern in their approach.In terms of story, GRAND HOTEL presents several overlapping and interweaving plot lines. Celebrated ballerina Grusinskaya (Garbo) is performing in Berlin--and is a deep depression that threatens her career. Baron von Geigern (John Barrymore) is in desperate need of money--and has agreed to steal Grusinskaya's famous pearls. When Grusinskaya's suicide attempt collides with the Baron's intended theft, romance is result. At the same time, industrialist Preysing (Wallace Beery) has arrived at the hotel in an effort to conclude a important business deal and has hired a stenographer named Flaemmchen (Joan Crawford) to assist him--but Preysing is unaware that company accountant Kringelein (Lionel Barrymore) has been diagnosed with a terminal illness and has taken rooms at the hotel, determined to enjoy himself before he dies. These characters, along with Grusinskaya's maid (Rafaela Ottiano), the hotel doctor (Lewis Stone), and various hotel employees (including Jean Hersholt) collide repeatedly over the course of a few days--and none will emerge entirely unscathed from their encounters.John Barrymore was noted for his larger-than-life performances on the stage, and he brought that same quality to many silent films; less fortunately, he also carried into the sound era, and his performance reads as excessively large. Although Garbo was a great star in the silent era, she quickly adapted to the new demands of sound in such films as ANNA Christie--but when faced with Barrymore's over-the-top performance she responds in kind, and the result is visually beautifully but incredibly mannered, and their scenes are not greatly aided by their dialogue, which is itself very much in the grand manner. Although they are indeed fascinating, their performances are distinctly out of synch with the rest of the film, where a more natural style of acting is the norm.While Wallace Beery and Lewis Stone are quite good, and while Lionel Barrymore is unexpectedly effective (and much less mannered than his brother John), it is really Joan Crawford that points the way toward the new acting style. Crawford herself had worked in silents, and scored notable successes in such films as OUR DANCING DAUGHTERS, but she has made an easy leap to the sound era and never overplays her hand; Flaemmchen is among the best of her early performances, and Crawford herself thought it among the best of her overall career. She wasn't wrong.With the acting styles all over the map, GRAND HOTEL requires a modern viewer to make constant mental shifts; consequently, the film sometimes feels more than a little uphill. Even so, there are plenty of compensations Garbo at the height of her beauty; Lionel Barrymore's multi-layered performance; a Crawford classic; and always, always the lush look and feel of the movie. Although I think it will most appeal to film buffs, there is no denying the thing has power, even though that power has become somewhat obscured by the passing years.GFT, Amazon Reviewer "}{"Title":"camera-work!","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's not hard to see why Grand Hotel won Best Picture. But it is dated and full of annoyances. It concerns the goings on of various guests at the Grand Hotel in Berlin. Lionel Barrymore plays a very annoying salt-of-the-earth type, who brings out the best in John Barrymore and Joan Crawford. His terminal illness could not advance quickly enough for me.But boy does this have an eye for composition. More than a few times the lighting and the camera-work conspire to produce beautiful images that fill the entire greyscale range, and feature deep blacks; as when Joan Crawford is escorted into a dark room; or when the witness to a murder flees screen-right to a non-opening door. Occasionally the maudlin story breaks for startling camera-work as when; Wallace Beery stands in the smoky foreground as his associates bale on him; or more impressively, John Barrymores body exits the hotel via the service entrance as deliveries are being made; It's absolutely striking and foreshadows the objectives of realism by 2 or 3 decades. This is Hollywood? It's also way ahead of noir.Crawford is a joy to watch in every single scene. (and I'm not a Crawford fan) Garbo is ridiculous, giving a scenery-devouring performance that is always operating at the wrong scale. I wanted to throw a shoe at her head. "},{"Title":"Clash of early '30s acting styles","Date":"1 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" At first, the 1930s all-star comedy-melodrama Grand Hotel seems like the type of movie they don't make anymore. But one of the major trends in modern Hollywood is the ensemble movie where different characters' stories interweave in surprising ways, and Grand Hotel might just be the father of them all. It's not as overstuffed as some modern movies, focusing on just five characters a hotel thief pretending to be a baron (John Barrymore), an industrial magnate (Wallace Beery), his secretary (Joan Crawford), an aging and neurotic ballerina (Greta Garbo), and a nebbishy, dying man spending his last days in the luxurious hotel (Lionel Barrymore). Their adventures are generally predictable, though always believable and in-character. Overall, the movie is a moderately fun time, especially in order to see a wide range of 1930s acting styles in one movie.Hard to believe that Garbo and Crawford were born just months apart--they were both 26 during filming, but Garbo's world-weary ballerina looks and behaves as though she were 36. Though everyone in the film has a different acting style, Garbo's stands out the most. She swoops her chiffon sleeves and looks meltingly romantic in close-ups, as if she were still in a silent movie, but then speaks extremely flowery dialogue. At only 26, then, Garbo seems like a relic or a self-parody. Crawford, on the other hand, is a fun, sassy, modern girl, who knows both how to flirt and how to keep things from going too far. She definitely steals the movie with her tough-minded performance. Garbo's acting works in movies that consistently maintain a keyed-up romantic tone, but in the stylistic mishmash that is Grand Hotel, Garbo seems the least real--even to a 1932 audience. The DVD features reveal that her line I want to be alone got spoofed as soon as the movie came out!John Barrymore has important scenes with both ladies, and works hard to find an acting style that complements their two very different approaches. He succeeds by playing his character as a reserved gentleman, more moderate than his scene partners. That way he can be flirtatious but not crackling with Crawford, romantic but not melodramatic with Garbo, and friendly but not effusive with his brother Lionel. Lionel, too, has a distinctive style--very mannered, stuttering, bowing and scraping as the little bookkeeper who is finally learning how to live. Yet his enthusiasm is sweet and touching. Wallace Beery gives a decent comic-villain performance complete with off-and-on German accent, though I had trouble caring about his character's money problems. I wonder, too, if the Great Depression and other events of the 1930s had some influence over the plot line where little-guy Lionel Barrymore gets the courage to stand up to the big bad CEO Beery. Other than that, Grand Hotel is not particularly concerned with social or political problems--it's strange to think that it takes place in Weimar Germany and just two years later, the Nazis would take over. It doesn't have much emotional resonance, but it's a useful time capsule of 1932 Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Grand Hotel in 'less than grand' condition","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Grand Hotel (1932) was producer Irving G. Thalberg's ensemble production based on a novel and play by Vicki Baum. It stars Garbo as Grushinskya, a temperamental ballerina whose frequent bouts with nervous tension contribute to her almost being fired from the ballet. That is, until she meets her grand paramour in Baron Felix Von Geigern (John Barrymore). The two become romantic soul mates, a move threatened when it is revealed that the Baron is really a jewel thief, who is being blackmailed to steal money and gems from patrons in the Grand Hotel. Meanwhile &#150; in another room &#150; Preysing (Wallace Beery), a German industrialist has received very bad news. A merger that he was counting on to save his company from bankruptcy has fallen through. Throwing caution to the wind, Preysing decides to escape his creditors with stenographer, Flaemmchen (Joan Crawford) who has little interest in Preysing as a man, but likes his money nevertheless. Playing as very much the forerunner to today's soap operas, the whole mess culminates in a murder that has the potential to destroy Grushinskya's faith in humanity and send her fragile ego into an irreversible tale spin.Previously released by Warner Home Video, this is the identical DVD transfer of Grand Hotel as before and that's a genuine shame. It suffers from considerable grain and a highly unstable image with considerable fading in spots and overall soft and poorly contrasted image quality. Film grain is at times distracting. Whites are never clean. Blacks are rarely deep or solid. There are quite a few age related tears and speckles that crop up as well. The audio is sometimes inaudible with a decided background hiss. Extras include the all too brief Checking In featurette that attempts to process a decade's worth of history into less than 13 minutes. We also get the film's original theatrical trailer that is in really bad shape. Considering that Grand Hotel was a big money maker for MGM, an Oscar winning Best Picture and an enduring staple on television, fans of this movie deserve a better image and new digital transfer. "},{"Title":"People Coming, Going, Nothing Ever Happens","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Along a couple of days in Berlin of the 30s, the lives of some guests are connected in the fancy Grand Hotel. Grusinskaya (Greta Garbo) is a dancer in crisis who falls in love for Baron Felix Von Geigern (John Barrymore, the grandfather of the sweet Drew Barrymore). The Baron is a bankrupted noble, a very gentle and refined person, but indeed a thief of hotel rooms. Preysing (Wallace Beery) is a tough businessman, dealing in Berlin an important contract. Flaemmchen (Joan Crawford) is officially an stenographer and also an expensive 'working girl', making programs with her clients. Otto Kringelein (Lionel Barrymore) is a sick man who had worked most of his life as an accountant in one of the Preysing's company. During these days, one of these characters is murdered by another one. In the end, Grand Hotel is a place where people come, go, and nothing ever happens, in accordance with the definition of one character. Yesterday I saw this movie for the first time. The first point that called my attention was the constellation of the stars sharing lead roles none of the previously mentioned character has less importance in the story. The long shots, with lots of figurants in the lobby of Grand Hotel, are very impressive. The beauty of Greta Garbo, who has a very theatrical performance, and Joan Crawford are amazing, even for the present standards. Unfortunately the quality of the image and sound of the Brazilian VHS is horrible. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) 'Grand Hotel'  "},{"Title":"Grand Hotel (1932)","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Edmund Goulding's Grand Hotel is a perfect example of how a flawed film can still be great because of its blemishes, and not in spite of them. Winner of the Best Picture Academy Award of 1933 (but not even nominated in any other category), it is an indisputable classic that stands apart as one of the finest (and most timeless) motion pictures of the 30's -- which was a terrific decade for the cinema. The story structure was essentially unprecedented -- with the exception of that same year's Freaks, which was unprecedented in practically every way possible -- in that it featured multiple characters with independent relationships and intertwining narratives (in other words, it laid the groundwork for every Robert Altman film ever made -- Gosford Park in particular). Greta Garbo plays a dancer staying at a hotel along with a thief disguised as a baron (John Barrymore), a young and beautiful stenographer (Joan Crawford), a stern businessman (Wallace Beery), a fidgety social outcast trying to enjoy what's left of his life (Lionel Barrymore), and a mysterious doctor (Lewis Stone). The mysticism and coincidence of multiple people dealing with secret issues in the same location remains one of the most compelling and intriguing film techniques out there (see Todd Solondz's Happiness and P.T. Anderson's Magnolia), and it was certainly more compelling than most of what was being produced by Hollywood at the time (in spite of the fact that this WAS a great time for film, most pictures relied on very conventional and often contrived styles to achieve their popularity). So to think that the Academy once recognized such offbeat masterpieces makes you wonder what happened to them over the past few years. Even after 70+ years, Grand Hotel remains just as brilliant and fascinating as it was to begin with -- if not more each character is as dynamic and enthralling as the next, and each frame is filled with surprises and idiosyncrasies. Perhaps Pauline Kael put it best when she wrote, If you want to see what screen glamour used to be, and what originally 'stars' were, this is perhaps the best example of all time. Indeed, the stars in Grand Hotel are true stars, the foremost being Garbo while often cited as one of the great actresses, few seem to recall how mesmerizing Garbo truly was. She hardly ever appeared to be acting, yet every gesture she made and every word she spoke was magnificently overdone -- as would have been necessary during her silent roles. And even though her beauty is far from conventional, it is truly undeniable. When first released, Crawford was notoriously frustrated that Garbo received top billing (she was rumored to have always arrived late on the set, playing Marlene Dietrich records in between cuts just because she knew they were Garbo's pet peeves), but to me this only enhances the characters Crawford's role is supposed to be more subdued (afterall, she IS the stenographer and Garbo IS the celebrity in the film). Perhaps the most impressive performance of all is Lionel Barrymore's as a bumbling, overly anxious everyman who has been ignored his entire life, he is completely and utterly heart-breaking; there is not a single moment when he isn't in character (and the same goes for the rest of the cast). His real-life brother John Barrymore is equally outstanding, providing a suave counterpart to Lionel's subtle melancholy. Goulding's direction is nothing short of spectacular his innovative use of close-ups and repeated set-ups is something to be admired -- especially at a time when there was no precedent for these methods. The script (which was originally a play) is filled with both wit and insight (yet no Oscar nod?). Earlier in this review I made mention of the film's supposed flaws, and Grand Hotel is indeed far from perfect; many of the cuts are rough and uneven, and some of the plot developments come off as sudden and unbelievable, but the film is only better for it. Its faults give it an edge that would have otherwise been replaced by an overly polished look which wouldn't be nearly as compelling. All in all, Grand Hotel is an absolute masterpiece, plain and simple. Watch it and be amazed.Grade A+(#88 on my All-Time Top 100 list. Visit http//imdb.com/board/bd0000002/thread/6917771 to view the entire list)  "},{"Title":"A good sophisticated drama of the early talkie era","Date":"26 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film doesn't seem that remarkable by today's standards, but in 1932 it was quite innovative. MGM used an all-star cast in a bracelet of intertwining stories that involved them all. The ballerina (Garbo) misses Russia, feels life is empty and pointless, and is saved from killing herself by the Baron (John Barrymore) who had been planning to steal her jewels to pay a large debt to some shady people that he owes. The stenographer (Joan Crawford) has set her sights on the Baron believing him to be rich, while she is being eyed by her employer, a wealthy industrialist (Wallace Beery) who is the former employer of a dying man (Lionel Barrymore) who intends to spend his life savings experiencing what he has been missing out on all these years, who in turn is befriended by the Baron. The only character who exists in isolation is Garbo's, who has a relationship with the Baron but no one else.This is the only film to ever win the Best Picture Oscar and be nominated for no other awards. This is not because the picture is a poor one. Instead it is probably because there are so many subplots and so many players that it is hard to zero in on any one of them and say a particular link in the chain is outstanding compared to the others and therefore deserves an award. However, altogether, the actors and subplots form an entertaining film. Since this film was such a commercial success the entire formula was reused in Dinner at Eight the following year, and even used part of the cast from this film - John Barrymore, Lionel Barrymore, and Wallace Beery. Oddly enough that film was superior to Grand Hotel in many ways, but didn't receive any Oscar nominations.Finally, much has been said about Greta Garbo's over-the-top performance in this one. I have to admit, if this was my introduction to Garbo I would be asking myself what is the big deal about her supposed great reputation. She's practically playing Ophelia at certain points in the film. However, if you think about it, Garbo's portrayal is an appropriate one considering her character's circumstances. She was a ballerina in Czarist Russia who has the world ripped out from underneath her as a result of the Russian Revolution. Now, late in her career, she is surrounded by sycophants and isn't even missed when she runs out on a performance. "},{"Title":"Grand Doings at the Grand Hotel","Date":"9 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" How wonderful, how divine, how engrossing..........it's the Grand Hotel where nothing ever happens, according to Lewis Stone's character. This is one of those films that must be watched repeatedly to savor the glamour and nuances of the performances of the star-studded cast. Let's talk about the cast. GARBO Many think she went over-the-top with her performance of the ballerina who doubts her own talent and star power. Instead I find it exactly right. She is playing an artist given to flights of fancy and eccentricity (she'd be called a diva today). Watch her as she plays her scenes with John Barrymore......she is besotted with him after their night together. It's perfect JOHN BARRYMORE The troubled star gives it his all as the suave, desperate but basically decent Baron. He hits just the right note in his performance and it was to be his next to last great performance. JOAN CRAWFORD WOW might be the word for her playing of the slightly dishonorable stenographer. I think this may be one of her greatest roles before she went on the likes of Mildred Pierce and her other roles of suffering women. LIONEL BARRYMORE His character (but not his acting) is the one I like least because he is constantly cringing and apologizing; however,based on the type of role it is, he is right on the money. His scenes with his brother are extremely well done. WALLACE BEERY Nobody could have done the blustering, egocentric magnate better than Beery. He spent a lot of his career in more comedic roles and here he shows that he can actually act.Lewia Stone, as the disfigured doctor who is always waiting for a message (what kind of message is never made clear) is good in support as is Jean Hersholt, the head porter.Yes, it's dated, maybe some of the dialogue is considered corny, and the performances are of the time..........and it is magnificent. Check into the Grand Hotel. You won't want to check out. "},{"Title":"The First Great Ensemble Cast Film","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A corrupt businessman. A ballerina bereft of passion. A common burglar posing as a baron. A pragmatic doctor. A dying man determined to live out his days in luxury. A porter worried about his wife. And a stenographer caught up in the mix. Combine these characters into a bowl, add a dash of star power, stir well, and you have Grand Hotel, Oscar's 1932 winner for Best Picture.It has been said that the best baseball games are based on good pitching. Along those same lines, the best movies are based on good writing. Never mind that Grand Hotel came from MGM, the most powerful studio of its day. Never mind that the cast included not one, not two, but seven of the most legendary names in Hollywood history. Never mind that it was the second of the three Best Picture winners produced by Irving G. Thalberg in a six-year span, The Broadway Melody (1929) and Mutiny On the Bounty (1935) being the other two. At its core, Grand Hotel has one of the most intricately-written scripts ever created, filled with characters as diverse and as multi-dimensional as any found in film.Though nominated only for Best Picture (a very unique anomaly in Academy history), Grand Hotel offers not only a wonderful script, but fascinating performances from Wallace Beery (who did tie for Best Actor that year for The Champ), Greta Garbo, and an almost unrecognizable Joan Crawford, in her breakout performance. This film also has a pair of Barrymores, with Lionel as the ailing Mr. Kringelein, looking to spend his final days in the lap of luxury, and John as the dashing Baron von Geigern, a hotel thief with a soft touch.Grand Hotel is a character-driven movie, filled with deception, intrigue, scandal, and corruption, with a murder thrown in for good measure. Of all the characters in the film, only Mr. Kringelein, who has a run of good fortune, Flaemmchen, who only wants a good opportunity, and the hotel porter Senf (Jean Hersholt), who frets throughout the film about his wife's labor, come away better at the end than in the beginning.I think the reason Grand Hotel was not nominated for a screenplay Oscar was simply that nobody was credited with adapting the script for the movie. It is quite possible that the script was already solid enough, so that only minimal adaptation was necessary. Otherwise, it holds its own on the screen quite well.I will not be deceptive here. Grand Hotel is a dated movie. But, on the other hand, I think it holds its own as a study of seven characters and as a successful experiment in early ensemble casting. "},{"Title":"absolutely wonderful","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" MGM made several star studded films in the 1930s featuring all their most important stars--such as this movie and DINNER AT 8. They shared a common soap opera-like approach and bounced back and forth between the characters as they prepared for the big dinner party or, as with Grand Hotel, explored their lives in their rooms and in the hotel lobby. The acting in both was superb as were the writing and direction. However, unlike DINNER AT 8, this film is a little darker as one of the plots involves thieves and character Wallace Beery plays is rather chilling. It's excellent and will keep your attention throughout. Also, make sure to see DINNER AT 8--it's even better, and that's saying a lot! "},{"Title":"Still a tremendous and classic movie!","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A true American and world cinematic classic, Grand Hotel captures a cross section of immediate pre-Depression life (filmed in 1932, but set in 1928) that is as entertaining and fascinating today as it was 70 years ago.While set in Berlin, the film is pure Hollywood and gives as much insight into late 1920s life in America as it does into German culture of the day. Hollywood's first all-star extravaganza, Grand Hotel introduced several techniques that would become familiar to movie and television viewers for decades to come. This included the simultaneous telling of several stories with rapid cuts between individuals, many of whom would alter play out important scenes together.I find it hard to criticize any aspect of this fine old film. It frankly baffles me when others complain of slow pacing, poor acting or other faults. Sure, a few things might have been done differently, had it been filmed 10 or 20 or 70 years later &#x85; but it almost certainly would have lacked much of the magic that it possesses.You start with two of the most provocative divas of the age, add the Barrymore brothers, the great Wallace Beery and a superb supporting cast, along with the magnificent hotel backdrop, and you get an endearing evening of entertainment. I had just fallen in love with Greta Garbo prior to seeing this film for the first time last week. This movie heightened my infatuation &#x96; although I did do some sighing and drooling over the curvaceous and flirtative young Joan Crawford, as well. It is only a shame that the two starlets were prevented from appearing in any scenes together. Both have some truly memorable moments together with John Barrymore. Some have called Garbo's performance over-the-top. I have to disagree. For a pampered Russian ballerina, hailed for her beauty and skill worldwide, yet whisked to and from a never-ending series of rehearsals and performances, taking medication to sleep and sequestered from the world, how would one EXPECT her to act? (I believe some of the shock-effect editing techniques help to increase this misconception.) She absolutely melts my heart when she calls Barrymore's room, shortly after he had left hers, just to hear his voice over the phone. Her majestic exits and entrances through the hotel lobby also make grand spectacles, amidst echoed strains of 'Bring Madame Gruninskaya's car!'Although John Barrymore is pushing 50 and looks every inch of it, he plays the good-hearted rogue Baron von Geigern with aplomb and grace. He and brother Lionel are wonderful together in one of their few opportunities to work together. Lionel, as the dying and therefore carefree clerk, Otto Kringelein, is perfect. A worm who finally turned, he may sound whiny, but has finally gotten the nerve to stand up to big shots like his old boss, General Director Preysing (Beery). Beery, interestingly enough, is the only cast member who attempts a German accent, even though this is supposedly a film about a group of Germans &#x96; other than the 'Russian' refugee, Gruninskaya. He is quite convincing, though, as the self-righteous, flawed industrialist.** SPOILERS FOLLOW **Crawford, just reaching the level of superstar, is a hot young commodity as the stenographer, Miss Flaem. Called 'Flaemchen' by her friends, she makes this pre-code epic deeper and darker than it otherwise would be. The realities as they exited in the corporate world in 1930 &#x96; and would for many decades to come &#x96; are clearly and unmistakably alluded to by the sexy stenographer and her overbearing boss. She agrees to accompany him on an urgent business trip to England, in which she realizes she will be taking more than dictation from him. She negotiates 1,000 marks (perhaps $5,000 US dollars in today's terms) for a new wardrobe and pay and agrees to take an adjoining room to his for their final night in Berlin.The end is especially intriguing, as the Baron is tragically killed, Preysing is ruined, Gruninskaya is led away by her worried entourage, and Kringelein and Flaemchen are thrust by shock and mourning, into each other's arms. One wonders at the ballerina's closing lines as she is ushered into her car. Increasingly frantic about not being able to find the dead Baron, she stops momentarily and reflects on the sunshine. Has she accepted the reality that he will NOT be on the train to Vienna and found the courage to look beyond? Or is she merely avoiding that reality?At the film's end, Kringelein and Flaemchen have quickly put the previous night's tragedy behind them and giddily prepare to leave for whatever remains of their life together. Throughout the film he has asserted that, 'I'm just as good as Preysing' and seems to take great pride in her assurance that she likes him better than the industrialist. There seems little doubt that the dying man's money is the biggest lure for her. Still, she has at least found someone she can respect, and one suspects she will endeavor to make his remaining days happy ones. Perhaps a true love affair will even ensue. Yet the very quickness of their pairing and its various circumstances certainly add a deep and dark element to the plot.Light, glitzy, yet deep and dark in places, Grand Hotel shows how well Hollywood could tell a story in the days before the Bream Code. "}{"Title":"MGM's finest in one spot!","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can be said about this film that hasn't been said already?  A classic 67 years young - Garbo, two Barrymores, Crawford, and more ... The story of the terminally-ill worker on his last fling, the scheming baron, the boss and the secretary, and the fading ballerina just looks better and better every time you see it.  It has some excellent scenes, and despite Garbo playing a character a little too old for her, it comes off. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Play","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Spoilers herein.This was made during the period when we still were high on the mere existence of film, so it was enough to just flaunt theatrical excess. But it is pretty good excess in retrospect, because it defined (or cemented) a few types and moves that are still with us.The setup is this the world is divided into two halves the performers and the watchers.Garbo is a performer, literally, in the story. Barrymore's Baron (!) is also playing a role.Three characters apparently cross over the meek, dying accountant who goes from being a nobody to a somebody purely by chance; the stenographer and sometime model is a watcher (literally a recorder in the story) who aspires to be somebody; and the prima donna's dresser who ostensibly watches but becomes a fabricator.Meanwhile, maids and bellboys and clerks watch and serve. They are anchored by the battlescarred doctor who seems to be a professional audience and who relates performance to war. (The relation of performance to prostitution and or lying, a major line in films that follow, is only hinted here.)The script follows the play closely, and it shows in two obvious ways. It is remarkably more polished than similar scripts of the period, and it allows pairs (usually John and one of the two lead actresses) to have well-shaped dialog with their faces impossibly close. All this refined excess is impossible today. But it is worth watching for more than nostalgic reasons.By the way, a great many films have one scene that you can tell was the one that all the creative talent used as the center of the project by getting it right and all the visions coherent, the rest of the thing grows from that seed. Here it is the shot of Garbo in her costume, butterfly on shoulder (check out Drew's tattoo), undressing, kissing her shoes while we know that someone is watching other than ourselves.Interesting fact of all the films that all these stars made, only one is in IMDb's top 250 list, and that one ('Wonderful Life') has Lionel in a minor role.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Musical Rooms.","Date":"26 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What a cast! More stars than there are in the HEAVENS! And we get to hear Garbo moan, I vant to be alone. Simply divoon! The audience must gotten a big kick out of this in 1932, gripped by the Great Depression, watching these hoity-toity types in their evening clothes, milling around in the most expensive hotel in Berlin, sipping champagne, eating caviar (tastes like herring), powerful men hitting on poor but sassy stenographers, a dying old man living it up for one last time.It's an ensemble movie and the stories get entwined. At times, it resembles one of those recent disaster movies in which you have to subject yourself to the back stories of each character. Get to know what they're like, what drives them, what moves them, why that back molar is bothering them.That's a problem in a way. In a disaster movie you can sit through the back stories knowing there's a disaster of some sort in the offing -- an avalanche, a capsized ship, flocks of deranged birds. Here, there's no catastrophe. The back stories have to carry the picture themselves.One thing really does stand out, and that's Greta Garbo's performance. It's not just her throaty voice and its curious locutions -- finished turns into finched. Every line has unexpected contours. It's a little like Tommy Lee Jones. Someone asks Jones if, say, he would like a beer. OH, yeah, he replies. The stresses come in extraordinary places.And not just that. Garbo is supposed to be a ballet dancer. At first glance it seems an unlikely career for someone so tall and gawky, with such hunched shoulders. But then you notice that when she moves around she's a human grand opera. She doesn't move from place to place, she swoops. It conjures up the body movements of John Wayne. He seemed to fling one of his body parts -- an arm or a shoulder -- in one direction and the rest of that massive bulk seemed to follow. Garbo is the same way, flinging her arms out, whirling dervishly at times.That aside, the stories are a little dull. The dialog isn't especially clever and the funny scenes, Lionel Barrymore drunk while a Charlie Chaplin tune plays in the background, may have been funny in 1932 but less so today.In any case it has an elevated position among the cognoscenti and far be it from me, a humble shoemaker, to bone it too thoroughly. "},{"Title":"a trend-setter at its time for the all-star glamor","Date":"19 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This early MGM talkie is a trend-setter at its time for the all-star glamor, also an Oscar BEST PICTURE winner (oddly enough, without any other nominations). There are five centre characters hemmed in Berlin's Grand Hotel, a Russian prima ballerina Grusinskaya (Garbo), a moneyless Baron Felix von Geigern (John Barrymore), an accountant Otto Kringelein (Lionel Barrymore), a dying man who decides to shell out all his savings by living in the luxury. Then a young stenographer Flaemmchen (Crawford), hired by the industrial magnate Preysing (Beery), who is negotiating a merger deal and is the former employer of Mr. Kringelein. None of them are satisfied with their status quo, Grusinskaya is grievously rattled by the fading appeal of her dance as the turnout is ebbing away and the thought of suicide sneaks in, while the chivalric Baron must abase himself to theft in order to pay back his debt, but sadly that kind of deal doesn't go along with his blue blood, and when he resorts to his last straw - gamble, luck is not on his side when Otto's beginner's luck foreshadows his doomed nobility. But the ablaze passion between Grusinskaya and Felix appears so genuine and powerful, it might save both from their plights, they are planning to catch a train together but the twist of fate cannot let that happy ending happen. Here Garbo histrionically alternates between frowning in angst when dreads for her future and flitting about hyper-actively when a budding romance resuscitates her life. John Barrymore, revels in posing as suave and earnest, a heart-stealer in every sense, their ill-destined romance is the quintessential melodrama no matter how dated it comes across by today's standard. Flaemmchen is charmed by Felix's debonair appearance too, but he returns with an avuncular affection, calls her the funny one and promises a dance only. She succumbs to reality, a pretty girl who needs money, when the one she loves cannot love her back, she moves on, grants tacit consent to become Preysing's mistress, but eventually, after a heartbreaking incident, fate offers her a better option and she does't hesitate to take it. Crawford is my pick of MVP in this movie, at her utter prime, she blends her magnetism perfectly with the worldly wisdom, her acting is less mannered and occasionally sparks with certain flair of self-assurance, a true flapper of its time. As for Otto, he is supposedly to be a sympathetic character, but myself find Lionel Barrymore's all-over-the-place acting quite annoying, wanting any trace of subtlety needed to counterbalance the haphazardly-paced narrative, together with Beery's hateful Preysing, an outrageously repulsive character, becomes the nadir of star-power vehicle (Beery won BEST LEADING ACTOR at the same year for THE CHAMP 1931 though).Director Edmund Goulding (THE RAZOR'S EDGE 1946, 7/10) is an important name in the Golden Age Hollywood - although never won any substantial accolade for his directing work, plus his filmography being too comprehensive to sum up thus it is difficult to extract his own directorial touch to be categorised as an auteur - his adroit skill in manoeuvring a large and elaborate set, the outstanding fluidity of shifting his camera within a confined interior and magnanimously permitting enough space for his stars to enjoy the spotlight, is undeniably a key factor is this polished hit of its era. "},{"Title":"Nothing Ever Happens","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Not super impressed with this one. It had its moments but ultimately I can't honestly say that I enjoyed the film.I guess the importance of this film is that it was the first film to have many main characters with their stories intersecting (seemingly Garry Marshall's recent obsession, with a holiday twist). I absolutely adore that type of filmmaking, so long as the connections make sense and aren't predictable. It worked for this film and I liked that a lot. Another major accomplishment of this film was how it was so star-studded, with a bunch of big actors working together. These two characteristics that made the film a classic were somewhat lost on me because I'm used to them in modern cinema, and better executed at that.Good subtle character development in the beginning. Less subtle later, but still good. The dialog was very good. Good writing. The performances were great. Still, the story moved too slowly for me and I do need to be at least a little bit invested in the characters to actually care what they do or what happens to them, and I was not invested. I didn't find anyone particularly likable, with maybe a couple exceptions, but overall, I was turned off by how manipulative everything was. The motive behind nearly every action was personal gain at another's expense, and that's gross. Not a fun watch for me, to be honest. I was bored and I was just waiting for it to be over about halfway through. I don't want to watch it again and I don't want to own it ever.5/10 Bye love you "},{"Title":"See how the little hound sleeps as the machinations of men go on around him.","Date":"1 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Garbo. Barrymore. Crawford. The starpower of this cast should be enough to guarantee a celluloid success. But it's the script that makes this film one of the best of its time or any time.The Grand Hotel is the setting and it can be seen to represent many things, but primarily it represents life. The lobby and common areas are representative of public life with its social pretensions and conventions. The private rooms are, of course, the private lives.In the course of one day, we glimpse various lives that are hanging in the balance and changed forever. At least in human terms. In objective terms, nothing much ever changes and the script plays out day after day, with minor revisions, regardless of the players.The acting in this film is wonderful. Yes, Garbo might overdramatize even the smallest gesture, but what else should we expect from her? And besides, she is playing the part of a prima ballerina who thrives on attention from her public. If one reads the trivia notes in IMDb for this film, where the petty concerns and rivalries of the major players are detailed, it adds another dimension to viewing Grand Hotel. These actors were not so different from their characters--so involved with the slightest social slight.The story is a universal one that has been told many times since, but Grand Hotel may have told it best. "},{"Title":"Garbo leads nice ensemble of actors in a grand Best Picture","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie at the beautiful Louisville Palace as part of their summer 2001 Classic Movie Series, after first seeing it at the Kennedy Center in Washington D.C. ten years earlier.  This is truly a fine ensemble feature, with Greta Garbo slightly outshining the others as a famous but depressed ballerina.  The entire movie takes place in one weekend at the Grand Hotel in Berlin, and with interweaving storylines you really get a sense of the place.  The dramatic style of the day is slightly over the top by modern standards, but it is nonetheless highly entertaining.  **** "},{"Title":"All the stars...","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  All the stars in Hollywood. MGM took a gamble using so many top stars in one film, but it paid off. Irving Stone opens by pronouncing nothing ever happens at the Grand Hotel, but we know better. For one thing Garbo vants to be alone. Also a young Joan Crawford.  I hardly recognized her...she's actually attractive. Several intertwined stories revolving around the personal lives of the many characters made for a successful formula copied many times by such classics as Dinner At Eight, and Stage Coach. I would add it is a must-see for a classic film fan, but any REAL classic film fan has already seen it.  "},{"Title":"Sad and Profound","Date":"16 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In this movie the luxurious Grand Hotel in Berlin plays host to several different characters whose lives become intertwined in this intricate drama which won the Academy Award for Best Picture in 1932. Although Greta Garbo (as Grusinkaya) was probably the main star attraction other performers equally shared the stage and were just as impressive. I especially liked Lionel Barrymore (as Baron Felix von Geigern) and Joan Crawford (Flaemmchen) in their respective roles but both Greta Garbo and Wallace Beery (General Director Preysing) were also quite good. Admittedly, a couple of the scenes seemed to drag here and there but the ending tied everything up real well and essentially makes this film the classic that it is. Likewise, having two beautiful stars like Greta Garbo and Joan Crawford certainly doesn't hurt either. Be that as it may this movie is both sad and profound and while it may be somewhat dated it is certainly worthy of its accolades and deserves a look if a person should ever get the opportunity. Definitely above average. "},{"Title":"The stars are shining in this hotel","Date":"1 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Grand Hotel in Berlin is the setting for the interconnected stories of the various characters. Baron Felix von Geigern (John Barrymore) lost his wealth over the years while still maintaining a facade by playing cards and thievery. He tries to steal flamboyant fragile Russian ballerina Grusinskaya (Greta Garbo)'s pearls. He befriends meek bookkeeper Otto Kringelein (Lionel Barrymore) trying to live it up at the hotel. German businessman Preysing (Wallace Beery) is trying to complete an important deal and hires stenographer Flaemmchen (Joan Crawford) although she's looking to be more than a typist. Otto is one of Preysing's insignificant workers who may hold the key to his deal.The stars are out in style in this hotel. Garbo is at her melodramatic best. Joan Crawford is the belle of the ball. The Barrymores are superb. Wallace Beery is his usual brute. I'm sure it was more compelling for its time. Many others have followed the formula of disparate people intermingling at a specific place. This is probably done better than most of its kind at its time. Two hours is a bit too long to keep up the pace. "}{"Title":"Delicious melodrama","Date":"21 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Grand Hotel (1932) is not likely to appeal to folks who don't like melodrama. The film is essentially about a colorful crew of characters dealing with heartbreak and scandal amidst the most beautifully designed of art deco set pieces. The posh Berlin hotel has some of the best set design of 1930s Hollywood.The stars are all in top form. Joan Crawford and Lionel Barrymore steal scenes as the sexy stenographer who's willing to offer more than her skills as a typist to get by and the terminally ill accountant who tosses aside his timidity to enjoy his final days. Wallace Beery is appropriately oily as the industrialist with designs on Crawford and contempt for Lionel. John Barrymore is dashing and tragic in equal amounts as the fallen baron who must resort to thievery to make ends meet.Despite the negative response her performance tends to receive, Greta Garbo does a fine job as the suicidal ballerina who finds a glimmer of happiness with John Barrymore. It baffles me when people claim her hysterical performance is a result of being unable to move away from the silent school of acting Garbo was naturalistic and even more elusive in her silent films than she was in talkies (which is probably why I prefer her earlier work), plus the acting in the late silent period was usually quite naturalistic having evolved a long way since the early days. You have to remember what kind of character Garbo is portraying. She's supposed to be a diva in this film, and she provides the role with the amount of histrionics required.Grand Hotel is not for people who can handle anything less than subtle, that much is certain. There's plenty of scenery chewing, but it's such gorgeous scenery and the actors are so charismatic-- how could you mind too much? "},{"Title":"Notes from my introduction February 18, 2010 before it played on the BIG SCREEN!","Date":"19 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1932 most blockbuster movies only had two, maybe three movie stars with their names above the title to both sell tickets and hold down expenses. It was super producer Irving Thalberg who came up with idea of fighting the depression by putting some muscle into the movies, and where was MGM's muscle? They claimed to have more stars than there are in the heavens. With five major stars in leading roles production cost came to $700,000 in depression era dollars and tickets cost $.28 each!GRAND HOTEL is based somewhat on a true story written by novelist Vicki Baum called Menschen im Hotel Back in the late 1920s newspapers carried headlines of a scandal in a Berlin hotel involving a stenographer and an industrial magnate. To research the role more Baum went undercover working as a chambermaid at two fancy German hotels. The observations she made give this film that element of truth and the story allows us to fantasize about luxurious lives of the wealthy while being reassured that money cannot buy happiness.Grand Hotel opened on September 11, 1932 just four months before Adolph Hitler would become the chancellor of Germany. The first voice you will hear is that of a hotel employee on a telephone frantically trying to find out about his pregnant wife. This role is played by Danish actor Jean Hersholt who the special Academy Award the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award is named after! Next you will meet Lionel Barrymore's character Otto Kringleline a lowly bookkeeper that has just learned he's terminally ill and so decides to spend his life savings having fun. In IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE he played the wheelchair bound villain Mr. Potter! Third we'll be introduced to General Director Preysing, performed by Wallace Berry a pushy blowhard that runs a major factory in financial trouble. Garbo will not make her entrance until about 20 minutes into the film. But her assistant played by Italian actress Rafaela Ottiano (the only performer to come from the Broadway play) will talk about how fragile Garbo's fading ballerina is because this prima-donna is depressed and suicidal until love saves her. Garbo was a famous recluse but it started long before this film, her last official interview was granted six years earlier in 1927. The fifth lead character we see is a dashing and desperate Baron Felix von Gaigern a gambler and jewel thief played by the smooth and handsome John Barrymore. He was Lionel's younger brother and is the grandfather of Drew Barrymore. With all these stars it is the little stenographer who in my opinion steals the film, she is played by Joan Crawford The glamorous hotel is almost a character it's self with its fabulous sets that took up many sound stages. Crawford said in her autobiography she loved working with Lionel Barrymore who was as easy to work with except when he lost his mustache stopping filming. And the director Edmund Goulding who was known as the Lion-Tamer had directed all the stars before. He was considered in expert in rhythm and pacing. Goulding complimented Crawford's acting stating she thought with her heart and it showed, she needing very little direction. Wallace Berry had just won the Academy Award for THE CHAMP. Lionel Barrymore had just won the Oscar for A FREE SOLE. Greta Garbo, MGM's biggest star who had just made MATA HARI with Lionel Barrymore, agreed to make GRAND HOTEL on the condition that she would not have any scenes with Joan Crawford nor could Crawford or anyone extra be on the sets while Garbo performed. Garbo had been following Joan's career closely, and was suspicious that Joan might attempt to steal every scene as she had from Clark Gable in their recent film POSSESSED. So Garbo filmed her scenes before 5pm and Crawford's were shot after. And they never appear on screen together. However when by accident they did meet Crawford said in her autobiography, she was awe struck by Garbo's beauty. And Garbo said what a shame they didn't have any scenes together. Crawford would try and get back at Garbo by playing Marlene Dietrich records loudly in her dressing room. Lewis Stone who appears with a large dark scar on his face would later be known as Andy Hardy's father in that long running film series. He holds the record for appearing with Garbo in a total of seven films. He delivers one of the two famous lines, GRAND HOTEL, people coming, going, nothing ever happens&#x85; John Barrymore was so in awe of Garbo on the first day of shooting he went early to Garbo's dressing room to escort her onto the set but she was waiting outside his dressing room door to escort him! They so respected each other he never used tricks to upstage her and intentionally down played his role to let her shine brighter. She so appreciated the gesture that Garbo asked for the stage hands to rearrange the furniture so that Barrymore's famous profile would be shown to better effect! In fact during their love scenes he used to whisper sweet things between takes to flatter and encourage her, in return he said her kisses were genuine. The opening of GRAND HOTEL at Grauman's Chinese Theater not only attracted a who's who of Hollywood but over 25,000 fans lined the streets to star gaze. The whole cast except for one major exception appeared and Will Rogers was the master of ceremonies when a near riot broke out when someone thought they spotted Garbo in the crowd... it turned out to be Wallace Berry in a blonde wig doing his Swedish maid a character from his days in silent comedy! "},{"Title":"The Grand Hotel People come people go and what they do that's their business.","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" (There are Spoilers) Being told by his doctor that he hasn't got long to live meek and kindly bookkeeper Otto Kringelein, Lionel Barrymore, decides to go out in grand fashion. Taking his life's savings with him, some 11,000 Marks, Otto is to spends his last days on earth in the most expensive hotel in Berlin the aptly named Grand Hotel.It's at the Grand Hotel Otto gets to meet his abusive boss, at the textile factory, Preysing, Wallace Beery, who treats him with total destine. Preysing is certain that the only way Otto can afford to stay at that swanky and expensive joint is that he embezzled his business. Otto gets his by now hot in the collar boss even madder at him by stealing his pretty stenographer Flaemmchen or Flaem for short, Joan Crawford, who sees what a creep her, like Otto's, boss the Iron Prussian-like Preysing really is.The movie Grand Hotel also has as one of its guests the flat broke and compulsive gambler Baron Felix Von Geigern, John Barrymore. Baron Felix lost his entire fortune playing baccarat and is now in danger of getting his legs broken if he doesn't come up with the cash, 5,000 Marks, that he owes the Boys who've been backing up his losing bets. Baron Felix now on his last legs which he'll need crutches for if the Boys don't get their money is planning to rob the Great Grusinskaya, Greta Garbo, the worlds greatest ballerina who's also a guest at the hotel. The Baron concocts a plan to rob the Great Grusinskaya of her pearl necklace while she's at the Berlin Theater doing her thing Dancing her heart out for the audience there.Baron Felix who's only friend on earth up to that time is his cute and faithful Dachshund Adolphus, or Adolph for short, will later make it with that cold fish of a woman Grusinskaya while in the process of burglarizing her hotel suite! Catching Baron Felix off guard, by coming back to her suite early, Grusinskya is charmed by the handsome rogue who sweet talks her right out of her dance costume and into her bed; With him joining it.It's later that the Baron after confessing his love for Grusinskaya, and returning her stolen pearl necklace, decides to use the naive Otto in a card game of baccarat he set up. This is done by Baron Felix in order to get back the money he owes the Boys before the Boys who've just about had it with him, in his stalling to pay them back their money, end up making him a cripple. The card game goes good for first-time gambler, beginners luck?, Otto who breaks the bank walking away with another, to his already 11,0000, 3,500 Marks.With time running out on him in paying the Boys back their money a desperate Baron Felix grabs Otto's, who's dead drunk for drinking champaign, wallet with some 15,000 Marks for him to finally pay back the Boys before they pay him, in working the Baron over, back with compounded interest and fractures. ***SPOILERS***It's then that Baron Felix finally sees the light and gives up his life of a cat burglar and con-artist but only after one last fling, in robbing Preysing room, which turned out to be fatal for him.Despite the major and established stars in the film, Greta Garbo the Barrymores and Wallace Beery, it was Joan Crawford, compared to the quality of acting talent she was up against, in a more or less supporting role who stole the films acting honors. Being both wholesome and sensuous Miss. Crawford was able to put the grubby and aggressive Preysing in his place. This was by showing him that the person whom he held in contempt, and was a rival for her affections, the sweet and soft speaking Otto was a bigger success, as a human being, that he'll ever be. In the end the so sure of himself Preysing ended up being lead out of the Grand Hotel in handcuffs and going to jail for crimes committed by him on and off the premises. As for the meek and sensitive Otto, whom Preysing stepped on for some 30 years, he also left with Flaem for Paris to spend his last, and extremely happy, days with her at that city's Grand Hotel. "},{"Title":"An average weekend at 'Grand Hotel' Berlin.","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" According to Dr. Otternschlag; People come, people go. Nothing ever happens. The good old doctor couldn't be more wrong. Lots of things are happening in Grand Hotel when several different persons with different motivations check into the hotel.The movie follows several different characters in the movie who all in a way get connected to each other. All of the characters are in the hotel for different reasons. It makes the characters very powerful and interesting to follow. The movie might not be as old fashioned as it might seem at first sight. The movie might be made in 1932 but the story and its characters sure don't feel old fashioned and the movie doesn't fall into some typical genre clichés. The movie is unique in many ways, which makes this movie a very enjoyable one to watch, even for those who normally don't watch early cinematic pictures.The movie has a wonderful cast. John Barrymore is good and convincing as the thief with a good heart, Baron Felix von Geigern. Greta Garbo shines as always and so does Joan Crawford, whose performance is perhaps a bit underrated. Lionel Barrymore goes over-the-top at times but at least I could stand him this time. I normally can't stand him in movies but I must admit that he entertained and perhaps somewhat surprised me this time.Yes, so its really the cast and diversity of characters that makes this movie a greatly interesting one to follow. At moments there is nothing much happening on screen but due to its characters the movie still remains interesting throughout its entire running time. You just never know what's going to happen next in the Grand Hotel. It's interesting to note that the movie won an Acedemy Award for best movie but it wasn't even nominated in any other different category.A surprising and entertaining movie that is great thanks to its characters and storytelling, which makes this movie a very good- and interesting one to watch.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Fantastic All Star Cast","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" MGM's motto was that they had more stars than there are in heaven or something to that effect. No movie proved it better than Grand Hotel. Before Grand Hotel, it would have been unthinkable to put more than two of a studios top stars in one film. MGM rolled the dice and put Greta Garbo, John Barrymore, Wallace Beery, Lionel Barrymore and Joan Crawford together for a memorable film. To support them they included the best of their second string character actors such as Lewis Stone and Gene Hersholt to name but two. The gamble payed off and Grand Hotel was awarded the Best Picture Oscar. All of the stars put in a great performance but in my opinion Joan Crawford really stands out in this one. Garbo's performance is good but seems rather strained. The Barrymore brothers do a fine job. Wallace Beery is fabulous as the tough as nails industrialist who gets in over his head. MGM wouldn't wait long to try the formula again releasing another all star cast film Dinner At Eight two years later. "},{"Title":"Granddaddy of the Hotel genre","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although Chaucer and Boccaccio together with many successors dealt with literary interpretations of life in urban settings involving strangers meeting in public places, Vicki Baum was among the first to bring this genre into the twentieth century world of movies and popular fiction.  Neil Simon and others owe much to her concept of romanticized drama taking place in a modern hotel setting.Unlike some other film buffs who write here from time to time, I enjoy comparing a movie version to its literary predecessor -- usually some  novel or play.  Neither is necessarily superior to the other; it's just that understanding the whole context of a good story lends depth and credibility to characters and their motivations.Grand Hotel was a first not only in the era of talkies, but of bringing together an ensemble of character actors who were all stars in their own right.  Garbo and the Barrymores, Crawford, Wallace Beery (compare if you can his performance with that of Gert Fröbe in the later German version) may be seen as larger than life each in his or her own right.It is not enough to judge this film on its own merits from the perspective of the twenty-first century.  Without historical context -- including knowledge of its origins and the people who made it -- no true appreciation will be possible.Personally, I like Baum's later film Hotel Berlin much more.  But that may be because I found the book more complex and relevant.  De gustibus non est disputandum.  Or something like that.  "},{"Title":"Needs to be shown more frequently for the sake of younger movie-goers.","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wallace Berry showed his versatility as a German businessman. I didn't know that he could stretch that far as an actor. Joan Crawford had an innocence in 1932 that wasn't there later in her films. She did a great job. Seeing Lionel Barrymore when he was able to walk was remarkable and John Barrymore really looked sober. Stone was grand, as usual.The plot was outweighed by the presence of the stars. Worth recommending and worth seeing again. Five Stars. "},{"Title":"I want to be alone","Date":"31 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" GRAND HOTEL is a drama in which the director tried as a place of major activities to present the narrative framework, rather than the main characters. The film is to the world collected in the largest, most expensive and most luxurious hotel in Berlin. The hotel where nothing happens is full of people. In the hotel each tells his life story. I thought for a moment that this place is the filter through which people dismiss environmental dilemmas, but in the end it turned out that is not so. Grand Hotel is as the world's hive, the platform on which we see the theater of human relations. The film is a classic and scenery very attractive, but I was not impressed.The theme is expressed through rather vague relationship between a man and two women. Which fool now explain relationships? World triggered disillusioned, lack of life and breathing lungs, inability liberation from the chains of the business world, the world of others and other people who live on the body and soul of an individual, and you should start it joy and love. Each of the three persons of the 'triangle' presses the specific fate. None of these three people can not get rid of, and then things like the comedy of confusion flat to develop in the direction of love. The film is somewhat fun, the atmosphere is very good and even felt a slight melancholic tone.Grusinskaya (Greta Garbo) is a Russian ballerina. Her figure and her facial features, gestures in speaking her mind and body are stunning. I probably am not a supporter of the style that the film brings Garbo. It was at one time the most dominant character, but in the second weakest link. However, Greta Garbo in its expression has something that I really like. The Baron Felix Von Geigern (John Barrymore) was the dominant male character in the film, but his performance was not convincing. Otto Kringelein (Lionel Barrymore) is probably the character with which the ordinary worker can relate to. Diving I would characterize it as a little excessive, but very good. Wallace Berry and Lewis Stone do well in small roles. Joan Crawford tried to compete with Greta Garbo. She had a great role that is not used in the right way. I'll be back Greta Garbo. Without her, this film would not be hoped interesting. Greta Garbo, its performance than an ordinary film Grand Hotel made the film to be ethereal, disturbing and exciting, dark and bright as she herself.Grand Hotel is a film about the world, about human destiny, of sorrow, misfortune, loneliness, the poor and frail captive people in the exterior shell only. People have their roles, their professions, their journey just not themselves. As Grusinskaya, or as Kringelein, or as a typist Flaemmchen, or as unfortunate baron, or even as a short tempered materialism charge industrialist Preysing. Without love all people are unhappy. "},{"Title":"Elegant&#x85;Egomaniacal&#x85;Extravagant&#x85;Display From Stars and Studio","Date":"28 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Experimental Extravagance from a Studio that was Most Noted for the Latter and Not the Former, MGM Found Great Financial Success Despite Conventional Wisdom to the Contrary. That is, Don't put all your eggs in one basket., to be Flip.The Film Features Greta Garbo, John Barrymore, Joan Crawford, Lionel Barrymore, and Wallace Berry. All Are Given Approximately Equal Screen Time to Satisfy Egos and Fan Anticipation. Garbo's Performance, While Seen as Over the Top and Embarrassing Today, was Met with Rave Reviews from the Major Press At the Time.The Rest of the Cast are All Professionally Competent with Joan Crawford Frequently Pointed Out as Stealing the Show, or At Least Almost. Taste Will Determine Your Favorite and Your Foil. Aside from Acting, the Story is Melodramatic and Soap Opera Ish, the Sound and Camera Work are Above Average for the Time, and the Production Design is Art Deco Glorious. Some of the Characters and Situations are Dated as is Some of the Dialog. But as an Early Sound Hollywood Artifact it Stands as an MGM Statement that Bigger is Better, and it is the Studio Saying in No Uncertain Terms (when it was not that certain), We are the King of the Hollywood Jungle!. "},{"Title":"All time favourite","Date":"29 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have always had a strange fascination with Greta Garbo, something about her aloofness makes me orbit around her films over and over again. Grand Hotel presents us with a very lonely persona, much to Garbo herself; stunning, yes, but lonely. The music, the acting, the feeling the film provides you inflicts you with greatness. Perhaps I am biased, considering my fanaticism with Garbo, but she's stunning in this role as the sad, dramatic, suicidal woman who drops her petals and folds her tent. John Barrymore is great as well and GOD (!) Joan Crawford? Always a pleasure for me to see her face. All I needed for this film to be spectacular was Bette Davis and Marlene Dietrich (probably fighting each other). I love this film and I reckon that I'll continue to watch it every couple of years. Highly recommend it if you like oldies, truly oldies, and are in the mood to be stunned by Garbo and Crawford. "}{"Title":"Star-Studded Cast","Date":"21 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A group of very different individuals staying at a luxurious hotel in Berlin deal with each of their respective dramas.Alfred Rushford Greason of Variety said the film may not entirely please the theatregoers who were fascinated by its deft stage direction and restrained acting, but it will attract and hold the wider public to which it is now addressed. He added, The drama unfolds with a speed that never loses its grip, even for the extreme length of nearly two hours, and there is a captivating pattern of unexpected comedy that runs through it all, always fresh and always pat. That just about sums it up, does it not? The 2004 DVD is decent, with some nice special features including a documentary and a short spoof. The only thing missing is an audio commentary, and who knows... maybe it will show up eventually. "},{"Title":"Infinitely watchable, even today , , ,","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Without a good story to tell, Grand Hotel might be just an overwrought gathering of some of the greatest stars in the early days of Hollywood, a kind of revue of great faces without any real purpose. Yet, because this there is multiple stories, multiple characters, multiple points of interest, the movie is infinitely watchable, even today. What we get is a movable soap opera that surprisingly hasn't dated, and that may have something to do with the fact that the cast features actors who are given good material.Based on a mostly forgotten play Menschen im Hotel by William A. Drake from the book by Vicki Baum (who wrote the book based on her own experiences working in a hotel), Grand Hotel tells a multi-tiered story about the various goings-on at a swank Berlin hotel. The disfigured World War I veteran and permanent resident Dr. Otternschlag (Lewis Stone) describes it as People come and go. Nothing ever happens. Actually, he's being ironic. There's plenty going on, and as the patrons gather we meet them and get involved in their various stories.We meet a Baron, Felix von Geigern (John Barrymore), once a millionaire who has now squandered his fortune and makes a living by day as a card player and at night as a jewel thief. He befriends a sickly former accountant Otto Kringelein (Lionel Barrymore) who believes he is dying and is spending his last days at the hotel.We meet an industrialist called Preysing (Wallace Beery) who is about to close a sink-or-swim business deal that, if unsuccessful, could ruin him and his family. He hires a beautiful stenographer and aspiring actress named Flaemmchen (Joan Crawford) and during a conversation she suggests that she is willing to help him if he is willing to help her out of the typing pool.Then there is Grusinskaya (Greta Garbo) a Russian ballet dancer whose career is fading. Her station in life is taking its toll and she becomes depressed, stating I want to be alone. One night the Baron is robbing her room when she returns from an engagement and he overhears her, thinking that she is considering suicide. He confronts her, she is startled, but as they talk, they fall in love. This union does not go where we expect.All of these stories interconnect in a way that is not only clever but really quite compelling. The characters act, basically, according to their nature and their stories don't go where we expect. The most interesting is Flaemmchen, a beautiful young woman who has a mind behind her looks. There is a suggestion that she is willing to bed down with Preysing to further her career but she's no mere floozy. She also falls a little bit in love after a slight flirtation with the Baron. This is a different Joan Crawford then we're use to, young and happy and flirtatious. Crawford's legacy has been tainted by her reputation as a bitch-on-wheels and tarnished by trash like Mommie Dearest, but here we see the young Crawford. She is confident, easy-going and easy to fall in love with.Also interesting is Kringelein whom we meet as a man who seems to be nothing less than a self-pitying hypochondriac, but whose association with the Baron fuels his last days on earth with a profound sense of joy. He has an associated with Preysing. He was once under his employ and we discover, in a stunning moment, just what a rat his former employer was. This is a very dialogue driven picture taking place within confined spaces. The hotel itself is tall and circular and somewhat confined by the scope of what the camera is able to capture. Many of the rooms are lit at low levels so as to suggest the dark secrets hiding in the shadows. What is amazing is that none of this seems dry or dated. Everyone has a story to tell, and all seem to have a story that began before the camera found them.That's the true test of good writing. This could easily have been a tapestry of movie stars with nothing to do, but it's much more compelling than that. Many may see it as dated but I see a movie that peeks into a time gone by, with stars long gone. It is a timestamp on a world and on attitudes that we are never likely to see again.***1/2 (of four) "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Exceptional all-star MGM drama about the various characters staying at the Grand Hotel and their stories. John Barrymore plays a down-on-his-luck jewel thief. Greta Garbo is a ballet dancer who just wants to be alone. Lionel Barrymore is a clerk who is dying and has saved up all his money to spend his last days in luxury. Wallace Beery is a villainous German industrialist whose business is teetering on collapse. Joan Crawford is the pretty young stenographer who attracts Beery's lustful eye. Also a memorable turn from Lewis Stone as a doctor with a facial disfigurement from World War I who watches all the goings-on in the hotel and dryly states Nothing ever happens in the Grand Hotel. They're all great performances but my favorite was probably Lionel Barrymore. A wonderful film that will keep your attention throughout. Dark, mature, sophisticated storytelling. A must-see for everybody. "},{"Title":"An Absolute Gem From Another Era","Date":"15 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you wish to disappear into another time, when stars were classy, and dream worlds abounded, then Grand Hotel is for you.Is it very melodramatic? Yes. Everything is art-deco, everyone is lit in that classic manner of old, and yes, there is an odd line here and there. Can Greta Garbo be a little too much? Initially, I felt so, but after her initial scene with John Barrymore, even she comes off as slightly more down-to-earth.What is there to recommend it? Well, everything is art-deco, everyone is lit in that classic manner of old, etc. There is also John Barrymore's performance, whereupon an old world courtliness that no longer exists anywhere in movies can be seen. There's Joan Crawford, looking like a classic movie star, and Lionel Barrymore, having the time of his life. There's Wallace Beery, huffing and puffing about, but in a good way.There is a scene in which Barrymore is outside the hotel, and we have a brief shot of the city. It is clearly fake - but that is what's so good about this film.It is a dream world, filled with dream people. That's why the film is so good. "},{"Title":"MGM at it's Grandest","Date":"3 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was the best picture winner and MGMs box-office bonanza for 1932. It was also the first all-star dramatic film and a honey at that. For sheer star power it is hard to beat the combination of Garbo, Crawford, Beery and Barrymore. They all perform admirably within the confines of some of MGMs most lavish set design. The multi-faceted story, by Vicki Baum and based on her play holds the interest from first to last. This was one of the first early talkies I saw as a kid in the 1960s and the passing years have not dimmed it one bit. The DVD offers a decent quality print and the extras, including a short film which covers the premiere are interesting to see. As one of the most accessible examples of classic Hollywood it is one of the most quintissential. "},{"Title":"If these walls could talk...","Date":"23 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The film was highly enjoyable; though I certainly hit the ground running at the start&#x85;this may set a record for the number of characters introduced in such a short space of time!I did feel sorry for the meek and humble Kringelein, the only truly genuine guy in the film, who had never really experienced life until he found his was nearing an end and just wanted a friend. His fascination with everything, even the 24-hour hot/cold running water, gave him a childlike innocence.The Baron bounced between being a friend, lover, thief and backstabber. He was well played by John Barrymore, though I felt his character's storyline was concluded too conveniently.Thank the Stars for a Great Entertainment screamed the tag-line...I reckon If These Walls Could Talk would be a much better tag line for this film, as the hotel itself would be the only character who would know all that went on. There again it's 1932, just say Greta Garbo or Joan Crawford and you've filled enough cinemas to pay for it all. Even today, seeing all those stars together in one film makes it well worth watching.Overall it was good fun to watch though it didn't really flow smoothly or come to a decent conclusion. Once or twice I was left wondering where exactly the plot was going (and even, in fact, what the plot really was). There were too many unfinished story lines; that is normal in real life especially for a hotel with all their short-term occupants, but as an audience it's a little irritating. If you have special features on the DVD including a short film Nothing Ever Happens...it's an hysterical spoof of Grand Hotel and a fun way to end the film once you've seen it!--Louisiana Flip-- Fill a shaker half full with ice cubes and add 7 parts white rum, 1 part Cointreau (or Triple Sec), 1 part Grenadine, 1 part orange juice, 1 egg yolkServe in high Champagne glassesIt's little wonder this concoction has Mr Kringelein peering into the mirror stating You're drunk, Mr Kringelein before going to bed and falling out of it in a cocoon of bedding! "},{"Title":"Grand Hotel A Character Study","Date":"22 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After 80 years, Grand Hotel is still a very significant and noteworthy film. It was recently selected to be preserved in the United States National Film Registry for its cultural, historical, and aesthetic significance.The film is a character study of five different people who spend the weekend at the Grand Hotel in Berlin. Baron Felix Von Geigern (John Barrymore) has wasted his inheritance and results to jewel thievery; Otto Kringelein (Lionel Barrymore)is a man stricken with an incurable disease who decides to spend the last days of his life in pleasure; General Director Preysing (Wallace Beery) stays at the hotel to close an important business deal; Flaemmchen (Joan Crawford) is employed by Preysing as a stenographer (typist). Grusinskaya (Greta Garbo) is a Russian ballarinist whose career is threatened by her lack of drive and motivation.The film centers around these five characters and how their lives intertwine in romantic, compassionate, and even deadly ways.The quote at the beginning and end of the movie says it all People come and go. Nothing ever happens. When, in all actuality, many important things happen at the Grand Hotel that just go unnoticed by most people. "},{"Title":"The biggest stars, the grandest spectacle","Date":"21 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's a film set entirely within Berlin's Grand Hotel where according to one permanent resident nothing ever happens. Of course this isn't true at all. There's more hidden away behind closed doors than anyone could imagine. People come and go and some of them will see their lives forever changed in the course of a couple of days in the Grand Hotel. The fact that these people are portrayed by the biggest stars old-time Hollywood could muster makes Grand Hotel quite the spectacle indeed. There's John Barrymore playing the suave, sophisticated Baron who may not be what he seems. John's brother Lionel plays the incredibly timid Kringelein, a dying man who has decided to live out his final days in the lap of luxury in Berlin's finest establishment. Wallace Beery plays Kringelein's former boss, the cruel industrialist Preysing. He's at the hotel to try to close a business deal crucial to his company's survival. Working for Preysing will be the sexy stenographer Flaemmchen, a woman who makes it quite clear she's willing to use her body to get what she wants. Well, as clear as a woman can make such a thing in a film produced in 1932 anyway. Joan Crawford takes that role. And towering over the proceedings is the biggest star of all, Greta Garbo, playing the high-maintenance ballerina Grusinskaya.Kringelein knows, and rightly despises, his former boss but aside from that none of these characters know each other at all before they are all thrown together. The connections that are made, the bonds and relationships formed, make for quite a story. There are plenty of surprises. Admittedly a few lulls too. Sometimes nothing ever happens rings true, at least for a moment. But those moments pass quickly enough. And there is certainly more than enough star power to carry the movie home. Garbo has the least screen time of the five big stars but she owns every moment she has. What a presence. Whether in the throes of depression or radiant with the bliss of new found love Grusinskaya is a character you can't take your eyes off of. Garbo commands the screen like no other. Crawford looks absolutely ravishing and is brilliant with her portrayal of a woman looking to get ahead in life. She's got it, she knows she's got it, and boy will she flaunt it. John Barrymore is perfect every step of the way. The Baron may have his troubles but Barrymore is so calm, cool and collected that the character's facade would fool anyone. Lionel Barrymore perhaps is a little too eccentric for his own good at times. Kringelein is a walking jumble of nerves, so needy and submissive. Very easy for him to get on someone's nerves and maybe grate on the audience's nerves a little bit too. But you still can't help but feel for the guy. Especially when you contrast him with his old boss Preysing. What an obnoxious buffoon he is. And Beery holds nothing back with his portrayal, chewing all the scenery he can find. All these years later Beery is far and away the least well-known of this film's five big stars. And you get the sense that even way back then he knew he would be overshadowed by everyone around him and he overcompensated some, making sure he would be noticed. All his bombast does make for a tasty villain though.This film's massive star power would be enough to ensure its legacy. Grand Hotel was the template for so many all-star movies to come. But unlike so many modern incarnations this movie puts its stars to great use. This is Hollywood royalty, true legends at the top of their games. The scenes between John Barrymore and Garbo should go in a time capsule for all future generations of performers to study. This is how it's done. Crawford is absolutely delicious in her role. Lionel Barrymore perhaps went a touch too far with his character's nervous quirks but there is no denying it's a very solid performance and a very sympathetic character. And watching Kringelein here how impossible is it to fathom that the actor playing this role would go on to be Mr. Potter in It's a Wonderful Life? Could any two characters possibly be any more different? That's some range Mr. Barrymore. Garbo. Crawford. Barrymore. Another Barrymore. Seriously, does it get any better than this? Oh, yeah, Beery's here too. Sorry, Wallace. But hey, if you're going to be outshined you may as well be outshined by the very best. The legendary cast performs this story so well. The film's pacing may seem a little slow to the modern eye. There may be moments where you're looking for a little more drama. But this masterpiece of a long-ago era holds up more than well enough to still be enjoyable today. The characters suddenly come into each others' lives. And things happen. Yes, things most certainly do happen. "},{"Title":"Somewhat Dated But Notable as the First All-Star Cast","Date":"13 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hollywood's first attempt at a film with an all-star cast (though this is somewhat of an exaggeration since there are only six major stars in residence here; subsequent films in the genre would build on what this one started) won the Oscar for Best Picture, but it did not receive so much as a nomination in any other category. Looking back, this one was probably not so deserving of the trophy it did win.Set in the Grand Hotel in Berlin, a place where, according to the hotel doctor (Lewis Stone), people come, people go; nothing ever happens, actually there is a lot happening here we have a loutish business tycoon (Wallace Beery) who browbeats everyone around him; we have Miss Flaemm (Flaemmchen, played by Joan Crawford), the stenographer, a broad on the make who shows herself not only immune to Beery's character's rather grotesque advances, but holds her own against most of the men she encounters.We also have Otto Kringelein (Lionel Barrymore), an employee of Beery's who is dying and is determined to have several last flings before checking out. And finally, the love interests the thief-posing-as-a-baron Felix von Gaigern (John Barrymore), and the dissatisfied-with-life star ballerina Grusinskaya (Greta Garbo).As I said, lots of things do in fact happen here Beery goes for Crawford in a big way but she has little interest and does not bother to hide that fact. Meantime she befriends the dying Kringelein and this odd couple end up together at the end of the film; not romantically, exactly, but more like buddies looking out for each other. And of course while all this is going on the temperamental ballerina falls in love with the faux baron who is simultaneously wooing her and dodging the police.Unfortunately, this film has dated badly. Made very early in the sound era, it suffers from too much of the kind of overacting that was actually a necessity in silent films. Garbo is the worst offender here; she chews more scenery than Davis, Crawford, or the notorious Miriam Hopkins ever did in their entire careers in just one film. To make matters worse, she is miscast; I did not believe her for one second as a famous dancer; she couldn't even walk gracefully, and in the one scene where she dances with joy for love of the Baron I was sure that she was going to knock over everything in her room or trip over her klutzy feet and land on her ass.In fairness to Garbo, though I have never been one of her biggest fans, it must be said that she improved as she got used to the sound medium; she even rose to near-greatness in QUEEN Christina and NINOTCHKA, the latter revealing a talent for comedy that no one knew she possessed.The Barrymores emerge unscathed. The role of the thief-cum-faux-baron put no great strain on John Barrymore's considerable acting abilities; he is as totally believable as Garbo is totally UNbelievable.But it is brother Lionel and the then up-and-coming Crawford who steal the picture. Lionel, not possessed of the matinée idol looks of his brother, was a great character actor; his performance is natural and unforced. And Crawford, who also made some movies in the silent era, is a revelation; director Edmund Goulding taught her how to underplay her role, and Crawford, who in her own words knew nothing about acting when she first came to Hollywood, was an apt and dedicated pupil who learned her craft on-the-job. Her Flaemmchen is one of my favorite of her roles; she may have won the Oscar for her noble and self-sacrificing mother in MILDRED PIERCE, but I have always enjoyed her the most when she has played characters with a few warts showing, such as the irresistible broad on the make she plays here and her delightful turn a few years later as the out-and-out husband-stealing bitch Crystal Allen in THE WOMEN.I will say one thing for this movie it isn't boring. It commands your attention even in the most painful scenes (the love scenes between J Barrymore and Garbo are almost laughable), and it gave L Barrymore an actor's field day and also provided the still-new-in-town Crawford with what was at the time perhaps the best role she had had.It's worth while as a curio, and also to watch L Barrymore and Crawford. As for the rest, well, one must take into consideration that this film is eighty years old; that some of it is dated now is almost inevitable. "},{"Title":"Dated, melodramatic film still works pretty well","Date":"27 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" No doubt this was prime escapist entertainment for audiences in the Great Depression and one can understand why. This is one of the multi-story ensemble dramas and it features a star-studded cast suffering in luxury. All the high class production helped by some great camera angles provided a much needed tonic. The central characters are the hotel's hard-drinking doctor (Lewis Stone), a bankrupt aristocrat/cat burglar (John Barrymore), a burned out ballerina (Greta Garbo), a greedy and exploitive manufacturing executive (Wallace Beery), an ambitious stenographer (Joan Crawford), and a terminally ill bookkeeper (Lionel Barrymore), whose paths cross during a stay at the high-class Grand Hotel. It was popular enough to be remade twice and set the tone for many other such films. After all these years, how has the film itself aged? Pretty well, though it's no Gone With The Wind. The glamorous production still works and Joan Crawford, though a despicable person in real life, gives an excellent performance here. It's dated and moves a little slowly and is too talky by today's standards, but it still succeeds as escapist entertainment. "}{"Title":"A Club Med for aristocrats","Date":"15 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm finding it difficult to pinpoint exactly why this movie is so enjoyable. Somewhere between Baron's acting as thieves (or quite possibly the other way around), important corporate mergers, love amongst strangers, a dying man lucky at cards, and a general sense of chicanery, I got caught up in the world of the Grand Hotel. This club med for Aristocrats is home to the wealthy and not-so-wise, but, of course, officially nothing ever happens. This is quite a treat for anyone with an appreciation for early talkies with excellent acting, engaging script, and seemingly all of Hollywood together on screen. There isn't one particular thing to enjoy about this movie, you must be comfortable sitting down and taking in the entire thing. Rating 32/40 "},{"Title":"GRAND HOTEL which People See and Never Forget","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Grand Hotel, as the movie character Doctor Otternschlag (Lewis Stone) memorably puts it, appears to be always the same, a place where people come, people go and nothing ever happens. Yet, what is in between come and go is where nothing becomes everything and always the same turns into diverse and dynamic. That is what happens in GRAND HOTEL, the silver screen classic directed by Edmund Goulding, the very first all cast movie which does not constitute any vehicle reserved only for a certain celebrity. It appears to be a highly entertaining movie for all people about all different people who meet at the luxurious Grand Hotel in Berlin. Soon after you decide to see the film, you realize that it offers a unique insight into different characters, their psyches, their dreams, their intentions. Therefore, the true merit (and a rare merit) of GRAND HOTEL is not its luxury, its effects, but its people, its character development that, almost 80 years later, occurs to be as convincing as it must have been for the early 1930s audience. Indeed, to address the viewers by means of movie characters is a great success of any cinema production.We get to know these people to certain extend, which allows us to understand them and empathize with them. The wide range of personalities vividly come to our view in the opening scene and we get to know them considerably well before they go.We have a bossy General Director Preysing (Wallace Beery) who behaves in a masterful manner and perceives human relations through money and profit. Yet, where does this attitude lead him to? He enters the hotel as the eminent businessman with a thick wallet and leaves it in the most unpredictable way... There is Baron Von Gaigern (John Barrymore) who, perhaps, experiences the best lesson of life within the walls of the hotel. He gets the courage to tell the truth, yet, realizes that dirty tasks do not pay off... We have an attractive, delicious Flaemmchen (Joan Crawford) who appears to be rather a practical typist than a sentimental pianist. She is the person who makes the most genuine choice in the end... There is also a sympathetic Otto Kringelein (Lionel Barrymore) who looks for company with other people and whom the stay at the grand hotel grants the most unexpected gift of wonderful life he drinks a toast to. Cheers, poor Kringelein! As a simple man, he is, perhaps, the character that we are most likely to empathize with due to his authenticity, quest for happiness, openness, appreciation of people's company and search for love (consider the moment he dances with Flaemmchen)... Finally, we have Madame Grusinskaya (Greta Garbo), the over-dramatic ballerina who says her memorable line I want to be alone and truly wants to be alone until...a true love appears at the door of her heart. We get to know her as a true artist and as a melancholic personality whose emotional decisions take over the practical views.The movie, besides the perfect character development, can boast exceptional artistry. That applies to sets, classical music of Johann Strauss so beautifully fitted to certain moments, and performances of the true elite of the 1930s' silver screen.As I have mentioned before, GRAND HOTEL is one of the few films (especially for its day) where we do not focus on a particular celebrity but treat the whole movie as a mutual effort of artists. From sensual Joan Crawford through terrific Lewis Stone, the Barrymore brothers and great Greta Garbo... all do splendid jobs. But here the real phenomenon comes with the Swedish star so independent, so unique in the history of Hollywood. Although Garbo was known to play the leads in the movies (such was the case with most of her silents and talkies) and rather preferred to be left alone after the shooting hours, GRAND HOTEL was a true exception...she was one of many stars, first of all, and...she stayed for long after filming finding the company of those other stars enjoyable. Later, Garbo stated memorably about working with John Barrymore You have no idea what it means to me to play opposite so perfect an artist. That says for itself...GRAND HOTEL is nearly a masterpiece, the movie that you see and never forget. Since I saw it for the first time on one pleasant carnival afternoon, the charming characters have remained deeply in my memory. I have come back to this film with great pleasure several times since then. Indeed, it is something that comes but never goes... for who can forget good hearted Kringelein whom life offered a wondrous gift, melancholic Grusinskaya for whom love occurred greater than pearls, attractive Flaemmchen who found something more precious than work, duties, and poor Baron whose burden became too dangerous a trap... Great film with a lesson about people! "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Stay","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Famed as the first all-star film, it peeks into the lives of several people staying at a Berlin hotel for a couple of days. Garbo utters her famous line about wanting to be alone but her performance as a depressed ballerina is uneven, ranging from fits of girlish delight to being overly dramatic. Beery is effective if one-dimensional as a brutish businessman. Both Barrymores are good, particularly Lionel as a dying old man trying to make the most of what's left of his life. However, the best performance is given by Crawford as a stenographer trying to get ahead in life and career. Made before the Hays code, the story has some risqué elements. "},{"Title":"Welcome To The Grand Hotel","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Perhaps the first 'talkie' to really demonstrate that a film with sound could be as polished as any of the great silents, 'Grand Hotel' is a masterpiece of efficient storytelling, remarkable for it's fluid pacing, editing, script and acting.Designed as a showcase for MGM's 'galaxy of stars' including Garbo, the Barrymore brothers, Wallace Beery and a young Joan Crawford, Grand Hotel is top-notch studio product. Goulding draws efficient (if at times uneven), engaging performances from his bevy of talent, whose lives interestingly intersect in a plush Berlin hotel, where, supposedly 'Nothing ever happens'.Lionel Barrymore takes line honors for his performance as the dying Kringelein, connecting with the audience and creating a sympathetic character from a role that could so easily have descended into melodrama.John Barrymore, the great stage actor, gives a strong, yet uneven, performance as the tragic hotel thief Baron who falls in love with a beautiful yet unhappy ballerina. His acting talent rises above his oddly singsong dialogue delivery, heavy make-up and stage-bound gesticulating to give a meaningful characterization . He is best in his scenes with brother Lionel, conveying a gentleness that is real and touching.Crawford is superb as plucky secretary Flaemmchen, getting the best lines and certainly holding her own against the Barrymore's. Beery is suitably repulsive as a bourgeois factory plant owner.It is Garbo's performance that is most difficult to place. She indeed overacts horribly in her role as the suicidal, melodramatic ballerina Grusinskaya, yet isn't that what the role calls for? Then, just as we are shaking our heads at Garbo's theatrics she becomes touching and vulnerable in her scenes with John Barrymore as the dancer who 'just wants to be alone', yet really yearns for companionship. The verdict? An enigmatic performance from a truly fascinating actress.For all the attractiveness of it's 'cast of stars' marketing gimmick, shrewd MGM production chief Irving Thalberg recognized the importance of script, narrative flow and production design, and it is how these vital components are intricately melded together that makes the final result so satisfying. For example, the myth that 'Nothing ever happens' in the Grand Hotel is quickly debunked in the film's memorable opening sequence. Stars, major plot lines and mood are quickly introduced through clever crosscutting. In these frantic opening minutes, the camera lingers on the Art Deco sets, revealing the splendor of the luxurious Grand Hotel.'Grand Hotel' ultimately questions bourgeois society and the trappings of wealth and social position. It is tinged with irony that the 'aristocratic' Baron dies needlessly in the pursuit of money, too proud to take help from his lover. However, proletariat Kringelein's victory over former master Beery in the final scenes is slightly hollow. It is true that Kringelein and Flaemmchen deserve a happy ending, yet their abrupt decision to unite and live the high life through Kringelein's money seems to defeat the purpose of earlier events. Greed and love of money are duly acknowledged as the root of all evil, yet aren't Kringelein and Flaemmchen succumbing to the lure of riches anyway? 'Grand Hotel' effectively balances scenes of melodrama, romance, sentimentality, subtle comedy, pathos and sly social criticism to be a memorable classic of the studio system and one of the better Hollywood films of the early 1930's. "},{"Title":"The hallmark of MGM films","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Grand Hotel is the hallmark of MGM films, and as such epitomises them in that it is lavish, with grand production value and a stellar - star cast.This grand style of production is extrapolated through Garbo's acting, here playing to the camera as the character Grusinskaya, the lonely Russian ballerina with the confidence she gained from cameraman William Daniels. In playing for the camera, it is clear that she was used to acting in silent films, as opposed to talkies. Her husky voice, juxtaposed with her acting presence makes her what she was, which is in essence the breadwinner of MGM. Indeed, where would MGM have been without Garbo? Meanwhile Grusinkaya's loneliness is the price of her success and fame, like that of many a celebrity.Also, here in Grand Hotel, a young Joan Crawford's character, - played with great intuition - which is that of Flaemmchen states how she'd love to be in the movies. As such, she is an ambitious woman intent on getting ahead in life at any cost. In this sense Crawford's character is almost biographical. She illustrates in her role as a stenographer how men misinterpret femininity to be sexual encouragement. This misinterpretation by Preysing (Wallace Beery), as her boss, of femininity is therefore used to the advantage of Flaemmchen.There is bemusement in the Grand Hotel over the Barron (John Barrymore), being a thief, when he's such a gentleman. In this sense our idea of a thief is distorted and thus made questionable. But, this perception is distracting, for the true thief one might argue is Preysing, who takes from his employees, such as that of Otto Kringlein (brilliantly played by Lional Barrymore) as opposed to gives them the value of what their work is worth. As such Greysing's accumulation of wealth leaves Kringlein feeling alienated from the means of production. This alienation is exacerbated by his deference to his boss for his measly income. It is this subservience which has made Kringlein all vulnerable-like. But, money won via gambling permits him to stand-up to his boss and tell him where to get off. In this instance then, it is not money for and of itself that holds value for Kringlein, but the freedom from deference and subservience that it brings. In the end Kringlein is the proletariat who overcomes his boss, and wins' by the acquisition of money and the beautiful woman on his arm.The production set of Grand Hotel is lavish, and very interesting. The hotel is set in a Colliseium-like shape, which was typical of ancient Roman architecture, especially among the elite Romans. The beautiful, ornate art-deco makes the set a sumptuous feast for the eyes. Perhaps this was intent on giving hope during the depression era!Above all, this film is very stylish! "},{"Title":"All star best picture winner with a lot to offer","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Best Picture winner more known for putting together the first all star cast in Hollywood. Though the cast is impressive, the movie really does have a lot more to offer than just the names on the marquee. Intertwining the stories of several different characters staying in the Grand Hotel in Berlin, the film is a wonderful collage that succeeds both artistically and emotionally. The well balanced script gives each character room to develop on their own, but also connects them perfectly to one another. More important than being all stars, the performers are all very good actors as well. John Barrymore is charming as a hotel thief down on his luck. Lionel Barrymore is nearly heartbreaking as a dying man who makes some real friends for the first time in his life. Joan Crawford gives a lovable performance as a sweet secretary, who'll do almost anything to get some extra cash. Wallace Berry is infuriating as the hard headed business man, yet he keeps from being a one dimensional bad guy. Greta Garbo also does a decent job in the film as the prime ballerina who just wants to be alone. Each performer does a good job of making you care about the character and what they are going through. Their converging story lines complement each other so well that the film never feels disjointed. Rather, we always feel that we are watching one grand picture made up of many parts. "},{"Title":"Always difficult to appraise or critique...","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  movies from this era.  Clearly acting, directing, and writing styles have changed drastically. Not to mention production values.  I admit I don't always understand why some films are considered classics.  This is one of those films.   Released in 1932, Grand Hotel must have been a wonderful escape for those living through the depression.  Beautiful people, in a beautiful, rich location, living their beautiful lives.  M-G-M at the time advertised that they had more stars than the heavens, and they proved it with the wonderful cast in this movie.I admire the way the different stories are interwoven and clumsily connected to each other. Off the top of my head, I can't think of another film that did this as well during this period.  The opening sequence of the overhead shots and the introduction of the lead characters is also very well done, for the period.  I also like the way that Jean Hersholt's(spelling?)character frames the movie.  And the amount of sexuality suggested must have brought people pouring back into the theatres.But there is no denying that many parts of this movie are pure melodrama.  It is not helped by the fact that none of the lead actors would ever be accused of under playing their roles.  The scene where Garbo is on the phone trying to find Barrymore, and the one towards the end with Lionel Barrymore and Wallace Beery are particularly bad.  But again, that was the style of the day, so how much can you discount the film for that?I would love to see this picture re-made, but left in the pre-WWII Berlin, and hopefully include a minor storyline of what was happening in Berlin at the time.A wonderful artifact from Hollywood's golden age, I would rate Grand Hotel a 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"What begins as a light comedy becomes a serious drama","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being a product of 1932, Grand Hotel wasn't ahead of its times in terms of style, but it's hard to imagine other films of the era having a more complex storyline.  The plot seems simple enough, even light-hearted, when several of the Grand Hotel's more unique guests unknowingly share some business together.  It's obvious that their lives will intersect during their stay, but the movie's initial leisurely pace turns into a clever disguise for the real drama that will eventually take place.  In all, the surprise twist in plot may not be what the viewer wants, but does not disappoint.  "},{"Title":"Excellence all around","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Picture this....a Russian ballerina, in Berlin to perform, is going through a deep depression. On the night of her performance, at the theater, she becomes too discouraged to perform. She leaves the theater on her own. Her personal maid and the theater promoter frantically search for her and dash to her hotel room, but she's not there. They are stunned to see her arrive there shortly after them. She stands in the doorway and mutters out one line I want to be alone....She's just one of the characters whose lives are about to change drastically within the next couple of days while they stay at Berlin's Grand Hotel. This movie, made nearly seventy years ago, is one of the best movies ever made. It boasts an all-star cast headed by the phenomenally beautiful Greta Garbo, who plays the Russian ballerina. Her whole presence in this movie is astonishing, and I feel that she was the most beautiful actress ever. Although she alone makes this movie worth watching, the performances of the other actors are brilliant.  John Barrymore (Drew's grandfather) plays a sophisticated Baron with a dark secret. His brother Lionel Barrymore plays a factory worker who's terminally ill and wants to get something out of life. A fresh-faced Joan Crawford plays an ambitious secretary; Joan demonstrates just how pretty and talented she was. Lionel and Joan give the two best performances of the movie. I really liked their scene together, near the end of the movie. What I like most about the story is that it's really interesting to see how the main characters all have different lives, different agendas, and each is in their own predicament....yet their paths cross and their lives become intertwined. Ironically, one of the characters is convinced that the hotel is merely an establishment where people go about their business and really don't get a chance to  interact with each other. As he puts it Grand Hotel....always the same....people come, people go....nothing ever happens. I'd like to point out that when I first saw this film, it seemed like if I took a step into another world. Everything back in the early 1930s was so different--the hair and clothing styles, the Art Deco decor. It's all so different from the way things are nowadays; I was inevitably glued to the screen. Additionally, I was very impressed by the shots of the hotel lobby. I liked the shots taken from the top looking down onto the lobby floor.  What more can I say about this movie? Everything about it is excellent. **** out  of  ****.  "},{"Title":"People Come,People Go...and a legend is made.","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Grand Hotel glimmers with Art Deco oppulence. The performances are wonderful,The script sparkles and the story still enthralls.  John Barrymore gives one of his greatest performances as the down on his luck Baron Von Giagern,charming wistful and melencoly.Brother Lionel gives his greatest performance as the dying,but zestful Otto Kringelien.Lewis Stone is appropietly flippant and cynical as the enigmatic Dr. Otternslag and Joan Crawford shows us just how pretty and endearing she was in her early career.And then there is Garbo,the mystique that followed her to her grave must have started with her ethereal performance in this film.She is a wonder.  Murder,theft,love,hate and greed...with all of this going on,I wish I could take Otternshlag's advice and stay one more day. "}{"Title":"Hasn't aged well","Date":"31 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The 1932 Best Picture Oscar winner hasn't aged well. Stuffy, snooty, aloof, with some pretty hammy acting. Slow moving. The first 80% of the movie felt like Act 1, the set up. Then, when things do start to happen, it is over very quickly, and then onto the conclusion. Pacing is horrendously bad.The characters were hardly likable. In fact, the only one I cared about was Joan Crawford's character, the stenographer. Maybe because she was the only real, down-to-earth one of all of them. Everyone else just seemed stuck up, scheming or nuts.The likability of the stenographer is largely due to Joan Crawford's performance. She is fantastic - bubbly, witty and beautiful. None of the remainder of the cast worked for me. Greta Garbo, John Barrymore and Lionel Barrymore all seemed like they were auditioning for a play - very overdone, overacted performances. Admittedly, this was the early days of talking movies, so maybe old, silent movie, habits died hard. Certainly makes me wonder what all the fuss about Greta Garbo was, at least. "},{"Title":"Nothing is odd.  Nothing is random.  And nothing happens at the Grand Hotel.","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" At the time this film came out, it was a very prestigious picture. It had the biggest All-Star cast at the time; MGM invested a ton of money into this picture; it was based on a prestigious play and like the play itself, this is a very weird film. These characters, these interwoven story lines, the acting, even the very idea of the premise are odd. This was one of the earliest mainstream films that actually used the setting to exploit several unrelated stories together rather than to establish a character study or an overall plot, and while a humble beginning to it all, it really shows.What's the film about? Well, the Grand Hotel of course. As Dr. Otternschlag says, People come, people go. Nothing ever happens. It's pretty self-explanatory I think. But the individual stories themselves are an odd collection Greta Garbo, Wallace Beery, John and Lionel Barrymore, the list goes on. I don't want to give anything away because let's face it; you probably want to know how their day goes.So where do I fault the film? Well, as strange the premise is, the film is just okay. It probably would have been better as splice-of-life or a comedy, but the film doesn't meet these expectations. The acting is okay, the writing is okay, and the stories are okay. There's just not all that much worth talking about aside from the All-star cast, the premise itself, and what it did for films in general. And let's face it; there's a ton of films that followed suit with this film that aren't worth anybody's time or effort sitting through (recent examples include Valentine's Day and New Year's Eve).Ultimately, I have no idea what to make of this film as a whole though. A lot of people seem to love it, so maybe there's something in this picture that I'm just not seeing. So maybe I'm just a little thick-headed, maybe not. I can't seem to recall anything about this film that I hated though, but neither do I love anything about it.But this is an oddball film through and through; right down to the Oscar ceremony around it. Not only was this the 2nd of 3 films to have Won Best Picture and nothing else, but this was the only film to have won without a single other Oscar nomination. I have no idea what went on with the voting proceedings back then. Maybe the votes split somewhere; maybe the All-star cast helped contribute the votes to this picture; or maybe the Academy just loved the idea of this picture, but felt the rest was just okay. Even though at the time, they created a couple more categories (The Shorts, Adapted Screenplay, and Sound Recording for the talkies), there were mainly 3 nominees per category whereas Best Picture had 8. Either way, this film is nothing more than an oddity at the Oscars rather than a straight-up classic like All Quiet or The Godfather to name a few.Overall, it's passable, but otherwise nothing special. I'd give it 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The First and Still the Grandest of the All Star Cast Film.","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" At Grand Hotel they come and they go utters the house doctor played by Lewis Stone. Indeed the lobby of the opulent Berlin hotel is like the world in microcosm as travelers from all over hurry through its busy foyer. A series of their stories are intertwined in which romance, suspense, tragedy await. Over the years many films of this type (Dinner at Eight,Separate Tables, Ship of Fools, Airport,)have been produced with varying degrees of success. None have ever equaled Grand Hotel much to the credit of director William Goulding who managed to evenly distribute roles and get fine performances with a cast of the era's mega stars without having them bump into or upstage each other. Greta Garbo, John Barrymore, Joan Crawford, Lionel Barrymore and Wallace Beery all deliver classic representations of what made them stars of that period. The pace of the film moves briskly and never slows as one major star replaces another in scene after scene. The overall story itself edits well into each segment due to the well defined connections between the characters. Naturally the scenery and set design are plush and Goulding presents it well with controlled, unobtrusive camera work. But it is the stars as a group glowing brighter than ever in a time to quote Norma Desmond when pictures were still big, the players larger than life. The physiognomy and chemistry of icons Garbo and Barrymore, Crawford before she hardened, as the working class hero, Beery at his surly best and Lionel Barrymore as the pathetic retiree stealing every scene he is in. Grand Hotel still holds up today with its story line and performances but it is also an excellent example of a period that was about to come to an end (1932). For just outside the door's of this four star hotel National Socialists were in the streets unwittingly plotting to end everything grand about the city of Berlin. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film seems dated to me because (1) it is shot on sets and therefore the interiors seem airless; and (2) the made-up foreign accents are distracting.  That said, this is a great film.  It is racey and scandalous.  After all, Joan Crawford sells herself to Wallace Beery and even gets down to her dressing gown in the adjoining hotel room.  Her disgust and necessity are well done.  Also, there is the great flirtation scene between her and John Barrymore near the beginning of the film.  Did anyone catch how he lays his hand on one of her buttocks as they say good-bye?  Someone said that Greta Garbo is over the top in this film and that is really true.  But over the top does not mean necessarily not true to life.  She is portraying a pampered and neurotic performer who is actually one of those fabled people, a refugee dancer from Czarist Russia.  I think that she is giving an exact performance of a person who is crazy and who naturally does the exaggerated things that people expected of fabled personalities in the 20's and early 30's --- and in the 19th century, too.  Her role is to be bigger than life.  To my mind, the over the top person in this film is Lionel Barrymore who whines and hams it up to an embarassing degree.  Check this film out!  "},{"Title":"Garbo is divine!!","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Grand hotel is one of the best films I've ever seen. It's romantic, tragic, funny and completely irresistible. The plot is great. The story would even make a good screenplay today. And the actors are brilliant. Garbo shines as the lonely ballerina, and gives the best performance in the movie. There's something so sparkling and human about her acting. I fall in love with her everytime she's seen on screen... and this movie is no exception.As for the rest of the cast; they're great!! Although Joan Crawfords character is a bit anonymous. But her talent and beauty makes the most of it!!Highly recommended "},{"Title":"Two-thirds of a century has not dimmed this film's light.","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  O.K., the film isn't perfect.  One might feel a little disappointed in Lionel Barrymore's part.  It's not much of a part for such a distinguished performer.  But, while there are a few flaws, the film is wonderful. Garbo at her best is absolutely riveting.  John Barrymore at his best is a legend, but I felt Garbo stole every scene.  Garbo can, with a look, reach down into your soul.  The combination of her superlative acting, that wonderful face, and her marvelous voice inflections are absolutely compelling. The very young Crawford with her gorgeous dark eyes was superb! No wonder she became a legend.  The film takes us a long way back in years but it is every bit as meaningful as the very best films of today.  I give it five stars!  "},{"Title":"Joan Crawford Steals the Show","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Movies like Grand Hotel were to the 30's what disaster movies were to the 70's all-star, fluffy escapist entertainment unabashedly aiming for box office success. But Grand Hotel shouldn't be dismissed for those reasons. It is fluffy to be sure, but it also happens to be wildly entertaining, so I guess you can call it a supreme success as it does exactly what it sets out to do.A bevy of big, big stars--Lionel and John Barrymore (where was Ethel?), Greta Garbo, Wallace Beery and a young Joan Crawford (before she turned scary)--act up a storm in this glorified soap opera that takes place solely in the eponymous hotel. Barely a melodramatic plot twist is left unturned. So what if much of the plot is laugh inducing, and so what if half the cast seems to think they're still acting in silent film. Best not to take too critical an eye with this one and just enjoy the goings on.Joan Crawford pulls the rug out from under every other cast member and walks away with this film; indeed, she's so good, she seems to be acting in a completely different movie. And she's actually pretty, the one and only time I can make that accusation in regards to her. Wallace Beery walks around speaking with a guttural German accent and looking grumpy; don't feel too bad for him, though, since he won an Oscar that year (albeit for a different movie) to cheer himself up. John Barrymore is as animated as a tree stump, but he skates by on his matinée idol looks anyway. Words cannot describe the level of atrocity to which Greta Garbo sinks, however. She's putrid (capital P, capital U, capital Trid) as a dying ballerina (or something) and acts like she's starring in her high school play. Garbo's allure has always escaped me; I just don't get what's so great about her. With that deep voice and those broad shoulders, I'm still not sure she wasn't secretly a man, though in that case I would have to rethink my thoughts about her acting ability.The set for Grand Hotel is its most valuable asset. Before the days of sophisticated cinema trickery, this set had to have been quite an achievement. It's enormous and detailed, and director Edmund Goulding makes great use of it, sending his camera soaring around its interior.You'll have a lot of fun with this one, especially if you like to make fun of Greta Garbo, and especially if you don't believe there ever was a time when Joan Crawford wasn't frightening.Grade A "},{"Title":"Panoramic","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is an assortment of pathetic characters  a fading ballerina falls in love with a thief and loses him. He is a gentleman but lacks money. There is a terminally ill bookkeeper who has never lived and who gets very lucky for a while. He speaks the most poignant line No one gives you anything for free. He too needs money to be happy. The mood is one of detachment and quiet despair about the human condition. Great, panoramic, wise.  "},{"Title":"Outstanding sentimental repertory movie","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Goulding, Edmund 1932 One of the great repertory movies&#151;that is, a movie in which a group of major stars all have roles in a set of parallel or interlocking subplots. Little Otto Kringelein (Lionel Barrymore) has come to the Grand Hotel to live lavishly before he dies, and he is befriended by the Baron Felix von Geigern (John Barrymore), an impoverished aristocrat and hotel thief. Prima Ballerina Grusinskaya (Greta Garbo) feels despairing about her dance career and wants to be alone. Rude, selfish, unpleasant industrial magnate Preysing (Wallace Beery), Kringelein's employer, is in the hotel to negotiate a merger that will save his business, but which is failing. He employs stenographist Flaemmchen (Joan Crawford), with whom the Baron flirts&#151;he calls her funny one. The Baron owes a great deal of money and is under pressure to steal the ballerina's pearls. He is hiding in her room when she declares her unhappiness and her intention to kill herself, and steps out of hiding and they fall in love. Meanwhile Kringelein, staying in the best suite in the hotel, is having a good time, and the right people are wonderfully nice to him and Preysing is beastly. The Baron decides not to steal from his gentle, vulnerable new friend, and instead tries to steal Preysing's pocketbook while he's distracted by the process of acquiring Flaemmchen as a mistress, but Preysing sees him and kills him with the telephone. She rushes to Klingelein, who asks her if she loved the Baron. Yes, she says, and he answers, so did I. And they go off to Paris together. Maybe the most brilliant part of the movie is at the end, when the Baron's body is taken away by a hearse from the trade entrance, watched by the employees including two men wearing white coats and carrying sides of beef. And as somebody takes the Baron's sausage dog Alphonse away an employee sweeping the floor pushes dust aggressively at the little dog. Klingelein and Flaemmchen leave for Paris together, the ballerina leaves for Vienna without knowing her new beloved is dead, and cars roll up discharging new guests. The saturnine Doctor Otternschlag repeats his earlier line, nothing ever happens. The acting is very good of its sort&#151;both Garbo and John Barrymore are at the peak of their public emoting, to modern tastes perhaps a bit over the top. Does Barrymore ever play a man who is not doomed? And Wallace Beery is phenomenal as a blustering germanic boor&#151;it's so easy to dislike him. Crawford is edgy and surprisingly modern, and Lionel Barrymore plays his strong suit as a rumpled, simple, and lovable fellow. The whole piece is a big sentimental crowd-pleaser, very well-knit-together. "},{"Title":"A last look at pre-Nazi Germany.","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Watching Grand Hotel nowadays, one realizes that it was released in 1932, the year that Hitler got elected in Germany. Therefore, this movie - set in a Berlin hotel - is sort of a final look at the pre-Nazi days. The plot focuses on several people in the hotel and their interactions (or sometimes lack thereof) with each other. This may have been the first movie with an all-star cast, something that too many movies would end up doing to silly effect; but this one makes good use of it. A masterpiece for the ages.Speaking of an all-star cast, we sometimes say an impressive cast. I wonder, what would be a dubious cast? Steven Seagal and Pauly Shore? "}{"Title":"One of Hollywood's All Time Classics!","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The divine Greta Garbo, along with many stars of the day sparkle in this Gem of a Hollywood Classic! -- A typical day at Grand Hotel takes the audience inside the tangles web of characters. The haves and the have nots, co-existing in a world of masters and servants, each trying to fit in.Garbo is a dramatic world class ballerina who had long suffered from unhappiness, feeling suicidal when out-of-the-blue she falls in love with a charming small-time crook (John Barrymore). Her scenes alone are worth the price of the video! A young Joan Crawford plays a little secretary who first feels sorry for, then decides to become the mistress of an elderly accountant who had saved his pennies and now wants to live it up before he dies. A greedy rags to riches brute (Wallace Beery) is the perfect villain; the entire cast delights in this dated but delicious piece of Hollywood candy. You won't be disappointed with this one! "},{"Title":"The 1st All Star Cast Movie.","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this excellent movie over 20 years at a theater specializing in showing old movies. The whole cast is excellent & I can't think of anyone who stands out.Greta Garbo is beautiful, Wallace Berry is Wallace Berry & Joan Crawford is interesting as the secretary. One book I read Joan Crawford would play Marlene Dietrich's record to spite Garbo, but in an biography, Joan said she met Greta on the steps in passing& she told her you have such a beautiful face. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This one comes from the era in between WWI and WWII, set in Berlin at a spectacular hotel. People come, people go, nothing ever happens is the driving theme of the movie, but indeed; this is to be taken in an abstract sense. What happens is transitory, deaths, people falling in love, men cheating on their wives; these things will always happen, they are nothing new.The movie is slightly dated. This is the era in which Germans could easily be portrayed by actors with American accents, but Garbo is fantastic. Check this one out.ZooTrouble "},{"Title":"Grand Hotel","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One minute in, I knew I was watching something wonderful. The scenes of the characters in phone booths lets us know immediately who they are and what they're about. We know Lionel Barrymore's dying; John Barrymore's up to something. Phone booths are supposed to be private, but we're allowed to eavesdrop on people's intimate conversations - it's thrilling, a great way to kick-start a film. By the time we entered the lobby, with that wonderful three and a half minute (I timed it!) elevated shot of everything that's going on, with the characters wandering in and out of the frame, hanging in the background, I was helplessly lost in the action. I literally said to myself this is great. A big goofy smile on my face, I watched the film get better and better.Every single performance, with the possible exception of Garbo, is flawless. A far cry from my opinion of him in Dinner At Eight, I thought Beery was very good, delivering a blustering, dominant performance, but sad, almost child-like, at times.Crawford (the first film of hers I've seen) was, at least to me, a revelation. I can't shake the image of her with that Baby Jane look, and I was surprised at how beautiful she was here. Her scheming is so subtle I hardly noticed it until the very end. Then I replayed her scenes in my mind and everything fit into place. Was she always this sassy? Garbo was possibly the weakest link. She was impressive, don't get me wrong, but there's something dated about her acting, something that just didn't sit right. I don't know, maybe she's too iconic. When she didn't have Barrymore to act with I felt she was lacking something.John Barrymore was excellent. I simply cannot fault anything this man does. He's now sharing my favourite actor spot with Brando.But Lionel Barrymore stole it. His turn as the dying, socially awkward geek living life for the first time is one of the best performances I've ever seen. Absolutely tragic. The scene immediately before he dances with Crawford made me cry. The guy was heart-breaking. From his mumbling complaints at the front desk, just trying to be heard, to his desperate search for his pocketbook, while the thief wrestles with his conscience, to his confrontation with Beery, he was note-perfect. His gesticulations, the movement of his eyes, the strained look on his face, everything screamed sadness, desperation, and dignity.The music was perfect. It seemed to almost never stop. Waltzes echoing the way the characters danced around each other, whether it's to steal pearls, bed stenographers, coax insecure ballerinas, or confront tyrannical bosses.The direction was often dizzying The previously mentioned shot (and there were more than a few others) that seemed to go on forever; the shots looking down on the distant lobby far below, in all its deco glory.Not a frame is wasted. It's one of the very few films I'd be happy to see run an hour longer. It's snappy, fast-paced, glamorous, sexy, sophisticated, funny, and ultimately tragic. "},{"Title":"There is a 'Grand Hotel' in every city in the the world.","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this old movie, on DVD, mainly to see Greta Garbo and Joan Crawford in the same movie. A side treat were the Barrymore brothers, John and Lionel. Four fine classic actors in one movie!Set in Berlin, at the Grand Hotel people come, people go. The movie begins with an overhead shot of a large number of phone operators, seated side by side, directing calls to the proper rooms in the Grand Hotel. We see a couple of days in the lives of 6 or 8 primary characters. Greta Garbo plays Grusinskaya, a 'performer' (although we never see her perform) who is miserable until she falls in love with Baron Felix von Geigern (John Barrymore) who is broke and needs to raise some money quickly. Joan Crawford plays a stenographer, Flaemmchen, who is hired by some businessmen trying to pull off a merger, and one of the bosses, Preysing (Wallace Beery), a married man, falls hard for Flaemmchen, who sees nothing but bad manners in him, but herself is smitten with the Baron. The Baron falls hopelessly in love with Grusinskaya, but is unable to follow her to Vienna. Lionel Barrymore plays Otto Kringelein, a dying man who has come to the hotel as a final treat for himself. Mostly a comedy with a dark edge, an older movie that is highly entertaining for the actors and the characters they create.SPOILERS FOLLOW. The Baron is a thief with a conscience. First he sneaks into Garbo's room to steal her pearls, is caught in there, makes up a story about going there every night while she performs to breathe the same air as she does. But guilty he gives her the pearls back, they talk, they profess love for each other. She leaves for her next job in Austria, he promises to go the next day to meet her. Still needing to make money, he gambles but loses. He steals Preysing's money, is caught, and angry Preysing kills the Baron in his hotel room.Meanwhile the business meeting goes sour, the deal is off, Preysing had hired the Stenographer to go with him to England, but now with Preysing going to jail, she goes instead to Paris with Kringelein, who turns out to be a very nice man. Garbo returns to the Grand Hotel, is only told the Baron has left, but they don't tell her he left as a dead man. She and her handlers go off to the next engagement.Meanwhile more people come and people go. As the movie ends, we see a young couple from America arriving, on their honeymoon, oblivious to what all had happened the prior day. "},{"Title":"Like stars in the sky, these stars are light from the past","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have always enjoyed watching the firmament of MGM stars, at their individual peaks, in this movie. Crawford at her loveliest, the Barrymores still extraordinary, Garbo in her prime, Wallace Beery at his best, and so on.I saw a big screen version a couple of years ago and caught for the first time B.v. Geigern's pat on the derriere of Joan Crawford. Just shows there's still real value in seeing it the way it was meant to be seen. "},{"Title":"Stiff and slow,but still fascinating","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie seems today a bit stiff and slow,but the story is still fascinating.John Barrymore gives a marvelous performance as the fatalistic thief and Joan Crawford is utterly beguiling in one of her most naturalistic roles.Greta Garbo's performance would have suited the silent screen better than it does here.Lionel Barrymore is just right for his part as a dying and meek clerk on a last spree.As the desperate and unlikeable businessman Wallace Beery is perhaps a bit too hammy.  "},{"Title":"It's great but there are problems","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" MINOR PLOT SPOILERS This is set in Berlin in a beautiful, luxurious hotel. Among the tenants--there's Greta Garbo as Grusinskaya--she's a fading ballerina who is miserable and vants to be alone; John Barrymore plays the penniless Baron who falls in love with her; Lionel Barrymore plays a man who's dying of an incurable disease--but wants to go out enjoying himself; Wallace Berry plays a ruthless industrial man and Joan Crawford plays a stenographer he hires. This was obviously a BIG production. The sets are elaborate, everything looks perfect and this was the first film with an all star cast. The script is sharp and the direction moves the story along. Garbo and Crawford are just superb--they're so young and full of life! They play their roles to perfection.But there is one big problem here--the male actors. To put it kindly they're pretty bad. John Barrymore looks like he's a million miles away; his brother Lionel overacts to an embarrassing degree (and gets very annoying) and Berry chews the scenery. They weaken what could have been a great movie. As it stands I can only give it an 8--but it's still well worth seeing. It won the Academy Award for Best Picture of 1932. "},{"Title":"A little boring","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I picked this DVD up because it had an all star cast and it looked fun. I suppose you could say I was a little disappointed with this movie because it didn't meet up to my expectations - they weren't high, either. Alright, I'm a teenager but I love old movies. This one started off pretty boring, slow and stiff but it didn't get any better. At times I didn't understand what was going on and I often found myself wondering, Why am I still watching this? I didn't really care about the characters. I couldn't care less about what happened. I didn't even watch the end of this movie. I just could not be bothered.However, despite that, I really loved Joan Crawford's performance - she really stands out. Greta Garbo was over the top, but it probably would have been weird if she was all normal - she IS a prima ballerina. If I got the chance to watch this again, I probably wouldn't. Sorry. "},{"Title":"Suffers from delusions of Grandeur.","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lewis Stone's bookends this notable classic with the line Grand Hotel...always the same...people come, people go...nothing ever happens. He's actually right on the ball.  A whole lot of nothing happens, and what DOES happen is unimaginative and stale.  However, 70 years later, there is a campy value that can be savored.1932's Grand Hotel is one of those so-called vintage treasures that has a built-in, protective reputation-slash/seal of approval.  It's almost sacrilege to attack it.  But this contrived nonsense, which seems to follow a myriad of hotel residents who briefly filter in and out of each other's lives with obvious results, simply does not live up to its almost mythic status.  The glossy cavalcade of MGM royalty that parade about this visually striking dramedy cannot support the flimsy writing and  laughable dialogue; they can only distract you.  And that they do...up to a point.  Agreed, Grand Hotel created a brand new screen formula for star-studded casting and it won best picture that year, but isn't it odd that it wasn't nominated for anything else?  MGM was strongly influential during the first decade of the Academy Awards, and I strongly suspect that this was a major factor.  In a year of not-so-great films, a sentimental win for The Champ would have made better sense than doling it out this glitzy artifact.Top-billed Greta Garbo gives either one of the worst dramatic performances or one of the most deft, deceptive, tongue-in-cheek comic turns ever.  The jury's still out on this.  Her brooding ballerina gives manic depression a whole new meaning and scope.  Her lows are SO excruciatingly low she literally must drag herself from mark to mark.  Her highs are SO exhilaratingly high she literally bounces off the hotel walls a la Fred Astaire, sans trick photography.  This is the movie where she delivers the classic line, I vant to be alone!  Three times.  And she might as well be. Giving a mechanical performance of moods and poses, she seems to be playing solely to the camera.  Everything and everyone else around her is incidental...or invisible.  And shame, shame, shame on costumer Adrian for dressing her in that absurd-looking ballerina garb.  Visions of Streisand's Fanny Brice cavorting about in her Swan Lake sequence kept dancing in my head.  It looked that ridiculous.  Garbo didn't look like a ballerina and certainly didn't move like a ballerina.  Add some insipid dialogue together with a thick Swedish/Russian accent and you've got unintended laughs galore. Please, please look elsewhere to find the magic this woman created on film. It is not evident here.John Barrymore's elegant cat burglar at least tones it down to a happy, comfortable medium, if that's possible in this movie.  Still, his emotional love duet with Garbo will no doubt dredge up memories of the Funt and Mundane sketches with Carol Burnett and Harvey Korman.  Better are his playfully titillating scenes with Joan Crawford's rapacious yet likeable stenographer, who provides the film with a necessary heart.  Crawford keeps her character sweet and the mannerisms down, walking away with the film and the acting honors.  Lionel Barrymore could have been quite touching, but he turns his welcome-mat bookkeeper who has little time left on the books into a whiny, depressing irritant.  Wallace Beery's underhanded Teutonic-clipped corporate runs amok too, like an angry bull in a china shop.No help from the others either.  Jean Hersholt is surprisingly wasted in a small, colorless part, and the rest of the cast are merely stiffly-acted stereotypes, especially Rafaela Ottiano as part of Garbo's entourage, whose overly wary presence and stern eagle eye probably gave Cloris Leachman some ideas for her Mel Brooks' characters.  Nobody seems to understand the meaning of 'less is more' in this picture!However, for something positive to focus on, check out the mammoth art-deco interiors, lavish costumes and Busby Berkeley-like panoramic camera shots. They're a lot of fun and actually more subtle than the performances.  And if you can look at the performances as kitschy fun instead of high art, you will be doing yourself a big service.That said, for my money, this hotel is way, way over-priced. "}{"Title":"Joan Crawford is superb as always. GREAT film!","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed GRAND HOTEL. I thought everyone did a great job in this movie (except Greta Garbo.) I'm a big fan of Joan Crawford and thought she did a way better job then Greta Garbo. Greta Garbo was dreadful; (as always) I just can't believe she became so famous. I think Joan should have been nominated for an academy because I thought she was great. John Barrymore was really good in this as well. I started to hate his character when he went for Greta instead of Joan. It was a bit corny when John comes into Greta's room attempting to steal her jewels and Greta falls in love with him. I mean come on. Anyway Grand Hotel was an excellent movie and everyone should see it. "},{"Title":"Grand Movie","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  People come and people go at the Grand Hotel. Their lives connect and disconnect. We see a slice of the comedy and drama that is humanity played out by an excellent ensemble cast. This is one of the great classic films. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Excellent Ensemble Acting Hasn't Aged a Bit","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Grand Hotel, winner of the Best Picture Oscar in 1932, is a top-notch movie that hasn't aged a bit. It's very Altmanesque, where multiple stories intertwine, and loop in and out of one another in unexpected ways. Set in a ritzy hotel in 1928 Berlin, the film follows the little dramas of a group of guests, including the impoverished Baron, reduced to theft to survive, an aging ballerina, a dying man on his last fling, the corrupt industrialist, the young stenographer, not above prostituting herself for extra money. The stories are great, each a wonderful character study and the acting could not be better.  Oddly, the only acting misfire, in my opinion, is an over-the-top caricature of the ballerina by Greta Garbo. But Wallace Beery, John and (especially) Lionel Barrymore, and a very young and attractive Joan Crawford make this a must see movie. Go to the classics section of your video store and rent it, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Lionel Barrymore's Best Role","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As soon as you see him on the screen in this film, you quickly fall in love with his character. A middle class push over, Lionel Barrymore's character is funny as well as brilliant. Barrymore's best, Grand Hotel is a hit because of that reason. "},{"Title":"Five-Star","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The first thing I have to say about Grand Hotel after watching it for the first time as it closes in on its 80th birthday is that it holds up remarkably well, the second thing is that all the fuss about Garbo is true. If a lemon soufflé can grab a movie by the scruff of the neck and walk away with it then that is what she does. I've long been an admirer of Joan Crawford but I find it hard to believe that anyone would dare to mention her in the same breath as Garbo; it's a bit like Astaire and Kelly, a thoroughbred seeing off a carthorse. The rest of the cast, albeit light years behind Garbo, weigh in with fine performances with Jack Barrymore just shading brother Lionel - who was still using legs not wheels - and Beery and Crawford bringing up the rear. Lewis Stone, several years away from Judge Harvey, tops and tails the piece effectively and a swell time is had by all. "},{"Title":"Movie Odyssey Review #063 Grand Hotel","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 063 Grand Hotel (1932) - released 4/12/1932; viewed 6/8/06.Prohibition is lifted in Finland on the 5th of April, resulting in the mnemonic 54321. Paul von Hindenburg is elected president of Germany.BIRTHS Debbie Reynolds, Anthony Perkins, Joel Grey.KEVIN Grand Hotel is like a vintage blueprint for half the independent film dramas made today. But at the time it was unusual to have an all-star ensemble. Lewis Stone's scarfaced doctor bookends the film with his comments that things are always the same. People come, people go. Nothing ever happens, but as we see, nothing could be further from the truth. One of the rules of great storytelling, especially with ensemble stories, is that every character thinks that they are the main character. In this department, Grand Hotel is a smashing success. The cast gives the minimal setting an almost epic quality. With Greta Garbo, John Barrymore, Lionel Barrymore, Wallace Beery, and Joan Crawford, each character dominates the screen when they come on, making the other players seem like bit parts. At Berlin's Grand Hotel, several random individuals find despair, love, hope, and tragedy, all moving continuously through their lives beyond the end titles. That's one of the things I enjoyed about this film was the sense that these characters have life outside the film's running time. My favorite character is Kringelein (Lionel Barrymore), the terminally ill bookkeeper looking for one last hurrah. His journey is most complete, from the depths of despair to the highest reaches of hope for a man with nothing to loose.DOUG MGM brings together its all-star team (probably Hollywood's first ever ensemble cast) for this lavish Best Picture winner, Grand Hotel. I guess I expected more from such a celebrated movie. It didn't quite click. I'm having trouble reviewing it now. The line I want to be alone, is the one we all think of when we think of Garbo. Her character here often comes off as a depressed, egotistical drama queen (Clark Gable thought Garbo was a snob). It's a more interesting performance than we've seen from her so far, if more than a little overdone. She also interacts very little with the rest of the cast, other than the Baron, which is a shame; we never see all the major players in one scene. The Barrymore brothers give very good performances here, probably the least dated in the movie. I think my favorite scene is when Lionel's Mr. Kringelein, a terminally ill bookkeeper enjoying a last holiday, stands up to his boss. Big, bad Wallace Beery is awesome playing said boss, a hulking robber baron with a German accent. After seeing him play similar characters for a while, it's good to see him really act and immerse himself in an unusual role. John Barrymore is the dashing leading man around which most of the movie revolves. He's also the world's worst criminal; I had no sympathy for him when he refuses to steal Garbo's pearls. Rounding out the cast is a young Joan Crawford. Her role is so meaty that they went back and shot extra scenes with Garbo to balance out. Crawford has the better performance here, I think; very sassy. Crawford and Garbo have no scenes together, which is another shame; the studio didn't want one upstaging the other. It would have added a lot to the film to have one scene where these two giants squared off, and Crawford would have cut Garbo down to size. The film was clearly quite a big movie in 1932; it was parodied a lot, and a few of these can be glimpsed on the DVD (it made me think about stuff like Scary Movie and the way they parody big movies today. Same thing here).Last film Scarface (1932). Next film Horse Feathers (1932). "},{"Title":"Quite dated but still great","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Grand Hotel was the first movie which gathered several big stars and gave them equal parts and weaved the different stories into an entertaining evening.The formula has been frequently used through the years since its conception in 1932. Joan Crawford, young and sexy and not as mannered as she would be a couple of years later, almost steals the picture.Lionel Barrymore as the dying clerk on his last spree delivers a heart-wrenching performance.And then there's brother John as the suave jewel thief and he is magnificent.Those three are the heart of the movie.Wallace Beery as the industrialist plays more or less a caricature and the great Garbo doesn't really have much to do then look depressed and suddenly transformed by love. She's not bad , but she has been much better in other movies.A very entertaining, if dated movie worth watching for some excellent performances. "},{"Title":"Staged Rhapsody","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I watch these old films, I come in hoping that there's a great cinematic experience that stands the test of time, just waiting to discovered; recommendations and ratings don't always tell the full story to me - I found It Happened One Night to be one such disappointment.Alas, this movie is not an example of lasting greatness...but it does have a few cinematic bits of historical interest. Particularly the Barrymore brothers' performances. Lionel's earnestness serves as a sort of 'Walter Mitty' precursor. And John's performance clearly was used by Michael Caine as one of the ingredients to his 'gentleman thief' in Dirty Rotten Scoundrels. I find Garbo's theatrics to be too much...too 'pay attention to me' in character.Visually, this is mostly trapped in staginess; it lacks that conceived-as-a-film quality. Hitchcock and Welles would eventually bring that to us. But there are a few images that stick. The view down the hotel's central tube to the lobby unquestionably was used as a template for the City of Zion from the latter two Matrix movies. And the illusion of the cat burglary seen from above looking down toward the sidewalk is impressive and seamless. "},{"Title":"Timeless and influential","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having never seen Garbo I can now honestly say &#150; she has a very expressive mouth.  I can definitely see what all the hubbub was about there.Things I liked Gloves. -  The dog and the broom.  -  The yellow room.  -  The wood doors.  -  Crawford and Garbo doing so much with so little.  -  The Business men and the contracts.  -  The down shots.Things I had trouble with If nobody is showing up for the Ballet why would it matter if she had given the performance of her lifetime or not &#150; the sub plot of the head valets wife in the hospital.  -  When Berrymore lost his wallet with 3000 marks in it and the other Berrymore picks it up, that scene did not work @ all.  "},{"Title":"What a bore","Date":"22 August 2008","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've always heard about the 'great' Greta Garbo and I completely fail to understand what all the fuss is about. I found her rather plain (neither good looking nor ugly just plain boring), moving with the grace of an elephant (though she's supposed to be a ballerina!) and her acting is absolutely unbearable. What's all these frowning and sighing and jumping and ridiculous overacted emotions? She looked like a big bad acting clown. I couldn't stop laughing when she was trying to get her lover through the hotel's switchboard (this is supposed to be a scene charged with drama or I'm completely wrong). This must be one of the worst ever scenes shot in a film. Sorry even if the character is supposed to be a drama queen, it's just simply ridiculous.Joan Crawford (my only reason to watch the movie) on the contrary is so refreshing, bigger than life like a red little dot on that big bland bit of nonsense. She's got everything that Garbo lacks and definitely is the true shining start of Grand Hotel. "}{"Title":"Good but OVER RATED","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Good drama film that was over promoted and over rated by the powers that be.The film is not all that great.The script was very average and so was the directing and cinematography.The story,although engaging was not that incredible either.What was nice was the performances of the great John Barrymore and  Crawford.Lionel Barrymore over acted and was irritating.The same could be said of Garbo who could be excused though because she was portraying one those over acting type divas in this film.This is nothing compared to it's less propaganda promoted counterpart Skyscraper Souls which was ten times better than this film even if it featured a less stellar cast.See that masterpiece film first if possible before seeing Grand Hotel. It is Skyscraper Souls that should have won the Oscar for 1932 if that Oscar was honoring screenplay sub plot techniques and handling of all star casts and what not.So don't believe the hype and check out Skyscraper Souls if you like what Grand Hotel had to offer.Only for classic soap drama fans and big fans of the lead actors.... "},{"Title":"The best is the enemy of the good.","Date":"23 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A collection of characters becomes interconnected with some interesting twists when they stay at the elegant title European hotel. Adapted from a successful European play to elevate the sophistication and dignity of films, and the first to utilize an all-star cast, this stands out as a severely over-rated film. Perhaps it was labeled as great because there were only a few years of talking films to base it on, and this probably was the best, at the time. But keep this statement from Plato's Republic in mind, The best is the enemy of the good. I confess that my American psyche is probably tainting my view of some of the characters and events. I also confess that I like to have empathy, or at least sympathy, for the characters, even if they are somewhat loathsome. I felt pity for Greta Garbo's character &#x96; who wouldn't? But her performance is so over-the-top. Deep down, John Barrymore's character is a nice guy, but he has no problem stealing and utilizing his social position to exceed his income. Joan Crawford's character is little more than cheap gold digger, to put it politely. Lionel Barrymore is whiny, and his character is merely a scared little man looking to blame someone else for the misery he has created for himself. The only character I actually felt sympathy for was not supposed to evoke such a reaction &#x96; Wallace Berry's incompetent businessman, who is in a position he really is not capable of handling. I confess I much preferred the Americanized remake entitled Weekend At The Waldorf.I recently watched this film, and did not realize that I had seen it about 25 years ago until I was ¾ of the way through it. That's how little an impression it made on me &#x96; not what a great film should do. "},{"Title":"Awful lead performances doom this film.","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Terrible acting by the leads Greta Garbo and John Barrymore and a funereal pace make this a painfully boring movie. Some good performances from the supporting cast are not able to save it. Joan Crawford is fine in one of her early ingenue roles, which is quite a different kind of role from those typical of her later work. Lionel Barrymore is, as usual, very good. He remains one of the finest cinematic character actors of his day. This is, however, an exceedingly boring movie. I will never recommend it, except perhaps to prove to someone just how dull it actually is, nor will I ever watch it again. It may be interesting as a document of an important period in film history, but as an experience in itself, it is not worth the time. "},{"Title":"Shows its age...only the Barrymores and Crawford emerge with professional reputations intact...","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A young and vibrant Joan Crawford as a stenographer at the Grand Hotel and the two Barrymore brothers--Lionel and John--are the best things about this Oscar-winning film from 1932 that is now so dated as to be a museum piece with over-the-top melodramatics from Greta Garbo (as a weary ballerina) that had me cringing in embarrassment. Garbo is the least believable character in the movie and fails utterly to give a natural performance.The simplistic plot veers back and forth between the principal players as we see what is happening at a plush Berlin hotel among a variety of typical guests. Wallace Beery as an unscrupulous industrialist gives a very satisfying performance in an unsympathetic role he was said to detest. His scene with Lionel Barrymore and Joan Crawford where he is told off by the meek accountant (Lionel) is one of the highlights of the film, largely due to Barrymore's incredible performance. Lionel really gets beneath the skin of the character in an unusual role for him. He and Joan Crawford give two of the best performances in the film.Garbo fans are said to love her work in this film. It must be a matter of taste. Personally, I thought her acting style was barely beyond that of the silent screen technique--excessively hammy when she should have been poignant and touching. Not able to praise her for this one. On the other hand, Joan Crawford shows us why she had such a lengthy career ahead of her. She is utterly vibrant and alive in her role as the social climbing stenographer not above letting herself be kept.Biggest drawback dialogue and situations all seem extremely dated now despite the plush production values inherent in creating the illusion of a real Grand Hotel. Lewis Stone and Jean Hersholt are wasted in minor parts.  "},{"Title":"Good for 1932","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    Grand Hotel is full of drama. Seemingly character-driven, it plows it's way (somewhat elegantly) through the story of hotel residents and how their lives affect one another over a brief period of time. The cast is pretty solid, exception of Greta Garbo, who seems utterly uncertain of what she is supposed to be doing. The premise itself isn't a lousy one, but it's not impressive. The setting is interesting enough, but it's never used to it's full potential.   Film of this sort was certainly considered special at the time it was made, but unfortunately the glamor and intensity is a bit lost to us in the 2000's. It's easy to understand this being remarkable (a best-picture winner) in the 1930's, but now it just seems like an over-blown, over-dramatized, overrated movie. Good, but not outstanding. "},{"Title":"This movie is awful","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Grand Hotel may have been a great movie in to the Depression public, but there's no doubt about it today it's nothing more than an awful film. The performances are bad, not at all convincing, and even Lionel Barrymore looks ridiculous. The only one that wasn't so bad as that was Joan Crawford. The only scene I enjoyed when I saw it was Crawford's first dialog with John Barrymore, because in it you can see the way people thought in those days. "}]