[{"Title":"Quite Interesting","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"32 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This change-of-pace from Hitchcock is quite an interesting film, often pleasantly witty and at other times a bit unsettling in its observations on human nature.  It won't appeal to those looking for Hitchcock-style suspense (although there is one such sequence), but it is worth watching for some other reasons.The story is about Fred and Emily Hill, an average couple living a routine middle class life.  The opening sequence, which is very nicely done using many of Hitchcock's silent film skills, immediately makes you feel the boredom and shallowness of Fred's world, while being amusing as well.  Suddenly Fred receives word that a rich relative is giving him a large sum of money so that he can see the world, and the Hills are off on an extended trip to several foreign countries.  The substance of the movie is in the ways that their new-found wealth and the many unfamiliar environments affect them and their marriage.  Their new world is one of a couple of possible meanings of the title Rich and Strange, in addition to the Shakespeare allusion.The cast is very small, and consists of actors little known today, but they are generally good and make their characters believable.  As the Hills encounter hazards, temptations, and adventure, the question is whether they have really changed or learned anything from their experiences - the amusing last scene gives one possible answer, and along the way there are a lot of other subtle points.While not at all like Hitchcock's more famous films, in a different sense it is all Hitchcock - a distinctive movie, and carefully crafted.  While only a minor effort among his many masterpieces, it is still worth a look for those who enjoy older comedies. "},{"Title":"A strange movie.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  RICH AND STRANGE is certainly nothing like stereotypical Hitchcock. Even early movies like The Lodger -- which was some five years older than this one -- contained some sort of crime or mystery. Even his comedies -- The Trouble With Harry, for example -- revolved around murder and mayhem. But not this movie.It's old and it's a comedy, but its title really says it all. Rich and very, very strange. Hitchcock's sense of humor is very plain here, and there are several laugh-out-loud scenes (when Fred Hill tries to set his watch, and later when he tries to get into bed, for example). But as the movie goes on, they become less frequent.The action stops focusing on the comedic aspect of this young couple's acquiring a great sum of money and spending it on a world cruise. Instead it focuses on the serious aspects of their dual extra-marital affairs on the ship, and later their actions when it wrecks and sinks.And once there, the movie is hardly comedic at all. Hitchcock's darker side comes out when a sailer drowns while his comrades watch on in fascination, and the scene with the rescued black cat is especially disturbing.So what to say about Rich and Strange? The acting is fine, Hitchcock's directing is up to par (especially with the silent opening scenes), and the plot is engaging. But the movie goes from screwball hilarity to morbid survival, and then ends where it began so abruptly that the viewer is left wondering when he or she dozed off and missed the last half of the movie.It's not stereotypical Hitchcock at all, but by no means does this make it a bad movie. The film is quite good but hard to stomach on account that it is so bizarre.7/10 "},{"Title":"Curiously quirky Hitchcock","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  What an unusual Hitchcock film this is!  For one thing, in this film, he doesn't focus on themes of murder and suspense as he is well remembered for.  Instead, he takes a satirical look at the complexities of marriage and fidelity, with rich, quirky, and even disturbing humor.  (It's interesting to note that Elsie Randolph returned in another twisted Hitchcock comedy, Frenzy, forty years after this film.)  The editing is a bit crude by today's standards, although you just have to appreciate the mix of titles and audible dialogue to represent the transition from silent films to talkies.  Still, it's a funny film you can enjoy, with numerous Hitchcock elements clearly evident.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"London Life in 1931.","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  For an early 'talking picture', this is an excellent film. Hitchcock fans will probably be disappointed, but I was not. Having been born in London in the 30's, I found the opening sequences fascinating and so well directed and edited. Anyone interested in Hitchcock should at least view the first 10 minutes or so of this film. One begins to see what a great director Hitch was - even without the mystery and horror. "},{"Title":"Purest Expression of Hitchcock's Romance Formula","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is interesting to me because of it's concentrating on Hitchcock's romance formula which runs through most of his films. In this film it IS the story. Hitch's recurring theme of romance is the partnership of man & woman; the way that partnership is formed, renewed & nurtured. I have always liked his concept of love & romance. It greatly enriches his films. It is a truer & nobler view of this part of life than is usually seen. I like to think that it mirrors the relationship of him & his wife (billed in the titles as Alma Reville; her maiden name). There is certainly more than a hint of things to come. The hero obsesses in much the way as the master did over several of the women he made stars of. I would imagine that Alma had to play much the same role as Joan Barry at some point. Oh well, Hitch was Hitch. He was supposed to be a cruel practical joker too. The movie starts out way too slow for modern audiences. Hang in there or fast forward if you can't stand it. The structure is quite interesting in that it is a hybrid of the silent & sound movie. The first sequence is silent & music is cleverly used in the bit with the umbrellas. All thru the movie portions are silent with faux sync or other tricks. Sometimes the sound quality is awful but bear in mind that getting ANY sound at all was a technical feat in those days. Could probably be cleaned up with Cakewalk (sound program) or similar. Somebody should make the effort. The film lab work too is less than stellar. I have worked the film labs & I really think some of the footage was developed in strong British tea. All in all a quirky & somewhat dated film but good for those who are studying the master.  "},{"Title":"One of Hitchcock's best and a real treat!","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I have been a Hitchcock fan for years yet had never stumbled on this early classic. Although several posters have commented that this film can't keep to a genre and seems to be all over the place, I disagree. RICH AND STRANGE is strictly comedy, albeit quite dark at times. It is Hitch's most British of satires and with an adventure setting to boot.A young couple goes off on a world trip after being advanced some inheritance money. The adventure starved office worker husband, seeking to sail the world, finds he can barely survive crossing the English channel and the subservient housewife willing to sacrifice all for her beloved quickly finds another when left alone for a few days.The ensuing travels shift the two from spectators in Paris to participants in the middle east to victims in the far east. It all proves they belong together. Among the classic Hitchcock touches of dark humour are the indignities of transportation and a cat who rightfully believes he belongs on the dining room table.Some scenes contain primitive experimental camera techniques that are quite funny when you think about it. The look left, look right Paris travel montage, the drunken scenes and the play on the number 19 are quite unique and funny in their right. I think steak and kidney pudding and a predictable life will do just fine from now on. "},{"Title":"Mainly for diehard Hitchock Fans","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This 1931 movie is of interest simply because it is one of Alfred Hitchcock's early films that he made in Great Britain.  It is also of interest because of the titles between sections of this film as though it were a silent film. That makes us very aware that silent movies had just been replace by 'talkies'.  The copyright date is shown as 1931 on the film, not 1932 as IMDB has it listed.  A man whose life has become mundane and tiresome is given money by a relative to enjoy life with.  He and his wife set off on a cruise around the world.  Rich and Strange begins well and certainly has its interesting moments.  However, it bogs down after about the first half hour and doesn't recover until the last few minutes.  Far too much time is spent aimlessly following the relationships outside the marriage by both the husband and wife of the couple.  It seems that this part of the film is overblown.  A highlight of the film is the spinster played by Elsie Randolph who is quite hilarious.  Joan Barry is also very watchable as Emily.  However, Hitch had not quite hit his stride yet and his best work was yet to come.  This movie is mainly for diehard Hitchock fans.   "},{"Title":"Rich? not really, but certainly strange, and a bit humorous","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Rich and Strange or East of Shanghai, is a British romantic comedy dating from the transitional period between silent and sonic film. It was not very popular at the box office, but remains one of the director's (Alfred Hitchcock) favorite works from the period. The reasons seem obvious enough. Unlike the classic Hitchcock thriller/mystery/comedy The Lady Vanishes released several years later, Rich and Strange was an adaptation of a semi-comedic novel which was not plot-heavy but did rely on equally strong characterization. Hitchcock took the change of pace for a ride, and played with visual experiments, jokes and even visual metaphors which, if you notice them and think about them, actually enhance character development.Some reviewers have complained about the use of placecards - actually I think this was intended to enhance the comedic aspect of the film. Take a look back two years at Hitccock's Blackmail for comparison. This film was originally intended and partially shot silent. Hitchcock neither used placecards nor did he need them to convey his points in Blackmail.There are some classic bits of Hitchcock camera-work here. During meaningless conversations, meaningless framing is used seemingly to mock the action of the film itself. The classic example of this is a pair of symmetrically arranged scenes where two of the main characters are walking to and from a social event on a cruise ship, blathering away, while the camera follows their feet and Emily's (Joan Barry) dragging dress. Jarring, yet humorous!Joan Barry's stunning and adorable portrayal of Emily -our protagonist- is a bit of a perverse male fantasy - she is beautiful, intelligent (when she needs to be) and undervalues herself terribly - so her loyalty to a husband deserving of much much less is a bit exasperating. She is married to a whining, opportunistic, bore named Fred, and becomes romantically attracted to the charming Commander Gordon. The story boils down to this Emly and Fred lead a life which causes Fred to whine (but this, it becomes clear later, is genetic and part of the fiber of his being). One night, they receive an early inheritance and decide to take a cruise around world and live the good life. Fred, however, remains the miserable lout he was at the beginning, but adds to his follies alcoholism, philandering, and seasickness. Money does not cure everything - a bit of cliché, but, with Rich and Strange, it doesn't end there.All of the acting is quite good, though as some have noted, it is sometimes over-the-top (perfectly appropriate for a comedy, IMO). "},{"Title":"Are you satisfied with your present circumstances?","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Like Hitchcock's earlier film Blackmail, Rich and Strange contains elements of silent film as a holdover from an earlier era. It features extended scenes uninterrupted by voice, and the use of inter title cards from time to time. Considering the lack of a murder victim, the movie plays out interestingly as it follows the infidelities of a married couple on board a round the world cruise. Some of it works, and some of it doesn't.What I enjoy in the early Hitchcock films is the experimentation with themes that will become a hallmark of the director's style in later years. The use of humor is abundant in the early going, starting out with the choreographed umbrella routine in an early scene. There's also the three shipboard friends that appear from time to time that walk and gesture in unison. Elsie Randolph's running gag as the Old Maid is also a frequent comedic break, that just about runs it's course by the story's end.The troubled marriage at the heart of the story is believable enough, as Fred Hill (Henry Kendall) and wife Emily (Joan Barry) find comfort in the arms of shipboard strangers. It's when The Princess (Betty Amann) ditches Fred and absconds with his money that he's finally confronted with the sham and phoniness of his life by Emily. Why Emily goes back to him is a question mark though, that's not explored sufficiently, especially since she found her own soul mate aboard ship in Commander Gordon (Percy Marmont). Maybe it was Gordon's age, he appeared to have about twenty years on the disarmingly attractive Emily.I don't know about you, but I would have certainly made more of an effort to escape my cabin once I realized the cruise ship was sinking. Fred and Emily didn't strike me as being too panic stricken, with voices not much above normal. The black cat that passed by once they managed to escape was nice touch, though the bad luck fell on the unlucky feline. I guess Chinese food had a reputation even back in the 1930's.The first time I saw the upside down drowning technique used in a movie was in the 1970 spaghetti Western Cry Blood, Apache, but here it's used some forty years earlier, and with no malice involved. However it seems to me that the crew of the Chinese junk might have made an effort to save their buddy. The trade off for a newborn baby was a redemptive moment.If you watch the film again, pay attention to the Gordon photograph that Emily draws herself into with a marker. It's shown at three different times, and each time the drawing is slightly different. I wonder why they do that; was it a precaution against the possible loss of one of the pictures? A similar situation with an altered photo occurs in Mr. Moto's Last Warning.I rather enjoyed Rich and Strange, it's informative and fun to see the early work of a director of Alfred Hitchcock's stature. It's not often the title of a film also describes it's own action, this one is indeed both rich and strange. "},{"Title":"Strange Hitchcock","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" In this early Alfred Hitchcock film, some more production values were invested in Rich and Strange than you would normally find in an early British sound film for 1931. Hitchcock did actual location shooting in Port Said and in Marseilles in this travelogue of a movie.Marrieds Henry Kendall and Joan Barry seem to have settled in a very comfortable rut in their marriage. Might have been different had they had some children, but apparently that was not to be the case. Certainly if a small legacy hadn't come their way they would not have invested it in a round the world cruise.But spend it that way they did and it proves to be an adventure of sorts. Both go on some flirtatious flings and a shipwreck in the China seas manages to bring them both together.One thing I did like was the special effects in handling the sinking of their ship, quite good for its time. The dramatic highlight of the film is Kendall and Barry who were left on the drifting hulk of the ship, there and later on the Chinese junk that rescues them. The Chinese are portrayed with unusual sensitivity in terms of Kendall and Barry recognizing that while they're different and appear strange, they've got no right interfering in their culture.Still its not what you would expect from Hitchcock, no chases after the McGuffin, no intricate murder or spy plots. He's out of his element, but to be fair he wasn't big enough to be calling his own shots then. "}{"Title":"Early Hitchcock - Out of Focus","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I found this film wildly entertaining and not up to Hitchcock's other earlier works. First of all the story in awful and that is always a bad sign. Fred is a complete dud and you would wonder why anyone would have anything to do with him. Maybe that Hitch's point. I guess there are all sorts of men like Fred. Maybe I'm one and just don't know it but everyone around me does.The story itseld has no focus, a series of incidents hung together by placecards. There are a couple of Hitckcock touches that I noticed that might be of interest to Hitchcock fans but no one else. This is a movie that I would probably have never watch if it did not have Hitch's name to it. It seemed to me that it started out as silent movie and then was changed to a talkie.If you are a Hitch fan you might want to see this otherwise skip it and watch The 39 Steps, Young and Innocent or The Lady Vanished instead. "},{"Title":"Certainly Strange and Disjointed","Date":"13 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This movie really doesn't hang together well and there is very little flow. The story is disjointed and you get the feeling that the script wasn't very good, that Hitchcock was a bit bored with the premise and experimented.The beginning scenes in which Fred leaves work, the umbrellas, and the underground are all highly stylized. The umbrella sequence is like some choreographed chorus line. Very strange.Fred, the husband, is insufferably boring and unsympathetic from about 2 minutes into the movie until the end. The actions on the subway are enough to make you cringe and think he's an idiotic lout from then and the loutishness pretty much continues the entire movie. Fred makes you feel uncomfortable and itchy on a number of occasions.If you've looked at the other reviews you know the general outline of the movie. Fred is boring and bored. He gets some money from a rich uncle to take a cruise with his wife who is way out of his league. The cruise just makes the couple find other people to fall in love with.The only people I felt any sympathy for were Emily Commander Gordon. Emily because she is somewhat pretty and the closest thing to vivacious in the movie, and Commander Gorden for being somewhat distinguished-looking and calling Emily on being a flirt (are you pulling my leg?) and seeming to want to be decent to her while clearly aware that her husband is on the level of a slug and that Emily and Fred are horrible together.Meanwhile, Fred falls for The Princess. There is an intensely awkward and itchy-feeling scene in which Fred is trying to kiss the princess while wearing his ridiculous Arabian Knights outfit and he can't figure out how to get around the veil covering her mouth. This is a great scene that once again illustrates what an idiot Fred is. It made my skin crawl. This is a sort of comedy by making the audience extremely uncomfortable at just how pathetic a human can be.Though not a sympathetic character, I had to agree with The Princess when she later tells Emily that she's stupid not to leave Fred for Commander Gordon.The elevator and watch scene is outright comic.Some scenes with Emily and Commander Gordon that show their feet while walking are just odd.In the end, I was feeling it a bit of a tragedy that the couple stayed together at all. I wondered if Hitchcock really wanted people to be happy or annoyed that they ended up together in the end.I actually felt there were many scenes that worked well at creating an odd atmosphere and tension with their experimental flavor. At times I was reminded of David Lynch's Eraserhead. For instance, in the scene where the two stay in their cabin while the boat is being abandoned, the loud thumping and running noises nearly drown out the dialog in both loudness and any attention being paid to it. It made me wonder how many of these odd touches were mistakes and how many were Hitchcock trying to do something interesting with a movie that was essentially not that interesting because of plot and character.This is probably a movie that is worth watching for individual scenes and experiments, but doesn't further the assumed point of the movie. In fact in some ways, Hitchcock seems to try actively subverting any kind of morality-play aspects that might have been implied in the script.It doesn't hold together as a whole, but there are plenty of interesting experiments to watch. If it's a train-wreck of a movie, at least it's an interesting wreck. "},{"Title":"Are you satisfied with your present circumstances?","Date":"11 February 2009","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" One of the problems with Hitchcock's reputation as master of suspense is that any films whose faces don't fit tend to get overlooked. Rich and Strange is just such a picture, although it was apparently a project close to Hitch's heart, and incidentally is very good indeed.One of the best aspects of Hitchcock's early British work is that it has a grace and beauty to it that was missing in the emotionally cold (albeit technically brilliant) features of his Hollywood career. Rich and Strange is arguably the most graceful and beautiful of them all. We open with a tight rhythmic sequence that reminds me of the early musicals of Rene Clair, or Rouben Mamoulian in Love Me Tonight, with the characters' activities &#150; in this case the lead man navigating the rush hour &#150; choreographed to a musical score. Later we are treated to a comical montage of a whistle-stop tour of Paris, and on the cruise a series of flowing, dreamlike images.Like all of Hitchcock's earliest pictures, Rich and Strange features a lot of visual attention-grabbing, such as obtrusive camera moves or similar images dissolving into each other. Sometimes &#150; particularly in his silent films &#150; this could be a bit unnecessary and distracting, but in Rich and Strange it works for two reasons. First, it is always woven into that musical flow of images. Secondly he never allows it to interfere with the dramatic moments. In the second half of the picture, when the drama becomes more intense, his visual style settles down and the scenes are shot in a fairly straight ahead manner. This balanced structure, switching smoothly from heavy stylisation to stark simplicity as and when the story demands it, makes Rich and Strange all the more affecting and compelling.The plot has similarities to the forbidden-love dramas that Cecil B. DeMille made in the late teens and early 20s. Like DeMille, Hitchcock uses positioning of characters to show the affairs developing &#150; increasingly pairing the lovers together in one shot, amidst pretty framing devices. What is particularly neat is how, as Henry Kendall and Joan Barry's marriage starts to fall apart, Hitch several times frames them side by side appearing as mirror images of each other. These shots look quite funny, but also seem to summarise the state of mind of an increasingly bored couple. The dialogue is more or less superfluous &#150; which is just as well with the appalling sound quality.Contrary to what some have said, Rich and Strange is not one for Hitchcock completists only. Of course it will come as a disappointment for anyone expecting a thriller, but taken as the romantic drama that it is, this as tightly structured and expertly envisaged as the greatest of his suspense pictures. Rich and Strange is easily the best film from the first ten years of Hitch's career, and I would even go as far as to place it among the top four or five Hitchcocks of all time. "},{"Title":"correction","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A small discrepancy in the user review of this film I felt needed correction  the number 19 is the number of the con artists room and the number repeated several times, not 22 as stated.  A good film and some really unsettling sexual politics  that really astounded me considering this movie was released in 1932.   "},{"Title":"A Dark Romantic Comedy from Hitchcock's Early Years.  Brief Summary","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Before becoming the master of suspense, Alfred Hitchcock made this odd little romantic comedy that's a bit biographical. Fred Hill (Could be short for Alfred H.) and his wife Emily depart their dreary middle class life to go on a world cruise via a rich uncle. Fred gets mixed up with a sexy con artist while Emily courts a rich older man.  There are a ton of Hitchcock touches (Fred is to meet the con artist in room 22. All around are references to the number 22. Fred and Em argue about each other's affairs while a Salvation Army band plays across the street, and in a truly exciting sequence, Fred and Em's ship begins to sink.  The camera never leaves their stateroom (Shades of the camera never leaving the crashing plane in Foreign Correspondent) An unusual, sometime entertaining work.  A must for Hitchcock fans.  Others just looking for a scary Hitchcock film to rent should go with a more familiar title  "},{"Title":"Rich And Strange ***","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" An atypical project for Hitchcock, this breezy and stylish (if quite dated) comedy-drama is actually reminiscent of the films of Ernst Lubitsch &#150; though the light touch displayed here by the Master Of Suspense, unfortunately, comes off as heavy-handed on occasion (his reliance on intertitles for ironic counterpoint, for instance)! Still, Hitchcock manages a number of effective moments, notably the virtuoso opening 'rush hour' sequence and the shipwreck at the finale. The main cast consists of forgotten 'stars' but, looking at their filmography, I was surprised to discover that Henry Kendall appeared much later in the Hammer film THE SHADOW OF THE CAT (1961; which I recently watched on the big screen while in Hollywood!), Joan Barry had also featured in Hitchcock's first talkie BLACKMAIL (1929), whereas German actress Betty Amann (who plays a vamp here) was the star of Joe May's expressionist classic ASPHALT (1929; whose Region 2 DVD edition from the renowned Masters Of Cinema label I have just ordered!). While not the best early Hitchcock I've watched (even among the non-thrillers), for all kinds of reasons, RICH AND STRANGE survives as an interesting curiosity. "},{"Title":"See this!","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This happens to be one of my favorite movies. It has humor, shipwreck, shows life is unfair and that love may not last and when you marry you need to forgive a lot! This was interesting, easy to follow, among the first hitchcocks, talkies, and is the greatest love story. I also like it because it was not overhyped or made a big deal over unlike the ever-so-boring overhyped Gone With The Wind or even Wuthering Heights. This is a family movie to watch over and over and if you find it to buy it will be about $1.00 or so. I reccomend this very different, offbeat, completely awesome movie to absolutely everyone in the whole world. I live in London, so I especially appreciated how this movie was and I am as old as the lead actress..... "},{"Title":"Not like his other films!","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" If you love Sir Alfred Hitchcock's films, you might be surprised by this unusual film. There is no gore or mystery but its rich and strange in other ways. This film is about an attractive British couple in London, England who inherit some money from a relative. They board a ship and travel to the Far East. Aboard the ship, they meet a delightful funny spinster played by Elsie Randolph. Aboard ship is a German princess who is not what appears to be. The cast is first rate with mostly actors from the theater. Hitchcock was smart to cast experienced actors for his films in England. This film is more like an early romantic comedy and coming from Hitchcock that's strange indeed. "},{"Title":"Quirky and Quintissential early Hitchcock.","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" He was only 31 when he made this, another exercise in style and experimental and innovative in its approach to a marriage that is sinking into boredom and predictability.Highly enjoyable to this die-hard Hitchcock fan, it has a little of everything humour, escape from the mundane, unexpected windfalls changing one's life and not necessarily for the better, extra marital affairs and little peeks at life as seen through the eyes of the protagonists.No big 2X4's but many subtleties such as the appealing discreet affair between Emily and the commander and the blatant in your face affair conducted by Fred, her husband, and the princess.Some dark bits as well, signalling Hitch's lasting fascination with the macabre, exemplified by the treatment of a pet cat.One amusing bit has some characters marching around the deck, the first all female and I do believe Hitch's cameo has him in the second all male appearance being hauled around by two athletic types.Hitch never disappoints me.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I want some of the good things of life... money.","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock, even though he was still an inexperienced director at the time, was a pioneer of British cinema, his 'Blackmail (1929)' being the first talkie produced by the local film industry. Thus, it's rather peculiar that, two years later, after adding a few more sound films to his filmography, the director would revert back to the style of the silent era. His relationship comedy, 'Rich and Strange (1931),' though a sound film, opens with a lengthy, entirely-silent comedy sequence, in which the film's leading man, Fred Hill (Henry Kendall), experiences the worst possible luck on his daily evening journey from work. The film is also interspersed with descriptive intertitles, a relic of the silent era that I haven't often noticed in any 1930s films with the exception of Charles Chaplin's efforts. 'Rich and Strange' tells the story of a young working-class married couple, Fred and Emily Hill (Joan Barry), who receive an unexpected inheritance, and so decide to live the high life on an expensive cruise to the Orient.Rather than serving to bring them happiness, their extended vacation brings the couple's marriage to breaking-point, with Fred becoming smitten by a seductive, exotic adventuress (Betty Amann) and Emily falling in love with an older but noble bachelor, Commander Gordon (Percy Marmont). Much of the film in concerned with Fred and Emily's failing relationship in the face of these new players, and, though the romance in competently dealt with, there's not particularly much to keep the audience interested. A few fun moments are derived from Elsie Randolph, who plays a hopeless romantic who wishes to make acquaintance with every gentleman of the ship, oblivious to the fact that she is constantly making a fool of herself. The two leading actors do a fairly good job of bringing life to their respective roles Kendall's Fred Hill is a clumsy, thoughtless fool, whilst Barry's Emily is one of Hitchcock's beautiful and innocent blondes, graced with such a simple elegance that you wonder why her husband would even look in the direction of another woman.The most interesting segment of 'Rich and Strange' is undoubtedly the ending, which came as such a pleasant surprise that it greatly heightened my interest in the film. On their return to London, dejected and almost-broke, the couple's tramp steamer unexpectedly begins to sink. Trapped in their quarters as the other passengers evacuate, Fred and Emily find themselves alone aboard the floundering watercraft, in one of his most impressive early set-pieces which involved the recreation of a full-sized ship in a water tank. This portion of the film, at least, was handled brilliantly, and I would much preferred the film if it had dedicated more running time to the sinking ship, rather than focusing on the less-engaging romantic storyline. In any case, it seems that Hitchcock was opening a scenario that he would later extrapolate upon in his excellent 'Lifeboat (1944).' Also noticeable in 'Rich and Strange' is the director's distinctive brand of black humour, especially conspicuous when a surviving black cat is graciously taken aboard the Chinese rescue-boat. "}{"Title":"No Wonder Hitchcock was so fond of this movie!","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Many people think of Hitchcock, and when many of them do, they think of 3 movies Birds  Psycho  Rear Window. But this film along with many other rarely heard of Hitchcock films are great! This one particulary because it was Hitchcock's first use of a blonde in sound films. Many would follow. Hitchcock also made this film sort of autobiographical of himself. I recommend it to all Hitchcock fans. "},{"Title":"A strange early Hitchcock, but still interesting","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" While Alfred Hitchcock is my personal favourite director, he's not been without his disappointments. None of his films that I've seen are terrible, or even bad, but there are a few that have underwhelmed. Rich and Strange doesn't see him at his best(and for reasons other than it not been typical Hitchcock), nor does it see him at his worst. It is beautifully shot and has very evocative scenery and very well done special effects for the time. Hitchcock also does bring some great stylistic touches that does give a feeling that you're watching a Hitchcock film(something that I did not find with Juno and the Paycock, Jamaica Inn and Under Capricorn), and with the opening sequence, Paris travel montage and climax there are some strong moments. The music has a lushly orchestrated jauntiness that fits well with Rich and Strange's tone. Joan Barry is stunningly elegant and gives Emily a real likability. The story is disjointed though, with a darker-edged second half that doesn't bode entirely with the first, and is also very slight in structure, giving a rather tedious feel to some of the less eventful moments. The dialogue has some nice bits of subtle humour but did need a more playful touch and it got turgid in the scenes that weren't paced all that well. Of the characters, Emily is the only one who comes across as interesting or likable, the rest are too thinly sketched and emotionally detached for my tastes. Henry Kendall also seemed to me a little too sophisticated and trying too hard in his role, part of why his and Barry's chemistry didn't convince was that you never really see what it is that Emily sees in Fred in the first place. All in all, strange but still interesting. 6/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"I say, steady on, old man!","Date":"13 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is an episodic, semi-comic, morality tale of a bored bourgeois London couple who adventitiously receive a gift of an around-the-world trip, (Henry Kendall and Joan Barry). It's the answer to Kendall's dreams. Joy reigns, for a few minutes anyway, until the trip starts. He gets sea sick on the cross-channel boat. They get drunk in Paris. Then, leurs malheurs, the ship out of Marseilles turns into a more serious business. He has an affair with a princess who turns out to be a fraud who milks him of his money. Kendal's wife and an honest, avuncular fellow fall for each other. The couple plan to part, but then Kendall discovers he's been had, and Barry realizes she can't leave Kendall because he's such an impractical wimp. They get together again, deserted by their lovers, in Singapore, almost penniless. Their humble, outbound ship is involved in a collision and they are left alone aboard her as she slowly gurgles into the sea. Rescued by a Chinese junk manned by an indifferent crew, they find they've inadvertently eaten the ship's black cat. They finally reach London and begin arguing again.I referred to it as a morality tale. I'm trying to think of how the moral might be most ergonomically expressed. The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence? All that glitters is not gold? The end of all our exploring will be to arrive where we started? There's no place like home? I think I know what Hitchcock was getting at in the title, Rich and Strange. It's a quote from a song in Shakespeare's The Tempest. In the play it tells us that a skeleton buried in the sea will undergo not corruption but an enrichment because of barnacles, sea anemones, and the attendant varicolored tropical fish. Hitchcock turns it upside down. The sea will not turn a dead thing (like a marriage) into something beautiful. It will just rot. I'm guessing at the irony, true, but I'm open to other less banal suggestions.Anyway, it's quite a trip, not a trifling thing like some of Hitchcock's other early works (eg., Champagne). A comic spinster with thick glasses is introduced on the long voyage aboard the liner. At the costume party, she is dressed either as Margaret Mead or Big Bo Peep. And there is some genuine tension when their last crummy ship is sinking around them. The suspense is enhanced because the couple seem so extravagantly stupid. Here they are on an empty sea, alone on a ship that could turn end up and go down like a lead line at any moment and what do they do? They're in their night clothes, so they'd better find something to put on -- in case somebody comes. Next step? Perhaps we should find a raft or something. But, no. They step over a dead crew member and find a brandy bottle instead. In some ways the most interesting episode is aboard the Chinese junk, the one on which they see a baby being born and roughly handled by the family, the one on which they eat the cat. None of the Chinese seem to celebrate the birth. They simply pour a bucket of cold sea water over the howling neonate. Barry's maternal instincts are aroused and she becomes indignant. Leave them alone, advises Kendall, The Chinese breed like devils anyway. (Not so much anymore, Hank.) The incident is interesting because Hitchcock was never big on babies OR family sentiment. There's a baby on the Lifeboat, of course, but it's already past sentimentality.Not to run out of space here. Joan Barry is a blond, pretty in a Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio kind of way, with her eyes set wide apart, but with a thin, porcelain figure that might shatter if handled indelicately. Her role is that of the serious partner, and she fits the role. Henry Kendall is supposed to be itchier, edgier, less stable, funny, and he looks just about right as well. His features are basically a comic. Hitchcock deploys some directorial techniques that may seem humdrum now but were unquestionably more novel when he used them. They're simple enough. A drunk's point of view with the camera out of focus. A menu from which the items spring out at a nauseous man. If it's not among Hitchcock's best, it's certainly not one of his flops. "},{"Title":"Clever and funny.","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" There is no dialog in the first four minutes of this film as we watch our hero at his daily grind. These scenes could have been leading into a Busby Berkley dance extravaganza. In fact, the first half of the movie is like a Berkley film without music and dancing. Much of it is laughing out loud funny--not what I expect from Hitchcock. The direction is clever. Instead of watching a couple walk around the deck of a ship, we watch the train of her dress dragging over the deck. Despite the twin beds, this is an adult story, especially compared to post-code American movies of a few years later. By turns it is hilarious, dramatic and grim. Presumably it is in the public domain; I downloaded a nice clear version. Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable early Hitchcock fare","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock's classic early British comedy screened as part of the Astor's season of major works of Alfred Hitchcock's British period - 1929-1939, and included such renowned works as The Thirty-Nine Steps and Jamaica Inn, the latter of which was shown along with this film.On this occasion the master has produced a delicious film, rich in subtle humour and also graced with bursts of hilarity through its fine variety of comic styles. Hitchcock manages to produce everything from black comedy to slapstick.The leading players, a very soppy Henry Kendall and the gorgeous Joan Barry, do marvellously well with their once stifled but now Rich and Strange English couple, and the simple plot provides enough fun with its tale of luxury cruises and extra-marital affairs. Even the trick photography is quite impressive for its day.A most enjoyable hour and a half.Friday, April 29, 1994 - Astor Theatre "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's First Travel Advisory","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I imagine when Hitchcock scholars and experts find themselves together, the talk is not of the Master's great films like North By Northwest or Strangers On A Train, but a lesser-known effort like this one from 1931, obscure and seriously flawed, which showcases the great director in fledgling form.Emily and Fred Hill (Joan Barry and Harry Kendall) are a middle-class London couple scrimping to stay ahead. He begrudges their lot; she accepts it. Change comes in the form of a letter from an uncle, saying he will set them up so they can enjoy a life of globetrotting luxury. They make plans for a world cruise. But their problems have only begun.Just ask Richard Hannay, Roger O. Thornhill, or Marion Crane. Well, Marion's indisposed at the moment, but you get the idea. Travel and Hitchcock go together like moths and candlelight, setting one up for a perilous journey at best. This is perhaps Hitchcock's earliest foray into this theme, and not his most successful or memorable. Hitchcock tries to mix comedy with another element, in this case domestic drama rather than suspense, but the two do not cohere, at least not here.The Hills are a dull, flat couple, with no chemistry or personality. When they find themselves at the Folies Bergère, in the form of cross-cutting with footage that looks ten years older than the rest of this film, they are abashed at the outfits of the female performers. The curtain's gone up too soon! gasps Emily. They aren't dressed.When the Hills drift away from each other on an ocean cruise, it seems a mercy killing more than a tragic thing, even if the people they partner off with are drips, too. Emily's man, Gordon (Percy Marmont) carries around photographs of himself sitting next to empty chairs, which he suggests be filled by Emily. Fred's girl the Princess (Betty Amann) has Clara Bow's eyes and Wallace Beery's five o'clock shadow. There's also an obnoxious fellow passenger, a dowdy spinster whom Hitchcock always introduces with a cartoonish horn cue. Subtlety was still to come.Everything is shot in an abrupt manner, with confusing blocking and strained dialogue. Hitchcock tries for some early comedy with Fred and his umbrella that doesn't come off, and Kendall seems to aim for laughs while Berry plays for tears. When Fred and Emily break off, they are seen being jostled on a pair of wedged-together rickshaws, one of many clunky attempts at symbolism.Emily's the only vaguely sympathetic character, in part because she really cares about her husband and agonizes over her affair with Gordon, but mostly because she's among the first of Hitchcock's many magnetic blondes, her platinum ringlets whipping around her face like a Botticelli aboard the open deck of a Chinese junk near the film's conclusion.Matters conclude with a dangerous situation as set-piece for the protagonists to come to grips with, and presumably repair their relationship. Only they aren't active participants in the resolution, and except for the fate of a friendly cat, nothing about the ending resonates.At least you get some enjoyable views of London in the early 1930s, and a chance to see Hitchcock when he was still working for food. Rich And Strange is Hitchcock paying his dues, and learning his trade, one for scholars but not casual film goers. "},{"Title":"No Murders Here!","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Rich and Strange was an early British sound film from Director Alfred Hitchcock. Some of the scenes, particularly the opening sequence, appear to have been shot silent. The film also makes frequent use of title cards, a practice not uncommon for early sound films. It is not your usual Hitchcock murder mystery, but rather a love story involving a young couple bored with their every day boring existence.Fred and Emily Hill (Henry Kendall and the lovely Joan Barry) are an average couple who are reasonably happy. Fred in particular is bored with his everyday routine life and yearns for something better. One day he receives a letter from a rich relative giving him a substantial sum of money.The Hills decide to embark upon an extended holiday abroad. They are enjoying themselves at first until Fred comes down with sea sickness aboard a cruise ship. During this period, Emily meets the cultured Commodore Gordon (Percy Marmont) and gradually becomes attracted to him. When Fred recovers he seems indifferent to his wife's new interest and meets the exotic and mysterious Princess (Betty Amann) and begins an affair of his own. Flitting and out of the story is the comedy relief provided by Elsie Randolph as an old maid in search of a man, any man about the cruise ship.As the story carries on the couple has to decide whether or not to go their separate ways or return to the old life back home.This story is devoid of Hitchcock's usual shocks (except maybe for the climatic sequence) and there's nary a McGuffin to be found anywhere. It's hard to imagine a lady as beautiful as Ms. Barry hooking up with the likes of the two leading men. Unfortunately for us, she retired prematurely from the screen in 1934.An interesting departure from the norm for Mr. Hitchcock. "},{"Title":"Whiney Little People","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" As with most of the early Hitchcock, there are some wonderful images in this film. Unfortunately, the characters are so vapid and so stupid that it makes no difference. We have a spoiled guy and his loyal wife who suddenly come into money and decide to go on an ocean voyage. Of course, it's the old, don't wish for too much, you may get it. They each get involved in affairs and, of course, it's all about the reconciliation and realizing what you have. I was never able to believe it for a minute. The best part of the film is the first five minutes, when our hero battles the elements and the subway to return home with thoughts of the gas pipe. The wife reminds him of how fortunate they are until the letter arrives. Anyway, it all takes on from there. She is quite prudish and innocent but turns too fast to another man. It didn't work for me. "},{"Title":"Underrated early Hitchcock","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Like The Farmer's Wife, this is an early Hitchcock film that has gone entirely too overlooked.  It is broadly comic, and rather disturbing in a few spots.  Don't expect wronged-men or murder plots, and you may enjoy this movie as much as I do. "},{"Title":"Eccentric Absurdity of Life and Death","Date":"17 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" An expectation cast by the later half of Hitchcock's oeuvre may not do justice to Rich and Strange (1931), but when seen in the context of Hitchcock's early sound films it really sticks out for the better. In fact, I would say it is the best of them. In addition to critical treatises on marriage, gender and sexuality, Hitchcock studies one of his favorite themes of a man who yearns for something different and thus practically invites chaos to his life which otherwise would be in perfect order. This perfect order of harmonious dimensions is portrayed in the opening dolly shot of the protagonist's dull office life. Then, however, we see that he doesn't quite fit this seeming order, revealing distress beneath, as he cannot open up his umbrella with the others. The story begins when he and his wife, bored with their mundane life, hear of an early inheritance which leads them to a trip round the world. Unlike in The 39 Steps (1935) or Saboteur (1942), here the abundance of settings doesn't equal exciting adventure, although quite a fast pace, but a fragmentary episode-like structure and a ground for the theme of alienation. These may be among the reasons why Rich and Strange was back in the day so poorly received, but, nonetheless, has later been commended by several critics (Truffaut, Spoto) as well as favored by the master himself. In the essence of the film's moral (which may be a word too puny for Hitchcock's level of mastery) is that the main couple yearn for excitement and adventure, but instead of enriching, life-enhancing experiences, go through severe disillusionment. This disillusionment, however, doesn't affect their life for better or worse. It remains the same. Donald Spoto has written that it is in these moments of disillusionment where lies the main point of the film the acceptance for the extremes of life and death as they are. In comparison to The Skin Game (1931), which Hitchcock made just before this, Rich and Strange is much more original and cinematic. The same happened with Murder! (1930) which is far more superior than its theatrical predecessor Juno and the Paycock (1929). But what really makes Rich and Strange so special, and a fascinating part of Hitchcock's oeuvre, is its absurdity. This absurdity is not only gained from story nor humor but, above all, from their odd execution. The absurdity emerges from the film's unique, strange atmosphere. This atmosphere must be experienced to be understood and it is eternally guarded by the magical aura of the film given to it by early sound cinema. "}{"Title":"Cats Don't Belong On The Dinner Table","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Predictably well Crafted and Visually Interesting Early Hitchcock. This is a Comedy/Drama with none of the Thriller or Suspense Traits that one would expect. But Hitch was never one to shy away from Humour and was quite good at it, and like here, it was usually Dark with a Bite of Sarcasm and Satire.A Movie that is Broad in Scope and tells the Soap Opera Tale of Infidelity and Marital Angst aboard an Ocean Cruise. There are quite a few touches from a Director who Loved the Camera and Played with it as much as the Audience. It is a good looking Film with some very Quirky Characters bouncing off the Couple as they find out things about Themselves as well as the World around Them.The Second Half brings things Home with more Drama and less Lover's Angst and the Situations are Bizarre and Intriguing. It is well worth a Watch for anyone interested in Early Cinema, Hitchcock Sidestepping (but not really) His usual Fascination with Death and its Surroundings, or for just Movie Fans in General. Keep an eye out for Cats that insist on exploring the Dinner Table. Overall, the Movie will not disappoint. "},{"Title":"Spoiler Purposeful","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" People seem to find this movie disjointed- it starts as a comedy ends on a different note. Although there are some technical difficulties, the one thing I know about Hitchcock is that his movie making was always thought out in advance and purposeful. The movies starts off as a comedy with of course that brilliant opening. We are shown the humdrum lives of our couple who desire to see the world and experience life. As the movie unfolds this is exactly what happens. From the vacation fun of Paris to sexual intrigue to misfortune and tragedy (ignoring the racist characterization of the Chinese in the picture) They have now seen the world and experienced life and seen some death. They are ready to go home with new attitudes and perspective. They are ready to start a family. The bickering at the end shows how much the wife has grown. She and her husband are now equal partners. "},{"Title":"Humorous and Light, Hitch before he was Suspense...","Date":"8 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Rich & Strange, part of my 5 disc The Hitchcock Collection box-set is essentially a World whistle-stop Tour, taken by 1930's 'Society' and which could only be beyond the wildest dreams of your average, everyday working couple.So, when the Hill's - Fred & Emily (I think he's a clerk) get a letter conveniently announcing that their inheritance is being unlocked early, so they can enjoy life now, and the next moment they're soon eyeing up the Eiffel Tower. This would have been wondrous escapism and extremely fashionable fodder for cinema audiences of the day and Hitch gets to some quite exotic locations and generally makes good use of them. Some of ship scenes aboard look very set-like, though.He adds some stylistic touches that echo his playfulness - seasickness is superbly portrayed, with items on the rich food menu floating off the printed sheet in wavy lines, echoing the nausea that poor Fred is suffering.Things get more heated and exotic once the Far East is reached, as friendships are made and dalliances with fellow cruise members start putting a strain on their relationship. It doesn't really matter who these others are and all that, it's all far too fluffy and forgettable to matter but it's a quiet joy, as long as it's taken for what it is - and no more.The look and style is very early 30's but strangely, the transfer quality is good to very good, with the odd flicker and blemish and is much better than the later 'Secret Agent' in that box-set of mine. It's of the quality where you only see the blemishes once you've been watching for a while, rather than the other way round. "},{"Title":"Almost a mix between a silent film and a talkie","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is a very interesting movie to watch. Almost a mix between a silent film and a talkie, there is very little talking in it with a lot of usage of titles to let us know what is going on. The first few minutes features no talking at all. A fascinating glimpse into the 30s though and an earlier film age/time. The young couple - married 8 years and apparently he is bored - have the opportunity to enjoy life/spend some money/go on a cruise when a wealthy uncle gives them so money to enjoy now instead of waiting till he is dead. Nice uncle! They go on a trip and eventually a cruise. Loved the cruising scenes including the pool. I have been cruising and the pools are much more crowded now it appears! She seems to meet her soul mate and have a largely platonic affair while he is quickly seduced by a Princess who turns out to be something less. Fun to see the scenes with the street vending. The makeup on the lead character is off putting, but it was a fun movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Travelling with Hitchcock","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Rich and Strange (1931) was adapted by Alfred Hitchcock, his wife Alma Reville and Val Valentine from a novel by Dale Collins.It's a slightly different Hitchcock movie, more comical than thrilling.But still very good.In the story there's a married couple, Fred and Emily Hill (Henry Kendall and Joan Barry).They have a chance to get out of the boring life in London suburbs and go out on a cruise.There they nearly forget each other when they meet other interesting people.Emily becomes friendly with Commander Gordon (Percy Marmont).Fred falls for a beautiful dame who calls herself The Princess.Are they able to go back to their old life again? Hitchcock was an excellent director of women.There were some many memorable performances by women in Hitch movies.Here Joan Barry does remarkable job as Emily.She was heard in Hitchcock's earlier film Blackmail( 1929).In this one we also get to see this beautiful and talented woman who left the industry in 1934.Henry Kendall makes a fine male lead.We also get to see one comical performance by Elsie Randolph playing the part of The Old Maid.She worked with Hitchcock again about forty years later in Frenzy (1972).Rich and Strange offers a little bit of suspense, but it deals mostly with romance and comedy.This movie only proves that Hitch could have some variation to his style. "},{"Title":"A picaresque Love Story","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is one of Hitchcock's early films that is not only a fun and romantic story filled with humorous touches, it's also a fascinating look at a time that is very removed from our own. Hitchcock already shows some special film techniques that were probably quite new at the time that may seem quaint today, but are definitely a window on another time. There is also a wonderful lack of score and a lack of dialog in so much of this movie that illustrates Hitchcock's use of Pure Cinema so admirably. Hitchcock also uses title cards to help tell the story. I love the way Hitchcock takes a very ordinary couple and put them on a voyage around the world. This voyage not only puts them in dangerous situations, but it tests their love. Joan Barry is wonderful and sympathetic and Henry Kendall is her dour husband who wants to travel the world, tired of the workaday world. A fun and involving story about life, love and marriage. "},{"Title":"There was a MacGuffin","Date":"12 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I agree with many of the other reviewers that the value of this movie is that it gives a clue to the Hitchcock of his future movies. The camera-work, particular in the earlier part, is much above other films of that era. Some clues to the camera techniques that he used in his other 30's vintage movies, such as Sabotage, Thirty-Nine Steps are apparent here.I do disagree with those that there was no MacGuffin in this picture. Remember the scene at the theater in Paris where a bearded (obviously fake beard) man pinches her bottom. I was waiting for the man to reappear later in the film (he didn't). Also it was a little erotic diversion to a sexy woman in a dull marriage. "},{"Title":"Decent Melodrama","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Rich and Strange (1931) ** (out of 4) Henry Kendall and Joan Barry play a happy couple who win a large inheritance and believe that all their worries are over. The two go on a cruise across the world where he ends up falling in love with a princess and she ends up in the arms of another man. This early film from Hitchcock certainly isn't amongst his best but it is a rather nice blend of drama and some black comedy thrown in. The biggest problem is that even by 1931 standards this thing here is pretty old fashioned and rather bland storywise. Throughout the silent era we saw countless films dealing with happy couples turning sour after money is brought into their lives and the story here really doesn't add anything new. What it does add is a great final fifteen-minutes where we really get to see Hitchcock explode as a director and turn into that Master of Suspense. The final deals with their cruise ship sinking and the couple must try and find a way to survive. How all of this plays out is extremely well directed and Hitchcock perfectly builds the suspense. I was also quite pleased with the performances especially that of Barry who easily steals the film. Barry didn't have a very long career, perhaps due to her voice, but I found her to be very pleasant here and enjoyed watching her. Overall this movie is certainly flawed but fans of the director will want to check it out at least for the final fifteen-minutes or so. A lot of these early Hitchcock movies are viewed today so people can see early touches of a future legend and they'll see plenty of that here. Also check out the dark comedy in the form of a black cat late in the film. "},{"Title":"Creaky Early Talky","Date":"6 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie under the title Rich and Strange and the last word certainly describes the movie.Fred and Emily are a couple like most of us. Despite working all day, they never seem to be able to get ahead. They eat frugally and Emily makes her own clothes from patterns with cheap cloth.Suddenly, out of the blue, a wealthy uncle (I wish I had a wealthy uncle out of the blue) decides not to make Fred and Emily wait until he dies. He gives them enough money to travel the world and, for a time, break Fred out of the dreary office routine (rich uncle, where are you?).First, they go to Paris, where they live the high life. Then they ship off on a long cruise.Fred is not a good sailor, and this leads to some excellent touches in the first half. While Emily enjoys herself on board, Hitchcock makes unexpected, and hilarious, jump-cuts to Fred ill in bed. A great moment in early Hitchcock is when the terribly seasick Fred is presented with the ship's menu. It lasts only a few seconds, but it's worth the wait.The tension (in the movie and between Fred and Emily) builds when Emily meets a Commander who is smitten with her. Again, Hitchcock's humor shines through. The Commander always seems at a loss for words and Emily is forever interrupting him. Eventually she compliments him by telling him he's easy to talk to. After Fred finds his sea legs, he meets a Princess inexplicably smitten with him -- or is it his money? Fred's romance with the Princess is the silly side of infidelity; but when Emily begins returning the Commander's affection, it looks like coming into money destroyed Fred and Emily's marriage.One charm of Rich and Strange is that, though it's a talkie all the way through, Hitchcock has inserted titles between the scenes, as in the silent movie days, making a droll running commentary on Fred and Emily's new life.The problem is, about the half-way mark, Rich and Strange (sometimes going under the romantic alias East of Shanghai) feels like it's stretching out. I don't know if Hitchcock got bored with it, but I certainly did. When Fred and Emily were stranded alone on a sinking ship I hoped they would go down with it. But even at that point, I had a lot of movie to go.Hitchcock made few straight comedies. Mr. and Mrs. Smith (1941) is another wry take on marriage benefiting from the considerable talents of Carole Lombard and Robert Montgomery. The under-appreciated The Trouble with Harry is a romantic comedy with couples brought together by an inconveniently dead body. Despite having a great sense of humor that followed Hitchcock through his television show and right up to his last movie (Family Plot), his comedies (even Harry) have soggy bottoms. Hitchcock is really at the top of his game when his dark comic sensibility creeps into movies of almost unbearable suspense. When Rich and Strange begins to sound melodramatic, I had a sense Hitchcock felt (pardon the pun) all at sea.Nevertheless, for a Hitchcock completist, this film is a must. It has wonderful touches here and there. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock trying to find his way&#133;","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Rich and Strange seems to have been made during an experimental period in Hitchcock's career, before he discovered and accepted what he was really good at. He had far superior films than this one earlier in his career, so he was no longer learning his craft, but it seems that with this film he tried to do something a little different that just didn't really pan out. A young married couple inherit a significant amount of money and embark on a journey around the world, thinking it will bring excitement and adventure back into their lives and their marriage. Instead, it introduces a myriad of problems into their lives and leads to some incredible situations.The film drags terribly, leading us pointlessly into numerous different relationships, but most importantly, it presents two characters who it is impossible to feel any sympathy for. They are immediately corrupted by their money, turning into callous, pompous pricks, unpleasant in almost every way. Consider, for example, when that poor guy working for the cruise ship tries to come in to their room to clean or offer them something, and they both scream at him to get out. He immediately retreats, terrified. Are these the people in which we are asked to invest our emotions? No, thanks. But stay tuned, because it was not long at all before Hitch bounced back from this minor letdown. "}{"Title":"The Perils of Prosperity","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" One sometimes wonders about great directors when given material they have not carefully selected or which is thrust down their throats. Chaplin managed to avoid it, and to control the films he made (though his later films become progressively too talky, and too melodramatic). Ford, for the most part, managed to avoid atypical films in his career. So, oddly enough, did Welles (he certainly never essayed a screwball comedy). But Alfred Hitchcock did (at least twice) do pictures that had nothing to offer his special style of film. They were early pictures, and are rarely seen. The first is the current film, RICH AND STRANGE, and the second was his pseudo-Strauss Family biography, WALTZES FROM VIENNA (1934). RICH AND STRANGE is about how a young couple's marriage has bogged down into a set routine - how they inherit a fortune from an uncle - and how they find that the fortune only increases the fissures in their marriage. They take a trip around the world to the far east, and find that the money only makes them less and less tolerant of each other. It is only privation due to a shipwreck, and the loss of the money that makes them return to each other in the end.There are good cinematic touches in the film - the symbolic moment when the marriage seems doomed is when (in China) the couple are riding in rickshaws that are going in opposite directions, and have gotten stuck so that neither is able to progress (and neither passenger is willing to let the other have the right of way). There is also the sinking of the ocean liner after it has been attacked and robbed by pirates - although obviously done on a back-screen, with a model, for a 1931 film it is rather well done too. It is, however, less effective than the sinking of the freighter at the beginning credits of Hitchcock's LIFEBOAT some dozen years later.The acting is passable, but no more. On the whole worth watching once to see Hitchcock not doing one of his mystery or moody suspense films, and so worth a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"1930's Hitchcock","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Hitchcock in the early 30's was very much a British film director rather than a distinctive director. His style of films contained the stuffiness of 1930's Britain, and indicated that he needed to move away from the UK in order to nurture his later style that the world came to know and love. 'Rich and Strange' is an example of the stuffy British films that he was making in the early 1930's, and apart from the fact that he is credited as a director for the film, you could be forgiven for thinking that this is just an ordinary 1930's British film. "},{"Title":"My rating 7","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Well, well, well! Very surprising. I suppose it is the first movie about Titanic. And indeed, rich and strange. Rich in enthusiasm, youth, dreaminess, naivety. Strange in realization.I skip the love tension and stop on the place. It shows the parallel between titanic power of the industry and the constant tempo of the family tradition and organized individuality, metal boat and wooden schooner, fast food and Chinese food. Curved space in which the parallel straight lines can cross each other and over Atlantic dream is not authentic and possible enough without eastern diligence.When I compare this movie with its newer variant which is so famous and watched I see that the plot is being changed. Sober from the distance of time some have decided to delete the honesty and their foresight and replace them with egocentric lordliness and mass commerce accompanied with a very good soundtrack.So, this movie is rich and strange, different. My rating is little increased but notice the year of the production!http//vihrenmitevmovies.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Early Hitchcock is strange indeed...with lots of promise...","Date":"18 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Lots of little moments in RICH AND STRANGE (American title) assured me that Hitchcock was gradually developing the kind of touches that became his trademark later on. His opening scenes of London bustle aboard trains and buses on a rainy day is a foreshadow of things to come in FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT (with its sea of umbrellas on display).These opening sequences are very modern in concept, so it's a pity the rest of the film doesn't match it in true Hitchcock style.JOAN BARRY and HENRY KENDALL are a bored, restless married couple not content to stay by the fireside after he receives a letter from an uncle who is leaving him a great deal of money. They embark on a cruise to the Orient wherein both of them get involved in ill-fated love affairs. Hitchcock tries to provide comic touches, particular with an obnoxious female passenger clumsily trying to fit into shipboard events, but frankly this aspect of the film comes across as painfully unfunny.Not until the finale, do we get a real Hitchcock moment involving a seldom glimpsed black cat that becomes part of a macabre twist aboard a junk-boat of Chinese fishermen. It's a most unappetizing moment that must have been deliberately written into the script at Hitchcock's insistence on wry black humor.But all in all, this is a clunky exercise in early filmmaking combining a tedious romantic yarn with a few amusing moments about a couple whose marriage survives despite some unlikely circumstances that almost tear them apart. The special effects of a sinking boat gradually filling with water are especially well done for the time.Summing up For serious Hitchcock completists only. "},{"Title":"A Tempest in a Teapot","Date":"21 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Bored Londoners Henry Kendall and Joan Barry (as Fred and Emily Hill) receive an advance on an inheritance. They use the money go traveling. Their lives become more exciting as they begin relationships with exotic Betty Amann (for Mr. Kendall) and lonely Percy Marmont (for Ms. Barry). But, they remain as boring as they were before. Arguably bored director Alfred Hitchcock tries to liven up the well-titled (as quoted in the film, from Shakespeare's The Tempest) Rich and Strange by ordering up some camera trickery. An opening homage to King Vidor's The Crowd is the highlight. The low point may be the couple dining on Chinese prepared cat.*** Rich and Strange (12/10/31) Alfred Hitchcock ~ Henry Kendall, Joan Barry, Percy Marmont, Elsie Randolph "},{"Title":"very un-Hitchcock","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Yet another early film from Alfred Hitchcock which seems to have been done out of contractual obligation. As with Juno and the Paycock, you can tell that Hitchcock had little interest in this movie. There is almost no style or craft to it at all. The story revolves around Fred and Emily, a young married couple, who come into some money and go on a cruise which proves to be a test of their marriage. Emily is given a chance at a new life with a good hearted, wealthy man who falls in love with her, but chooses to take the high road and stay with her husband. This might seem more believable if Fred weren't made out to be a completely insensitive, pompous ass who jumps at the first opportunity he sees to leave his wife for another woman. The couple ends up staying together, but the movie lacks any real reconciliation scene. The third act goes in a completely different direction, with the couple stranded on an abandoned ship and rescued by an Asian fishing boat. Joan Barry does give a very stirring performance as the faithful wife of an unfaithful husband. That's about all you can say for this one. "},{"Title":"The Kramdens See The World","Date":"10 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This couple could be the British equivalent of Ralph and Alice. Overbearing bumbling oaf and his mousy, tolerant wife. When it started I didn't think I would like it as it was so unlike a Hitchcock film. But this picture grows on you and becomes more interesting as the story develops.As other reviewers have mentioned, a shlub couple, he a dreary accountant and she a dreary housewife, come into some money and decide to spend it on the high life topped off by a world cruise. They each fall in love with a third party before realizing they were meant for each other. At least as a default position.Rich And Strange is part romance and part comedy, and both elements are understated in the English manner. Some of the comedy parts are quite humorous and some of the romantic moments are quite touching, and the acting is solid. Henry Kendall plays the oafish husband with traces of a stage background, and Joan Barry is as sensitive and appealing as she is lovely. Percy Marmont is a stalwart Englishman with principles - but will overlook them for Ms. Barry.When it started I thought maybe a five rating, but by the end I gave it a seven. As I mentioned, it gets better, and there are some unmistakable traces of The Master. It is a valuable inclusion in the Hitchcock canon, if for no other reason than being a step stone towards Hitchcock's evolution as one of filmdom's best directors. "},{"Title":"I agree with the second part","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This was one of the three Hitchcock films in a box set. I hadn't heard of any of them, and only got them because of his name and them being on sale. This is similar to one of the other two(the one I've watched), The Lady Vanishes(the last is Secret Agent) in some ways; they both start out looking like they're going to be silent(especially this one), and neither have scene selection(well, this one, at the very least, allows you to skip to the very end so that you don't have to fast-forward through the entire thing to play it from near the end). This is an odd little 83 minutes of a movie. It was made back when both genders wore a ton of make-up, so the male lead looks like Dracula. Worse is the fact that the period shows in the plentiful sexism and the rampant racism. The thing frankly isn't all that funny, and many jokes are repeated. Our main character is obnoxious. The plot isn't that engaging; I was never that into this. Pacing is uneven. It does take the audience to exotic places around the world, if it prefers to show little of them(and is it just me, or is the tone negative towards them? Was the xenophobia *that* bad?). As a plus, there is a good speech about love. The quality of sound and image is reasonable. I recommend this purely to completists. 6/10 "},{"Title":"a bit preachy and strange","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This Hitchcock movie bears little similarity to his later suspense films and seems much more like a very old fashioned morality tale. A young couple receives an inheritance that they believe will make them happy. They spend the money traveling about the world and living a very hedonistic existence. However, after a while the excitement begins to wane and the couple become dissipated and pointless in their existence. Later, out of no where, when they are on a luxury cruise, the ship sinks and they lose everything--and end up much happier in the end because they now appreciate life! What an odd, silly and preachy film! It makes its point with all the subtlety of a 2x4 upside your head and the plot seemed amateurish and overly moralistic. Personally, I'd like to inherit all that money and find out if it makes me miserable! I'd also like the film to try to make a point with a bit more finesse and a lot less obviousness. The production values are relatively poor compared to later productions--a rough film with poor sound quality and rather amateurish acting. Not terrible but not especially good. "}]