[{"Title":"Visibly stunning!!!","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"37 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Whale is, for good reason, most famous for his Frankenstein films. However, better than both (albeit marginally) is this film - The Invisible Man. When I first saw this, I couldn't believe that it's over seventy years old and upon a second viewing; the film just gets better and better. Considering the time in which it was made, The Invisible Man is one of the most amazing films of all time. The special effects are what really make the film. CGI has pretty much spoilt this sort of reaction to a movie. The Invisible Man really has that 'how did they do it?' feel, which movie audiences of yesteryear so often enjoyed, and it's done such a good job with it that I'm still wondering today. The plot gives way to lots of trickery and visual magic as it follows a mad scientist who has turned himself invisible. However, things aren't so simple because one of the drugs he used has properties that can turn a man insane; and this side of the drug has had a huge effect on our man. Believing he can take over the world, he recruits the help of one of his fellow scientists and sets about a reign of invisible terror.You would think that it would be hard to convince an audience that one of your characters is invisible; but Whale makes it look easy! Claude Rains spends much of the film either under the cover of bandages or not even in it, but it doesn't matter because it's not him but his voice that makes the performance. The fiendishness of his voice is compelling and pure evil, and I don't believe that there is a better man in existence for this role. There isn't a lot of physical acting for him to do, but this is made up for with a dazzling array of special effects. We get to see a shirt move on it's own, things fly around rooms and havoc is caused. It really shows Whale's genius to pull this off. Whale is best known as a horror director, but it's obvious that he has a great respect for comedy also as his Frankenstein films were very tongue-in-cheek, and so is this film. The scenes that see the invisible man causing mayhem are hilarious, and will delight anyone who sees the film. Whale's ability to entertain is absolute, and that is why the films he made for the studio were always the biggest successes. The Invisible Man is one of the greatest achievements in cinema history, and anyone who tells you otherwise is wrong! "},{"Title":"Transparency is not all that bad, is it?","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"34 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Talented direction from James Whale. Mildly chilling tale based on the imagination of H.G. Wells. Introduction to a versatile star, Claude Rains. Short movie in length, but the mixture of thrills, chills and humor help make this a real classic. The special effects of the 30's seem so unsophisticated, but very enjoyable to this day. Rain's starring debut is 99.98 percent vocal and very memorable. The changes in his voice from glee to madness gives certain character to his invisible role.A brilliant chemist/scientist(Rains) discovers how to make himself invisible. He wrecks havoc in a small British country village as pranks turn to murder. Memorable are the scenes of the invisible man smoking and riding a bicycle; and of course unwrapping.Also in the cast areWilliam Harrigan, Gloria Stuart, E.E. Clive and Una O'Connor. At a certain point you wish that O'Connor's funny, but obnoxious character was shorter lived. Dated or not, this is a classic that still demands watching. Creepy and fun for all. "},{"Title":"Somewhat Shocking!","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"29 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh! What a wonderful film!  The Invisible Man is fraught with witty dialogue, excellent character acting, inventive and creative special effects, insightful direction, and solid, tight scripting.  The story is about a scientist that develops a serum which turns himself invisible, for good intent initially.  The serum has negative side effects, one of which is turning the scientist into a raving,mad megalomaniac bent on conquering mankind and the world.  What is most surprising about the film is its rather perverse sense of black humour(a James Whale specialty) and its cruelty.  The Invisible Man is not a benign horror monster but rather a frightening, destructive force capable of acts of violence, madness, and viciousness.  The direction is the real star of the film as Whale combines script, acting, mood, and setting amidst the background of ground-breaking special effects that are still impressive to this day.  Whale laces his special humour throughout, and this film has no shortage of dark comedic moments.  The acting all around is very good with people like Henry Travers, Gloria Stuart, Una O'Connor and William Harrigan especially as a jealous doctor giving all the support they can to a formless Claude Rains.  Rains's voice is magnificent and one senses he was made to play the part that would make him famous.  Look for Dwight Frye in a small role.  A wonderful film experience! "},{"Title":"Best Special effects ever","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"33 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Invisible Man is a classic movie, with special effects that can still be wowed at today. The reason why these special effects are so great is that they didn't have computers 70 years ago, so you can watch and say 'How'd they do that?. The acting is great, too, and there is even a bit of humour in there too. One of the best horror movies of the 30's. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Film Still Holds Up, Is Fun Except For Shrieker","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"43 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was great the first time I watched it, but slowly declined with multiple viewings over the years.Why I slowly lost interest in this, I'm not sure, except for perhaps the incredibly annoying hysterical woman character played by Una O'Connor. Her constant screaming and shrieking took away my enjoyment of this film.This was Claude Rains' first starring role and he did a fine job, even though you never see his face until the final minutes. His voice was good and his character interesting as he slowly went insane. He had this silly, sadistic laugh as he'd kill people. That's one thing that made this movie a bit different. When I watched this on DVD after a long absence, I was shocked to re-discover how violent Rains' character was in this film.Even though the film is almost 75 years old, it's still fairly entertaining and not dated as much as you might expect. It also brings out a few interesting dilemmas that an invisible human being would have trying to stay undetected.By the way, I still think this should be classified science fiction, not horror. "},{"Title":"Classic horror","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I actually saw The Invisible Man (1933) shortly after I saw the James Whale bio-pic Gods and Monsters (1998), starring Ian MacKellan and Brendan Fraser. So it was with that image of the director in my head that I watched this film. Claude Rains (Casablanca) is perfectly cast as the mad scientist/invisible man. The remainder of the cast, though not really challenged much, are more than serviceable in what they are required to do. As has been mentioned by most of the other posters, the special effects hold up rather well even today. An amazing feat considering the film is over 70 years old! The DVD has several interesting documentaries / commentaries that made me appreciate not only this film's entertainment value but its historical significance as well. "},{"Title":"Works Very Well","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film version of the H.G. Wells science fiction classic works very well. It has a number of strengths, but it benefits most of all from James Whale's direction, creativity, and technical excellence. Both the flashier aspects of the movie (such as the invisibility effects) and also most of the basic elements are done with skill.The story is for the most part based on the one main idea of The Invisible Man who combines his scientific genius with a generous supply of madness. The story is interesting enough in itself, and of course it provides all kinds of opportunities for visual tricks. Whale hits just the right balance in making good use of these opportunities without over-indulging himself.The visual effects themselves are of excellent quality, and they are far better than all but the very best of the present-day computer imagery. While it is usually rather easy to spot which parts of a movie are computer-generated, Whale's effects are all but seamless, with the exception of a handful of brief moments. They are often quite impressive, without resorting to tired devices, such as explosions and the like, in order to impress those with shorter attention spans.Claude Rains does quite well for having such limitations on what he could do. The rest of the cast is solid, if mostly unspectacular, letting the story do the work. Una O'Connor somewhat overdoes it with the screaming this time, but otherwise the characters are believable. The acting may seem slightly quaint to those who are accustomed to the pretentious styles of the present generation of performers, but it's certainly better than the grating, self-important performances in some of the recent movies of the same genre.While the story does not have the thematic depth or the suggestive imagery of horror classics like Frankenstein or Dracula, this adaptation gets everything it can out of the material, telling the story in an entertaining fashion and with technical skill. "},{"Title":"Bone-chilling Rains debut - a true sci-fi classic","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE INVISIBLE MAN (1933) **** Claude Rains is super scary as mad scientist Griffin in HG Wells' classic horror novel about the power of being invisible thanks to a serum with some dangerous effects.  Atmospherically directed by James Whale (Frankenstein).  Great visual effects for its time that stand up well to today's standards.  Chilling. "},{"Title":"A classic film with good effects and a solid story &#150; will not impress modern audiences that much but is still worth seeing","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Scientist Griffin disappears from his lab, leaving his colleagues Kemp and Cranley wondering where he has gone. Meanwhile a strange man arrives at an inn, covered in bandages, hat and long coat and acting mysterious. When the other residents of the inn claim that this man is 'invisible', police assume they are suffering some sort of group delusion. Meanwhile Griffin arrives back to see Kemp, clearly (sorry!) invisible and suffering side effects of madness. With his friends trying to help him and the police trying to catch him, Griffin's inability to find a cure continues to eat at his sanity, sending him into a frenzy.The first thing to note is that any film that is over 70 years old will clearly not hold the same appeal to modern audiences as films made recently do. Those looking to this film to provide the same effects or violence as seen in Hollow Man (for example) will not only be disappointed but they will also be open to accusations of being simply unfair. However, viewed on its own terms, this is a great little film that has impressive effects, an exciting and tragic story mixed with some good (if a little hammy) acting. The basic plot works well, considering that it expects us to be right there with it without any real back story about who Griffin was. I'm not sure why this was done this way (constraints of running time maybe?) but it works well as the film is to fast moving to be slowed by a long build up. It still manages to show Griffin's descent into madness despite the fact he is already losing at the start of the film.The effects work well even if they (obviously) don't compare to what computers can do, however they still look good and the lead character is convincingly invisible; if anything it is actually more effective because the 'money shots' are sparingly used and then used to good effect. The pace of the film really helps as it is remains exciting and enjoyable all the way to the inevitable conclusion. The acting of the cast helps although it is Rains' film the whole way to the final scene (where he is finally seen!). He may overplay his madness but who can complain when it is such fun? What impressed me is that he is either invisible or behind a mask for the vast majority of the film but yet still manages to make a big impression regardless. Stuart didn't impress me one bit and seemed like her character would have been important with backstory &#150; but without it she just came across as a simpering starlet with little involvement in the story, trying to build a human side that was not the focus of the rest of the film. Harrigan and Travers are convincing and the support cast all run around and scream accordingly.Overall this is an enjoyable film that has good effects and an enjoyable plot. The script could have done more to create more of a human story and draw more emotion from the audience but the fast pace and convincing thrills cover this up well. I was taken by how dark the material was &#150; I never expected the 'hero' of the film to kill innocents, this helped me get into it because I was quite shocked by it; this was again more effective than the graphic and obvious gore of modern versions. Not a perfect film but a classic one and rightly so! "},{"Title":"I think we'll start with a reign of terror.","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" People tend to use the word classic too freely. I can't help but laugh when I hear some of the movies that people call classics. The term gets thrown around so much that it often looses some of its importance and real meaning. I try to reserve classic to a select group of films that I believe have achieved a certain status and have withstood the test of time. And I have no problem putting the label classic on The Invisible Man.James Whale made a lot of great films in the 1930s. Some (Frankenstein and Bride of Frankenstein, for example) may be better known, but I've always thought of The Invisible Man as the best of the bunch. It's got everything. Terrific performances, incredible special effects, nice comedic touches, and technical brilliance are found in abundance throughout the film.- Terrific Performances For someone who only has a few seconds of actual screen time, Claude Rains is amazing. His voice creates such a presence that at times it's easy to forget that he's not actually there. As for Una O'Connor, I've seen some people complain about Whale's use of her, but I think she was never better than in The Invisible Man. She's great whether playing the proper landlord showing a new guest to his room or as the overly hysterical woman afraid for her life. The rest of the cast, especially E.E. Clive and Gloria Stuart, is exceptional.- Incredible Special Effects It's amazing to revisit The Invisible Man and see how well the special effects have withstood the passage of time. They were state-of-the-art in 1933 and they remain impressive today. It took some real craftsmanship to pull-off the invisibility gags seen in The Invisible Man. To me, none is more impressive than the first time we get a glimpse under the bandages while he's eating and we see no lower jaw. Impressive stuff! - Nice Comedic Touches Billed as a horror film, The Invisible Man actually contains more scenes of humor than horror. I've already mentioned O'Connor, but she's only a small part of the humor in the film. The police, the various frightened passersby, and even Claude Rains himself add to the fun found in The Invisible Man. I'm of the opinion that it never goes overboard, but fits nicely into the plot.- Technical Brilliance Beyond the special effects, the film is wonderful from a technical standpoint. Lighting, cinematography, and set design are incredible and some of the best of the 30s. Everything looks perfect. In my opinion, Whale never did better. I've always been impressed by the way Whale used his camera as part of the action when many of his contemporaries seemed content with the plant it and shoot style of film-making.The only negative aspect of the film that I can possibly complain about is William Harrigan in the role of Rains' rival, Dr. Arthur Kemp. He's just not as good as those around him. Other than that little quibble, I've got nothing to complain about. I believe it should be easy to see why I, for one, consider The Invisible Man a classic! "}{"Title":"If Universal Released A More Enchanting Film In The 1930s I Haven't Seen It Yet","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's interesting to note that for a Hollywood studio how little American input went in to Universal . It was founded by a German Carl Leammle and the studio is best known for its horror output in the 1930s . Everyone knows of Karloff and Lugosi who were respectively British and Hungarian . The folklore of werewolves that everyone takes as being traditional is not traditional at all but were invented by German Jewish émigré Curt Siodmak for THE WOLF MAN . Perhaps the most important figure in the Universal horror cycle was James Whale a British born director who moved the production of JOURNEY'S END from the UK to America because the Americans had more sophisticated sound equipment and Whale decided to stay . When one points out that Michael Curtiz who worked for Warner Bros was Hungarian born you do realise that how much the Golden age of Hollywood owes so much to Europe . Europeans in general and Brits in particular should take great pride in this THE INVISIBLE MAN is effectively a British film made in America .The setting is British The director is British , the leading man and most of the cast are Brits as is the screenwriter who's adapted the novel from HG Wells who is ... go on guess ? The British are well known for their sense of humour and this is where THE INVISIBLE MAN succeeds . It has a wickedly delightful sense of sadistic humour running throughout it . I'm not entirely sure if all of it's intentional watching it today but certainly watching a pair of trousers chasing a woman along a dark country road whilst it sings  Here we go chasing nuts in May , nuts in May ...  had me laughing out loud . There is something cruelly endearing listening to Claude Rain's precise upper class tone as he threatens and goads the supporting characters in the film along with gloriously scathing dialogue lke  It's so cold it can freeze the icickles off an Eskimo  Rain's is superb and totally dominates the film with his voice alone but there's a rather old fashioned acting style to some of the other players which is at odds to Whale's wonderfully fast paced directing style . But even this caricature of  Cor blimey guv  type Britons adds an endearing feel to the movie . I really can't think of another film from the same period that is more enjoyable and enchanting than this one . Apparently someone called Herbert George Wells wasn't too pleased with the movie but he'd obviously forgotten his roots and that it was our sense of humour that made Great Britain great "},{"Title":"To make the world grovel at his feet.","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoiler ahead - a well known one though.It was his first major film role, and he only appeared at the tale end of the movie for a minute - as a corpse! But Claude Rains was made as of that moment, though it would be awhile before he actually ceased being a villain in all of his films. James Whale's THE INVISIBLE MAN is possibly the best of the early Universal horror series of the 1930s. FRANKENSTEIN and Dracula (both English and Spanish versions) are great films too, but the threat of Jack Griffin's discovery of invisibility makes the other two seem quaint as threats. One can run from Frankenstein, and one can stay indoors at night with a handy cross or garlic available. But how does one fully protect oneself against someone who is physically strong, mentally smart, and totally determined to kill you if you cannot see him? It's not easy, especially if the goal of this monster is to rule over others. As he puts it, he wishes to have the world grovel at his feet.In the novel, Griffin's personality is shown to be so selfish from the start that one can tell that no matter what discovery he would have made he would have misused it for power. He has no redeeming features at all. However, his omnipotence is sort of curbed in one way that is not the case in the film. A character is invented by Wells (who is not in the movie) that Griffin frightens into serving as a slave or servant. The character manages to run off with Griffin's chemistry lab and chemicals, as well as Griffin's notebooks. As a result he is trapped in his invisibility, and can't get out of this situation until the novel ends.The film does have some classic moments of humor (Whale liked to add black humor to his films). When a woman runs screaming down the lane at night followed by an empty pair of pants skipping along reciting here we go gathering nuts in May is one. So (more darkly) is during a massive search for Griffin, after he causes a train disaster. One of the volunteers, slightly apart from the others, is grabbed and thrown down and choked. Rains/Griffin, in speaking, says, Here I am...AREN'T YOU GLAD YOU FOUND ME?!! It is a chilling moment.A wonderful blend of thrills and comedy, surrounding a science fiction tale of constant interest, this film never disappoints. I give it a 10 for entertainment value. For helping awaken viewers to reading the works of Herbert George Wells, I'd give it a 12. "},{"Title":"Terrific movie...and it always will be","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This year, 2003, it's been 70 years since HG Wells' the Invisible Man was made. It's a very long time ago, but this film hasn't lost anything of his power yet. If you watch it these days, you still see a movie with lots of suspense and amazingly good special effects. Really, although it was made in 1933, the effects are flawless and very believable. Dr. Griffin discovered a drug which makes you invisible. At first, he only wanted to prove himself as a good scientist towards his girlfriend, but pretty soon he realizes a man has a lot more possibilities when he can not be seen. Blinded by power, he turns into a madman who terrorizes a small town and kills police men. Only when his girlfriend appears ( she's also his boss' daughter ) he seems to be reasonable again. Can she change his mind and make his thoughts normal again?A very high level op suspense is reached here in the Invisible Man. Surely a lot more than in nowadays horror films to say the least. No matter how hard they try to be scary nowadays, it always make me laugh instead of being frightened. This film doesn't do that. The atmosphere and the black and white screen give a lot of extra value to the story. Claude Rains is excellent as usual. He is one of my favorite actors during this wonderful decade of horror. Sure, he didn't became as famous as Boris Karoff or Bela Lugosi, but he played a few very memorable early movie 'monsters' as well. In this movie of course and also in Phantom of the Opera (1943). The girl he's in love with here is played by Gloria Stewart. It's funny to see her act her while you know she'll receive an Oscar nomination 65 years later for the biggest movie production ever  Titanic. This particular film comes with my highest recommendation. It's a must see for all and I give it a rating 10 out of 10. If possible, try to watch it in the right atmosphere. During a cold and dark winter night for example. With the lights turned down and maybe a few candles lit. If you follow these tips, you'll certainly wonder a few times if someone invisible isn't standing in the same room with you.... "},{"Title":"It alters you, changes you.","Date":"27 October 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's a snow storm blowing ferociously, a man trundles towards a signpost that reads Iping. He enters a hostelry called The Lions Head, the patrons of the bar fall silent for the man is bound in bandages. He tells, not asks, the landlady; I want a room with a fire. This man is Dr. Jack Griffin, soon to wreak havoc and be known as The Invisible Man.One of the leading lights of the Universal Monster collection of films that terrified and enthralled audiences back in the day. Directed by genre master James Whale, The Invisible Man is a slick fusion of dark humour, berserker science and genuine evil. Quite a feat for a film released in 1933, even more so when one samples the effects used in the piece. Effects that are still today holding up so well they put to shame some of the toy like expensive tricks used by the modern wave of film makers. John P. Fulton take a bow sir.After Boris Karloff had turned down the chance to play the good doctor gone crazy, on account of the role calling for voice work throughout the film except a snippet at the finale, Whale turned to Claude Rains. Small in stature but silky in voice, Rains clearly sensed an opportunity to launch himself into Hollywood. It may well be, with Whale's expert guidance of course, that he owes his whole career to that 30 second appearance of his face at the end of the film? As was his want, Whale filled out the support cast with odd ball eccentrics acted adroitly by the British & Irish thespians. Una O'Connor, Forrester Harvey, Edward E. Clive and Henry Travers are memorable. While American Gloria Stuart as the power insane Griffin's love interest is radiant with what little she has to do. Based on the now famous story written by H.G. Wells, Whale and R. C. Sheriff's writer version remains the definitive Invisible Man adaptation. There's some changes such as the time it is set, and Griffin is not the lunatic he is in the film-which is something that Wells was not too pleased about in spite of liking the film as a whole, but it's still tight to the source.Sequels, TV series and other modern day adaptations would follow it, but none are as shrewd or as chilling as Whale's daddy is. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Funny, and How did they do that?","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is so great mainly because of two things The effects and Claude Rains. To take the first thing first Effects in modern films doesn't amaze me anymore. Oh, they have some extremely advanced computer-stuff, how amazing! - no. Of course it's quite amazing that these computers are so advanced, but that leaves the honour to some computer-people - not to the director and special effects crew. No, it's these oldies that really have the effects, simply because they had to be creative. In The invisible man (and several others, like King Kong (from 1931, I think), I can't do anything but letting the technical masterpiece fill me with awe.To take the second thing secondly Claude Rains was, or so they say, really a rather bad actor who was taken because of his voice, and a great voice it is! I can't describe it, you have to hear it. I just wonder where that voice has gone in his other films... By the way is he the only one acting really naturally in this movie, which is from a time where every actor had been taken from the stage.Oh, I almost forgot The humour is several places really good. I do still, months later, see a couple of dancing trousers for my inner eye, to the song Here we go gathering nuts in May, nuts in May, nuts in May... One of the funniest scenes I've ever seen!Of course, it has its flaws, mainly in the acting, but considering that it is so old and so cool, it gets nine out of ten stars, something I give very, very rarely. "},{"Title":"There's breathing in my barn!","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Claude Rains. The man. The myth. The legend. You cannot talk about this film, whether in conversation or in any review, without placing this actor on the tip of your tongue. He is the epitome of the madness that surrounded the power-hungry Invisible Man. In this day of modern cinematic wonder, most full-fledged actors would want their faces to be in front of the camera, showcasing the entire film. Directors would want this fledgling star to promote their film, get kiddies interested in spending their money, and for financiers to see the profits of their contributions. Let's face it, if Brad Pitt is in a movie, typically most audience members are actually going to see Brad Pitt. Thankfully, we have directors like James Whale and his interpretation of H.G.Wells' classic The Invisible Man. Whale took a powerful story, expanded it, breathed life into it, and followed up with quite possibly one of the most sinister villains in movie horror history since Hannibal Lector. He is crude, he is heartless, and he wants nothing more than world domination &#133; he is Claude Rains &#133; and yet, until the end of the film, we never see the white's of his eyes.There are several reasons why I just fell in love with this film, outside of the cataclysmic performance of Claude Rains. Ohhhh, Claude Rains. I loved the way that this movie was filmed. I loved the scope of the Invisible Man's terror. Whale could have kept his antagonist to committing just single murders of friends and family, he could of just kept it confined to just one single town, he could have kept our focus directly on the turmoil of Rains, but instead, he decided (amazingly!) to open the entire can of worms with success. When I first began this film I was expecting the classic images of angry villagers with pitchforks storming the house that the Invisible Man lived within, but instead, Whale gave us this sort of random chaos that truly created fear around this character. Whale is able to give us the true terror of this madman by perhaps expanding his budget and showing us how big the terror of the Invisible Man is. For example, I never foresaw the horrific train accident, nor the random worker push off the mountain, and when Rains explained to Kemp what the human impact of falling down a ravine would be like, it literally sent shivers down my spine. Whale created a madman better than some modern horror films could ever accomplish.For a film created in the 1930s, the special effects were spectacular. Sure, CGI was just a glimmer in Lucas' mother's eyes, but James Whale did a superb job of giving us these rare glimpses into the future of special effects. The way that he created the Invisible Man surprised me. I did not expect to ever see the creature without his bandages on, but within ten minutes we are shown the full scope of Whale's creativity. I thought the use of snow, dust, and even the early stages of the overused green screen was original for its time. To see Rains smoke as the Invisible Man put a smile on my face. This is a perfect example of a film that used just enough special effects, in the right way, to make the audience forget for a brief time that this was in fact a film &#133; not real life. While the special effects did have one or two flaws (see the Invisible Man riding the stolen bike &#150; were those wires?), I must credit Whale for pushing the envelope for the time. It was surprising to see such quality from such an older film.If there would be anything that I would change about this film would be the subtext concerning the relationship between Rains and Flora (played by Titanic star Gloria Stuart). I thought this was nearly unnecessary. I understand the value of trying to give a human element to this monster, but I thought that it could have been done without these random scenes. There wasn't really any connection between the two, and we were left with very little information of them prior to the start of the film. Perhaps if there had been a stronger pre-story it would have congealed better. The same can be said for the chemistry and reasonings for the plot points surrounding Rains and Kemp. I could understand why they occurred during the film, but there had to be something more prior to the opening scene. I wanted to know more. I think that is a good sign for a film, when you are left wondering what was the story before this one &#133; and even what was it afterwards.Overall, I thought this was an exceptional film. I now have this newfound respect for Claude Rains, a man I knew nothing about prior to watching this film. He carried this film and honestly successfully pulled off one of the most frightening madmen this world has ever seen. I think what scared me the most about him was the fact that he actually, unlike some villains, actually followed through with his vile plans. He was evil, whether the invisibility did it or not, he was pure evil, and I loved every minute of it. The special effects were delightful, with a small subplot that this picture could have gone without. Amazing, and a perfect treat before Halloween! Grade ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Invisible Man of '33 is Still the Best","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the moment the mysterious stranger walks into the tavern at the start of the film, head bound in bandage, trilby hat, heavy overcoat, gloves and dark goggles, windswept, with a dusting of snow, we are horrified yet engrossed by the evil that lurks ominously about this character. Director, James Whales' classic, 'The Invisible Man,' is the closest big screen adaptation of author H.G. Wells's science fiction novel. Scientist Jack Griffin (Claude Rains) concocts a serum in order to make himself invisible unaware that one of the ingredients induces madness as a side effect. Once invisible, Griffin finds it necessary to exile himself from his colleagues and fiancé at a tavern some distance from his laboratory and place of work so as to synthesise an antiserum for the reversal of the effect of invisibility. The inquisitiveness of the local people, concerning his strange appearance and Griffins growing emotional instability finally drive him on a course of violence leading very soon to murder. Pursued by the police, Griffin eventually finding himself surrounded.Produced in 1933, 'The Invisible Man' is typically a black and white creation but rather than subtracting from the enjoyment of this film it serves to give it a Gothic feel, pervaded in various degrees, throughout the Universal monster movies of the period, intensifying the eeriness of the subject matter. Given the age of this motion picture it would be unjust to compare the special effect with recent innovations such as CGI; however I believe those whom view this film will be impressed. When Claude Rains unwraps the bandage from around his head, for the first time, to reveal what appears to be an empty space within, it becomes one of those rare iconic cinematic moment not to be missed.For most actors, to only have their face appear in the final moments of a film, allowing the audience a momentary glimpse of the main protagonist, would be an insurmountable handicap, nevertheless Claude Rains is able to make an impression from the very beginning through the dynamic and assured use of his remarkable voice. A worthy, fear-provoking performance.'The Invisible Man,' never gets bogged down with a great deal of scientific gobbledygook with the exception of a short but necessary scene in which we are afforded the dubious science surrounding the fictitious Monocaine chemical which is at the root of Griffins madness. Fortunately, much of the film is spent exploring Griffins state of mind, his intentions, his actions and his attempted capture. "},{"Title":"Classic Universal horror WARNING!!!!!!! SPOILERS!!!!!","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Classic Universal horror that's a little bit dated but still has remarkable special effects that still hold up amazingly well today (in mu opinion. The direction is astounding and moves along at a pretty fast pace and is never boring keeping the viewer engrossed all the way. I imagine this film was very scary back then but it's not that scary now but still it has tons of classic scenes especially the memorable scene where The Invisible Man reveals himself it's still actually a horrifying scene and of the most memorable moments in film history (in my opinion. James Whale was a brilliant director and made a lot of classic films and this is one of them i throughly enjoyed watching this and plan on viewing it again in the near future. no gore at all. The Acting is ASTOUNDING!. Claude Rains performance is just astounding and is one of the best performances i have ever seen by an actor i simply can't say enough about his performance and i am sure he freaked a lot of people out back then. Gloria Stuart is the weak link here she totally over acted and got on my nerves BIG time!. William Harrigan gives a fine performance here and was likable. Henry Travers does good here with what he has to do. Overall simply a classic that is a MUST SEE! regardless! ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"A True Classic!","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Invisible Man was another of those classic horror movies turned out by Universal in the early 1930s. It also marks the debut of the respected character actor Claude Rains in the lead role.The film opens with a mysterious figure coming to a country inn during a winter storm seeking food and shelter. The mysterious figure is Dr. John Griffin (Rains) who is wrapped up in bandages and explains this as having been involved in a terrible accident. Actually through experiments, he had made himself invisible and is searching for the antidote. Griffin asks the innkeeper's wife Jenny Hall (Una O'Connor in another of those delightful screaming British hag roles) that he wishes not to be disturbed. Of course poor Jenny opens the door at the wrong moment and discovers Griffin's secret. Mayhem ensues.Unknown to Griffin, there is a serious side effect to his condition...gradual madness. His mentor Dr. Cranley (Henry Travers) and his daughter Flora (Gloria Stuart) are very concerned for him. Griffen flees the inn killing a policeman in the process and goes to the house of his colleague Dr. Kemp (William Harrigan).Griffen by now driven mad forces Kemp to assist him in his evil deeds. Several more murders take place until the invisible man is eventually brought to justice.Claude Rains launched a distinguished and lengthy career with this film. Oddly enough we don't see his face until the end of the picture as his character is invisible throughout. Harrigan is good as the beleaguered colleague and O'Connor as previously mentioned is a hoot. Travers and Stuart have little to do except look concerned over the fate of the tragic Griffin.Watch for Walter Brennan as the owner of a bicycle, John Carradine as a caller offering a tip to police and the talented but under utilized Dwight Frye as a reporter.A true classic of this or any genre. "},{"Title":"I meddled in things man must leave alone","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Masked by surgical bandages, dark goggles, and covered from head to foot, Dr. Jack Griffin arrives in an inn of a small village in order to work on correcting an experiment that went terribly wrong. Griffin becomes violent and rude to the innkeepers and customers and is confronted by the local police to leave. Griffin starts to undress and reveals to the crowd that he is invisible, wrecking the inn and causing a panic in the streets. Griffin arrives at the home of a colleague, Dr. Kemp (who is jealous of Griffin's knowledge and is also in love with his girlfriend, Flora) and explains how he experimented with a drug monocaine, which rendered him invisible, even though Griffin doesn't realize that the monocaine is also causing him to lose his sanity. Griffin forces Kemp to become his partner in his reign of terror, starting with Griffin's murder of a police chief Griffin encountered trying to retrieve his notes. When Kemp alerts the police that the Invisible Man is at his house, Griffin swears to Kemp that he will kill him the next night. Can the police prevent Kemp's murder and apprehend a fiend that can not even see. This is an excellent film from start to finish. Whale's direction and Sheriff's script compliment each other perfectly. Rains, just a voice until the end in his US film debut, is just perfectly cast, lending such an eerie presence. The rest of the cast is good, with O'Connor standing (and screaming) out as the innkeeper's wife. The special effects may see dated today, bit it is still one of the best Universal horror/monster flicks ever produced. Rating, 10. "}{"Title":"The Original Mad Scientist Thriller","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although certainly Frankenstein and other films preceded it, this is perhaps the most significant influence on the mad doctor genre. It is quintessential James Whale, which is a huge part of its charms, but Claude Rains' astonishing vocal presence and the unusually dark tone (it is by far the darkest of any of Universal's 'monster' classics though it's the only one that isn't really a horror film) are what truly make this stand out. It isn't perfect. The acting is clipped and theatrical, but again, this is Whale. Una O'Connor is an absolute scream however, providing the perfect comic counterpoint to Rains' manic performance. This is a definitive trip to the absurd, and should be viewed with this fact in mind. It's a lot smarter than the likes of Dracula or Frankenstein (though still doesn't quite reach Bride of Frankenstein's standard), and a lot funnier. But more than anything, it's a seamless blend of sci-fi, thrills, humour and the offbeat that deserves its place in the history books as one of the all time great science fiction films. 9/10  "},{"Title":"Undeniably a huge 1930's classic","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  James Whale's The Invisible man, based on H.G. Wells' beloved novel is a really good, funny, stylish and well-designed movie. It's maybe a bit oldish looking but even 70 years later it hasn't lost its wacky charm and it's safe to say this legendary classic has aged with style. Even the revolutionary never before seen special effects are still splendid. Claude Rains makes a fabulous performance acting only with his voice and body. His first and maybe the most famous leading role isn't the most usual accomplishment but he carries it with an outstanding power and devotion, making it look highly memorable. This movie has a really weird sense of humor and some of the characters are quite unique. The Invisible man is certainly one of the most successful of all Universal monster classics and a must for every fan of these excellent horror flicks of 1930's. "},{"Title":"Classic Invisible Man.","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Writing about 30's Black-And-White movies can be difficult, as they need to be considered in light of the era the films were made. You have to adopt the mind-set of some-one viewing it for the first time, without the baggage of umpteen remakes and special effects improvements, to remain objective. Here goesClaude Rains does a good job with a mainly speaking part - lots of emotion and command there. Una O'Connor as the Innkeepers wife does a bit too much shrieking for my liking - but required reaction acting fodder for the time, I assume.The effects still hold up, and must have been cutting edge at the time. The storyline covers all the basics of the Wells Novel - a quest for knowledge and power, alienation and drug inducessed madness. It's an enjoyable watch with good pacing and steady performances throughout. A sort of lazy Sunday afternoon type of movie.Universal's take on a British Pub raises a smile, with some fantastic looking weathered-faced locals populating the place. I love the way the gag with a local fake-playing a coin driven piano gets a roaring laugh (as if that's the first time the pub's drinkers have seen it). However, the British film-industry was putting out the same type of stereotypes, so Universal can be forgiven there.A part of Sci-Fi/Horror movie making history, and worth watching for this fact alone. "},{"Title":"Tremendous!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is definitely one of the best horror/sci-fi movies of all-time. The special effects are absolutely off the chart for 1933. I can only imagine the shock of the audiences on opening night back in 1933. The Invisible Man must have been the equivilant of Star Wars in terms of special effects for the time period. If you have never seen this movie, find it! "},{"Title":"A Whale Of a Good Time","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Invisible Man may be James Whale's best mainstream film. It's more fantasy than horror, and shows the director more at ease with his material (and less likely to make light of it) than usual. Coming not too long after his initial success with Frankenstein, but before the campy disillusion that one already senses in Bride, this H.G. Wells adaptation shows that Whale could restrain himself and yet still be himself. It begins beautifully, on a snowbound landscape, as we see a mysterious figure all bundled up, carrying his bags through the snowstorm, as he approaches an inn. We can see that he's wearing dark glasses. As he moves closer we can see that his face is swathed in bandages. When he enters the inn all action stops, and the place goes silent. The stranger has a presence even before he speaks. There is something commanding about him. He rents a room at the inn but people keep on bothering him, as they are curious about who is. And he's certainly peculiar enough he never takes his bandages off. As things develop, the man is Griffin, a scientist who has been working on an invisibility formula, or rather he's found the formula. The problem is what it does to him. Griffin is slowly but surely going mad, and becoming increasingly paranoid and grandiose in the bargain. When he takes all his clothes off he is completely invisible, which enables him to wreak all kinds of havoc. In short time he's a raving, homicidal maniac, terrorizing the countryside, and bent on world domination. A manhunt ensues. Thanks to a witty R.C. Sherriff script, and excellent special effects by John Fulton, the movie was and still is a lot of fun. Though the subject matter is fairly serious, Whale can't keep a straight face for long, and as a result the film is a bit of a romp. There's murder and mayhem aplenty, and some very droll humor along the way. Claude Rains speaks the title role authoritatively, and has a way with thundering commands, which can send a chill up one's spine. The supporting cast isn't as strong as is usual with Whale, though Gloria Stuart makes a lovely heroine. Since the film is set in England Whale's eccentricities are more appropriate and fit in nicely with the story. And though the movie was made in Hollywood it's almost as if the director was on his home turf. He handles his improbable material with aplomb and great skill, and was at this stage of his career the equal of Hitchcock, who was just starting to make a name for himself on the other side of the pond. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of this genre","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Invisible Man should rank among one of the best horror films of the 20th century. I was amazed at the special effects, even more when I think how computers and digital images for FX where but a dream in the 30's. Unlike most films today, where explosions and hurtling asteroids are ,perhaps, the main actors in film now, The Invisible Man relies on a great plot to counter the effects. This is a world where scientific discoveries and lust for power take hold of mankind. The absence of law and restraint disappear along with the man. This film, directed by James whale, allows for the viewer to compare and contrast Mr. Whale's other masterpiece, Frankenstein. But one should also watch The Invisible Man as a powerful film of its own right.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant film adaptation superior to the novel","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What can be said about THE INVISIBLE MAN that hasn't already been said?  Claude Rains' superlative performance in the title role.  James Whale's imaginative film direction.  John P. Fulton's special effects that still impress today.  The colorful supporting cast, particularly Una O'Connor as the landlady Jenny Hall and E.E. Clive as constable Jaffers.  THE INVISIBLE MAN's reputation as a classic is well deserved.It should be further stated that the film considerably improves on the H.G. Wells novel which it is based.  In the novel, the titular character, Griffin, effectively symbolizes the ruthless monomaniac who misuses science for his own personal gain.  But as a character he's one-dimensional.  Even though Wells emphasizes his frail humanity as he suffers the disadvantages of invisibility, the author never reveals what makes Griffin tick.Screenwriter R.C. Sherriff fleshes out Griffin not only by giving him a first name (Jack) but by providing him with an identifiable motivation.  He devises a love interest, Flora Cranley (Gloria Stuart, decades before her performance as Old Rose in TITANIC), who is the catalyst for Griffin's fantastic experiment.  Griffin tells her, I was so pitifully poor I had nothing to offer you, Flora.  I was just a poor, struggling chemist.  He makes himself invisible to prove his worthiness to Flora.But the results are poignantly ironic.  Sherriff's screenplay has the concoction Griffin uses to become invisible affect his mind.  He transforms from a kind, sensitive man to a homicidal megalomaniac.  Consequently, he becomes a hunted man, alienated from the rest of humanity- including Flora.  Thus, the cinematic Invisible Man attains a tragic stature lacking in the Wells novel.  It is the scenario's powerful tragedy, more than anything else, that makes THE INVISIBLE MAN a great film.  "},{"Title":"Still gives me the creeps, and Claude Rains is perfect!","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The effects still hold up, and look better than a lot of the CGI stuff done today.  An irreplaceable classic, with an amazing vocal (since we can't see him for almost the entire film) performance by Claude Rains.  Seeing this film inspired me to read the original work by Wells, and to rent Gods and Monsters, about James Whale, who directed this pic. "},{"Title":"Fun to watch and almost flawless","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film.  Claude Raines commanding voice is great, you get to really feel for his character and his ever-winding road to madness and megalamanical hunger.  The film itself is amazingly fun to watch.  Sure the film is quite short, but it gets to the point.  The special effects are truely amazing and fun to watch, espically when you consider this was made BEFORE CGI ruined films.This film, backed with tight editing, scripting and good acting makes for a wonderfully pleasing to watch film.  I certainly enjoyed it.Overall 8/10 "},{"Title":"a classic","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an exceptional movie considering the year made - 1933 - excellent directing and acting all around, except the pub owner's wife constant shrieking got rather tiresome, but why quibble? Outstanding special effects for the time also. This should be required viewing for all who want to do Sci-Fi movies. "}{"Title":"A terrific mix of horror, humor and Claude Rains.","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Claude Rains makes his screen debut playing an invisible man.  Oh, the irony!  But this film is a joy to watch.  It has everything from murder to a woman being chased by Rains wearing nothing but trousers (the only visible part, of course).  James Whale did a nice job with this one.  However, the film belongs to Rains.  The sight of him wearing the bandage and dark glasses still chills me.  What I especially liked is that even when he does have the bandage on, we are never allowed to see his emotions.  That is all dependent on the vocal performance, and Rains' crystal-clear voice shines through beautifully.  Just check out the scene where he and Gloria Stuart are together in an upper room in the inspector's house.  His voice goes from loving and gentle to near raving mad, and it is absolutely chilling.  This film should be a reference point for actors, writers, and directors as to just how important the voice is in defining a character.  I hope that, unlike its main character, everyone gets to see this film.   "},{"Title":"A Blissful Blend of Horror and Comedy","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Claude Rains does really great in this, his screen debut.  Although his face (let alone his body) is only seen for a couple of seconds, his rich, cultured voice envelopes the film in a kind of omnipresent fog.  At times funny, at others, deadly serious. "},{"Title":"What you really have to appreciate here is Rain's performance.","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What you really have to appreciate here is Rain's performance in the title role. Using very little more than just his voice, Rains made this character completely believable, even as the character declined into a state of madness.  The special effects may not be quite up to today's standards, but they still come off pretty well, which is remarkable given the amount of time that has passed.  This is one of those films that could not be changed without diminishing it.  It is a real must-see for anyone interested in either the horror or sci-fi genres. "},{"Title":"Excellent considering it's age","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For a 72 year old film, The Invisible Man has rather faultless special effects and still seem impressive in this age of CGI. The story is quite simple but it's wonderfully directed by James Whale and has a rather cool atmosphere and enough menace about it to make it a rather good thriller.Just like the more recent Hollow Man, the story is of a mad doctor (Claude Raines) who creates a serum that can turn a man see-through. As all mad doctors do, he experiments on himself and discovers the hard way that with transparent molecules comes insanity and a murderous streak takes over.Since I've not read HG Welles' novel I don't know how true to the source material this film is but it's loads of fun and rather timeless. Don't let it's age put you off watching it. But some please gag that Innkeeper's wife!!! "},{"Title":"I see...Greatness.","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Invisible Man (1933)Universal &#150; DVD &#150; D James Whale &#150; 3.5 / 4Jack Griffin is a gifted scientist who makes the greatest discovery of the 20th century&#133;invisibility. A series of injections renders him totally invisible. When he tosses his clothes away he becomes the ultimate streaker who is driven mad by the same potion. He leaves his laboratory to find an antidote before the madness consumes him and he destroys the countryside. Brilliantly acted by Claude Rains in his first major role. Although he is on screen 98% of the film he is on glimpsed briefly, leaving his performance to be almost totally a vocal one. He pulls it off splendidly. James Whale's trademark sardonic humor is all over the production. The effects used for the film are extremely convincing for a film over seventy years old. "},{"Title":"One of the absolute greatest Universal horror films","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Apart from Bride of Frankenstein, this is probably my favorite Universal horror movie. It has been overshadowed by Dracula, the Wolfman, Frankenstein and the Mummy, but it's every bit as good as the best of these. That's because unlike these other films where you have real monsters, you have a normal man who becomes invisible and then slowly begins to act in an incredibly psychopathic way. At first, he kills with some hesitation. Later, he laughs maniacally as he kills with great style and panache--laughing diabolically after he ties a guy up and pushes the car with the man inside it off a cliff! It becomes an exploration of the inner evil within us all and so the sense of connection to the monster is greater than with traditional monsters because he's just like you and me--it's just that accursed formula that brings out the madness.Claude Rains, though invisible for much of the movie, does a great job--his voice is one of the greatest in movie history. And the special effects, with one silly exception, are unbelievable for the 1930s--in fact, by today's standards most of them are terrific (especially for the scene where he slowly becomes visible). As I mentioned, there was one silly exception. Late in the movie, the invisible man removes his clothes to try to escape. However, his footprints clearly are those of a person wearing shoes! Oops.Also, while it is a great way and gave it a 10 because it is such a marvelous film, there is one problem with the film (not the footprints--that was more of a funny mistake). Una O'Connor made parts of the film VERY difficult to watch due to her horrible over-acting (you'll see more of this in The Bride of Frankenstein). Her shrieking and histrionics were way overboard--and quite annoying. Subtle, it ain't!! And this is a shame, as the rest of the movie is so wonderful. "},{"Title":"so that was the old woman from Titanic...","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having never read H.G. Wells' novel, I don't know whether or not the movie followed the story. But whether or not it did, The Invisible Man does have some good lessons about what we shouldn't attempt. Claude Rains plays scientist Jack Griffin, whose experiments make him turn invisible and give him a murderous streak. Sixty-four years before she played Kate Winslet's older self, Gloria Stuart plays Griffin's love interest Flora Cranley. I think that my favorite scene was when Griffin stole a bicycle, so the bicycle basically rode itself.It's weird to think...Gloria Stuart is the only actress who has worked with both Claude Rains and Leonardo DiCaprio. Well... "},{"Title":"I didn't see this hit coming!","Date":"13 July 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Up until 1933, Universal was on a role, with many great horror hits on their hands. Films like Dracula, Frankenstein and Phantom of the opera were great hits with the public. These films were brilliant films, especially Phantom of the opera, but there is one that tops them in all in so many levels...This is my review on HG Wells' The Invisible Man.The story goes a bit like this;A mysterious figure turns up in a old hotel in a deserted town and requests for a room. He also insists that he wants privacy and no disturbances. After not paying his rent, The inn keeper demands that he should pay his fees and leave. Outraged that his privacy was disturbed, he assaults the inn keeper and throws him out of the room. Word gets across the whole village of the deranged assailant and the police are called in. It is to policemen that the mysterious man's surreptitious plot is revealed. He is not like normal men and women. He is invisible.The invisible man is, like most movies of that time, an adaptation of of the famous HG wells novel with the same name. I have NOT read the book so I cannot make comparisons.So how is it as a stand alone movie?As talking acting was new to cinema, I never really expected their to be such well delivered duologue. Claude rains is a perfect example of how a villain should be. His vocal tone is fantastic and they way he delivers some of his lines make you shiver in your seat. When he's angry, you're scared. When he's sad, you sympathetic. He is invisible for most of the movie so you can't read his body language or facial expressions. However, it's like he transferred all of his lost acting strength into his voice. Clude Rain's interpretation of the invisible man is unmatched and makes Mr Griffin one of my favourite villains of all time.The story fleshes out as time goes on and unfolds into a very creepy motion picture. The tone in this film is perfect. Usually horror films of the 30s would make me laugh more than scream, but this was quite the opposite. I was at the edge of my chair for most of the scenes. The thing about this movie is that it there is no visual monster on screen- The monster is invisible! It's the ery silence that truly makes this film creepy. Even in many of the duologue filled scenes you find yourself wondering, Is the invisible man standing in the room?, Is he going to kill anyone here?. The story plays to this effect and, without spoiling anything, it does catch you off guard many times. When the main protagonist is locked in the house with jack griffin (the invisible man), you are as scared as he is because you don't no if Jack is watching his very move. Props to the story and the directorial efforts.The script is a pinnacle of movie history. What can I say that I haven't said before? Claude Rains delivers some thought provoking lines that make you think hours after the film is ended. Example are; Don't worry, the whole world's my hiding place. I can stand there amongst them in the day and night and laugh at them.--If you try and escape by the window, I shall follow you, and no one in the world can save you.. One of my all time favs is this;((The Invisible Man I hope you car's ensured, Kemp. I'm afraid there's going to be a nasty accident in a minute. A very nasty accident!Dr. Kemp Griffin, I'll do anything! Everything you ask me! The Invisible Man You will? That's fine. Just sit where you are. I'll get out and take the handbrake off and give you a little shout to help you on.You'll run gently down and through the railings. Then you'll have a big thrill for a hundred yards or so until you hit a boulder! Then you'll do a somersault and probably break your arms. Then, a grand finish up with a broken neck! Well, goodbye, Kemp. I always said you were a dirty little coward! You're a dirty sneaking little rat as well! Goodbye!))For a universal film its actually quite funny in scenes. The policemen are bumbling idiots and share some hilarious scenes including times where they get their trousers stolen. Jack is also funny as he always sings while he goes around killing people in his maniacal killing spree. Believe me, You'll have gathering nuts in may stuck in your head all day.Fantastic visual effects, comedy, script and acting. If I had one complaint with the film, it would be that the romantic relationship between Jack and his girlfriend Flora wan't explained enough, But it's a horror, not a romantic. Definitely give it a watch. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Cinema magic  from an early adept of horror cinema","Date":"1 June 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Whale is perhaps most well known (and deservedly so) for introducing the iconic image of Boris-Karloff-as-Frankenstein's monster into popular culture and thus cinema history. However, a single film, regardless of its iconic power, is not enough to earn a position as of one of cinema's first auteurs, yet when viewed alongside his 1933 adaptation of H.G. Wells' 'The Invisible Man', Whale's true genius as a director begins to emerge. What's more, despite being less iconic than 'Frankenstein', 'The Invisible Man' boasts more wit, horror, and visual magic than it's more famous predecessor.Claude Rains, who would later go on to star in cinema classics 'Casablanca' and 'Lawrence of Arabia', makes his first cinema appearance (an ironic statement given that we only see his face towards the end of the film) as Dr Jack Griffin who develops a potion that enables him to become invisible. However an unforeseen side-effect is that it unhinges his mind, making him into a homicidal megalomaniac bent on ruling the world and chaos ensues as he tries to manifest his grotesque ambition. As already mentioned, we only see Rains in the final part of the film as most of his screen presence is under bandages or erased by the ground-breaking special effects and yet his performance is stunning from the inflections in his voice which range from despair and pity to hysterical lunacy. An interesting cinema history tit-bit is that Boris Karloff was Universal's choice for the leading role but he turned it down owing to the lack of actual screen time his face would receive!The performances from the rest of the cast, including Henry Travers, Gloria Stuart (who had worked with Whale in 'The Old Dark House' the previous year), Una O'Connor, and William Harrigan are all strong and deliver the script (adapted by playwright R.C. Sheriff, who had previously written the play 'Journey's End' which Whale had directed for stage early in his career and which in effect was the springboard for his Hollywood career) with bundles of wit and pathos. However, all this being said, the real star is the special effects which include shirts running around rooms and Rains removing his bandages to reveal nothing&#x85;all with a disconcertingly authentic edge placed perfectly between comedy and terror. This is Movie-Magic (with capital Ms) of the highest calibre and retains the ability to evoke eye-rubbing disbelief even in the most CGI-jaded modern movie-goer.So, while certainly lacking the Gothic splendour and quasi-Expressionistic style that characterised 'Frankenstein' and subsequently 'Bride of Frankenstein', 'The Invisible Man' is no less a cinematic milestone and both a rightful addition in the Universal Studios Monster-movie oeuvre and a testament to the insight and vision of one of Hollywood's, nay&#x85;cinema's, finest directors. "},{"Title":"A great horror film of the 1930's","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Director James Whale made a prolific 20 films between 1930 and 1941 and all them were not only good but many were true classics like Frankenstein, Bride of Frankenstein, The Man in the Iron Mask, Journey's End, Remember Last Night, Showboat, (the original) Waterloo Bridge and The Ivisible Man. Whale ended up in a losing battle over creative control of his films with the studios and in 1941 at the age of 52 he walked off the set of They Dare Not Love and never made another movie again. The Invisible Man is a very creative film and it gave Claude Rains a career in films. Rains is excellent in this film although of course little of him is on screen being invisible and all. Gloria Stuart costars. Screenwriter R.C. Sheriff who would write screenplays for such films as Goodbye Mr. Chips, That Hamilton Woman and Odd Man Out adapted the H.G. Welles novel for the screen in The Invisible Man. The major problem I have with this film is it's just a little too short. I would give this a 9.0 out of 10 and recommend it. "}{"Title":"Great fun with a classic performance","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Invisible Man is great entertainment with a classic performance by Claude Rains as the title character.  Rains plays a scientist who discovers the secret of invisibility and becomes invisible himself.  He flees to a small town to try to become visible again before the side effect of madness set in.  He fails and goes on a homicidal rampage.  Rains dominates the screen time, despite not being visible until the very end, and gives one the most entertaining and over the top performances in film history.  The terrific script gives him several opportunities to show off his superb voice and he brilliantly conveys psychosis and delusions of grandeur.  The effects are memorable.  Rains laughing maniacally with no head is a movie moment fixed in my mind.  The supporting cast is excellent.  Una O'Connor is typically entertaining as the annoying and hysterical wife of the owner of the hotel where Rains stays and William Harrigan does a nice job of portraying the fear and hysteria that would come with being the target of an invisible man.  The movie also features the other memorable role of Gloria Stuart, old Rose of Titanic fame, who was quite a looker in her day.  Great dialogue with a great script, fantastic effects and a career defining performance by Rains.7.6/10 "},{"Title":"A true classic. This is a historic action thriller that is not to be missed.","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a great show this was. Claude Rains plays Jack Griffin, a scientist who discovers a formula with which he renders himself invisible. The only side effect of the drug is that it also slowly drives the subject insane.The special effects are terrible, in many cases it's laughably obvious how they were created, but you need to remember that this film is almost 70 years old! For special effects like those in The Invisible Man to have been created in the early 1930s, when even SOUND was still fairly new, is extremely impressive. Even though the structure of The Invisible Man was fairly simple, there were elements of the story that showed how well thought out the movie was. Griffin points out that dirt on his feet, snow on his shoulders, and even dirt under his fingernails would be enough to give him away. He needs to wait a certain amount of time after he eats because until his food is fully digested, it is still visible (THAT would have been interesting to see).With The Invisible Man, James Whale has delivered yet another masterpiece, and I think that this is among the better ones. The film has definitely dated; the black and white photography is gritty, the camera movements are often jumpy, and the dialogue has that old movie scratchy sound to it, but none of these things should discourage anyone from watching this excellent film. It is one of the establishing films of horror/thriller history, and it should not be missed. "},{"Title":"An adaptation of a classic novel that lives up to it's billings...","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In recent years, we, the moviegoing audience, have seen many adaptations of novels that just...weren't. Granted, sometimes the results are stupendous (the most recent version of Great Expectations blew me away), but most adaptations of books twist the original book's plot and premise into a pretzel that usually only resembles it in name.Thankfully, back in 1933, James Whale did an expert job in adapting H.G. Wells' classic novel, THE INVISIBLE MAN. Contrary to many of the later versions of this classic literary character, the original was nothing but a total SOB in the novel and that's how Claude Rains (in his screen debut) plays him, as insane and unsympathetic. The only thing that I felt was missing was Griffin's letter in the original proclaiming the reign of the Invisible Man and calling himself Invisible Man the First.I see him as a cross between (to use another couple of classic characters reinvented by Whale) Frankenstein and Frankenstein's monster. He didn't become a monster by choice, but the point is made forcefully clear that he has no one but himself to blame for the mess he's in. He doesn't take it too well when people finally get a little too prying (but then, he hasn't exactly been a gracious guest, either) and begins his reign of terror through a set of some of the most extraordinary special effects work of any era (my favorite being the scene where Griffen skips along in nothing but a pair of trousers, singing a cheerful tune).The movie belongs to, hands down, Rains, whose portrayal of the anti-social, arrogant scientist is right on the money from beginning to end. The only places I feel it falters is when the obligatory love interest (played by Gloria Stuart) starts appealing to his sensitive side and his last lines about interfering with the work of God. The Griffin of the novel would have written off such concerns as trivial and pointless, but anything to make Universal and the censors happy, yes? Still, it's a film well worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"the great invisible man","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Director James Whale, Novel H.G. Wells, Script R.C. Sheriff, Cast Claude Rains (The Invisible One, Jack Griffen), Gloira Stuart (Flora Cranley), William Harrigan (Dr. Arthur Kemp), Henry Travers (Dr. Cranley), Una O'Connor (Jenny Hill-innkeeper's wife), Forrester Harvey (Herbert hall-innkeeper) The Invisible Man is one of Universal's best 'monster' films of the 1930's and is among James Whale's best work. Dr Griffen is being incarcerated for a crime he did not commit. Dr. Arthur Kemp accused him of killing a wealthy owner of a coal mine(his name slips me at the moment) so he can gain control of his fortune, he must have been a partner in the company. Anyhow, Dr. Griffen had devised a formula to make himself invisible. This allows him to escape from jail and get revenge on Dr. Kemp, his former associate. There is one catch, the formula makes him go crazy. This leaves for some interesting and often humorous results.I find some of the old films rather amazing. When a film from this era is watched, one must view it in the context in which it was made. When people first saw this on the big screen back in 1933 they must have been amazed. Perhaps primitive by today's standard, the special effects are still pretty neat. This film has it all, elements if suspense, horror and Whale's trademark humour. Claude Rains was an excellent casting choice for the part of the invisible one. He had the perfect voice for the part. In the first remake, The Invisible Man Returns, Vincent Price plays the invisible man. His performance is good but again he just doesn't have the right voice nor is he mean enough! James Whale often casts Una O'Connor in his movies. People familiar with the Universal horror pictures will know her from the Frankenstein movies. She ads the humour elements to this movie. Many people will recognize Henry Travers (Dr Cranley) as the guardian angel from Frank Capra's It's a Wonderful Life. Also, we have a much younger Gloria Stuart, she played the old lady in the beginning of Titanic. This is a great old horror and sci-fi film. "},{"Title":"Memoirs of Whale's Invisible Man...","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Whale was the king of 1930's horror films beginning with FRANKENSTEIN. Countless monster movies ensued, but another eye-catcher, THE INVISIBLE MAN, brought to the screen good special effects and a new star Claude Rains. There have been many Invisible Man flicks, but this tops them. A new interest in director Whale has been generated by the current release GODS AND MONSTERS, an account of Whale's last days, as portrayed by Oscar nominee Ian McKellan. Another keeper Gloria Stuart is the co-star. Yes, old 'Rose' from TITANIC was alive and pretty in the 1930's, playing blonde bombshells.The invisible effects are quite good and are as impressive as John Carpenter's special effects in MEMOIRS OF AN INVISIBLE MAN, the dreadful 1992 Chevy Chase vehicle. I was reminded of Jack Nicholson's Joker from BATMAN when Rains removes his headcloth and shrieks with evil glee. Its decent, entertaining schlock for a rainy night and you pretty much forget it once it is over. What a way to start a career the invisible Mr. Rains. When we finally see him, you get the chills. RATING 6 of 10 "},{"Title":"A brilliant movie","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the best I have ever seen. It has humor and wit. And also a serious touch. What I appreciate most about the movie is the black humor, so to speak. The kind of humor you can find in Hitchcock movies.I love when he exclaims Power, I say! He is addressing his wife just like Hitler must have done during his table talks. Hilarious.And when his trousers are singing Here we go gathering nuts in May... Fabulous!I also love when he is distributing money outside that bank...Pop goes the weasle. What a naughty little man...That funny little woman is in the movie too, the one who brings the food up to his room. I saw her in The Bride Of Frankenstein as well. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films EVER.","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Invisible Man is one of my favorite movies of all time.Claude Rains,of course,delivers a superb performance.I also like the fact that Gloria Stewart plays Flora unlike other actors play similar roles.She's really a fine actor.Harigian's role was colorless and un-interesting but Rains made up for it with his class A acting.The special effects,considering it is 1933,were flawless.The film followed Wells' novel very closely.James Whale went a little overboard with Unna O'Connor and E.E.Clive should have had a bigger role but those are just minor problems,nothing to freak out over.It's still one of the greatest movies of all time.Overall10 stars "},{"Title":"The Original Invisible Man Picture","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jack Griffin, a research chemist experimenting with a dangerous drug called monocaine, has perfected a serum which turns him invisible. The downside is that he cannot reverse the process and the effects of the drug have unhinged his mind ...Based on the tremendous novel by H.G. Wells, this is one of four classic thirties Universal horror movies made by the very talented Whale. What is perhaps most striking about this film is how utterly loathsome its protagonist is - Griffin is a thoroughly nasty piece of work with absolutely no redeeming features at all. As played by Rains, he's vain, rude, egotistical, bad-tempered, selfish, petty, vicious, distrusting, sneaky and callous - what a charmer. It is a terrific story of course, and as an exercise in technical film-making it's extremely impressive for its time - the invisible man opens doors, throws things around, smokes a cigarette and dances in his nightshirt, thanks to stunning photographic effects work by John P. Fulton. It's hard to enjoy the movie as a drama though, since the characters are all either very unpleasant or dolts, or both. There are plenty of scary and funny sequences to make up for this however, and lots of memorable dialogue (Even the moon is frightened of me !!). As with Whale's earlier Frankenstein, this film influenced a hundred subsequent invisible man pictures. Watch out for three cool unbilled walk-ons; Walter Brennan as a man with a bicycle, Dwight Frye as a reporter and John Carradine making a crank phone call to the coppers. "},{"Title":"He can rob and rape and kill hee ha ha ha ha","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie rules and Claude Rains is the man. I've been watching this movie since I was little and channel 5 ran the old Universal horror films around Thanksgiving every year. The title basically explains all you need to know about the movie, but there is a lot more than just an invisible man. This film showcased things missing from most horror films of the 30's in that there is humor, not to mention groundbreaking special effects for the time. Claude Rains does a masterful job of playing the brilliant young scientist gone mad. One wonders how Claude got the character's cynical wit, his being a proper Englishman and all that. Overall, it's a great horror thriller from the old days. Bottom Line This movie is one of the finer examples of early Universal horror, and deserves a showing in your home. "},{"Title":"Seventy years on and it's still a very entertaining movie!","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  James Whale directed 'The Invisible Man' in between his horror classics 'Frankenstein' and 'Bride Of Frankenstein'. While it isn't as astonishing as either of those two remarkable movies it is still great entertainment seventy years after it was originally released. How many movies around today will be able to claim that I wonder? Whale's inventive direction and R.C. Sherriff's above average script are reasonably true to H.G. Wells' original novel but they manage to add some effective elements of humour which make this unusual, and a lot of fun. Claude Rains is absolutely terrific in his American film debut. Of course you can't see him (except very briefly) but his voice alone makes his character unforgettable. The special effects were state of the art at the time and still look pretty good today. Rains dominates the movie but the supporting cast is strong and includes Whale favourite Una O'Connor, who is a hoot, and Henry Travers best known for his role as Clarence the guardian angel in 'It's A Wonderful Life'. Those with keen eyes will spot John Carradine and Walter Brennan in cameos (something interestingly enough they repeat in 'Bride Of Frankenstein'), as well as cult favourite Dwight Frye of 'Dracula'/'Frankenstein' fame. 'The Invisible Man' is an historically important picture and has influenced countless subsequent films and TV shows, but another reason to watch it is that it's still a very entertaining movie! Horror and thriller fans are sure to get a kick out of it. "}{"Title":"Where'd he go, George?","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is by far, one of the best of the Universal Studios Classic collection that I have seen so far. This movie actually has some violence and some shocking features to it. And not to mention the special effects. They were very well done for a movie at this time. I wouldn't change a single thing about this movie. It scores on every level that a horror classic should. Action, suspense, mystery, adventure and some other stuff. If you want a really well made horror classic, then take THE INVISIBLE MAN off your shelf and pop it in. It's far better than watching THE MUMMY'S HAND again. This one gets 5/5. "},{"Title":"A great early talkie choice CLAUDE RAINS!!","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I understand that egotist Bela Lugosi had first shot at this role,but turned it down because he didn't want to become invisible until the end of the story.Claude Rains delivers the chemist that's doomed to transparency with a rare depth and distinguished voice.You really wanna see the guy make it, even in his mentally altered state caused by the drug monocain. It's a top notch performance by Rains,who is supported by a VERY young Gloria Stuart.When the talkies were young, the actor's voice sold the story.Don't miss this one!! "},{"Title":"Comic Horror","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  James Whale does it again. For his own amusement, he gives us a thriller in which comedy is used as a very effective foil. Una O'Connor screams her head off every few minutes as Claude Rains chews the scenery without even showing his face until the end. This is the film that gave us the classic warning that man should not delve into things better left alone. "},{"Title":"First movie with a man running around au natural on the screen - yet not remotely unsuitable for family viewing, that's the truth!","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First Movie in the history of the silver screen itself where a man is running around stark nekkid (As we say in Georgia) yet is simultaneously absolutely suitable for family viewing . Thanks to 1930's era special effects. Claude Rains is excellent in his introductory, au natural role. Flora Cranley (Gloria Stewart) - Her 2nd finest role.  "},{"Title":"A Whale of a tale","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The director of FRANKENSTEIN gives us another fascinating combination of horror and humor. James Whale was intrigued by the theme of death, yet saw it as not only tragedy but also as some sort of divine comedy. This theme shows up clearly in THE INVISIBLE MAN. Claude Rains is wonderful, projecting his character with great gusto despite the fact that he is invisible through most of the story. The film gives us that great classic line about man dabbling in things better left alone.  "},{"Title":"Still one of the most amazing films of all time","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this last night for perhaps the 40th time in as many years. This time I did so with my 15 year-old son, one who is more receptive to the current state of special effects. Still, even he found this 70 year-old film to be most enjoyable, and he thought the effects were awesome.What makes such a film retain its freshness? Many films of equal vintage creak more than they speak to today's film goers. While watching the film I pointed out to my son of how James Whale kept his camera moving, and of how so many films of that period appeared stage bound, with the camera stuck in one position and the actors all in frame. Only two years separate Whale's classic from Browning's Dracula but it might as well be two generations. Even Browning's Freaks made at the much bigger MGM a year later still looks as if it were filmed as a silent, or at the least, as if it were a Mascot release rather than one from the most opulent of the majors.A static camera was often blamed on the primitive recording techniques, yet here again Whale shows his flair - his film depends greatly on an unseen character, often moving and speaking at the same time. That Claude Rains would never have to worry about work for the rest of his life is a testament to his performance here despite not being seen until the last 30 seconds of the film.And some of those lines he is speaking We'll start with a reign of terror. Murders of little men and murders of big men - just to show that we make no distinction.Even dirt between my fingernails can give me away.The latter comes from a scene where Jack Griffin is describing the ins and outs of invisibility, such as not going out in the rain or areas of heavy soot (such as the mining town in which Whale was raised?). Or of how he can't appear until his food is digested. The charm or eccentricity of Whale's origins shows in some great lines, such as near the end when the old farmer tells the police There's breathing in my barn or earlier when the policeman who first makes the claim that there is an invisible man at the Lion's Head Inn is told Next time, you put more water in it! The film also contains what might be the first uttering of He meddled in things that man should leave alone.William Harrigan is contemptible as Dr. Kemp, even less so for his cowardly (but understandable) reactions than for his hitting on the lovely Flora Cranley (Gloria Stuart) just as she's bemoaning Griffin's disappearance. Henry Travers is acceptable as Dr. Cranley, the part does not have much going for it, but does set the standard for the elderly scientist with the hot daughter (or niece) that would appear in so many sci-fi films of the future.But most praiseworthy perhaps are the effects of John P. Fulton, truly astounding as they set a standard for every sequel and ghost film to follow. It's rather interesting to note that this film and KING KONG were released in the same year. Despite improvements in techniques both thespic and filmic, the very charm of these two films keep audiences amazed generation after generation. "},{"Title":"A great horror flick","Date":"14 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The entire concept of this film is nothing short of impressive. I have honestly never seen anything quite like this pulled off so well in any modern film. The Invisible Man does a perfect job of showing just where the invisible man is and what he is doing when they want you to know, and they do an equally good job at keeping you guessing when they don't. At some points in the movie I wondered if he could be in the room at any given moment, eavesdropping on conversations about him. The technology used in the film to simulate all the actions of the invisible man were also quite impressive for the time, at least in my opinion. "},{"Title":"He's Invisible.  That's What's The Matter With Him.","Date":"4 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a lot of fun. I haven't read H. G. Wells' novel but this movie adaptation is pretty entertaining.Claude Raines is a scientist who discovers a drug that makes him invisible. All very well, except that he needs to find the antidote that will make him visible again. Until then, he exhibits on the sort of transparency most of us demand of our governments. There's another thing too. He didn't read the article in the obscure German medical journal that proves the drug drives you mad.Wrapped up from head to toe on a wintry night, Raines takes a room in a country inn and demands to be left along while he plies his instruments in search of the antidote. Of course no one is going to leave alone a person who asks to be left alone. The constant intrusions drive Raines round the bend. He goes on a merry rampage until he's finally undone by a smart police inspector, but not before he kills more than a hundred people, including a former friend and colleague.Ordinarily these stories of humans (or part-humans) gone nuts involve an underlying theme of pathos. Let's face facts. I guess no one felt sorry for the giant ants in Them but who among us didn't shed a tear or two when King Kong made a splash on 34th Street? That pathos is largely absent here. Only in two scenes, both brief and in both of which his former girl friend, Flora, appears, is there any real sign of humanity in Raines' character, a willingness to take the role of Other. These few minutes aside, he's an explosive personality.Which brings up the question of exactly what it is that he wants. He carries on about power and fear and the ability to walk into any bank vault, yet he never makes any relevant demands. In one scene he does walk into a bank and skip out with a tray full of money but he throws it away to the crowd. He seems mostly to get a kick out of people being terrified of him. He hops down the road in a pair of stolen trousers, driving off a frightened woman, and sings, Here we go gathering nuts in May.... He clearly enjoys all the rumors of the invisible man creating chaos. The rumors sound silly and the movie makes a little fun of them but we shouldn't feel too superior, since we're given to equally absurd panics. Google phantom gasser Mattoon for a more modern example. And did you know that McDonald's puts worms in its hamburgers? Claude Raines is pretty good, perhaps more effective in his angry rants than in his few tender moments. The other players are very amusing. When the raving Raines first peels off his guise and reveals himself to be invisible, a goggling constable says, Ewww, he's all eaten away. Best performance Una O'Connor as the head of the country inn, a delicate and restrained blend of extreme hysteria and excess horror.You have to admire the thought that went into this fantasy. It reminded me of Nicholson Baker's The Fermata. It's not a tale of whimsy in which anything can happen. Raines describes the flaws in his invisibility. Not just obvious things like fog and snow, in which his form is outlined, but the dirt under his fingernails and the food that takes an hour to be digested and lose its opacity. And he must not step in a sticky substance with his naked feet or he leaves prints. And in industrial settings he must mind the soot that settles on his body. It almost sounds like more trouble than it's worth unless his plans include sneaking into the girls' gym or something.You will not be bored. "},{"Title":"One of Cinema's All-Time Essentials","Date":"17 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Whale's The Invisible Man of 1933 truly ranges up there among the greatest of Universal Horror Classics, and among the most essential films for anyone interested in cinema to see. Based on the famous novel by H. G. Wells, The Invisible Man tells one of the most compelling stories in classic cinema. Mad Science has always been one of the most fascinating topics in Horror cinema, and The Invisible Man is a true magnum opus of the genre. Whale's film arguably has THE greatest special effects of its decade - almost eight decades later, The Invisible Man still looks fantastic, not only as a cinematic milestone, but in comparison to today's special effects.The Invisible Man begins in a snowstorm, when a man completely shrouded in bandages makes his way through the cold and enters a rural tavern, asking for a room. We soon learn that the man is Jack Griffin, a scientist, who has discovered a potion that makes him invisible. What he was not aware of when experimenting, is that the potion is not merely the doorway to invisibility, but also to madness... Claude Reins, who is probably best known for his role in Casablanca, delivers a magnificent performance in the eponymous role, his first leading performance in a film. Reins totally owns the film, which is even more astonishing given that we never actually see him. Reins creates an incredibly menacing presence by his charismatic voice alone, and, when in bandages, by gestures and movement. The rest of the performances are also very good William Harrigan is very good as Griffin's cowardly colleague and beautiful young Gloria Stuart makes a very nice female lead. It is nice to know that Stuart is still alive and well, and will celebrate her 100th birthday this year.As all films by James Whale, The Invisible Man is beautifully filmed, sceneries and set-pieces are great, and the atmosphere is constantly tense and eerie. As mentioned above, the effects are truly magnificent. The Universal Horror films generally were milestones of special effects, and this film is doubtlessly the most astonishing one in this regard. The presence of an Invisible Man is brilliantly brought to screen in a most fascinating and entirely believable manner. The sequence where the Invisible Man unravels his bandages to unveil his invisibility must be one of the most astonishing moments ever caught on film. This film is one of the most brilliant masterpieces among Universal's generally great Horror classics. To me personally, it's a very close second to director Whale's own Bride of Frankenstein (1935) and before Karl Freund's The Mummy (1932), both of which rank among my all-time favorite films, as this masterpiece does.Shortly stated The Invisible Man is pure greatness in all aspects and one of the most fascinating masterpieces ever in cinema. Anyone even remotely interested in films owes himself/herself to see it, and in case you haven't, I recommend to stop what you're doing and do so immediately. If it was possible to give a rating higher than 10 out of 10, I would. "},{"Title":" I shall make them grovel at my feet . A little death here and there ","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's not too often one goes to a movie to see a favorite actor and then never see him. The reason for said disappointment is not hard to explain. In 1933, one of several horror films which caught the imagination of audiences was this one.  The Invisible Man.  The star of the film was none other than Claude Rains. This incredible and most versatile stage performer was gifted with an enormous talent which throughout his career was responsible for catapulting him into the hearts and minds of audiences in both America and throughout the world. Here is one film which incredible as it sounds, he was barely seen. 95% of the movie revolves around his character. However since he is Invisible, you never see him, you can only hear him. Nevertheless, his magnificent and easily recognized voice allows the audience to accept him. He portrays an incredible but mad doctor who having discovered an amazing, but highly unstable formula which rendered him Invisible. Only trouble is, the mixture also drives him insane. With only a modem of clear thinking left in his head, Dr. Griffin, struggles to find the antidote to reverse the effects. During his efforts, he is constantly bothered by his worried friends, his sweetheart, an Inn Keeper, the village people and the persistent police. Due to his mental breakdown, he comes to believes he can rule the world with his invisible power. Featuring several other performers like Gloria Stuart, William Harrigan and Henry Travers as Dr. Cranley the movie has since become a true Classic and one which seventy years later still amazes audiences. **** "}{"Title":"great classic","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Distinguished character actor Claude Raines was The Invisible Man back in 1933 and, at age 46, it was his American debut in films. This all-time classic was directed by James Whale and has some astonishing special effects. It's the story of a scientist fooling around with chemicals and as a result, he's rendered invisible - and crazy, and getting crazier by the minute. He's determined to find the formula that will get him back to being seen, so in a disguise, he takes refuge in an inn where he can work. The disguise consists of a raincoat, gloves, pants, shirt, bandages, a fake nose, sunglasses and a wig. Unfortunately, he starts getting rough with both the staff and the room, and soon he's on the run, naked so no one can see him, killing as he goes and playing pranks, such as taking a cash drawer from a bank and then throwing the money around for people to catch.We don't get to see Raines until the end, but we hear his masterful voice and really lunatic laugh. The effects are fantastic especially considering it's 1933, and lots of imagination was needed to make up for the lack of technology. People are swung into mid-air with nothing underneath, footprints appear in the snow with nobody apparently making them, a cash drawer hangs in the air - wonderful stuff.This was a perfect role for Raines as the character's voice and dramatic ability is so important. He would go on to become one of the really great actors in films and would continue working until about two years before he died in 1967, at nearly 78.The girl he leaves behind is beautiful, classy Gloria Stuart who played a series of gorgeous ingénues in films. 64 years later, she wowed them in Titanic.Truly a vintage film from Universal. "},{"Title":"Entertaining H.G. Wells story still holds up today...","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The big three combination of Universal, James Whale and CLAUDE RAINS have produced a film classic that injected a sense of humor into horror films of this kind and made them so atmospheric and believable (through expert special effects). Oddly enough, although Rains is barely seen during the course of the story because he's either bandaged or invisible, his voice alone carries the desired effect.Others in the cast have little to do but react to The Invisible Man, but they play their parts well--including GLORIA STUART (then at the height of her blonde loveliness and later to play Old Rose in TITANIC), and reliable character actors like HENRY TRAVERS and UNA O'CONNOR. O'Connor herself became a staple of some of the horror films with her piercing screams.Somehow Rains makes his character sympathetic in his flight from the law, even though he has clearly lost his sanity and is now a menace to all who come into contact with him. And, of course, he's helped admirably by some special effects that were ahead of the time for 1933.As usual, James Whale directs the whole project with a good sense of mood and atmosphere and an ironic touch of humor here and there.Well worth seeing as an example of how the science fiction horror film got its start at Universal--but best seen in a good print. This was the film that really launched the career of CLAUDE RAINS as a master of menace with his velvety voice. "},{"Title":"Fast-moving","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Claude Rains (in the role that made him a star) is a scientist who discovers the secret of invisibility. Unfortunately he has no antidote for it. Also a side effect of the chemicals slowly make him go mad-- he thinks he can conquer the world and thinks nothing of murdering a few people.This has never reached the heights of other Universal horror pictures of the time like Dracula and Frankenstein. Probably because you never see Rains (until the very end) and it, basically, isn't very scary. Still this is worth catching.Rains manages to convey his character's madness just by his voice--quite an achievement. Gloria Stuart is around in a nothing part as his girlfriend--but she looks stunning. The special effects are (even by todays standards) impressive. Some are obvious but most of them work. The most impressive is at the beginning when he unwraps the bandages around his head to show people. Also director James Whale wisely doesn't take the material TOO seriously--his sense of humor comes through again and again. Also this is one of the first horror films were a scientist admits that he tampered with things that were best left alone.See it for the special effects and Rains' performance (so to speak). An 8. "},{"Title":"Out of sight.","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After five years, a scientist discovers how to become invisible with the use of a serum he secretly created. The experiment is a success, but he soon becomes trapped in that form and the effects of the drug begin to take effect. He heads to quiet town, dressed up head to toe to hopefully find an antidote. But this matter is causing him to slowly go insane with the intention of ruling the world by causing terror and destruction.What a marvellous benchmark from the vaults of Universal b/w monster features. Time has really been kind on this playfully cheeky and darkly humorous adaptation from the novel by HG Wells. Pure insanity of an egotistical mind and its fascinatingly out-there concept goes down with its terrific performances. It's high on energy with a real edgy tone thanks to an accomplished and very towering performance by Claude Rains. Well, for most part it was his cracking voice. For some he might be over-acting (as are a couple of other performances), but the eccentricity he brought to the character made his reactions seemed believable. With a confident and reliable director like James Whale on board. He was able to blend the film's mixture of comedy, horror and Sci-fi in a very successful result. An astute touch and a very panache manner gave to the flick quite a classy appeal. The technical production has a real richness about it with its constantly sweeping photography, elastic score and mild special effects that still come up looking top notch. The story doesn't get tangled up in its own ideas, but keeps moving with its witty dialogues and unhinged surprises. Also making solid appearances are Gloria Stuart, Henry Travers, WM. Harrigan and Uno O'Connor.The Invisible Man is a true corker of its field. Don't turn this neat one down! "},{"Title":"One of my favorite 30s classic horror flicks","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have always loved this movie, although it wasn't shown on TV nearly as much as its peers (Frankenstein, Dracula, Wolfman). As many other comments have already stated, this movie has stood up very well to the test of time. Being someone who dislikes the easy out fakeness of CGI, The Invisible Man comes shining through with very impressive special effects for 1933. I think most horror aficionados of both present and past films would agree. Claude Rains, who is better known to me from The Wolfman, is absolutely chilling as the mad scientist who willingly experiments on himself with various concoctions, resulting in his invisible status. While the rest of the cast works well, I think there are no outstanding performances and that's okay. Best known (to me) for her annoying screeching in The Bride of Frankenstein, Una O'Connor doesn't disappoint in basically reprising her role of hysterical old lady. Her voice is the epitome of shrill, and it does get on one's nerves. And that's okay too because this movie has it all. Classic black and white horror, chilling storyline, excellent visual effects and LAUGHS. Claude Rains is pretty hysterical at times. Running down the street as a pair of pants singing is just too funny. Many other humorous moments. This movie does not disappoint. "},{"Title":"I Just Saw the Invisible Man","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Whale does a masterful job on this H. G. Wells tale. When one considers it was done in 1933, it's even more impressive. It, of course, sets the standard or the scientist who has gotten in over his head. All those good intentions. Unfortunately when we tempt the gods, they come back and kick us you know where. When I see Claude Rains in all his interesting roles, this had to be quite a different one for him. I can imagine that scene where he begins to undress has to have been astonishing. Rains in his ranting really brings the madness of the character to life. That cackling taunting as he torments those who can't see him is the stuff of nightmares for small children. The slapstick is fine, but it is a serious story (like the Wolf Man) of a man who can't turn back the clock on his obsessions. We long to know what an invisible man will do given the incredible power that he has harnessed. Like Kevin Bacon in a greatly inferior movie, Hollow Men, he can't resist tormenting people and playing with his power, rather than imagining what it could be used for. Of course, a contemporary take on it would bring the military in on it. If it could be used against our enemies there they would be. However Wells never gets there and this movie never gets there. Just watch it; enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Claude Raines as the Invisible Man...","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have just witnessed the film. I purchased it as a set, along with Dracula and Frankenstein. Raines was sarcastic and witty, the film was well constructed and left me regretting there was no sequel done to match that of Bride of Frankenstein... I understand Whale was hesitant to direct a sequel- But many feel as though Bride actually eclipsed the original. (Thank you, Dr. Pretorious) As Raines spoke of Invisible Armies and world domination, it was rather tragic that we did not see more of this brilliant action in this role. One was not enough!Universal missed a golden opportunity - I feel the same way about Dracula. The Daughter of Dracula was absolutely dreadful! "},{"Title":"For the special effects int these days more than a 10","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This films starts good. It is raining and the actors are having good clothing. (like most of the films in these days) There is a bang on a door. Do u have a room for my? Off course says the owner. And then is spins off. All the people in the village known the next minute their is a stranger in our town. It seems those things don't change over the years. When u look close-lee while he is eating supper. U can't see how they has filmed it. Probably using mirrors. It is fun to see how The invisible Man is playing with the other actors. they are all in line with each other. This is probably why I like the special effects so much. Aldo some shots are going slower than normal. And in the end the invisible man just becomes insane. Just like the new movie with Kevin bacon. Not a lot has changed after these years. H.G.Wells can make beautiful stories for movies. "},{"Title":"funny version","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a good movie.  I bought it because of Claude Rains.  It is serious but it hahs some funny scenes.  The funniest is when the invisible mans goes through the town.   I recommend this film to anybody who likes the old science fiction! "},{"Title":"A classic classic","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having sat through a lot of classic monster and horror movies, my expectations for The Invisible Man were not high. To my surprise the effects as well as the acting matched those of today (somewhat...). The use of special effects were interesting and (mostly) fit well into the storyline (not many effects for the sake of effects). This is definitely worth watching.One thing though... Why did the inn keeper throw out the invisible man? I would have thrown out the screaming, hag of a wife instead! "}{"Title":"See it.","Date":"16 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Whale once again mixes horror with dark comedy, this time taking H.G Wells' classic tale of a brilliant scientist driven mad by his experiments and creating a delightfully twisted masterpiece, the director's macabre humour perfectly complementing the absurdity of Wells' story.Claude Rains plays the see-through scientist who loses his marbles thanks to a dodgy ingredient in his invisibility formula, and despite this being his first major role, and one in which we don't even see his face until the closing moments, he puts in a simply amazing performance. The actor's distinctive voice alone is enough to send chills up the spine, but when combined with stunning special effects that make the threat of a crazy, power-mad invisible assailant all the more palpable, the effect is truly remarkable.Special effects aside, The Invisible Man isn't, perhaps, as 'artful' as Whale's masterpiece Frankenstein, lacking the stunning sets and expressionistic lighting that resulted in many an iconic image, but this film makes up for that by being pure, unadulterated fun who could fail to enjoy the sight of a pair of trousers skipping down a country road, a bushy-moustached copper enquiring Now what's all this then?, or a draw from a cash register being stolen from a busy bank in broad daylight? Even Una O' Connor (Bride of Frankenstien's thoroughly irritating housekeeper) isn't quite as annoying as she might have been, her Vaudeville-style of comedy being more in keeping with the overall tone of this film.For its sheer ability to entertain, even after 75+ years, I rate The Invisible Man 8.5 out of 10, rounded up to 9 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Brilliant from Start to Finish","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ah yes, I remember this sci-fi/horror gem of the thirties brought out by the good folks from Universal. The cult classic that stars Claude Rains as the Invisible Man and Ms. Gloria Stuart as Flora, the girlfriend of the Invisible Man, is a true testament of Hollywood special effects in their hey-day. The story of an unknown man trying to find peace and quite to conduct an experiment and is found out by the townsfolk of the village of Iping. The experiment is that to find an antidote in making him visible again and to sell the secret of invisibility to marry his girlfriend Flora. When invisible, this 'Stranger' turns evil by killing a police inspector, causing disasters, robbing a bank, killing his friend, and outrunning the police in the process. In the end, well I can't spoil it for you or then it wouldn't be a surprise. The movie is about 75 minutes in length and spawned an Academy Award Nominated sequel The Invisible Man Returns with Vincent Price as the Invisible Man. This movie is worth the look if you find it on VHS or DVD.Lock your Doors and check Windows 'cuz The Invisible Man may be lurking in your house, or is he already there looking at you. "},{"Title":"James Whale Strikes Again","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have to admit, the concept of invisibility has never struck me as a very interesting idea for cinema or literature (although it would have some nice perks as far as real life goes.) Mix that with the typical mad scientist approach, and I just couldn't get into the film interpretation.That's not to say I feel it's a bad movie, it just didn't hit many notes that I found interesting which leaves the question of why did I bother with the movie at all? James Whale, HG Wells, and Claude Rains &#150; need I say more? Whale brings us his trademarks; unique faces in the extras, the memorable Una O'Connor, his flair for unique visuals &#150; my personal favorite being the opening with 'the stranger' walking amidst the snowstorm &#150; and most importantly, James Whale's sense of humor that give his films a nice offbeat rhythm.The dry sci-fi charm of Wells' style filtered into the script, his curiosity and attention to details such as what happens to food consumed when you're invisible? made me grin, and the notes about keeping his feet clean (which plays a larger role in the novel.) I've always felt that Wells treated his subject matter without sensationalism, and writes with an almost detached scientific method so that regardless of how outrageous the ideas, how improbable and nonsensical, Wells had a style that made you believe him. And Claude Rains is one of those actors who had a serious presence and weight on screen especially with his distinct voice resonating from the enigmatic wrapped figure (much like the great Vincent Price who appeared in the sequel). I only wish Mr. Rains had better lines than some of the mad scientist ramblings, which is given an acceptable excuse in the film (note &#150; it was acceptable 70 years ago; it does not fly today.) I didn't particularly care for Gloria Stuart's performance either; it came across as unintentionally over-the-top, over-exaggerated to the point of parody (take her opening scene where even her eye-lashes are emoting her deep concern for Griffon) ... that and the fact she was an unnecessary addition written specifically for the film. Although, Stuart's overacting does bring up an interesting paradox - Una O'Connor gave a far-cry from subtle performance. Ridiculously over-the-top as she stands on a table and shrieks her heart out, but there's a strange likability in that clearly comic-relief character and, thus, a tolerance to her silliness. Maybe that's the benefit of a sideline comic relief character &#150; you can get away with so much more and have far more fun than in a dramatic lead.The special effects are dated and seemingly flawed, but considering the age of the film I'm quite impressed at the effectiveness and ingenuity of the team who made Claude Rains disappear before our very eyes. And as I've written in other reviews, I take pleasure in seeing the roots of modern film-making and I imagine the Invisible Man had an impact on the special effects of the time.Anyway, I'll close this review with one more note while my tone may sound unenthused and perhaps even overly-critical regarding the film, bear in mind that in the hands of a lesser writer, a lesser director, and lesser lead actor, it probably would not have caught my attention at all. Wells, Whale, and Rains kept me watching a film whose subject I didn't have much enthusiasm for, so that in itself is an accomplishment worthy of praise. "},{"Title":"A scientist discovers the secret of invisibility but realizes he should not mess with Mother Nature","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie -- after more than seventy years -- still holds up! It has comedy, drama and special effects that remain impressive. It also has James Whale's brilliant direction with his usual subtle humor and directorial intelligence. The movie is, at times, atmospheric yet never sloppily sentimental. And -- most importantly -- it has Claude Rains in his sound film debut. Rains's voice -- as mentioned by H. G. Wells himself -- was absolutely perfect for the part. There may be a few moments that are a bit creaky by current standards but I wonder how many of today's films will stand up seventy years from now. The movie is a gem and Rains's performance is still outstanding. "},{"Title":"A great movie!","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Incredible film! The Invisible Man has a lot of violence and really the movie is ahead of its time. The special effects are great and Claude Rains was very good. This is a great and welcomed edition of the Universal Studios Monsters films.In my opinion this is totally different than Hollow Man. I enjoyed both very much! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good Despite Age","Date":"8 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers AheadI know younger readers will laugh at my header. This was just released on Blu Ray; I purchased it with great trepidation. I had already been let down by some of the other prehistoric 'classics' that older relatives have enshrined as 'immortal treasures.' First, the invisibility effects are quite well done there are only a few shots of Rains talking where the camera is inexplicably shooting up into the bandages and we can clearly see his nose and jaw bone beneath the coverings. I only detected wires in the moving bicycle scene and a couple of heavy objects being levitated. On the whole, given that it is over eighty years old; the effects will surprise you. The reason I own the movie is Claude Rains; his performance here is the star of this movie. All he has to work with, as he becomes more and more murderously psychotic, is his voice tone. Think of the difficulty and if you want to appreciate this reading watch the dreadfully bad Memoirs Of An Invisible Man that even John Carpenter could not save. The contrast is due completely to the differential in acting ability between Claude Rains and Chevy Chase. Even with far superior effects, Chase could not modulate and use emotion in his voice tone to convey his personality. Chase's performance is why that movie is so obscure and this one a legend.Rains is able to truly scare with his voice and violence; I concur with the above reviewer, a little of Uma O' Connor goes a long way but she is here for comic relief. She bullies and pushes her poor husband all about shrieking and yelling. This is the only old 'classic' horror movie that I kept. The other ones just didn't do anything for me. Rains' delineation begins as slightly odd progressing to increasingly dangerous. This is spread over the short length of the movie giving realism to the depiction. Those who have read Plato's Republic, know that the Ring Of Glaucon was the center of a moral dispute with Socrates arguing that morality would be unchanged. This movie vaults over the issue, addressed better in Hollow Man, by blaming the rare drug for causing the murderous psychosis that Rains transforms into. The print was a little bad in spots, as you might imagine, but nothing like I Married A Witch which was fifty dollars on Blu Ray and unwatchable. Here, it has brightness and debris issues but is still worth the purchase. This is the peril of buying movies from the thirties; the terrible state of the prints after nearly a century.If you enjoy Claude Rains, as I do, you will want this in your inventory. He is so young here but his skill is just as powerful as it was in his tiny final roles like Lawrence Of Arabia. The supporting cast is quite good with some strong English actors giving good balance to Rains' craziness. The shortness of the movie is actually a big plus. It runs so quickly with hardly any boring development like we got in Memoirs. When the movie begins, he is seeking refuge in a snowstorm already transformed into the invisible man covered in bandages. For all the attacks on Uma, I found Stuart to be histrionic at times, yet this is the culture of movies back here. She doesn't swoon, as is a standard staple of movies from the 30's, but she does work herself up into hysterics. Uma serves to lighten the movie from its quite dark tone for the period. My Review Even if you abhor old 'classic' monster movies, give this one a try it may surprise you. For me, I thought Raines showed us the great actor he was to become. A Good Movie. "},{"Title":"breath taking special effects","Date":"28 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" On a stormy night, a mysterious bandaged stranger comes in to an inn in Iping, Sussex. He takes a room and does experiments behind closed doors. The innkeeper tries to throw him out but he's attacked by an invisible force. The police come but he takes off his bandage and disappears. He is Dr. Jack Griffin (Claude Rains) who accidentally discovered invisibility. His fiancée Flora Cranley (Gloria Stuart) and his employer Dr. Cranley (Henry Travers) who is also Flora's father are both concerned. Griffin coerces his assistant Dr. Kemp (William Harrigan) in joining his mad plan to dominate the town.The special effects are breath-taking especially considering the era it's made. They are almost seamless when the invisible man takes off his bandages. On the only hand, the story is only functional. It's not that scary as a horror. The town folks are too broadly low-brow. The cops are too stupid. Some of it reminds me of Keystone Cops which is a bad thing when the movie is trying to heighten the tension. This should be a lot scarier. "},{"Title":"A thrill ride unscathed by the passage of time","Date":"12 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Most students of film history know that the 1930's is considered the golden age of monster movies. Many of the world's most iconic monsters made their first appearances during this decade. They are images that we can never forget and still pay homage to in this contemporary era. But unfortunately, not all films were created equally. And some have become swept under the rug of obscurity. The Invisible Man is one such film. But for what reason, I am not quite sure. It still holds up remarkably well today for a few prominent reasons.The first I can think of, is that the special effects used to achieve the invisible appearance of the story's protagonist are indescribably fantastic. There are not enough words in the English vocabulary that I can use to praise this film enough for it. Without giving away too much about how the effects were achieved, crew of The Invisible Man film essentially invented the very first green-screen technique long before anyone knew what a green screen was. Take a moment to imagine how mind-blowing that must have been for audiences in 1933, let alone today.I could go on about the film's visual effects for decades. But this Universal classic would still not even be as half as good as it was if not for one stellar performance Claude Rains as the title role. I cannot even imagine another actor in this life, or the next who could have played Jack Griffin with as much ferocity, exuberance and madness as Rains. He doesn't just chew the scenery, he swallows it whole and then comes back for seconds. His rumbling, powerful voice makes even the most elegant monologues sound like the rantings of a lunatic. But he never gets so ecstatic that it becomes an over-acted affair. It was a marvelous casting decision on Universal's part. These two things create the supportive foundation for which the film's success is built upon, but it is also laced with witty dialogue and hilarious characters who appear in appropriate moments, delivering comic relief when it's needed. And the age old theme of man meddling with scientific forces beyond his control is a tale for the ages that never seems to lose its touch. And nowhere is this more apparent than in The Invisible Man.I invite you to give it a watch and more likely than not, you will be pleasantly surprised by how well it holds up. I strongly believe that The Invisible Man remains popular today through sheer curiosity. People will watch this film today, a little more than 80 years after it was made&#x85;and still scratch their heads in wonder, as they ask themselves How did they do that? That my friends, is true movie magic. "},{"Title":"The whole world's my hiding place","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Brilliant Universal sci-fi horror classic adapted from H.G. Well's story about a scientist named Jack Griffin (Claude Rains) who has created a formula to make himself invisible. Side effects of the formula begin to drive him insane and he goes on a rampage across the countryside with police baffled about how to stop a killer they can't even see! What a fantastic movie. Possibly the best script of any of the Universal horror films. James Whale, director of the first two classic Frankenstein films, does an amazing job here tackling a special effects-laden movie that was ahead of its time. These effects are in a class by themselves for the period in which they were produced. We can find faults with them today but in 1933 they must have been pretty mind-blowing.Not enough good things can be said about Claude Rains here. Despite not being able to see his face until the film's final scene, he commands the entire movie with a magnetic performance. Boris Karloff was the original choice to play the role. As much as I love Karloff, I can't see him bringing the same manic intensity to the part that Rains does. It would have been a much different film, to be sure. Perhaps not worse, but definitely different.The rest of the cast is good, as well. Beautiful Gloria Stuart plays the love interest. Henry Travers is her kindly father and Griffin's employer. He was years away from being an Angel, Second Class but always a likable and reliable actor. William Harrigan plays the unlikable Kemp who pays the ultimate price for crossing Griffin in one of the film's most memorable scenes. I used to think everybody liked Una O'Connor but apparently many don't and find fault with every movie she's in because of her antics. I happen to like her and find her funny. She brings color to every film she's a part of. I enjoyed all of the comic relief villagers, frankly. Especially E.E. Clive's policeman.A truly remarkable film and one of the jewels in Universal's crown. There have been many Invisible Man movies over the years, including some very nice sequels to this film. But none have ever matched this classic. Definitely a movie I would recommend everybody seeing. If you're new to the classic horror and sci-fi films from the '30s and '40s, you're in for a treat with this one. "},{"Title":"Claude Rains is Singularly Sinister","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Though Frankenstein and The Old Dark House are undeniable classics, The Invisible Man might be James Whale's most polished films. The direction is smooth, carrying the film along with a slick pace. One of my favorite shots involves a dance party interrupted by an emergency announcement. The camera slowly closes in one the phonograph, fading away to other people listening to the same announcement, before cutting back to the phonograph. The special effects, though obviously aged, hold up fairly well. The wire work is top notch and the film goes out of its way to indicate the Invisible Man's presence even when he isn't visibly there. You see the seat on a chair sway under his weight. Considering the production had nothing but simple camera tricks to work with, it's impressive what they managed to pull off.I do wonder if, even at the time, audiences were frightened by this film. Whale's campy sense of humor plays through the entire picture. I can't imagine even 1930's viewers being afraid of an empty shirt chasing people around a room, tossing around glasses of alcohol, dancing pairs of pants, cops swung around by their feet, some of these scenes punctuated by Una O'Conner's cartoonish shrieks. The effect is comical and no doubt intentionally. As the film develops and the villain's reign of terror continues, the film eventually develops a horrific tone. The sequence, a montage cut very quickly, where frightened people bolt their doors and nail boards over their windows, conveys a sense of panic properly. The movie would be almost solidly science fiction if it wasn't for the murders and madness.If nothing else, Claude Rains' performance is singularly sinister. Carrying the entire film on the strength of his smoky, craggly voice, Rain is deeply menacing. The monologue he gives, in which he talks about murdering important men, little men, just to show we make no distinction, conveys the character's psychosis while also showing his cunning and darkly funny humor. I also like the sequence where he disposes of Kemps. He makes it clear just how disgusts he is with the guy. I mean, the guy also has one of the best crazy laughs in all of cinema. It's no surprise this film made Claude Rains a star.The supporting cast is solid as well. Gloria Stuart's love interest role is much smaller here then it was in The Old Dark House. She mostly cries over her lover's madness. Still, the scene where she pleads with Griffin, trying to connect to him through his mad monologue about invisible armies, is rather sweet though and the actress's one major scene. Despite his character being a victim, you can't help but dislike William Harrigan as Kemp. The guy really is a weasel.So I like The Invisible Man. Claude Rains is awesome, the special effects are still good, Whale's direction is tip-top, and the script is witty and quick paced. While perhaps less effective then some of the other Universal Monster classics, the film still stands among those films. "}{"Title":"Classic and still worthwhile","Date":"2 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Based on H.G.Wells pivotal novel The Invisible Man, James Whale does his best to keep close to the feel, logic and morality of the story. A maddened scientist (Claude Rains) decides to experiment with invisibility on himself, unknowing the profound side effects of mental psychosis, which the drug induces. When turning invisible Dr. Jack Griffin leaves home and takes refuge in a local inn, where he attempts to reverse the formula. There he becomes increasingly violent and irrational, slowly using his power to dominate the surroundings.A classic horror movie from way back introduces some spectacularly well-made special effects, making it impressive, regardless of technical limitations. Naturally a certain feel for the times and the acting norms is necessary, as the American movies were still adapting to the new form of entertainment and overzealous performances were pretty much the norm. Nonetheless The Invisible Man remains much more absorbing and effective than most of its contemporaries, mainly due to a faceless, but menacing Rains, who brings forth a sense of lingering insanity. The story itself feels much more rigid, than most future remakes, sequels and such, as the cause of the madness is left to a grey area between the addiction to power and chemical imbalance. Definitely ages well, although I still much more enjoy the Kevin Bacon version, as a more complete and powerful execution of the concept. "},{"Title":"Invisible Classic","Date":"9 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I was young and saw this one, it scared the dickens out of me. Having just watched it again, I can see why though time has made it a tamer scare. The special effects in this one are amongst the best of the early 1930's time frame.The combination of Jsmes Whale, maybe the best ever horror film director, H G Wells classic material, and the great acting of Claude Rains in the title role make this one a movie not to be missed.For some reason in the early 1930's, Whale was operating at the top of his game doing horror films for Universal. He established several decades of dominance the studio had in horror and made it easier for Hitchcock to come along with the same studio and continue the reputation.Seeing the sequences of this movie again years later reminded me of just how good the film is. The ending is a bit understated, but in my opinion just right. "},{"Title":"Classic under-known H G Wells,","Date":"12 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've always found much to enjoy in Claude Rains as The Invisible Man, both as boy and still as a middle aged adult.It's spirited, creepy and best of all, superbly done and at only one year younger than my octogenarian father, quite an incredible feat of film-making! However many times one tries to catch out the invisibility, there's no chance...There is of course, in every schoolboy, that unreachable wish of being able to become unseen - and always for selfish reasons; director James Whale, who, of course, directed the groundbreaking Dracula and Frankenstein originals, turns this spectacle into a seamless and flawless little gem.Rains' voice is at times resoundingly reassuring, yet at others, manic and abrupt, adding to our perceived duality of his mind - and thus his madness.We all know how Wells turned up paranoia to fever pitch levels with his War of the Worlds; this must have unsettled quite a few, too. Imagine, the mad scientist, who you can't even see, to know if he can get at you!! "},{"Title":"The artistry and imperfections of James Whale","Date":"27 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I like 'The Invisible Man' a great deal but in comparison to 'Bride of Frankenstein' and 'Frankenstein' it pales in comparison. I realize it is not fair to compare this film in someways but it simply becomes apparent watching it. 'The Invisible Man' has a little trouble in handling it's comedy and horror and it hurts the overall effectiveness of the film and it's intent. Claude Raines gives a great performance as 'The Invisible Man' but it is not a round one. What great horror films realize is that there is some sense of humanity behind their monster and 'The Invisible Man' has trouble doing this and thus fails at being a true horror masterpiece. What we have here though is a memorable outing which contains Whale's trademark personality and it is immensely entertaining to watch.The greatest problem with the 'Invisible Man' is that the central character is not rounded. Raines portrays this man as a raving lunatic from the very beginning and after a while it just becomes static. We see that people love Griffin before he mutilated himself and this is what I am drawn to in this story. Gloria Stewart is very good as Flora who loves Griffin despite all the terror he is capable of. There is a brilliant scene between them and we see some sentimentality in Raines that is absent the rest of the film. I for one loved this. I like the fact that there is a plot device that explains the fact that the invisibility drug gradually drives someone mad. Raines does not seem like this and is raving from the start. I think the film could have been stronger if there was a progression in things. Raines is very good in the role and the film's success depends on him. I think with a lesser actor the character would seem very cliché. The casting of Raines was indeed inspired as he has a fiery quality in his acting. I think however that with Raines' talent more could have been done.The film's greatest problem is that it is a hybrid of comedy and horror and Whale's juggling is not always consistent. Una O'Connor is of course legendary for her shrill Irish scream and it is annoying to say the least but the problem is more than that. When the film takes a break for comedy it lessens the horror. As a comedy the moments do work but they hurt the cohesive thematic whole of the picture. The moments of invisible slapstick play like an ultra dark version of Abbot and Costello and it is jarring to see the humor end with Griffin going into a homicide. I suppose that could be what Whale intended but I think that the transitions between the two themes are not all that consistent and as said before it is hard to do multi dimensional story telling with a character who is so static in his madness.But indeed these are minor quips because the film is very successful in what it does. Raines is pitch perfect at bringing life to this character and does all that the character requires. I would have hoped though that the character was broader and more deserving of Raines' talent. The comedy and horror all work well individually but as a whole there is some trouble creating cohesion. I am willing to sit back though and enjoy this almost perfect James Whale film. "},{"Title":"Excellent Early Monster Movie with Surprisingly Good Special Effects","Date":"21 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was a bit surprised at what point of the story the plot began; I expected to see more of how the Invisible Man achieved invisibility, but found in unnecessary as the story was told in an effective manner by the characters. If there was any musical score, I did not notice it.The special effects were really quite good considering the year the movie was made. I know they used a lot of strings/wires to move stuff, but I only really noticed one. The fact they were able to actually have a man undress and be invisible during the process was impressive (and the reversal in the last scene). There were quite a bit of camera movement and some of it was a little jerky, but most was quite smooth. They used fade outs and screen wipes effectively. The atmosphere of the movie was good, but not as spectacular as in Frankenstein; it took me a little while to realize it was taking place in England as most actors did not seem to have an English accent (the right-hand drive car and police uniforms eventually clued me in). The pacing of the movie also seemed quite natural. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good considering it was made in 1933!","Date":"28 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite being somewhat of a fan of Claude Rains, I hadn't watched this movie since I was a kid. So first, thanks to TCM for bringing a good version of the print back to television! The film begins with a great scene of the invisible man -- all bundled up, of course -- walking through a horrible winter's night toward an inn out in the country. The inn keeper's wife makes up a room for him, and that inn keeper is played by the classic Una O'Connor, just 3 years into her movie contract. What a hoot she is (although I remember her best from Random Harvest).The primary supporting cast is interesting. Gloria Stuart -- the 100 year old in The Titanic plays love interest Flora Cranley, and the venerable Henry Travers plays her father -- Dr. Cranley, a colleague of the invisible man. Considering the nature of many of Travers' later supporting roles, this is a bit of a surprise, but he actually does very well as a scientific doctor. Watch also for Walter Brennan in an uncredited role -- most visible (pun intended) in the scene were the detective is questioning people in the pub.There are a number of good scenes in this film, and the cinematography is quite good for 1933. The special effects for 1933...stunning. The scene as panic spreads is very well done. And catching the invisible man in the snow...excellent.For a 1933 film, I'm impressed. This is one of the better early horror films, and while it won't end up on my DVD shelf, I truly enjoyed seeing this film again. Recommended! "},{"Title":"A devilishly fun film","Date":"11 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" An invisible man can rule the world. Nobody will see him come, nobody will see him go. He can hear every secret. He can rob, and rape, and kill! The most fun and entertaining of the Universal monster classics still wows to this day with its innovative special effects. Devilishly fun and thrilling, there doesn't seem to be a dull moment in the whole thing.Claude Rains is fantastic as the fiendish Invisible Man, bringing a twisted sense of humor and menace to a character that is often entirely absent from the screen. What makes the film so thoroughly enjoyable is how the supporting cast and extras react to the Invisible Man's antics, made more exciting by special effects that still make one think How did they do that? James Whale directs the film just as playfully, balancing humor and suspense with masterful skill. The camera aids in helping the audience follow the actions of a character they cannot see, and we never linger too long on a special effects shot - although you can often see the wires if you really pay attention.What I find most interesting about the film is, unlike the other Universal monsters, the Invisible Man is not a tragic or self-loathing character, but one that embraces his newfound image, relishing in the power of a world where he always has the upper hand. Strangely, I even found myself laughing along with him at times.Overall, The Invisible Man is a refreshing break from the gloomy tragedies of Frankenstein and The Wolf Man, and lets the audience relax and have some fun at the victim's expense, all along dazzling with a showcase of some of a movie magician's best tricks. "},{"Title":"Still packs a wallop!","Date":"6 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is an amazing film that stands the test of time with superb special effects, great direction and photography, and a standout performance by Claude Rains, even though we never get to see his face (well, once). Whale keeps things moving fast with a mix of horror, humor and some very nasty violence, and Edeson gives us some striking shots (the first shot of the invisible man in his room),and Rains with his voice, and a silly, mad laugh to boost, manage to convey the horror of the invisible man gradually going mad. Granted the love story doesn't really develop, the menace the invisible man represents is exaggerated, and some of the humor is dated (Una O'Connor was used for laughs, just like in The Bride of Frankenstein, though many do not get it). But the horror this film still creates is astonishing, particularly capturing the psychological horror of the invisible man's madness. I would place this film in the same level as Frankenstein and the Bride, although I consider The Bride to be Whale's masterpiece. "},{"Title":"One of Universal's finest achievements","Date":"24 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film begins with a heavily-bandaged stranger arriving at a remote inn and demanding a room. He insists that he is to be left alone, only for the nosy innkeeper to keep interrupting his work. Tired of the intrusions, the stranger attacks the woman and her husband, and then later the police. He removes his bandages in a psychotic rage and escapes, randomly attacking the townsfolk as he flees. He is Dr. Jack Griffin, The Invisible Man, and as well as the obvious physical abnormality, his successful experiments have also driven him completely mad. As the police fret over their difficult search, The Invisible Man seeks out his old partner Dr. Kemp (Henry Travers), who he threatens to join him in his mad quest to reek havoc and live like a king.Adapted from the novel of the same name by H.G. Welles, James Whale's film has everything you could possibly want from an old horror film. It is massively entertaining, and doesn't waste a second of its rather slight 71 minute running time. The most impressive thing is without a doubt the absolutely stunning special effects. How they managed to achieve such technical brilliance back in 1933 is beyond me. But with technical triumphs you also need an interesting protagonist, which they have in abundance in Claude Rains. His Invisible Man is a complete manic bastard, and Rains plays him with such a ferocity and a strange likability that I was actually rooting for him the whole way through. And everything is controlled to perfection by the ever-brilliant James Whale. One of Universal's finest achievements.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"We might even wreck a train or two...just these fingers around a signalman's throat....that's all......","Date":"16 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Invisible Man is directed by James Whale, based on the novel by H.G Wells and stars Claude Rains, Gloria Stuart Henry Travers, William Harrigan and Una O'Connor.This film is still a jaw dropping experience seen all these years later.The brilliant invisibility effects are astonishing,even more so considering the simplistic way they were achieved(having Rains dressed in black velvet and filming in front of a black velvet background).The reason behind the films continued success lies not just with the effects but in the performances.Most notably that of Claude Rains,managing to give us a character who's both dignified and terrifying in equal measure.This was Claude's first sound film and the one that really kick-started his career.He took on the role after Boris Karloff turned it down and is superb.Jack Griffin(Claude Rains)is a scientist who after discovering a formula which causes invisibility tries it on himself and is horrified to discover he can't change back.He checks into an Inn(wearing visible bandages and sunglasses) to recuperate and work out a formula to reverse the effect.Sadly he begins to go mad and is hell bent on world domination and power.His girlfriend Flora(Gloria Stuart)her father Dr.Cranley(Henry Travers)and Griffin's former colleague Arthur Kemp(William Harrigan)try and help him but to no avail leading to a showdown in a snowstorm.For a film with so many strengths it's a shame that there has to be weaknesses but weakness there is .Most notably in the love story between Rains and Stuart,both give fine performances but it can't be denied the romance slows down the story.Also there is little time to given to developing the characters which hurts the film a little.However for once this is made up for by the special effects and Rains charismatic lead performance.An unforgettable horror film and a must watch for classic film fans. "}{"Title":"Here we go gathering nuts","Date":"1 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some films, by their very concept, present major problems for their makers. The Invisible Man throws up some rather obvious technical ones, which are craftily solved by an adept special effects team. However he also gives his creators many further difficulties, which have more to do with the nature of the horror genre itself. Luckily, producer Carl Laemmle Junior and director James Whale were two of the best creative minds when it came to the horror format.First of all, how do you make the picture adequately scary? This isn't really a science picture &#x96; it's supposed to be spooky. Of course, there is tension from the fact that when invisible he could strike anywhere, but this isn't just a thriller, and strong imagery is needed for that eerie touch. However when he is clothed and bandaged the titular man is necessarily macabre. Whale emphasises the shadowy sets, ceilings visible, heavy with foreground clutter, to enhance the atmosphere. But the trouble is really bound to start when it begins to cross the minds of audience members that, whenever the invisible man is completely unseen, he is of course also completely naked. Naturally, one or two viewers will begin to titter.So how do you stop your horror from descending into a farce? By allowing it to do so, of course. Like Frankenstein, an earlier Universal horror also directed by Whale, The Invisible Man is at times gleefully silly. We have Una O'Connor shrieking like a fishwife in an exaggerated sketch on the role she was playing around the same time in Cavalcade, and the rarely-seen E.E. Clive is just wonderful as a bluff cockney copper. The star himself Claude Rains simply has fun with the part, playing The Invisible Man like some mischievous kid. The scene in which several people are pushed over a cliff by his unseen hand is almost like something out of Monty Python in tone.And yet the whole production is anchored in horror roots. Rains's performance also has some disturbing touches to it. There is an animalistic snarl to his voice, and his most childish moments are punctuated by a creepy maniacal laugh (interestingly, Rains's original cockney accent is quite perceptible, especially in his first scene with William Harrigan). Whale's continual balancing of the two elements is, if anything, more delicate and skillful than it was in Frankenstein, even though the earlier film is marginally superior. The action veers continually from slapstick into genuine menace. Whale's use of close-ups is superb. They aren't there for dramatic impact &#x96; they aren't held for long enough &#x96; but for shock value, whether that be comedic (Una O'Connor popping up like a jack-in-the-box) or gruesome (cutting down the line on the bandaged face of Rains).It's not easy to get this all right, and The Invisible Man is a kind of horror that only really ever thrived at Universal Studios in the early 30s, thanks to the clever team they had at their disposal. It's probably why the genre has ever since been more or less relegated to trashy B-movie status. Now and then has come the very occasional truly terrifying classic in which great care has gone into every element. And then there are deliberate comedy-horrors, most of which are appalling. But by and large, horror movies have fallen into that unintentionally funny category, maybe good for a chuckle, but nothing compared to the output from Universal's golden days. "},{"Title":"One Whale of a director...","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eschewing the traditional slow intro, THE INVISIBLE MAN opens with Claude Rains, looking like a leper, trudging through a snowstorm. The camera is almost always moving restlessly in this movie, and even the exposition is rapid-fire it's as if Whale and company were under the gun. The fx are truly spectacular and wouldn't be topped (so far as I'm concerned) until MEMOIRS OF AN INVISIBLE MAN (which would include full-blown realizations of many of the litany of weaknesses Rains enumerates here). When Rains finally goes on his killing spree, the depredations include the derailing of a train that would appear as stock footage in the very first serial featuring THE GREEN HORNET. Dwight Frye also has a cameo as a newspaper reporter. James Whale's remarkable direction makes THE INVISIBLE MAN a remarkable movie. "},{"Title":"A true classic","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Frankenstein... Dracula... Freaks... these are famous horror films from the thirties, but for mine, The Invisible Man tops them all. It's the premise that really does it for me. A madman who can't be seen. This is truly scary, and Rains does a magnificent job, mostly with his voice, as a character who is truly vicious and merciless. I have to say I wasn't impressed by too many of the other characters, although I always love Una O'Connor and her hysterics. She's a hoot. But, especially early on, I found some of the acting wooden, and also some of the dialogue very ordinary. But what overcomes these factors is, as I've said, the whole premise, and also the magnificent special effects, truly remarkable for a film from 1933. The Invisible Man is a true classic of cinema history, and one that stands up to repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"The experiment","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The strange man walking during a snow storm has a secret he does not want to reveal. To make matters worse, Jack Griffen, selects a country inn where to stay, but because of the secret he is carrying, he shows a lack of common sense. Instead of being low key, he antagonizes the couple that own the place. On top of that, he is arrogant, perhaps to cover the fact that he has become invisible by drinking a potion he should not have taken. Now he must find a way out of his present state by restoring himself to what he was. What follows is a journey into crime by a desperate man that wants to revert to his former self.This is the interesting premise behind the Universal picture of 1933, based on an H. G. Wells story, and directed by James Whale, an Englishman who specialized on horror movies. The screenplay was a collaboration by R.C. Sheriff, Preston Sturgess and Philip Wylie, a trio of excellent writers from that era. All the elements combined to make a classic that still is a wonder after more than seventy years after it made its debut.Claude Rains, who plays the lead role, is only seen once, yet, his presence in the film proved to be what made this picture capture the imagination of those movie loving fans of this genre. Mr. Rains' voice of Jack Griffen is what the viewer gets, yet, is a clever nuanced way to bring to life of the main character. Ultimately what one is a performance of equal importance to the roles played by the others. This was Claude Rains first American film.The others in the cast, notably William Harrigan, make a valuable contribution to make the film what it is. Gloria Stuart who is Flora Cranley, the woman in love with Griffen, has a small role. Henry Travers appears as Dr. Cranley. Una O'Connor is perfect as Jenny Hall, the owner of the inn where Griffen decides to stay. A young Walter Brennan, although uncredited, is seen briefly.The genius of James Whale, working with the cinematographer, Arthur Edeson, shows an innate talent for horror. "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi Classic from Universal & James Whale one of my favorites!","Date":"11 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this at a pretty young age probably in the late 90's sometime. I saw & taped it from Sci-Fi Channel. It had such an impact on me. I could never figure out the special effects till I got the DVD in 2006. James Whale was a great Director even though a homosexual he is one of my favorites. Also famous for Frankenstein (1931), The Old Dark House (1932) & The Bride Of Frankenstein (1935). Sad end to such a good director suicide by drowning. He com-binded dark humor, scares & sci-fi elements in this 1933 Classic from Universal. As a matter of fact this is my favorite Universal Monster Movie besides Creature From The Black Lagoon (1954). It's based on the novel heavily of the same name by H.G. Wells. It's about a struggling chemist named Dr. Griffin experimenting with chemicals & doing some strange side-work. His peer Dr. Kemp says he's been up to some strange experiments. Dr. Cranley doesn't know too much about it. Neither does his daughter Flora Cranley played by Gloria Stuart who was also in another Whales Film The Old Dark House. Which is Dr. Griffin's Fiancée. Griffin eventually packs up & goes away. Making his way to a small village in England. Still experimenting he needs time. He finds & Inn & spends some weeks their. First sight the night he arrives wrapped from head to neck in surgical bandages with, dark goggles. The people at the Inn are very suspicious of him. Some think he's a crook others say he had a horrible accident. Inn people seem very noisy & don't give Griffin much privacy. Mrs. Hall played by Character Actress Una O'Connor brings lunch but Griffin doesn't care & is busy he slams the door on her breaking her best China. She demands to her husband that he go up & tell him to leave. Mr. Hall comes up to talk with Griffin & says he is a week behind with the rent he has to go. Griffin begs for forgiveness & to stay. But Mr. Hall says it's you or my wife. So Hall tries to pack up Griffin's Chemical Supplies which causes Griffin only anguish. Then he slaps Mr. Hall with a book on the head & throws him downstairs. Mrs. Hall goes berserk & demands on of the Inn people to get a police man. Which the local Sheriff comes to the rescue. Heads upstairs with some Inn People & demands for Griffin to come to the Police Station with him. Griffin doesn't agree makes a speech then removes his bandages, false nose & goggles. Which reveals nothing underneath The Inn people think he is all eaten away. The Sheriff knows he's invisible. He goes crazy almost killing the Sheriff & Inn People. Goes on a rampage through the small town. Meanwhile Dr. Kemp & Dr. Cranley think Griffin had used a dangerous chemical drug called Monocaine with his other chemicals known only to himself. Which would drive him mad. So he is not only invisible but insane. I don't wanna tell of what happens anymore any Classic Monster Fan, Sci-Fi Fan or Classic Movie Fan should see the film it's a timeless Gem from Universal Pictures. 10 out of 10 I say. "},{"Title":"An invisible man can rule the world!","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ~Spoiler~The Invisible Man is the one classic Universal monster who is the least monstrous. However, his goal is a much larger one than any of the other monsters world domination. For that I salute him. The guy thinks big. The Wolfman wanted a cure, Frankenstein's monster wanted acceptance...this guy wants the world. The Invisible Man stars Claude Rains (or does it?) as the titular character who has made himself invisible with the only side effect being the loss of his mind. The bulk of the plot revolves around Rains creating invisible mayhem and the baffled and disbelieving police trying to catch him. Much of the film holds up today, but the comedy is awful. The screaming lady had me rolling my eyes and holding my ears. Regardless of a few flaws, it's still fun to watch. It's may not be James Whale's masterpiece, but it is a worthy entry into the echelons of classic horror and sci-fi. "},{"Title":"A horror classic","Date":"28 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Raines' chilling performance and the ground-breaking special effects would be enough for this film to be the best of the classic Universal horror flicks, but it's also got a terrific story - probably the best H.G. Wells adaptation put on screen - and some truly terrifying moments. It's incredibly dark and violent for a 1930s film. Putting aside the obvious faults of a movie from that era - melodramatic acting, unintentional comedy (or is it intentional?) - this film is one of the all-time horror classics. The iconic image of Griffin in his dark sunglasses and bandage-wrapped head is inherently frightening, as much as Hannibal Lecter or Norman Bates. One of my personal favourites. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing for Claude Rains....","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" and the fact that this was made in 1933 by Frank Whale- amazing.Another review mentioned the hammy acting- that's the point(!). Some of the quotes are scary and amusing at the same time ...Kemp, just these fingers, 'round a signalman's throat...perhaps a train wreck or two...an invisible man can rule the world!... . Also when Kemp drives him back to collect his beloved notebooks, and Rains takes off the bandages, he orders put a warm rug in the car...its freezing outside when you have to drive about naked....The old English village, turned upside down by a chemist who experiments with monocaine, and becomes invisible; to the chagrin of Flora (Gloria Stuart) and her father (well portrayed) by Henry Travers. The police are duly befuddled and harassed; Dr. Griffin (Rains) is too clever for them.If you have a sense of humor, you will enjoy and appreciate this film. It is a nice reflection of nostalgia, a scary film (for children) which is so creative considering the era this was made. I would rather see this than explosions and gore. This took considerably more creativity to make the story work, and is quite an achievement for its time. 9/10. "},{"Title":"The Unseen Malevolent Force","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I highly recommend you see this. Not for the acting or the sci-fi/terror/special effect elements, but as an early example of the triumph of 'talkie' cinema.What we really have here is a noir construction, before that idea had fully formed. The mechanics of the movie are entirely embodied in Rains' character, and the movie functions by toying with two layers the layer of the hapless characters and the 'layer' in which we reside, as watchers. That the man is 'invisible' is incidental. The invisibility of the movie's 'force' is what matters.Rains -- perhaps the first great vocal technician actor? -- maintains control of the goings-on with the command and presence of his voice. And the entire movie is about the power of 'movies' to do whatever they will, even instigate a Reign of Terror. The movie's over when the movie's power fades, and 'resumes visible form'.The runty offspring of this -- I'm thinking of Hollow Man, and ...Extraordinary Gentlemen, e.g., -- entirely miss the point, thinking that the central value lies in the expensive, flashy screen effect. Depsite the primitive technology, this still holds up today, because of the smart layering, construction and self-awareness. "},{"Title":"Invisible as early as 33???","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As I watched this film, it really impressed me how well they'd manage to do these totally convincing invisibility effects as early as 1933! I could not believe it! I mean, I've always thought that the invisible man in this the first of Invisible Man films ran around in bandages and sunglasses all the time. I never expected to see what was inside! My god...I knew that the invisible man's always had a thing for murder and mayhem once he's invisible, but not that they did all this in 1933. There are some great scenes here, like the first strike of mischief by the title character, and all the scenes at the Inn. The actors even manages to keep their eyelines fairly good throughout the film. The lady keeping the inn with her husband, she's the only one overacting, but then again; maybe she were told to do so by the director in order to inject the film with some humor? It's a rather dark story otherwise, so that might have been a good decision if that was the case. "}{"Title":"Had me on the edge of my seat","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  9/10This fast-paced, well-produced and chilling film is one Irecommend to anyone and everyone.  The special effects aredazzling, particularly one scene that consists of the title characterprancing down a road, with only a pair of seemingly emptytrousers showing that he is there.  It's hard for me to imagine whatit was like to see it back then (I know somebody who's 78 and sawit when it was first released! - he remembers), but I sure as h---remember what I thought.  How did they do that?  Since it wasdecades before digital effects existed, that had to be ruled out,which makes the scenes even more effective now.As for the rest of the film, it's an excellent thriller.  It'll keep you onthe edge of your seat guaranteed.  And it's nice to see Gloria Stuartin a non Titanic role, looking quite beautiful no less.  Plus, for allyou Casablanca fans (I'm not one) this is Claude Raines in hisfirst big role.A great actor, he was. "},{"Title":"The Most Entertaining of all Classic Universal Horror Films","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have recently gone on a crusade to view all of the great Universal Horror films of the 30's and 40's, as they were such a part of my childhood and I hadn't seen many of them in years. Watching these films with an older, more mature adult eye, I found that many required a certain level of forgiveness and held more of a nostalgic appeal than holding a viewer's interest on a modern level. Films such as Dracula and the Mummy could easily be considered extremely slow and stagey by today's standards (which sets the mood well for Dracula but The Mummy is the most overrated of the Universal classics). But not so with The Invisible Man. This is a well-paced, highly entertaining classic, and despite the over the top acting styles of the day, thus particular film is actually enhanced by the dramatics. Rains is absolutely outstanding and commanding in every scene, and he's thoroughly convincing as a man coming unhinged. Many reviewers have mentioned the humor aspect of the film, but the horror is equally effective. When Kent's alone in the house with the Invisible Man and hoping he's alone to make a phone call, or when efforts are made by the police to Kent after The Invisible Man has threatened to come back and take his life, the suspense is nail biting and unnerving. Kent's demise is horrific as well, replete with his dying screams. Furthermore, the extent to which the police attempt to protect Kent and trap Griffith are completely plausible, from dusting the tops of the walls with dirt to surrounding Kent with officers. After all, how would you deal with an Invisible Man?This is one old classic that holds up extremely well.  "},{"Title":"masterpiece of science fiction","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One great film by a great director from the novel that got me interested in science fiction. Success all around!!! The special effects were convincing, even with jaded eyes. Claude Rains, introduced to the film world in this one, gives a fine performance, without actually showing up on screen. Not to be missed. "},{"Title":"The Amazing Transparent Man","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" THE INVISIBLE MAN (Universal, 1933), directed by James Whale, from the story by H.G. Wells, and scripted by R.C. Sheriff, is more of a science fiction story than horror. Whale, who had previously directed FRANKENSTEIN (1931) and THE OLD DARK HOUSE (1932), outdoes himself with this production by which both Claude Rains (in his movie debut) and special effects are its main assets.The story fades in during a snow storm where a man (Claude Rains), wrapped in bandages and dark glasses, carrying a suitcase, comes to a small English village where he takes residence at a local inn managed by Jenny (Una O'Connor) and Herbert Hall (Forrester Harvey). The moment he steps into the pub to register for a room, he arouses curiosity and suspicions of the local patrons. In spite of his appearance, the bandaged man is given residency to a room where he hopes to continue his experiment in private. The next scene changes to Doctor Cranley (Henry Travers), his daughter, Flora Cranley (Gloria Stuart), and Doctor Kemp (William Harrigan). Through their conversation, viewers get to learn more about the mysterious central character and his background. The man introduced in the film's opening is Doctor Jack Griffin, a scientist who has been experimenting on a drug called monocaine, and finds that it has turned his entire body invisible. He has disappeared in the hope to discover a formula that will restore him back to his normal self. Griffin had worked alongside Cranley and Kemp with scientific experiments. Kemp is in love with Flora, but Flora cares nothing for him. Her main interest is on Griffin and of his whereabouts. She is further concerned upon learning that the drug Griffin had taken has one bad side effect that can make him insane. The story then reaches its highlight when curiosity gets the better of the Halls and all concerned, in which Jenny Hall wants her disturbed tenant evicted, and has her husband, Herbert, go up to do it. Instead of Griffin getting thrown out, it is Herbert who gets the trip down the stairs, thus, bringing in the very British Officer Jaffers (E.E. Clive) to arrive at the scene. Havoc begins as Griffin takes off his bandages and clothing, until he is fully invisible. At first he plays pranks, such as riding a bicycle, robbing a bank and throwing the money he has taken to the streets to watch people greedily grab for it, and putting on only a pair of trousers to have a screaming woman running away as she is being chased by only the running pants, and much more. Later Griffin takes up refuge in Kemp's home, but later finds that his close friend has betrayed him by secretly locking himself in the next room and calling the police. Because of this, Kemps' life is not only threatened, but Griffin would after-wards go on a murder rampage as the drug takes a side effect to slowly cause him to go insane.Aside from the excellent special effects, which, according to one of Gloria Stuart's TV interviews about the film, was a well kept secret, THE INVISIBLE MAN is full of thrills, witty and dark humor, along with bizarre supporting cast of characters (especially the bird-faced Una O'Connor who virtually steals the movie with her shrieks) to hold a viewer's interest during its brief 68 minutes. Then there is the youthful and blonde Gloria Stuart. Although a beauty in her day, her emotional scenes near the beginning of the story in which her character is presented with shaky voice and hands over her face to cover up her tears that fail to drip down her cheeks, weakens the storyline. Maybe had Whale given instruction for her to act less rational as he did with Mae Clarke's role as Elizabeth in FRANKENSTEIN, then Stuart's performance handing emotions would have appeared more natural. Her scenes in the story are brief but truly necessary to the plot. Otherwise with her pretty but fragile face, she's the only on screen character who succeeds in changing Griffin from his maniac state to a rational human being. And it's with this movie alone out of many that Gloria Stuart's name today is remembered, especially after her comeback performance in the blockbuster of TITANIC (1997).In the supporting cast are Dudley Digges as The Police Commissioner; Merle Totterham as Millie; and Dwight Frye (Fritz in FRANKENSTEIN) seen briefly as a reporter. One can also get a glimpse of future stars as John Carradine as a man on the telephone, and Walter Brennan, almost unrecognizable, as a British man who has his bike stolen by Griffin.THE INVISIBLE MAN included several sequels in the 1940s, but none as good as this. And Rains movie debut as a transparent man seemed to be an odd beginning to a long and successful movie career. Although he did returned to the horror genre from time to time, he was fortunate not to have been type-cast in one horror film after another for the duration of his career, for that Rains is an excellent actor with diversity and a very distinctive voice, which helps carry on this movie. Available on video cassette and DVD by MCA Home Video, THE INVISIBLE MAN, formerly played on the Sci-Fi Channel (late 1980s), American Movie Classics (1991 and 2002), and Turner Classic Movies (TCM Premiere October 10, 1998). (***1/2). "},{"Title":"...what is monocane ? ","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This museum piece of a movie is to be remembered for the way it uncompromisingly kept to the spirit of HG wells' story and did not become playschool farce. From the moment the 'man' first speaks we know he is angry , probably nasty and maybe even mad. Rains ' superior speaking voice carries the film through the wretchedly old print that comes from a distant cinematic world. "},{"Title":"Superb adaptation of HG Wells' novel","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was interested in seeing this film. I like the book, I love Claude Rains and I loved the classics Frankenstein and Bride of Frankenstein which were also directed by horror maestro James Whale. After finally seeing it I wasn't let down. The only minor problem I had was that Una O'Connor's screaming occasionally got on my nerves, but that's to do with preference. The Invisible Man had held up amazingly well, and the production values look lavish and don't look as though they've creaked. The music is excellent, the direction is top-notch and the screenplay is great. The story is still compelling and does justice to the book, while the atmosphere is suitably eerie and the special effects are pioneering. The acting is fine, Claude Rains was a brilliant actor and gives a superb performance in the title role, despite the fact he spends most of the time swathed in bandages or invisible you know that wonderful voice he has anywhere. All in all, superb and anyone who loved the Frankenstein movies will love this. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Crafty James Whale thriller","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Both good humor and thrills combine in this smart, enjoyable mad-scientist movie, directed by James Whale in frisky spirits. Claude Rains is terrific as the title character, a scientist who turns himself invisible and goes on a killing spree in London, hoping to show his superiority over the visible man. Based on an H.G. Wells story, tightly-wound and well acted by the cast (with Walter Brennan in a bit part). Rains is rather surprising in his maniacal glee (it's one of his best performances), and the special effects hold up pretty well today. Remade as a TV-movie in 1975; followed by a sequel in 1940, The Invisible Man Returns, in which Rains did not return and was substituted by Vincent Price. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Great but story is flawed","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a great picture, this one proves that special effects don't date. It's all the matter of keeping high standards and never being sloppy when creating a special effects shot.The story of an Invisible Man is always appealing, there's so much one can do with this premise. This is probably the definitive tale of H.G. Wells story.The story is flawed, there are some scenes which are niave but it's doesn't detract from the overall picture. 71 minutes is a little too short, another 20 minutes would've added depth to the love story. The acting is excellent as is the atomsphere created by the director, James Whale.The special effects are stunning, totally amazing, much better than CGI rubbish.The screenplay was flawed from the beginning, just required a bit more meat to round it off.Fantastic stuff! "},{"Title":"Fun and funny, great effects, fast and well acted, but lacks depth or complication","Date":"16 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Invisible Man (1933)The idea might go back to H.G. Wells, who wrote the book for this story in 1893, but director James Whale makes it a fast, chilling, and comical romp. I can see why Wells didn't particularly like it, but it has lost any literary pretensions and fits into the Universal horror film era that was rocketing the studio to success. Indeed, Whales had just already made Frankenstein, and there are some light echoes from that first film here--a scientist doing experiments that are not sane, a fiancée worried about his being away so long, and the townspeople gathering their bumbling wits together to get the creature.The creature in this case is just a man, but his invisibility is his invincibility, and he goes on a reign of terror both funny (things fly and men and kicked in the behind) and terrible (lots of murder). Unlike Frankenstein, there is no greater pathos at work. We never really feel anything for the invisible man, played by Claude Rains (in a role that kicked off his career, which must have struck everyone with some irony, since we never really see him). The plot, and the reactions of all the characters from friends to scores of policemen, is simply how to get this guy, how to make him visible enough to see.The effects are justly famous. The pace is fast, the acting good if a little campy at times, and the dilemma, without overtones, is still great fun, even almost eighty years later. "},{"Title":"Power, I said!","Date":"2 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The man whose head was wrapped in bandages almost always acts disturbing. If such a phenomenon following the horror elements, the story will seem daunting. THE INVISIBLE MAN is a pretty good horror. Films with visual and digital effects that should arouse a certain horror and shock in their thirties may have accounted for an incredible miracle, and he would have shocked all those who love the wonders of film creation or animation. The director who is brave enough to snatch shots and camera in order to shock the masses deserves slope to the floor. Claude Rains played the role of the phantom man only voice and gestures to him throughout the film does not see the face. The viewer will now feel plasticity, especially in the action scenes where you can see all the effort to do everything as perfectly. It was a time when the science-fiction genre fits exactly with the avant-Gard, expressionist or any other modernist expression. I think it was in the thirties simply thought the film magic on the one hand and garbage that draw the attention of viewers with themes and stories from the other side. James Whale is a story worked out in great detail. In the sci-fi genre that's necessary. The film observes a strange accelerated progression, the movements of the characters and developments, observed something sudden energy in dialogue. Mystique! Invisible man stew to the city and the people as a man in introversion with the capacity of invisibility, but as a man who is 'happy' under the influence of specific chemicals. Scientist! His motives are from some strange inner subconscious urge and desire to experiment, poured into an invisible form in which he wakes up madness and revenge hunger for power. Invisible Man becomes no longer a criminal in order to crime, rather than becoming a terrorist who with pleasure wants to destroy the world.The atmosphere is grim. The story was only solid. The film is a horror, but he lacks a bit of weirdness. I have the impression that the key scenes is not going to end. Invisible man is not enough. The film is less dosed with black humor.The main actor Claude Rains was forced to use a particular outfit and make-up, a recording was extremely hard and uncomfortable. I think he has put a lot of effort and did a good job.Other actors are solid, and in particular to highlight Una O'Connor, her interesting face and tragicomic screaming.James Whale was once again confirmed the reputation of a specialist in horror films. In the end he managed to convince the audience that the main protagonist is invisible. "}{"Title":"A scientific monster....","Date":"28 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I admit--as a kid growing up--I didn't have a lot of fondness for the Invisible Man or the Mummy either. Certainly not in the way that I latched on to the other Universal Monsters--the ones often referred to as The Big Three; Dracula, Frankenstein's Monster and The Wolf Man.As an adult now, I have a better appreciation for the Invisible One and the Mummy, too & even a few of the sequels they hatched in the 1940s are worth a look. As for the original Invisible Menace, there's no denying its greatness and most of that greatness can be attributed to the voice of Claude Rains--a voice that gives power and gravitas to what lesser actors might have made innocuous dialogue. The Invisible Man also boasts what one might call director James Whales trademark in his many horror films as far as the various spots of comedy that are in the film--most notably, for me, the delightful Una O' Connor and her wailing. And, of course, there's good old E.E. Clive with his immortal line Look, he's all eaten away.Overall, the Invisible One deserves his place among the other Universal Classic Monsters.8 stars "},{"Title":"Universal strikes again.","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Claude was excellent as always! This was creepy and kept me on the edge, as a Dr. discovered transparency....why didn't he teach that trick to the president? Anyways, this had some intense and disturbing parts for its time, but it is a horror flick. Overall it was well done and moved at a good pace. The acting and story line were very good and compelling. This is of course one of those Universal Studio creep shows about a scientist and his associates that stumble on to something new and dangerous. As Claude uses his to gift to get what he wants, he eliminates those in his way. This is somewhat to quite entertaining and it qualifies for a rainy day movie for those who like suspense, surprises, and of course, murder! "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"10 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just seen this movie for the first time and I thought it as really good The movie was very funny couldn't stop laughingThe old lady that kept in screaming was funny at first but as the movie goes that dose get a bit annoyingI also felt that There were some scenes that felt forced at time, when felt liked I was watching stage show I did find it very odd and funny but I don't understand How the news made a paper before body was moved from the bar I really liked fest of the movie As it flowed really wellMost of acting was really good at time I going to give this movie 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Impressed by the effects!","Date":"11 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Saying I enjoyed this movie is an understatement. The idea of someone being able to be invisible makes one think of what kind of pranks you could pull on others. And that's what the scientist does at one point when other people get a bit to curious about his business. A few humorous things aside this movie is serious and the invisible man makes no jokes when he reveals his evil plans to his colleague. Really amazing are the special effects when Claude Rains' character has become invisible and does his bad deeds. His deep voice just like the way he is about to disappear is frightening. Character development bar the invisible man himself is not the movie's strongest point but the plot and its execution is absolutely awesome. Surely one of Universal's best in my opinion. "},{"Title":"An original monster movie","Date":"11 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Invisible Man was another film by H.G. Wells that was made as a B-Movie. the film, along with movies like Frankenstein and King Kong, was one of the first movies in the monster genre. the storyline is very interesting and and the filmmakers allowed the viewers to see the transformation of the main character through what he must go through. the effects of the camera work were truly outstanding to make Claude Rains look actually invisible and the film succeeded in getting the viewer to appreciate the ability of the filmmakers to create themonster. The setting is used well to play a role in the movie because it was able to emphasize the monster and how he interacted with it that created the fear in the public. The Invisible Man is one of the more notable B-movies because of the original concept and tremendous effects. "},{"Title":"An early experiment gone right","Date":"4 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A wonderful work of horror, a simple concept blown to a great level. The Invisible Man is a perfect example of horror films trying to push the bar in the 30's, the mad man chosen for this film, Claude Rains perfectly depicts his role, as a scientist on the brink of unlocking invisibility, of course though, once he does achieve it, he completely goes mad with power and begins his journey as the invisible man, and started something many would call a homicidal spree. After going mad as a result of the drug that made him invisible, while he tries to reverse it. A wonderful monster film for the horror enthusiast, and an excellent experiment in the early age of special effects, using full velvet black backdrops and having the actor wear full black velvet on himself to give an illusion of invisibility, the film is a good watch, and tends to ask a lot of philosophical questions while still remaining a monster film, definitely would recommend to a fan of horror, who can watch something with age to it. "},{"Title":"an amazing film well ahead of its times!","Date":"6 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a superb film which generally trips to stay true to the book. The direction is impeccable and what is most stunning are the special effects. The cinematography is gripping, the handling of scenes and photography keep you gripped. But by far, the best thing about this is the acting of the invisible Claude Rains, his powerful voice was made for this role. The special effects are well ahead of their time, decades later one can still watch this with admiration. If there is a criticism it is the romantic subplot, this seemed to have become fashionable (see Frankenstein). This was unnecessary and the story did remarkably well without it.This is one of James Whales' best, probably better than Frankenstein and certainly pushing Bride of Frankenstein. "},{"Title":"Claude Rains is Excellent","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am a huge Universal Monster geek. I'm that guy that has a room full of posters and toys and most are devoted to the creatures from Universal's classics. This love goes way back to childhood when I used to sit on the kitchen floor and draw these monsters over and over. So, why am I boring you with these details? Because all that time, I always discounted The Invisible Man. He wasn't monster enough for me and the movie never captured my imagination like its' brethren in the Universal lineup.That all changed as I got older. I realized how marvelous this movie really is. Frankenstein and Wolfie are tragic figures, with destinies far beyond their control. Dracula and Imhotep really just want their lost loves back. Poor Creature just wanted left alone. The Invisible Man, though, is a purely homicidal maniac and may just be the most evil of all the Universal monsters.What really carries this movie is Claude Rains' performance as the title character. Until the closing moments, we never see his face, so he has no chance to emote anything through facial expressions. Instead, we are treated to a magnificently over-the-top performance as the doctor's mind slowly unravels through the film. What starts as a slightly unhinged leave me alone sort of irritability becomes a megalomaniac who has no problem derailing a train to prove his power. It's not all dastardly doctor, though, as he get some glimpses into the nuttiness of his mind, too, with silly little songs and gleeful laughter that help show how unraveled he's become.The special effects are really impressive, considering the age of this movie. Sure, you can see some of the seams, so to speak, as a modern viewer, but given the age of this movie it's astounding to me that they pulled off some of these shots. They're basically doing blue screen work with nothing more than black velvet clothes and a black velvet backdrop. If I have one big negative, it's James Whale's insistence on casting Una O'Connor in his movies, who just may be the most annoying actress in the history of movies. I don't know if she was funny to a viewer in the 30s, but I can't imagine that shrieking voice was ever anything but grating. "},{"Title":"The power to rule, to make the world grovel at my feet!","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Legendary adaptation of the H.G. Wells story stars Claude Rains (in his first film vehicle) as Jack Griffin, a scientist who's managed to make himself invisible. While working feverishly to make himself visible again, he becomes insane and murderous, and institutes a reign of terror in the remote British village of Iping. Griffins' distraught girlfriend Flora (Gloria Stuart) holds out hope that she can make him see reason, while his former associate Dr. Cranley (Henry Travers) tries to keep his identity a secret.The Invisible Man is hardly a scary film, at least for somebody with more modern sensibilities such as this viewer. In fact, a lot of the content is blatantly comedic, as director James Whale seems to be having fun with the idea of what shenanigans an invisible man could get up to. But the film is such tremendous fun that this can be overlooked.A huge part of the appeal is the wonderfully over the top performance by the always great Rains. He delivers his lines with a real theatricality and commitment to character. By contrast, the other roles in this story are just not as interesting. But the whole cast is first-rate, in any event. The beautiful Stuart of Titanic fame is an appealing leading lady, and Travers, William Harrigan as the weak Dr. Kemp, Holmes Herbert as the police chief, E.E. Clive as Constable Jaffers, and Forrester Harvey as innkeeper Herbert Hall offer solid support. Una O'Connor does her own scenery chewing, in her inimitable fashion, playing Halls' frazzled wife Jenny. Dwight Frye has a bit as a reporter; John Carradine is the man suggesting using ink to catch The Invisible Man and that's Walter Brennan whose bicycle is stolen.Strong atmosphere is a plus, as well as a series of visual effects that continue to be very impressive 81 years later. They create many memorable images in this delicious entry in Universals' classic 1930s horror film cycle.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Rains rules","Date":"22 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Claude Rains is so brilliant in this film. It's not just his lovely voice, but his short, stocky figure, animating pyjamas, a shirt and a pair of trousers. And he does some wonderful evil madman acting (in bandages and dressing gown) as his girlfriend tries to persuade him to become normal again. Wells' story came out in 1897, and the old inn with its Edwardian clientele seems from that time. I particularly enjoy Una O'Connor's crocheted shrug and the shawls of the other ladies, all made to Victorian patterns. It is rather a shock to see people dancing to music from the radio - recent in 1932, and winched in to mystery plays of all kinds. But here there's a twist - the Invisible Man switches off the broadcast of his activities. "}{"Title":"James Whale's  Landmark Adaption of the Novel by H.G. Wells","Date":"10 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a follow-up to his Universal monster classic Frankenstein, the studio assigned James Whale to direct The Invisible Man based on the book by H.G. Wells and a screenplay by Academy Award winner Preston Sturges and novelist Phillip 'When Worlds Collide' Wylie. The relatively unknown English actor Claude Rains landed the role of Dr. Jack Griffin and became a star overnight despite lending mostly his voice throughout the film to the ground-breaking special effects used to represent him. A scientist invents a formula which renders him invisible but in doing so is driven to insanity and murder. Whale's fills the screen with wonders and keeps viewers thoroughly entertained. The Invisible Man set the standard for it's visual FX for decades to come and has inspired countless imitations in addition to a handful of Oscar winning sequels. One of the truly great films of fantasy and horror to come out of Hollywood. "},{"Title":"A Chilling Classic","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" How many of us have dreamed we could be invisible, if only for awhile... What would you do? Murder? Play the role of a prankster? Just listen and watch others? Run naked down the street knowing you could not be seen? The possibilities are almost endless if we could turn ourselves invisible and one of the reasons this movie is fascinating!This movie is actually quite comical at times - and other times chilling, very scary to watch and ponder. I loved the story and how it plays out. Claude Rains did a great job in this role - yet mainly just a voice that we hear.The special effects are awesome for a film from 1933 - top notch for it's day! Yet another movie I like for late night viewing.10/10 "},{"Title":"A wonderful film","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'The Invisible Man' is eighty years old and it's still got it in every way that matters. I'm not a fan of the other James Whale films I've seen - his 'Frankenstein' duo and 'The Old Dark House' - but I can forgive him the boring hours I spent watching those movies because he conjures up an almost palpable atmosphere here. It's a spellbinding film.The movie provided the first major role for the ever-ace Claude Rains, who gets a great entrance wandering down a snowy lane before bursting into a country pub, his head covered in bandages, goggles over his eyes, wearing a false nose. He's Jack Griffin, a brilliant scientist who discovered the secret of invisibility and has vanished from his home in order to secretly find a cure. As he works, the constant interruptions by the landlady and the nosy villagers reveal the frightening side effect to Griffin's discovery he's become insane, and after scaring the living daylights out of everyone in the pub by revealing his invisibility, 'the invisible one' (as he's creepily named on the credits) embarks on a spree of murder and robbery.Whale, production designer Charles D. Hall and cinematographer Arthur Edeson have created a beautiful film, full of creaky wooden rooms and snowy streets. There are some great shots here, my favourite of which comes when Griffin gets to his feet while telling his fiancée (Gloria Stuart) his insane plans for his invention. I love the high angle of the police surrounding Kemp's house, and of course the iconic scene where Griffin peels the bandages from his head, revealing the nothingness beneath. It's all great stuff.Rains has got such a grand voice that he makes an instant impression in the title role. Despite being either invisible or swathed in bandages, he holds this movie in the palm of his hand. His Griffin is quite mad, and he has a whale of a time singing and dancing, knocking hats off heads and issuing cold-hearted threats as he terrorises the countryside. He's a compelling actor, and as in all his films he's a magnetic presence, entirely holding your attention. The dark glasses and bandages he wears look spooky, even more so when we see the empty eye and nose holes cut into the cloth.R.C. Sheriff's script gives the supporting cast some wonderful moments. Top of the list is Una O'Connor, who is absolutely hilarious as the pub landlady and delivers one of the best reaction shots you will ever see (in the scene where she shows Griffin the room). She's a riot throughout, screaming and shrieking as the invisible man slams the door in her face, trashes the place and pushes her husband (Forrester Harvey) down the stairs. Also brilliant is E.E. Clive as Jaffers, the local bobby who reacts to the news that there's an invisible man causing chaos in the village with classic British understatement 'Oohh,' he says, calmly. There's more comedy in the film than you might expect thanks to these two, but unlike Whale's other films the laughs and scares are perfectly balanced here.The invisibility effects inevitably show their age but they still hold their magic. The shots of Griffin smoking, riding a bike and carrying Kemp into his car have a charm that are more beguiling than most modern visual effects. There are eerie moments when Griffin's presence isn't seen at all, and we just hear a disembodied voice calmly announcing his murderous intentions. And the train crash is still a powerful moment. There's not much that doesn't work in 'The Invisible Man'. Stuart's a bit wet, but everyone else is on top form. It's creepy and funny in equal measure, it looks great, the pace is smooth, and although it's not entirely true to the book, it has such atmosphere that I felt I really was 'seeing' the novel (David Lean's 'Great Expectations' has the same quality). It's superb. "},{"Title":"The most transparent character in cinema history","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When cinema first began - in the late 1800's - short films and small features would often tamper with the audience's perception in order to create a certain reaction. Early footage of the time showed audience members scurrying to the aisles in a packed theater when a large steam engine was approaching towards the camera, as if it were headed straight for the audience. While it looks silly now, audiences really had no grasp as to how cinema and film worked and how it could be manipulated due to the medium being at the mercy of its crew.I can see audiences having wild, over-the-top reactions to James Whale's The Invisible Man back in the day and being completely shocked by the effects and the mystique of the picture. The fact that the elements of shock and mystery old up over-seventy years later is a miraculous achievement. The film still packs frightening qualities that make horror films and thrillers click and hold up for decades to come. Even in the new-age where bigger is better and horror films can be victim to slick, sharp special effects that mirror action pictures rather than their characteristics of their own genre, how minimal effects were employed and utilized in older pictures will never cease to amaze me.Claude Rains plays the titular character, although for most scenes he remains an invisible enigma. his performance relies largely on voice-acting and the power of having his clothes speak for his body language. I can only imagine how difficult it must have been to keep a straight face - let alone act - when the main actor is supposed to be invisible and you must act like a person isn't there. Contemporary challenges in cinema would be in an action film when an actor must fight a giant behemoth who obviously doesn't exist in real life and the actor must only view a small image of it on set and toy with it as if it's the real thing.Rains' character, Dr. Jack Griffin, is a scientist and is made invisible after a lab experiment went awry. Now, he wears a dapper outfit and a lengthy piece of cloth wrapped around his head, aided by shades and a top hat to protect his little secret. He checks into a hotel and is given service like any other patron. However, when his secret is revealed he is given anything but. Once his secret is out, the film revolves around him attempting to fool the guests at the hotel and even try to go into a partnership with one of the men in an attempt to take over the world.The Invisible Man works because it is different from all of the Universal monster movies thus far. The film is captured with clarity but layered with mystery and understandable human intrigue as to how the premise works and how an invisible man would function in today's society. The bulk of the film's success relies largely on Rains' capability as a performer who doesn't technically show, and how his voice-acting - the sole identity he has in the film - allows him to create a character with an outlook and a plan. That and the professionalism of the effects make this one of the most enticing horror films in terms of aesthetics of the time period. At a perfectly restrained seventy-one minutes, it makes perfect for quick, breezy entertainment.Starring Claude Rains. Directed by James Whale. "},{"Title":"Classic Version.","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Whale directed this excellent adaptation of the H.G. Wells novel that stars Claude Rains as the title character, a mysterious doctor whose experimentation in invisibility backfires, as it affects his mind, causing him to go insane. Gloria Stuart costars as his fiancée Flora Cranley, the daughter of the man he works for(played by Henry Travers). They are both very worried for him, but Griffin(that's his name) won't listen, having paranoid delusions of grandeur, that makes him the target of a desperate police manhunt, trying to stop his mad murder spree... Superbly made film has wonderful F/X that still hold up, and a fun, engaging story that is exemplary. Fine supporting cast of characters and a perfect use of humor make this film memorable, the first of a disjointed series. "},{"Title":"Aren't you glad you found Me?","Date":"24 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the best of the early cycle of Horror/Sc-Fi, Directed by the great James Whale. He could infuse Black Comedy with creepy surroundings like no other.The script has more quotable lines per Running Time than most Movies...look, he's all eaten away...We'll start with a little terror here and there. There are so many other frightening and humor laden lines and scenes that makes this an astonishing Film that has not dated at all.The SFX are an amazing feat of seamless wonder and are shown in almost every scene. They are used without spare and with little hesitation. It also has a cruel and chilling tone that would be lost as the Hayes Code began to take effect.Capping it all is the wonderful mellifluous tones of Claude Raines voice that is ironically, used for the most part, as Megalomaniac ravings. But he does have moments of velvety tranquility, when Monicane madness allows. This serenity is used sparingly and judiciously. One of the true Masterpieces of early Hollywood. "},{"Title":"A mixture of spooky horror and wacky comedy makes this a must.","Date":"24 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here we go gathering nuts in May on a cold and frosty morning, Claude Rains sings, sans shirt and body, as he dances down a country lane, chasing the panicking Mary Gordon in The Invisible Man, the first movie of H.G. Wells' classic tale of horror. That's the mood of this comical mad romp through man's desire to go where they shouldn't, and if any actor is going to play a role which requires only a voice (wrapped in gauze), it should be one with a voice of commanding presence. That is Claude Rains, the Richard Burton of his time, an eloquent stage actor who could read the dictionary and be mesmerizing. He messes with God's hidden world here, and obviously does not live to regret it. His mentor (Henry Travers) and his beautiful fiancée (Gloria Stuart) strive to find him before it is too late, but it is obvious that as the science he discovered has taken over his mind as well as his body, he is enjoying his slow decent into madness.You can't help but think of some of the wacky characters that Cloris Leachman much later played as you watch Una O'Connor bellow as the Innkeeper's wife here. Giving a perfectly rounded shrewish performance, O'Connor steals every scene, reminding me very much of Leachman's more subtle Frau Brucher from Young Frankenstein. Every moment O'Connor is on screen is a delight, and she entails her with such detail from the way she screams to even the way she unknowingly dances as she walks. No wonder director James Whale would use her again in a similar role in The Bride of Frankenstein.This is almost screwball comedy with a touch of irony thrown in as Rains gets loonier and loonier. The scene where he deals with the scientist who betrayed him by turning him in is darkly funny even as it gets tragic. The young Gloria Stuart will thrill those here who only know her as the old Rose from Titanic, her loveliness shining through a modern classic that came out 65 years after she first became a star. Director James Whale utilizes every lavish detail he can to make this a thrill, and no matter how many follow-ups or rip-offs came of this film, this remains far the best and most original. "},{"Title":"Claude Rains or Double?","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film did an excellent job at creating an invisible man, but I also was caught with surprise when he was immediately introduced into the film invisible. The job was done so well that i wanted to know how it was achieved. While doing this i found that the Invisible Man was mainly created by the use of wires when he had no clothes on, but when he had some of his clothes on or was taking his clothes off, the effect was achieved by shooting Claude Rains in a completely black velvet suit against a black velvet background. Then a matte process was used to combine both shots together. coincidentally Claude was a Claustrophobic and felt it was hard to breath in the suits, so a double was used for many of those shots. Then, Claude's voice was dubbed in after. "},{"Title":"Hollow Man","Date":"20 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am invisible, understand, simply because people refuse to see me. - Ralph Ellison How do you maintain accountability when war becomes invisible? - Michael Ignatieff This is a review of James Whale's The Invisible Man and Paul Verhoeven's Hollow Man. Loosely based on a 1897 H.G. Wells novel, both films are black comedies revolving around maverick scientists who develop a means of eliminating the absorption and reflection of light.In Whale's film our scientist is Jack Griffin, a poor, struggling chemist who already feels invisible, marginalised and ignored by both the scientific and wider social community. As a means of acquiring fame and visibility Griffin invents, somewhat ironically, an invisibility formula, but these wants elude him because he's accidentally rendered invisible by his very own chemical cocktail. Griffin then spends much of the film resentful of his wealthy and aristocratic employers - characters presented sympathetically by Wells' but villainously by Whale - a state of mind the film's economically disadvantaged depression era audiences themselves shared. Griffin's impotency is their impotency, Griffin's invisibility is their invisibility, and by the time a pushed-too-far Griffin makes good on his threats to kill his employers, nobody bats an eyelid. Back in 1933, audience's loved it.Whale directed a number of horror films for Universal Studios which, along with some of his subsequent films (The Man In The Iron Mask), later became regarded by scholars as veiled allegories for the director's own covert homosexuality. Early horror monsters are often read as being representative of certain anxieties toward (homo or hetero) sexuality - predatory, amoral, perverse, possessive of secret powers, and threatening to normal life - but your typical Whale hero is a social outcast who is depicted in a sympathetic light, tormented because his true self must remain invisible beneath a fictional public persona. Where Verhoeven's films delight in exhibitionism, excess and sweet release, Whale's hinge on repression; the return of the repressed. Incidentally, both directors were prisoners of war, Verhoven's country occupied during WW2, Whale captured by the Germans during WW1. Whale would commit suicide in 1957 (no fish jokes), drowning himself in a swimming pool.As with most of Whale's films during the 1930s, Man makes impeccable use of early special effects and oozes a sense of dank, Gothic creepiness. Ever creepier is Whale's handling of Griffin, who is initially shot at low angles to highlight his poignant aspirations, but suffers a complete mental breakdown by the film's end, becoming a looming, embittered monster.While Whale's scientist was smug and covetous, he was nevertheless courtly and well behaved around his love interest. Verhoeven's scientist, however, demonstrates no positive attributes whatsoever. And where both Whale and Wells ignore the erotic fantasies and more primal impulses of their hero, Verhoeven has his invisible scientist, Doctor Sebastian Caine, do nothing but indulge in depravities. Depravities Verhoeven extends to the US military, which itself craves total freedom of action and total freedom from accountability. Indeed, no sooner has Caine been freed from the shackles of civilization does he use his invisibility to murder, rape and torture. Note that each of Caine's devilish deeds springs from his desires being thwarted or his romantic advances being shut down. But the acts he commits aren't only about sex and satiation, but power, control and violence. By the film's end he's become a figure of unbounded power; egoic fascism writ large.Verhoeven's films try to work as genre critiques. Robocop and Recall gave us Western media, movie-going and entertainment as barbaric, mindless tourism. Showgirls gave us America as an all encompassing whorehouse in which aspirations are commensurate with exploitation, and Troopers gave us the United States as a blood-thirsty fascist frat party. Man does a similar thing, beginning with an invisible cat mauling a mouse and then a media commentator speaking of cats and birds, a game of predator and prey which Verhoeven contemptuously extends to his audience, whom he views as a band of mongrels bred to leer and chortle over torn meat.But Verhoeven's films often trade in exactly that which they purport to satirise. Here's the sex, titillation and barbarity you crave, they say, now look how idiotic you are for liking such an obviously idiotic film. The pleasure of Verhoeven, then, is in audience and film sharing a moment of gleeful, shameless idiocy. It's a kind of meta-arousal, where you're allowed to indulge because the work objects to itself. In this way Man plays like a less pretentious version of Haneke's Funny Games, or a less successful version of Hitchcock's Rear Window and De Palma's Body Double, other trashy thrillers about voyeurism, invisible, disembodied viewers, decontextualized sex and violence, and the urges, wants, roles, fantasies and responsibilities of audiences.Of course today virtually all films are meta-aware of their own stupidity. Post ideological, postmodern irony is the aesthetic of our time, audience's and film's shielding themselves in a passive irony (as opposed to critical irony, the role of satire) whose only function is a kind of disassociation. Zizek calls this the commodification of a strategy that once provided a legitimate means of challenge, Peter Sloterdijk calls this the negation of the negation, Toby Young calls it a critique that no longer has an object, that exists solely and absurdly as an assertion of superiority over all conditions of representation, Timothy Bewes an aesthetic that now mistakes its own absence for universalised vigour. In another, more immediate way, modern irony, satire and cynicism (every artist from Zack Synder to Lady Gaga is now a satirist) provide modern audiences with the freedom to reconcile consumption with consciousness. This contemporary sort of satire remains silent when it comes to social or ethical goals; it no longer stands for values but has become a mode of thought which defines itself in purely materialistic terms.8/10 - Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"For Lust of Knowing What Should Not Be Known","Date":"10 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Between the 1920s and the late 1950s, and especially during the 1930s, Universal Pictures became well-known for producing horror films, so much so that these films are often referred to as Universal Horror. The Invisible Man is often considered as one of this series, although it could also be regarded as a science fiction film rather than horror. It is 1933 on H. G. Wells' novel of the same title from 1897 and, although filmed in America, keeps Wells' British setting. (The novel has a very precise setting, the small West Sussex village of Iping, not far from Uppark House where Wells' mother had worked as a servant). If the film were to be remade today the setting would doubtless be relocated to the USA, but in the thirties Hollywood producers did not automatically assume that American audiences were not interested in anything happening outside the borders of their own country. The British setting, in fact, is generally convincingly done, apart from the train crash scene which clearly uses stock footage showing a locomotive of American design. (And would an English country inn in the thirties really have been selling rye whiskey?) The Invisible Man of the title is Dr. Jack Griffin, a scientist who has discovered the secret of invisibility through his experiments with a drug called monocaine. (There actually is a drug of this name, used as a local anaesthetic, although it would appear that this real drug was not discovered until after the film was made). Unfortunately, this substance has had the unfortunate side effect of driving Griffin completely mad, and under its influence he becomes obsessed with power and commits a number of crimes, including murders. Other important characters include Griffin's mentor Dr. Cranley, Cranley's beautiful daughter Flora and another scientist, Dr. Arthur Kemp, who becomes Griffin's accomplice.The main character is played by Claude Rains, whose face is only shown clearly for a brief time at the end of the film, as Griffin lies dying. For most of the film his face is covered by bandages and his eyes obscured by dark goggles- the invisibility serum only affects Griffin's body, not his clothes, which remain visible. He needs the bandages to hide the fact that his face cannot be seen. This means that Rains has to cope with the difficult task of acting from behind a mask, something attempted more recently by John Hurt in The Elephant Man and Edward Norton in Kingdom of Heaven. This was Rains' first American screen appearance and gave him the big breakthrough he needed in his Hollywood career. There are also good acting contributions from Henry Travers as Cranley and William Harrigan as Kemp.The film's official moral, enunciated by Griffin on his deathbed at the end of the film, is that there are certain types of scientific knowledge which are too dangerous to pursue and therefore better left alone. This is consistent with the line taken in other science fiction movies of the era, such as Frankenstein from two years earlier, which was also directed by James Whale, but it seems a strange message to draw from a novel by Wells, a consistent champion of science and its ability to transform human life for the better. There may also be an implied political subtext; the film was made shortly after another power-crazed megalomaniac had risen to power in Germany. The interest of the film for a modern audience, however, lies mainly not in this sort of moralising but a fine performance from Rains and in its pioneering special effects which allowed Whale to show Griffin removing his clothes or bandages to reveal nothing beneath. 7/10 "}{"Title":"liked it despite some flaws -- good fun, holds up today!","Date":"6 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I give this a 9 out of 10 because of the imaginative story, Raines fine acting, swell special effects and the humor throughout -- a real fun movie. it holds up well. It was like a parody of a horror film; I loved it.As I say, I enjoyed it a lot even though it was not serious or scary at all (to me).While here, I'll add three things about this entertaining movie (1) while I liked the innkeeper's wife, too many of the other characters (cops, townspeople) were just like her droopy-faced, comic, acting like boobs/dolts. (2) I wish I had time to document this, but it seemed to me that the movie had lots of director flaws in it! A lot of scenes ended abruptly when there were great opportunities to milk them for more. (3) And Travers (the father of heroine Stuart), who is a great character actor I suppose, seemed very weak here. He delivered his lines without any enthusiasm, as though he were bored! And William Harrigan (Dr. Arthur Kemp) seemed pretty poor acting-wise. Take, for example, the scene where he is bound in a car and told he would die going over a cliff in it. The actor seemed stiff and bored, no emotion at all. I couldn't believe it. "},{"Title":"A keystone of fantasy/horror","Date":"29 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Invisible Man is a wonderfully engrossing, effervescent, funny - and yes - scary film. Director James Whale delivered another masterpiece for Universal Pictures with this uniquely British story; Like The Old Dark House, it's still a shock to realise the movie was made in Hollywood.H.G. Wells' lightly comic novel has its basic storyline adhered to only in the first couple of reels, but from the splendid opening sequence when the heavily bandaged Jack Griffin arrives at the village of Iping, seeking a room and quiet to work on his experiment - IE, the way back to visibility - to the strangely poignant ending the spirit of Wells is never forgotten. Claude Raines was the perfect choice for the lead, Boris Karloff having temporarily walked out on Universal in a contract dispute. Whale fills the film with eccentric actors such as Una O'Connor and E.E. Clive and throws in a cameo from Dwight Frye and a bit part for John Carradine.Scene after scene sticks in the mind - Griffin's disrobing - He's all eaten away - his comic rampage through the village; the murder of a police inspector and the increasing derangement of Griffin gives Raines some of the best mad scientist lines around. We'll start with a few murders, big men, little men, just to show we make no distinction Even the moon is frightened of me, frightened to death. And he chillingly tops it all by derailing a train and beating a police trap to catch him by coolly murdering his former colleague, Dr. Kemp. When Raines threatens to kill Kemp (a cowardly William Harrigan)you know he means business.Whale's handling of the material is simply brilliant; he was a master director in the horror fantasy field unequalled to this day. If only, as originally planned, he'd stayed on board to direct Dracula's Daughter as a top budgeted film. Whale teaming with Lugosi would have been a treat, and we might have five James Whale horror classics instead of four. Sadly Lugosi got cut from the final script and Whale withdrew. His unique genius can still be savoured in The Invisible Man; a film to be enjoyed over and over again. "},{"Title":"Una O'Connor's screaming aside, there's really not a lot to criticize this particular Universal Horror movie for!","Date":"23 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen a handful of these old Universal horror movies in the past several years, and The Invisible Man is one of them. I have never read H.G. Wells' novel, which this movie is based on, but have been familiar with the title for a long time thanks to the 1951 spoof, Abbott and Costello Meet the Invisible Man. The first time I saw this one, which preceded the Abbott and Costello film by eighteen years, was in 2007, and I remember thinking it was mostly an excellent film. When I watched it for the second time the following year, I didn't think it was quite as good, but still certainly not bad. From what I remember, getting into it was a struggle for me that time, but that wasn't quite the case with a third viewing two years after my second one.One snowy night in England, a mysterious man enters an inn with his face completely covered in bandages and asks for a room! Some people there think he is an escaped prisoner, but he is actually a scientist named Dr. Jack Griffin, who has disappeared from his lab! Since his disappearance, his associates, Dr. Cranley and Dr. Kemp, as well as Griffin's fiancée, Flora Cranley, have been wondering where he has gone, and what has happened to him, as they don't know that he has become invisible as a result of his experiments! Griffin continues to try to conduct experiments in his room at the inn, trying to find a way to reverse his invisibility, but when he is interrupted, he becomes violent, and those at the inn learn he is invisible! The police fail to capture him, and he cleverly escapes from the inn with plans for world domination! Not only has Griffin's dangerous experimenting made him invisible, it has also made him insane! Una O'Connor plays Jenny Hall, the innkeeper's wife, and when this character is frightened, she shrieks hysterically! This is one aspect of the film I've never been able to warm up to. It certainly can be irritating, but fortunately, it doesn't last long. There's so much to make this film entertaining, including Claude Rains' performance as the deadly lead character. Something about the actor's voice helps. The cast performances aren't always perfect, but are usually impressive. One would hope for suspense in a film like this, and there's lots of that, building up as the story goes along! At one point, we see the Invisible Man's associates talking about the effects of a chemical which Jack has used in his experiments on himself, and then Dr. Kemp goes home and finds himself imprisoned by the now dangerous scientist! Much more tension follows, as Griffin goes on a murderous rampage and the police try to capture him! The special effects in The Invisible Man are also great, with objects floating in the air and such, and this was obviously an amazing accomplishment! This movie can be very pleasing to the eye, especially in scenes such as the ones with the falling snow.With all this 1933 Universal horror release has going for it, it's still not exactly perfect, but overall, it's still an excellent horror/sci-fi movie. Even after over 75 years, this adaptation of The Invisible Man can still entertain many viewers today, with its suspense, visuals, some of the performances, and some fairly comical moments such as some of the things the Invisible Man does to people while nobody can see him and what he might say to these people. Even Una O'Connor can sometimes be mildly amusing when she's not screaming. This motion picture is obviously not exactly the same for viewers today as it was back when it was originally released for public screening, but for those who like suspense and old classic movies, I really think it's a good one to check out, even if it's not as widely recognized as some of the other Universal horror movies from the 30's. It contains so many very memorable scenes, including the ending! "},{"Title":"Amazing effects for the time","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A scientist develops a drug that makes him invisible, but it has the unfortunate side effect of driving him insane and turning him into an arrogant murderous megalomaniac bent on world domination. He starts by terrorizing a small village.Though not the best movie of the classic Universal horrors, The Invisible Man ranks among my favorites mostly because of its humorous moments and its incredible, for the time, special effects. The scenes where we see the Invisible Man through his actions and how we don't see him as he removes the bandages to show nothing, really are impressive.Claude Rains is excellent as the murderous scientist and portrays his violent character very well. Glori Stuart is beautiful as his fiancée. Henry Travers, who I know better from his role as Clarence in It's a Wonderful Life, portrays her father, also a scientist, well.The scene where the Invisible Man is escaping from Kemp's house surrounded by policemen and starts to sing as we see a pair of pants skipping down the street is just hilarious, and moments of humor like this offset the more violent and murderous aspects of this film.This film has held up well through the years and still entertains. "},{"Title":"A Classic in every sense of the word","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Invisible Man is one of the best contributions the genre has ever made.**SPOILERS**Getting out of a raging snowstorm, Jack Griffin, (Claude Rains) takes shelter in a small pub before returning to Dr. Cranley, (Henry Travers) and his daughter Flora, (Gloria Stuart) who were conducting experiments together. When he reveals to his friends that he has become invisible, the others slowly start to realize that he has also become slightly insane following a series of weird rants and several killings around town. As the police become convinced that he has become invisible and use every part of their imagination and arsenal to trap him, Dr. Cranley, his assistant Kemp, (William Harrigan) and Flora race to find a way to bring his visibility back before the police get to him.The Good News This is one of the greatest horror films of all time. The special effects in the film are absolutely amazing, especially when you take into consideration that they were created nearly seventy years ago. The effects are used liberally, whenever the scene called for it, giving you a sense of just how confident the film-makers were of their ability to maintain the illusion of invisibility. Virtually inventing methods of composite mattes in film made the invisible man truly come alive and real. Some of the scenes showing a shirt running around seemingly by itself, yet obviously containing a man and not being hung by wires, and more difficult ones showing him unwrapping the bandages in a mirror were among the most demanding shots ever done at the time. Even inanimate objects look good. Bicycles ride on their own, lines of footprints appear in the snow, cigarettes are lit and smoke puffed in mid-air. Although there are a few trick that lose their luster today, it is still a remarkable achievement to the technical prowess of the effects. The effects are not only used to build suspense and inspire fear, they are used to create a few comic moments as well. One of the best is when a screaming woman runs down a side road, pursued by an empty pair of pants skipping along while the invisible man sings a catchy tune as he goes is a classic of the genre. Another one occurs when a police inspector states that the invisible man is a figment of the townsfolk's imagination. Upon quipping of the matter, the invisible man tosses an inkwell into the inspector's face. Later moments of hilarity, like a cash drawer carrying itself out of a bank, or the short rampage of pranks in the town, this provides some nice laughs along with the chills. Just as entertaining as any of the impressive visual effects are the interactions of the supporting characters. Their dealings with the surreal situations are not only humorous, but quite believable and do a good job of playing off of the invisible man when he isn't there, even when they have to simulate the effects of physical attacks or react to the sound of his voice. The practical and visual effects are simply superb throughout the film. This is all the more enjoyable for how creative and exciting it is. The police and townspeople also stretch their wits to confront this new condition and come up with an impressive array of solutions. Everything from spray-paint to freshly tarred roads to fishing nets to listening for the sound of sneezes. The film teems with ideas, and these concrete details add credibility to the story and make it enjoyably complex. Coupled with some fantastic pacing and outstanding action scenes, this is a classic in every way it can be thought of.The Bad News There isn't a whole lot at all to dislike. The romance angle between the Invisible Man and his fiancée didn't work at all. There isn't much chemistry, and it's a hard time understanding what she saw in him at all. Even before he became invisible, he apparently ignored her most of the time. This mostly seemed to be coupled into the film so that there would be a female lead rather than an actual reason to be included. The invisible man also seems to have some superhuman abilities. He seems remarkably immune to the cold, despite the fact that it is winter, and he is buck naked whenever he goes about invisible. He does mention the discomfort a few times, but for the most part he runs around, or even lurks quietly, without any regard to the weather. Either the winter climate in England is remarkably mild or they just ignore that point most of the time. It would have better to see that angle explored a bit more as well as the issues of food, sleep, and shelter. Aside from these relatively excusable problems, this is a real classic film with a lot to like about it.The Final Verdict With a couple of easily avoidable problems that don't matter much at all, this is a real classic of the genre and is one of the genre's best contributions. Containing everything from laugh-out-loud moments to surprising dread, there's something for everyone here, and is recommended as soon as possible.Today's Rating-PG Violence "},{"Title":"Movie Odyssey Review #091 The Invisible Man","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 091 The Invislble Man (1933) - released 11/13/1933, viewed 5/30/07.The Department of Justice purchases Alcatraz, planning to turn the former military barracks into a maximum security prison. Albert Einstein arrives in America as a refugee from Germany. President Roosevelt unveils the Civil Works Administration to create jobs for Americans.DOUG Another installment of Universal's monster series features the debut of Claude Rains as the titular Invisible Man. Like 'Frankenstein,' this one starts with the plot already underway, which I liked; Skinner is already invisible, and is killing his way to a cure. Claude Rains came in to movies quite late; he had just turned 44 when this film was released. His theater training seems to come in handy here; since we never see Skinner's face, he has to get a lot across with just his voice and his body language (mostly his voice). The special effects are certainly dated (it's always fairly obvious how each effects shot was achieved, i.e. wires, processed screen), but they are still quite effective. I didn't really dig the idea of Griffin's madness being blamed on the drugs; in the book, his madness is attributed more to his just being invisible, and it is hinted that he was crazy even when he was normal. I also didn't like how they tried to make him sympathetic at the end but (SPOILER) it was cool how the drug wears off after he dies, and we finally get to see Claude. Una O'Conner (who was also in 'Adventures of Robin Hood') plays Mrs. Hall, the innkeeper's wife, whose way of acting frightened is by screaming at the top of her lungs and, if possible, jumping up and down on the nearest table several times. She definitely spoils some of the scary parts. Overall, a competent installment in Universal's line-up, and certainly worth checking out for those interested in classic horror films.KEVIN A very enjoyable bad movie. The latest installment in Universal's monster series isn't as good as the previous installments, but Claude Rains' theatrically loud-and-nasty performance makes it all worthwhile. I've found that when it comes to science fiction villains, it is sometimes laughably implausible that they are able to elude defeat for so long (I am reminded of every villain on TV's Smallville). When Griffin is telling Kemp his plans to kill people, I couldn't help wondering, Why doesn't Kemp just knock him out while he can still see him. It takes Griffin a few minutes to get undressed. One scene has a number of police men discussing things in a room where they are all smoking. One mentions that the Invisible Man could be in the room right now. Another should have said, Smoke more, then. It was kind of annoying how Griffin is able to elude capture for the entire film, considering he is so malicious and kills so recklessly. The special effects weren't yet available to make his capture more exciting. I heard that H.G. Wells, who was 65 at the time, was impressed with the effects, but I wonder if his original novel has images and situations that would require more advanced effects. As for Claude Rains and his memorable over-the-top performance, he definitely had to chew tons of scenery since it is impossible to see his face, so he has to act mostly with his voice and sometimes with his fully-covered body. It is strange that he has done so many great roles in so many classic films, and yet it is this film with which his name is always associated.Last film I'm No Angel (1933). Next film Little Women (1933). "},{"Title":"A great Universal classic; well acted and well made","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Whale is famous for Frankenstein and Bride of Frankenstein. He is very little acknowledged for The Invisible Man which in my opinion ranks up there with the Frankenstein movies. He manages to include some of his excellent dark humour with some excellent acting and truly amazing special effects. Claude Rains is The Invisible Man and he really gives a spectacular performance. Rains really acts the insanity as much he can, almost to a humorous level. Gloria Stuart, William Harrigan and Henry Travers give competent support, although Stuart forces her emotions a bit.The special effects are amazing, it's a wonder how they accomplished such realistic effects back in the 30's. At times you may actually believe that Claude Rains is actually invisible. Kudos to the effects team.James Whale is one of the greatest directors. He really creates great atmosphere in his movies and I love the way he blends humour into his movies. Although this may not seem scary or horrific anymore there are one or two scenes I found genuinely scary and that is all because of Whale's talented direction. I don't think anyone else could have done it so well.4/5 "},{"Title":"A Hitchcocky Kind of Horror","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While many reviewers point out that the movie is not all that scary, it does convey terror. Especially if you put yourself in the shoes of Kemp, the old friend of the invisible man, the psychological horror is all there, like in a Hitchcock movie.When we see this movie, and others in its generation, we are impressed with how short it is, a product of the days when there were two movies, a cartoon and news releases at the theater. The movie makers had to tell their story in a hurry. Which is why things seem to progress a little too rapidly and they get the invisible man where they want him, it seems, just to end the movie on time.Another point (also true of many movies of the era) which may be welcome by some viewers, is the lack of some kind of deeper message which movie-goers seem to seek more these days. A man turns invisible. He's evil (but good at heart). The country turns to a panic. He kills people. They get him, and he dies. The End. As a modern movie- goer, I didn't believe that they would get him so soon in the barn, and then the movie was over five minutes later!Adding the empty feeling is the presence of a pointless heroine whose only expression is sorrow and moaning. I'm glad she got a reprise in the Titanic. She really was a good actress!Otherwise, it is reasonably good viewing, and I kind of LIKED the shrieky old lady with her cockney accent. "},{"Title":"An entertaining yarn","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is another classic from Universal and as usual with them,it has proved to be an influential movie with ground breaking special effects.OK,so maybe you can see the strings sometimes when objects are being moved by the Invisible Man.But things were being tried here that opened the way for the brilliant special effects of today and credit is due.Claude Rains stars as the Invisible Man in what could have been seen as a thankless role given the fact that he is covered in bandages for the vast majority of the film.It is only at the very end that we actually see him.It is to the actor's credit that he is very impressive and makes the role his own.Of course,the voice is all important and Rains' fits the bill to a tee with his rasping,angry retorts and his manic giggling.His voice reminded me at times of Colin Clive,and I believe that he was actually up for the part but turned it down.The most surprising thing was the pure evil of the Invisible Man.He was nothing short of a psychotic murderer,changed by the potions he had taken.There is the mass murder of the people on the train that he causes to derail,the brutal killing of the policeman that he batters over the head and then there was the taunting and brutal slaying of his ex colleague.Rains does a splendid job at portraying the nastiness of his character and clearly had a great time doing so.It is also fun spotting now familiar faces such as Walter Brennen,John Carradine and Dwight Frye in early roles.One slight down side for me was the screaming of Una O' Connor which got a bit much at times.This is an entertaining movie that is funny,sadistic and well directed by James Whale.Give it a try. "},{"Title":"H. G. Wells deserves more credit!","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although there is much to admire about this wonderful film, including the acting, direction, and stunning (even today) special effects, not enough credit is given to H. G. Wells, the author of the novel on which this movie was based. Many of what are considered typical James Whale touches are actually in the original book, including the humor (a description of a pair of pants dancing along a country lane all by themselves) and the mundane requirements of invisibility (keeping the bottoms of your feet clean so people won't detect them, remaining hidden after meals until the food has digested --- ugh!!). Not to take anything away from Whale, of course --- few people could have adapted the book so masterfully. But much credit for the brilliance of THE INVISIBLE MAN should go to Wells, who certainly had one of the greatest literary imaginations of all time. "}{"Title":"The Invisible Man","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One could say that Claude Rains' invisible man is just as much the Universal Studios monster as any of the rest of them for his madness is so unhinged and wacky he even turns over a woman's baby carriage in a nearby village during quite a temperamental outburst.Claude Rains stars as a scientist who invents this formula to create invisibility. The problem is that he uses a certain chemical which affects sanity and creates this ever-growing madness that quickly unleashes a violent wave to just about anyone that draws near. Imagine the difficult position for the police who must try and stop him and the doctor's rampage of violence. He even causes a train to collapse over a cliff and throws two hunters(..looking for him)over also. He wishes for Dr. Arthur Kemp(William Harrington), a colleague, to assist him in his murdering ways and ultimately to gain wealth and prestige through the power he can wield being invisible. Kemp is in an unfortunate situation because he has little choice but to because Rains' doctor can kill him without his knowledge. Only his lady love Flora(Gloria Stuart of James Whale's film The Old Dark House)can perhaps tap into the once human part that might still slightly exist inside this evil shell. The police will seek the help of Dr. Cranley(Henry Travers)who was Rain's employer for guidance in how to stop the man's rage of terror.James Whale really brings a great film together using stunning special effects considering when it was made. He infuses humor into the piece, including the screeching Una O'Conner as a hotel proprietor's snooping wife. The invisibility is quite a showcase and we feel and see the very terror that can wake from it being used on the wrong person not in the right state for such an experiment. Claude Rains has quite a challenge..he has to make his presence known without being shown on screen at all until the very end and express himself through voice only. Whale is up to the task of creating the difficult part of having this man go throughout the film invisible through cunning and wit. The dialogue is key and the pacing of the film is excellent. This film may very well be Whale's true best film. I think it is. "},{"Title":"I think I'm in love with this movie!","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't think I could come up with enough words for how much I loved this film, I mean really, I don't think I've had such a great time watching a movie for a while. The other day I was watching a VHS of mine and the Universal Picture monster collection came up and the Invisible Man was one of the selections, I had never seen this movie before. So I went out and rented all the Universal monster movies and I thought this was going to be the most boring one, oh, boy was I wrong. I can't tell you how much fun I had watching this movie, between the ultimate laughter I was screaming and then the actual screams that I got from the scary story that this was, I loved this movie. Claude Rains stole the show and was so powerful, his voice had the perfect amount of comedy, insanity and desperation, he played the role so perfectly, I could never imagine anyone else telling this great story.A mysterious stranger, his face swathed in bandages and his eyes obscured by dark spectacles, goes to a small village demanding a room at an inn. Never leaving his quarters, the stranger demands that the staff leave him completely alone. However, his dark secret is slowly revealed to his suspicious landlady and the villagers he is an invisible man. The invisible stranger is revealed as Dr. Jack Griffin, a scientist who has discovered the secret of invisibility while conducting a series of tests with a strange new drug. He returns to the laboratory of his mentor, Dr. Cranley, where he reveals his secret to his fiancée Flora Cranley , Dr. Cranley's daughter, and to his one-time partner Dr. Kemp. There he confesses his thirst for the power and the lust he has to destroy the world.Now one of the big surprises for me was the effects, I figured that they were going to keep the Invisible Man in cloth the whole time or maybe movie a couple of things with strings, I didn't expect much. But when I saw the Invisible Man take off the bandages to see nothing underneath, in a time before CGI, this was absolutely incredible. To see all the things movie so flawlessly, I can't believe that they were able to pull this off, bravo to the crew who made that possible because in my generation, all the special effects films I have seen and my jaw was open the whole time I was watching this movie. You also go from laughing to a hilarious beginning to being horrified when you realize that you can go easily mad when there is such power that you can take advantage of. I loved loved loved this movie, I highly recommend it on every level that you can enjoy a movie and if you don't like this movie, there's something wrong with you. The Invisible Man is not only a classic, but just a great movie in general.10/10 "},{"Title":"Camp Classic","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is very hard to judge this film on its merits as a horror movie, because there is very little that is genuinely scary.However, it is worth seeing for several reasons the innovations of its 'invisible man' special effects (impressive for its era)...the wry, campy wit that James Whale injects into it...not to mention an interesting assemblage of supporting players (Una O'Connor nearly steals the movie as the hysterical innkeeper's wife).There are serious flaws with the plot. Considering how frail the Invisible Man appears to be in real life, one would think he was imbued with superhuman powers to elude the police for so long and kill so many people. And yet he wasn't. All he was, was lucky. It really doesn't make sense that he was able to cause so much mayhem without getting caught. I kept thinking, as I watched, are the police and his victims really that stupid.Some of the effects were a bit silly, the train wreck for one. Watching the giant water droplets when the toy train falls into the miniature pond should give you a chuckle. And some of the acting....seriously, I love Gloria Stuart and have had the pleasure of interviewing her, but to say she was overwrought in this role is actually being kind.And yet, it is the over-the-top aspect, including a wonderfully loony Claude Raines, that makes this totally enjoyable. It's very campy and far more likely to elicit smiles than shrieks.I purchased the DVD, but have yet to access the extras. I have previously purchased Whale's 'Bride Of Frankenstein' and 'The Old Dark House.' He is one director definitely worth watching. Especially for fans of movie history.  "},{"Title":"Good but not great (spoilers)","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The opening scenes of The Invisible Man are supposed to be mysterious, as a strange figure in a long coat enters a pub, his face covered by bandages and dark glasses, in a shadow cast by his hat.  As he asks for a room and quietly settles into it, the regulars at the bar discuss who he could be.  They should have paid more attention to the opening credits, because for us there's no mystery; he's the invisible man.  This makes the build-up to his removing the bandages seem drawn out, making us wait for a surprise we're already expecting.  But when it finally comes, the effects are worth the wait.  I felt something that I hadn't felt since Forrest Gump; I wondered how it was done.  The effects in Titanic were stunning, the Battle Droids in The Phantom Menace were great, but I never really questioned how they were achieved.  Since Gump or Jurassic Park, we know computers can do pretty much anything, so the mystery has gone.  I was bored by the effects of Hollow Man, but amazed by the effects of The Invisible Man because, for the most part, the mystery remained.There are countless movies that have great effects but a lousy story, so it is a relief to find that The Invisible Man is not one of them.  But there are times when it comes close.  As Jack Griffin (Claude Rains) works to reverse his invisibility, the constant interruptions from his landlady and the gossiping of the drinkers beneath him become too much, and he reveals an unfortunate side-effect to his experiment; he's gone mad.  As he begins to take off his clothes and terrorise the rest of the cast, there is a line delivered with such understatement and lack of surprise that I turned against the movie there and then `He's invisible, if he takes the rest of his clothes off we'll never catch him.'He does, and they don't.  He escapes from the pub and begins to terrorise the whole village, talking incessantly as he goes.  This is one of the major flaws of the movie; he never shuts up.  As he reveals his plans for world domination, we are supposed to be scared by his madness but it seemed only laughable.  Rains has an expensive voice, and he sounds far too gentlemanly to be taken seriously as a man of evil.I stopped sulking over that awful line in time for him to prove that he really was evil, as he set out on his murder spree, and from here the movie redeems itself.  It begins to make the most of the idea, as people across the country are scared that he could be in their houses, and thousands of people volunteer to help hunt him down.  By the end of the movie, Rains has made you feel sorry for him as he turns to a rather pathetic figure - some excellent acting as it was done only with his voice, his face still hidden by his bandages.The overall impression is that this should have been better, that it somehow manages to be less than the sum of its parts.  There are the great effects which give it credibility, a strong central performance by Rains, a good comic turn by Una O'Connor as the landlady, and a plot that realises its potential.  I can't really understand why I don't like it more. "},{"Title":"Started Off Rather Slowly","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film starts off with a man trudging through a snowstorm and arriving at an inn in a small town somewhere in England. When he arrives all of the guests notice that he is completely covered from head to foot but most don't particularly find it all that unusual since the weather is extremely cold outside. However, once he has reserved a room the innkeeper's wife discovers that his entire face is covered with bandages when she brings him his supper. This causes some rumors among the people in the pub but they eventually die down. After staying at the inn for about a week he suddenly loses his temper at the innkeeper's wife which causes the innkeeper to evict him. This sets off a chain of events that results in a murderous rampage by him which soon terrorizes the entire area. Now, rather than detail the entire story and risk ruining the movie for those who haven't seen it I will just say that while it started off rather slowly it really picked up after the first 20 minutes or so. Likewise, although the script was a bit clumsy it had a generous amount of humor which I thought blended in rather well with the horror and resulted in a fairly interesting movie overall. All in all I rate it as slightly above average. "},{"Title":"My Thoughts","Date":"5 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" First I would like to comment on the effects in this movie. I feel that the effects in this movie were amazing for there time. I also loved the way that it began with the wind blowing really set up for that creepy feeling. And when he walked into the bar and the music stops, I thought was shot very well. one character that I liked was the innkeeper's wife her over acting hysterical crying and worrying was hilarious. It added a touch of comedy to a creepy movie. Over all I personally enjoyed this movie, most likely because I don't like horror movies from this time and even though this movie is a horror movie it's not really that scary. "},{"Title":"Visible Acting","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In this adaptation of the classic Wells story, a scientist comes up with a chemical formula to make himself invisible. Rather than heading to the nearest women's locker room, he goes on a murderous rampage. As with Whale's other films of the period, this one is visually impressive, including the special effects. It's meant to be a thriller, but plays out like a campy comedy. The acting is overly theatrical, particularly O'Connor as the screaming wife of an innkeeper. Rains makes his film debut, but his face is seen for only a few seconds. Although he later developed into a fine actor, he overdoes the mad scientist routine here, complete with the maniacal laugh. "},{"Title":"Great novel, OK movie","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think the special effects were incredible for the thirtys. I think that Claude Rains was just plain great. I think that movie was funny at times. Guy is running invisible in the street, runs by this old guy, grabs his hat. Evening grandfather,(he throws it into the water) how do you do. Police officer runs out of inn. City guy whats the matter with him? Police officer He's invisible, thats whats the matter with him. I think the rest of the acting was kinda bad. One scene, police officer with gun is watching the invisible man threaten people, and he doesn't shoot the jerk. "},{"Title":"Great Sci-Fi","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Invisible Man, The (1933) **** (out of 4) James Whale's classic about a scientist (Claude Rains) who turns himself invisible and slowly starts to go mad. This is probably, at least, my twentieth viewing and I might have enjoyed this film more this time than ever before. Before starting the movie I was think about all the Universal monsters and for some reason it came into my head that this one here was the most threatening due to being invisible and with that mindset I found myself really drawn more into the movie and seeing a lot of things for the first time. Of all the monsters this one here is the most deranged as well. I mean, just look at the scene where he kills everyone on the train. The special effects are still terrific and Rains performance, even though it's mostly just his voice, remains powerful. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Special Effects","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Considering that this film was made in the 30's, the special effects are incredible. However, being from a younger generation I found some of the over dramatics very irritating, to the point that I wished one character, played by Una O'Connor, would become one of The Invisible Man's victims. It was the bad acting that made the film drag along for me. But I do think that the special effects mean that this film should be seen, as well as the ever brilliant Claude Raines. Special Effects 10/10 (for the period) Claude Raines 9/10 Other Acting 4/10 "}{"Title":"The Invisible Man (1933)","Date":"3 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Invisible Man is a story about a scientist who creates a chemical mixture in order for him to become invisible. One of the ingredients in the mixture causes him to go crazy, and he soon thrives for power. The drug also caused him to kill multiple people. In the end of the movie the Invisible Man was surrounded and shot, and later died in the hospital with his girlfriend by his side. The story line of the movie is very similar to many of Universal's other monster movies. You learn of the monster, the monster does some evil deeds, and in the end the monster is captured or killed. I did not enjoy this film very much, i kind of found it silly. This may be because my generation is used to movies like Paranormal Activity. I give this film a 7 out of 10, mainly because I am just not that into old monster movies. "},{"Title":"Great Special Effects For The Era Make This Movie Better Than It Otherwise Would Have Been","Date":"2 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the early Universal horror films that I've never seen before and so I watched it with some degree of interest, with comparisons to the other movies in the collection being inevitable. Of the big name movies in that collection. I'd rank this behind Dracula and Frankenstein but ahead of The Mummy.The Invisible Man has a good story, and an interesting psychological reflection. Dr. Griffin (played - if you can call it that since he only appears at he end of the movie as Griffin's dead body - by Claude Rains) has discovered the secret of invisibility. Unfortunately, the drugs used to accomplish that affect his mind, and the reality of invisibility itself essentially makes him unaccountable for his actions. Given free reign, how far will he go? What exactly will he do? That was an interesting reflection - and Griffin goes a long way indeed! For the period in which it was made (1933) the movie has very effective special effects, portraying an invisible Griffin in various states of undress, with his clothes walking around without anyone in them. I was actually surprised by the quality of the effects in a 1933 movie. Still, this isn't without problems.The performances seemed a bit stilted and artificial. No one seemed to be speaking their lines. When the actors spoke they seemed to be giving speeches; it wasn't coming across as natural. Too often, things seemed overly exaggerated. I realize that director James Whale (more famous for Frankenstein) was trying to inject a sort of dark humour into the story, but too often even the humour seemed forced rather than natural. I also thought that the addition of Flora (played by Gloria Stuart) as Griffin's love interest (as I understand it, the character wasn't in the book) was superfluous. She added very little of substance to the story. I will say that Rains, playing essentially a disembodied voice, was very effective in letting us hear Griffin's ever increasing madness, although he, too, sometimes seemed to be giving speeches rather than simply talking.This is a good movie, although not without problems. It's not the best of the Universal horror movies from the era, but it's certainly worth watching. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Acquaintance by the contours","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The invisible man (1933) directed by James Whale was a must in the empty conception of a speculative inhuman kind of specie, whose humanity was at stake for artistic purposes and only when its remains were accidentally burned inside a phantasmagoria as house dig in darkness. Spirit's imagined it for the sake of the mad minds before selfish way of life at the time, as an invention that starts well but perished with his inventor as trick for animated substances. The book of H.G.Wells is from one generation before, but already on the XX Century, where it was possible theoretically imagining the transmigration of souls, as well it seems for the didactic fellow, whom the writer himself was at the bottom of his conviction - transmitting it for a popular audience -, as it was known in England during the past century of accidental burnings on the factories... Whale as director was sensible to this kind of experiments and speculative entertainment of fake science, namely by pure coincidence in the same year of the burning of Reichstag in Germany, by someone manipulated as the young delinquent Van der Lubbe whose figure was different of a mommy with black glasses as here. The viewer amazingly had an acquaintance strongly bizarre by the contours of the thing, illuminated as a candle moving from the fire in a dark shape, that vanished finally by the intervention of someone out of that reality of lights and shadows in darkness. The horrified people watching the blaze inside the house, understood that carbon and lack of breathing during the fire in such a climax, where if it was as assisting the damned thing and had reflecting the situation of unexpected revelation from a kind of animism. From anything else like them and also seemingly responsible for the existence or not of human beings, in such a contagion till the next occurrence by mistaken fearless and as also in simultaneous, why not reflecting even the state of mind of a given collectivity before somnambulism. The surprise that took this visible man masked was a kind of machination as entertainment for the crowd. Linked with panic in a moment in which the law of Lynch was too much practiced anywhere in civilized countries of the time, at the place of the lack of credibility of institutions and the darkness illuminated by the fire was also the so-called popular judgment of the streets. Plenty of chauvinism against collective fear before the criminal mind of any suspected neighbor  the man with undercover figure by a scarf and a hat, enters into a bear house during Winter, as seemingly in his strange behavior a kind of cold because the snow on his shoulders, before the suspicious employee behind the balcony empty of alcohol bottles on the wall, it is a sight nonetheless a strange portrait of his human condition in abnormality and his situation. Given hard times of persecution of other nature at the boundary of dramatic comedy in an almost segregated location for such a maverick. Insight a tolerated segregation as it was also contaminated by radioactive rays, before an epidemic of hysterical and collective behavior from the crowd. "},{"Title":"Scared Straight...To Sleep","Date":"7 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Made during the heart of the original horror boom, The Invisible Man was a personal letdown. First, on a positive note, the special effects in the movie were really impressive. I was expecting obvious props and awkward camera angles to depict the main character's invisibility. Seeing such a nice effect render Claude Rains invisible was a pleasant surprise. However, in my opinion, the acting ruined the movie for me. Seemingly, every time a woman other than the Invisible Man's love interest opened her mouth, it was to issue an over-the-top scream. That, along with the Invisible Man's over-acted maniacal laugh, made the film more comical than anything else. The sets fit the story well, and I enjoyed the way the depicted the way the Invisible Man made himself visible, but the over-acting was too much. To the film's credit, it was much better than Paul Verhoeven's 2000 re-vamp, Hollow Man, (starring Kevin Bacon). Still, I expected more from James Whale after seeing Frankenstein. "},{"Title":"Unfortunately In The Second Tier of Universal Monsters","Date":"3 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A scientist (Claude Rains) finds a way of becoming invisible, but in doing so, he becomes murderously insane.I have to really take issue with Universal, or the critics, or somebody. I do not know who decided it, but somehow the Invisible Man got second tier to Dracula, Frankenstein, the Wolf Man and the Mummy. And that is a dirty shame. This film is top notch all the way.James Whale (Frankenstein) is an incredible director and needs much more credit than he gets from the general, non-horror public. And Claude Rains is fantastic here when he is actually on screen. Whoever did special effects, though, deserves the real credit. Although the plot is thrilling and suspenseful, the way the invisibility is pulled off is years ahead of its time. I was impressed.At some future point, I want to see this film a second and third time and really expand this review. But the bottom line is simple do not stop at Dracula and Frankenstein. This film is the real deal and one of Universal's best 1930s features. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but dated","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To start with a positive note. The film did keep to the basic storyline of the original book. Apart from a half-hearted attempt to create a romantic interest, the film followed the plot of the book, with only minor changes, generally for the worst. Unfortunately, and perhaps inevitably in a short film, the Invisible Man's decline into madness was not shown- he was basically mad at the start.Another reviewer has credited the filmmakers with having carefully thought out the consequences of invisibility- for instance the dirt on the man's feet. Unfortunately these intelligent touches were all from the original book. The special effects were satisfactory for the period, though not really ground-breaking.I don't normally criticise an old film for being dated. A film belongs to the era in which it was made, and shouldn't be compared with those of different eras. Unfortunately even compared with the seminal horror films of the early 1930's the Invisible Man does have some obvious weaknesses. Principally in the acting and the period feel.Virtually all of the principals overacted. Apart from giving the film a very dated and theatrical air, it also undermined the megalomania of the Invisible Man. ALL the characters seemed to be going nuts.The Hollywood England setting was perhaps inevitable, but the various Irish/French/?Russian accents standing in for English became hilarious at times. The American actors should have just used their normal accents if they were so bad at an English one.An important film, but not as good as it could have been. "}]