[{"Title":"A Timeless Piece Of Americana","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" From the opening titles displaying a snow covered Curier and Ives - like print underscored by a melody played on a tinkling spinet, this 1933 version of Louisa Alcott's beloved novel holds one in thrall. A Civil War era tale of a New England family's joys and tribulations centers on the March household  mother Marmee and her four daughters; Meg, Amy, Beth and Jo. The screenplay centers on each girl's commitment to showing her father proud, father being a minister gone of f to war to meet the spiritual needs of the Yankee soldiers. Buoyed by their mother  the ever perfect Spring Byington  the girls learn the meaning of giving and sacrifice with a jollity that may be off-putting to 21st century viewers; but stick with it, for what this picture offers is nothing less than real life at its most joyful and painful. After a series of seemingly inconsequential events, the girls' placid lives are disrupted when a sibling takes ill. This section of the movie is riveting, due to the superb direction of George Cukor and Katherine Hepburn as the tomboyish Jo. The scene where Jo retreats to the attic, worried sick over the fate of her ill sister, is gut wrenching. Hepburn was just hitting her stride as a movie actress when this film came out. Not the typical glamour girl of the time, her odd beauty and diction translated into a strange alchemy when projected on a movie screen  she is unforgettable. The other actresses acquit themselves beautifully but the picture belongs to Hepburn. Lest you think all is dour and dull, this movie offers so much that is truly entertaining  a heartwarming homecoming scene; the March girls presenting a play in their living room to the consternation and delight of invited neighbors and several moments involving a cantankerous but lovable aunt  the ubiquitous Edna May Oliver . The movie is properly accoutered with lovely interiors and authentic production design and costumes  gabled houses and ivy covered porches; hoop skirts and muffs . The entire production is like a gift wrapped edition of the novel turned to celluloid! The icing on the cake, so to speak, is Max Steiner's spare, evocative music score, employing Beth's piano playing for family get togethers, parties etc., and orchestral commentary for dramatic, comic and action sequences. Only six years had passed since sound recording had revolutionized the film industry, but this early talkie uses the new technology very adeptly; although camera movement is minimal, the editing is very fluid. The sound, courtesy of old Western Electric, is fine, especially on the recent DVD release, where both aural and visual elements have been restored, assuring a great presentation. When a movie has the power to reach out over a span of seven decades and touch jaded hearts in another century, that is a sign of a classic. LITTLE WOMEN is a great American film. "},{"Title":"Wonderful film with a glorious performance from Hepburn","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  LITTLE WOMEN is quite possibly the one book written post-Shakespeare that has the most number of film adaptations to its credit. Louisa May Alcott's novel, after all, offers a fine host of roles, particularly for women--of the March girls alone, there's the eldest sister Meg; the frail but saintly Beth; spoilt baby of the family Amy; and last but most certainly not least, spunky tomboy Jo. (This is not to forget the smaller, but still integral, supporting roles of Laurie, Mr Lawrence, Professor Bhaer, and of course, Marmee March.) The story is an engaging one too, following the lives of the March sisters--in particular Jo--as they grow and deal with change, with love, and even with death. Even though the story itself is tied to a particular setting in the 1860s (and even then the historical setting is almost peripheral), the characters and their relationships with one another--siblings, parent/children, friends and lovers--are simply timeless. That's probably why the novel has seen as many attempts to have it committed to film as it has.I hate to make a snap judgement, having not seen any more versions of Little Women than the 1994 one, but I believe that this version, made by RKO studios and starring a delightful Katharine Hepburn as Jo March, has every right to be considered the definitive film version of the Alcott novel. The writing, for one thing, is exceptional. Although never quite the novel's substitute, it condenses the book marvellously, sketching the characters and relationships of the girls quickly and efficiently, and never skipping over the best parts of the book (for example, Laurie's profession of love for Jo). Of course the screenplay will never measure up to the book--it is rare that a film could surpass the wealth of detail and beauty of description available from the written word. But nothing's perfect, and this screenplay, by Sarah Y. Mason and Victor Heerman, is as close as an adaptation can get while retaining its own distinct flavour as a film. As for the casting, I have very few complaints about it, since Hepburn--all angles and attitude, all loud-voiced and tomboyish--is perfect as Jo and is ably supported by Frances Dee as Meg, Henry Stephenson as the sweetly paternal Mr. Laurence and Douglass Montgomery as Laurie (though he plays the role a tad too fey for my liking). Special praise must be reserved for both Jean Parker (Beth March) and Paul Lukas (Professor Fritz Bhaer) Parker for bringing an impossibly sweet and lovely character to life, and making the audience genuinely grieve for Beth when she takes her leave of her family; Lukas for managing to avoid making Professor Bhaer a hard, frightening man with whom the audience simply cannot imagine Jo being in love (as is *my* impression from the book). I was rather disappointed with Joan Bennett as Amy, and that is of course partly attributable to the fact that the character isn't particularly sympathetic in the novel either, so it isn't really fair to expect a miracle from Bennett. Still, Bennett seemed to me to be the most lifeless of the sisters--one might think this an unfair judgement, since anyone acting opposite the powder keg that is Katharine Hepburn could easily be deemed lifeless if he or she weren't able to hold his/her own against her. Still, the arguably less well-known Frances Dee and Jean Parker had no problem with it. In the final analysis though, there is no doubt that this film, however 'ensemble' the cast, belongs only to Hepburn. Her performance, although somewhat mannered and brassy at times (not necessarily simultaneously, thank goodness!), is nothing short of brilliant. She's sad, she's funny, she's touching, and as she does in her best roles, she transcends her own (pretty formidable!) character to breathe life into Jo as only she can. Witness the simple scene in which Jo breaks down, alone, at night, after having sold her hair for her mother's travel expenses... or the scene when Jo truly believes that scarlet fever is going to take Beth from her, and she trudges up into her own attic, the weight of the world on her shoulders, and collapses into tears. There is also nothing more charming than Hepburn as she gallops down the stairs in a frock which she burnt by leaning against the fireplace, or when she runs like a free, untamed spirit through the woods when chased by Laurie. Strange, sweet, funny Jo--this complex combination of jealous child and strong woman, stubbornly refusing to relinquish the familiar while adamantly placing her family above her own interests always... it really is a role that seems to have been written for Hepburn, just as she seems to have been born to play it. It is perhaps for LITTLE WOMEN as much as for MORNING GLORY (released in the same year) that Hepburn won her first Oscar in 1933. Nobody photographs Hepburn as flatteringly as her good friend and director George Cukor either, so some of the close-up shots of her in LITTLE WOMEN are simply breathtaking in having managed to capture her beauty, her youth and her personality all at once.Nothing about this film is perfect; after all, perfection is too high a standard to be applied to adaptations (and most other films!). But LITTLE WOMEN really does have a little something to offer everybody--a sweet, timeless story about love and growing up and family. It's something that everyone can relate to, and that's probably more than enough.  "},{"Title":"Satisfying Adaptation With a Strong Cast","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" This satisfying movie adaptation of Little Women features a strong cast and a production that was quite solid for 1933. While a glance at the story outline might give the impression that it is simplistic or childlike, that is far from the case. The novel offers well-defined characters and many situations that bring out worthwhile insights into the characters and into life in general. While neither this nor the other movie versions of the story have the same thematic depth, this version effectively presents enough of the material in a thoughtful and entertaining way.Katherine Hepburn heads the cast, and gives plenty of life to Jo. Naturally she gets the main focus, but the other sisters and the secondary characters also get some good moments, and most of them get a chance to steal a scene or two. Henry Stephenson and Douglas Montgomery get a number of good scenes as the March family's neighbors. Edna May Oliver is well cast, and it's only too bad that she did not get a couple more scenes. Paul Lukas makes Professor Baer come alive. By no means least are Jean Parker, Frances Dee, and Joan Bennett as Beth, Meg, and Amy.It is often easy to tell when the movie was made, most especially because of the sound. But actually the production is better technically and artistically than are most movies of the early 1930s. Several of the sets are particularly well done, creating just the right atmosphere for their scenes. Director George Cukor puts it all together nicely.This is the kind of movie that is generally out of style at present, because it lacks the kind of self-indulgent material and the self-absorbed style that so unduly impress many of today's movie fans. But the only genuine weakness is that it has a few technical limitations, most of which are common to many films of its era.What this adaptation does offer is a sympathetic and sometimes insightful look at the lives of some ordinary but strong persons, who are brought to life by a good cast and a director who seemed himself to care about the characters. "},{"Title":"Great version for the performances of Hepburn and Lukas","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" See this version of course, for the definitive Jo March in Kate Hepburn. She is all angles, awkwardness and tom-boyishness, while gradually becoming this graceful young woman. It's my favorite performance of hers, and that's saying something. The screenplay is first-rate, winning the Oscar that year, and most of the actors are just fine, with Spring Byington a notable exception as Marmee. (Director George Cukor did not want her in the film, and he knew what he was talking about.) But the wistful, gentle Beth of Jean Parker and Edna May Oliver's crotchety Aunt March are awfully good . I've always been especially taken by the performance of Professor Bhaer in this version. Portrayed by an utterly charming Paul Lukas, he embodies the professor with a three-dimensionality that Louisa May Alcott didn't seem to want to bother with. His scene where he is criticizing the writings of Hepburn's Jo is extraordinary in how subtly it changes tone--from critic , to would-be suitor. It ends with a look of longing from Lukas, that only a director like Cukor would hold so long. Not like the 1994 version with a far too handsome Gabriel Byrne showing none of the uncertainty that an older poor scholar should show while falling in love with a young woman. Great stuff. Great director. Just a shame that the sound quality isn't up to the rest of the film. "},{"Title":"Beautifully adapted version of the Alcott classic!","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  It's always a wonderful feeling when a film works its wonders on you. LITTLE WOMEN had that effect on me, and I'm not even a fan of these types of stories. This adaptation of the Louisa May Alcott classic has real heart, warmth, and the right amount of sentimentality, amounting to a wonderful film. Katharine Hepburn stars as the tomboyish Jo, a free-spirited young lady who is dying for adventure but craves the time she spends with her sisters. The one that stands out among the four is Beth, a caring, sweet girl with a flair for the piano. If you don't get teary-eyed about her cause, you definitely pass for a curmudgeon. The only complaint I have about this gem is that the last quarter of the film doesn't seem to have the matching effervescence that the rest of the film had. It ends abruptly and off-balance. All qualms aside, this is a genuine classic, filled with great performances and characters you can't help but like. A true family entertainment. Rating Three stars and a half.  "},{"Title":"great fun with the Marches","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Having grown up with the Technicolor version of the 40s with a young Liz Taylor and a perky June Allyson, I was pleased to find this was just as good a version, better in many ways.  Katharine Hepburn, as you might expect, is wonderful as the tomboy Jo March, who finds responsibility after a lifetime of woe for the family.  Other cast stand-outs include Edna May Oliver as Aunt March.  Laurie is a bit of a wet fish though.  Both early versions are much, much better than the Winona Ryder one of the 90s, which was a sentimental Hollywood nostalgia trip which just didn't work.  I'm still split between the two early ones but this is a definite favourite and I'd highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"All Hepburn in this early rendition","Date":"17 September 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Few would deny the powerful presence of Katherine Hepburn in any movie she ever made. In this first screen adaptation with sound of Louisa May Alcott's famous novel, Hepburn IS the movie. That is to say, her part, her lines, her camera time seem to surpass the combined times of all the rest of the cast. While that may be as one would expect for many stories &#x96; a star or hero being the focal point of a whole work, this film, based on this book, was supposed to be about several little women. So, most of the rest of the characters in the film &#x96; save a neighbor male friend, really get short shrift. For that reason, and a few others I'll mention, I think this rendition falls short of the interesting story told in the book. I would like to have seen more development of the sisters than this film has. The later remake &#x96; 1949's MGM production, does flesh out all the characters more. The problem with the overly heavy emphasis on the one character in this first movie is that the audience doesn't get much of a sense of who are the rest of the members of the family. So we can't so readily experience the ups and downs, the emotions, the tragedy and love felt between the sisters and their mother. Hepburn does a very good Jo, but not great. I think her efforts to be the tomboy were overdone in a few instances, which only drew my attention to this aspect of her role. She didn't seem to come by it naturally. One example was when she spoke a couple of times, acting and deliberately mimicking a deep-throated guttural voice for a man. At other times, she seemed to push it a bit and overact in flamboyance of tom-boyish behavior. There were no other notable performances by other cast members. Paul Lukas as Professor Bhaer and Douglas Montgomery as Laurie were good. Most of the rest were just OK or non-descript. One member was just not right for the role of Marmee. Spring Byington brought no depth or real feel to the role that the viewer could sense. But, then, the film just seemed to glide over the lesser roles. Little Women is a good story in the American library, and this film is enjoyable to watch. But, for a much more involving and endearing film, be sure to see the 1949 rendition by MGM. "},{"Title":"What richness!","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" George Cukor said once that he had always assumed Louisa May Alcott's classic to be a book that little girls read, like 'Elsie Dinsmore', and he was pleasantly surprised by how solid and adult its themes are. He was right -- it's about falling in love with the wrong people, summoning the moral strength to overcome great obstacles, and accepting the responsibilities that come with maturity. His discovery and enthusiasm are wonderfully conveyed in this unfussy, honest adaptation. The scale and design are just right -- the March household isn't prettied-up as in later versions, you can see how much the family is struggling. Max Steiner's music is as simple and sweet as a Whitman's Sampler. And the casting, while not ideal, is inspired in the major roles. This was the first instance of Katharine Hepburn embodying all the feisty-New England qualities we associate with her, and it's as though lightning struck or something; she's truly inspired, lit from within. Watch her body language, how she matures from a gawky, hoydenish tomboy into a pensive and irresistible young lady. (Winona Ryder was a diligent and hardworking Jo in 1994, but she doesn't have Hepburn's... inevitability.) She's partnered splendidly by Douglass Montgomery, who's a more ardent and virile Laurie than you'd expect. Paul Lukas loads on the Continental charm as Professor Baer, making him seem an ideal match for Hepburn. And, of course, Edna May Oliver was born to play dour old Aunt March.Spring Byington is a sugary, unpersuasive Marmee -- how did Jo inherit all that backbone, anyway, with such a wispy parent? -- and Jean Parker is both too old and too passive to convince as Beth. (She was good years later, in The Gunfighter, in about as different a role as can be imagined.) But it's a measure of this film's overwhelming rightness that, over 70 years later, it can still move grown men to tears. It's dated in some of its particulars -- a stilted line here, a clumsy transition there -- but not in its generosity of spirit or depth of feeling. Few movies from 1933, in fact, still play as well. "},{"Title":"A Basket of Kittens.","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I think it can easily be said that this is one of Katherine Hepburn's finest, richest performances -- it would be cliche to say that she was born to play Jo March, but only if it weren't so true. Yet as a film entire, it's one of the best period pieces I believe I've ever seen. The clothes, sets, cinematography, Max Steiner's charming score and the brilliant script combine to make you feel you are truly there in the Marches' world, civil-war Concord. (Of course, this is not to slight the grand performances of the cast in any way -- how else would it be so alive?) It is truly a fascinating work, firmly in George Cukor's hands (though with Selznick hovering behind). Little Women casts a spell over you just like watching a basket of kittens, the illness remedy Jo brings Laurie that is the basis of their 1st meeting it is not so much cute and cuddly (and sharp!), but seeing them (inter)act as full-blooded, alive, natural creatures. It's precisely this quality that the 3 subsequent remakes ('49, '79 (TV) and '94) simply didn't have. You feel -- and ARE -- a better person after having seen this film than you were when you sat down to watch it.  "},{"Title":"Little Women (1933) - still young and beautiful","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Little Women (1933), directed by George Cukor story of March family, four beautiful loving sisters and their Marmee, is an early adaptation of Louisa May Alcott's beloved 1860s classic and certainly one of the best. This is the movie that I believe should be universally loved and praised because it is a cinematic triumph. Everything is perfect in it. The clothes, the hairdos, the sets, cinematography, the musical score by Max Steiner and the brilliant script that brings to life the timeless story -together they take you effortlessly to the Marches' world where you feel their true love and caring for one another, and follow their dreams, theirs hopes, and their heartbreaks. This is the film that made me jealous of the girls who have sisters by showing what treasure the sisters' love is. This is the movie which I want to watch with my Mom during the Mother's day and to tell her how much she means to me. This is the movie with very young, very talented, strong willed, independent, and excellent Katharine Hepburn, perfect as Jo March, the character that Alcott could've written with her in mind. Yes, the film is sentimental, so what? Made 75 years ago, it is young, beautiful, heartwarming, and radiates love, kindness, and goodness. "}{"Title":"Litttle Big Women","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The film might be more accurately titled Little Woman, with Katherine Hepburn seizing the lead role, and never letting go. Otherwise, it's the story of four Little Women growing up, and finding love's direction. Hepburn (she's Jo) is sister to Joan Bennett (she's Amy), Jean Parker (she's Beth), and Frances Dee (she's Meg). Of their suitors, Douglass Montgomery (he's Laurie) gets the most action.Ms. Bennett steals the actual acting honors with a performance that is natural and consistent; her voice and mannerisms are appropriately girlish, young womanish&#x85; and, selfish. Ms. Hepburn plays girlish like she's had too many cups of coffee; additionally, she never looks even remotely tomboyish; looking, instead, like a ravishingly made-up MGM movie star. Ms. Parker rises out of her sick bed like a zombie, but is okay in other scenes.Watching Hepburn being romanced by Mr. Montgomery and Paul Lukas is unnerving. The story does have some reasons to watch, however. The production is obviously top-of-the-line. Hepburn may not be in her best role, but it's not awful; she slows down and gets better after her character grows older. The script has well-written characters - Jo, Amy, and Laurie - who illustrate a sweet story of family, love, and friendship. ******* Little Women (11/16/33) George Cukor ~ Katharine Hepburn, Joan Bennett, Douglass Montgomery, Paul Lukas "},{"Title":"Almost perfect","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Beautiful adaptation of Louisa May Alcott's novel about four sisters coming of age in the Civil War.  They're played by Katharine Hepburn (Jo), Francis Dee (Meg), Joan Bennett (Amy) and Jean Parker (Beth).  It follows them over the course of about 10 years dealing mostly with the men they fall in love with.  It mostly centers on Jo--she's expected to get married to Laurie (Douglass Montgomery) but she wants a career as a writer also. Faithful to the book, beautifully mounted and directed by George Cukor (who was always good with large female casts) and a mostly great cast.  Hepburn is exceptional (no surprise there), Bennett and Dee are good but Parker isn't that good.  She's not terrible--it's just she's not as good as the other three.  The men are all OK but the movie isn't about them--it's about the women.  I'm giving it a 9.  I can't give it a 10 because there are a few scenes that are just horrible (especially one where Parker sees her father returning from the war) and it goes on a bit longer than needed.  Also the sound was hard to hear at times (but this WAS done over 70 years ago).  Well worth seeing.   "},{"Title":"What a truly lovely film!","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I will always have a soft spot for this film, and to me it is the best version of the three versions I've seen so far of Little Women(1994 and 1949 were the others, and I liked both of them very much). The sound here is a little too tinny, and the Laurie of Douglass Montgommery is too fey for my tastes. However, it still looks beautiful, the costumes and hairstyles are well suited to the period, the sets are sumptuous and the film is very handsomely shot. There is also a stirring score from Max Steiner, making it sound appropriately nostalgic, the script is faithful and warm-toned, it is directed with great taste by George Cukor and the story has all the warmth and poignancy of the book, which is one of my favourites of all time. Apart from Montgommery I loved the acting, Edna May Oliver here does what she did best, more than convincingly play sharp-tongued spinsters, and Henry Stephenson is a dear Mr Laurence. Paul Lukas is an unexceptional but romantic Professor Bhaer, an improvement on the wooden and too-Italianate Rosanno Brazzi in the 1949 film, and Spring Byington a Marmee of real sincerity. The four March girls Meg, Jo, Beth and Amy(aka the Little Women of the title) are what drive the story, and all four really shone here. Joan Bennett is appealing as Amy and leaves room for character growth from a vain little girl to an elegant young lady. Jean Parker is a very sweet and moving Beth, and Frances Dee is beautiful as Meg should be. Best of all is the Jo of Katharine Hepburn, who is perfectly cast in a role she was born to play. All in all, truly lovely and the best version to me. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Too Much Sweetener","Date":"17 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Little Women is a good, early '30's adaptation of Louisa May Alcott's classic tale about the March sisters and their mother as they struggle without their father/husband, who is off fighting in the Civil War.There is certainly plenty to recommend about this film. The look of the film, costumes, sets and overall feel of the film is quite genuine and fine. The acting is terrific from all involved. From Katharine Hepburn to Joan Bennett, Spring Byington and Paul Lukas.The problem is that, in my humble opinion, it is an incredibly hard film to watch, due to the extreme sweetness and, at times, corny dialog that is spoken. Now I know that being the early '30's, this is what many, during the depression era needed to make them feel warm and secure. But this is laid on way to thick. As I said, it was very hard to get thru this film. I'm glad I've seen it, but I would not watch it again. "},{"Title":"Fine reading of a classic","Date":"30 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Good if dated version of the Alcott perennial. The story is faithful to the book but some of the acting and filming techniques show signs of the film's age. Still if you're a fan of the book there is much to like here. Hepburn of course is ideally cast as Jo, perhaps one of the classic examples of an actress and a part completely suited to each other. Frances Dee and Jean Parker acquit themselves well as Meg and Beth respectively but those two sisters, even with Beth's tragedy, are the two blandest characters in the book. Joan Bennett is sulky and kittenish as the selfish Amy filling the part but she really wasn't to come into her own as a presence that registered on the screen for about five more years when she switched from blonde ingénue to brunette woman of mystery and usually danger. The great Edna May Oliver scores as the salty Aunt March and Spring Byington is strong as Marmee although her role is somewhat diminished from the book. It's interesting still to see her here as a tower of strength and rectitude considering her long career as a chic but usually addle-pated society woman. The men however are a totally different matter. Douglass Montgomery as Laurie is simpering and bland. Also while it isn't his fault his makeup is so heavy that it is completely distracting whenever he is on screen. John Davis Lodge who plays Meg's husband Mr. Brooke suffers the same fate. Cukor as always directs well. He hated the term woman's director but he really was one of the absolute best at bringing out high quality performances from his actresses, not just the stars but the supporting players. "},{"Title":"Wonderful! Wonderful!","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I saw this film for the first time today after searching forever for it. And I was not disappointed like I was with the 1949 one with Elizabeth Taylor and Margret O'Brien. I am a great fan of the book and as such there were some things that irked me about this film. First off, there was heaps of Amy story lines and dialogue the most apparent being how she burnt Jo's written work and books, and then later nearly drowned (only to live after Laurie and Jo saved her) were left out which made me slightly mad. Also the fact that the actress was too old to play the younger Amy (but nonetheless played her very very well) was also slightly distracting though didn't nearly as bother me as much as the missing 'book burning scene'. Secondly some things were hastily rushed into and/or not really explained or came out of nowhere like how Amy and Laurie were suddenly married, with out much back story to it. Katherine Hepburn one of the most talented actresses of all time, shines as Jo in her tom boyish ways. She literally stole the show with her acting and it was truly a joy to watch, her scenes with Laurie were the most wonderful as you could really sense their 'fun and childlike' plays. She picked up Jo's character in a way no other actress could. It seemed like the character 'Jo' and 'Katherine Hepburn' were made for each other. It's rare to find that. When I first heard Frances Dee was playing Meg I thought, 'What?? She's more of a Beth!' but nevertheless she surprised me and was absolutely wonderful in her role. The actress who played Beth was astounding, her scenes were so well done, she was such a dear and you really care for her while you're watching. I loved Douglass Montgomery as Laurie he played Laurie very well and very true to the character. Not the most perfect adaption a lot has been changed and left out, but one of the best, most beautiful films you'll ever see in your life time. Heart warming and lovable, a real classic. "},{"Title":"Louisa May Allcott's Four Daughters","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" LITTLE WOMEN (RKO Radio, 1933), directed by George Cukor, from the novel by Louisa May Alcott, ranks one of the very best screen adaptations taken from classic literature. Produced by David O. Selznick, who later brought forth such literary works as David COPPERFIELD and A TALE OF TWO CITIES (MGM, 1935) to the screen, LITTLE WOMEN demonstrates to the highest degree on how carefully constructed these movies were made and the way its leading players have brought these storybook characters to life.Set during the Civil War years, the story revolves around the March family of Concord, Massachusetts. The plot development starts with the introduction of its individual members Marmee (Spring Byington), a loving wife and mother who does all she can to keep her family together while her husband (Samuel S. Hinds) is off to war; Josephine, better known as Jo (Katharine Hepburn), a long haired, outspoken tomboy with a catch phrase, Christopher Columbus!, whose ambition is to become famous novelist; Amy (Joan Bennett), a student in a school for girls, is cute, selfish, and a sketching artist; Margaret, or Meg (Frances Dee), a refined but envious girl working as a nursery governess; Beth (Jean Parker), the youngest of the sisters, is sweet, shy and a musically inclined piano player of classical pieces; and Aunt March (Edna May Oliver), an rich old spinster who's just as headstrong as her niece, Jo. The March family live next door to Mr. Laurence (Henry Stephenson), a gruff but kindly old gentleman, whose grandson, Laurie (Douglass Montgomery), becomes Jo's first love. Over the years the girls mature, finding new interests and beaus. Laurie returns home from college finding Jo's feelings towards him have changed; Meg finds love and marries John Brooke (John Lodge), a sophisticated gentleman; Amy matures and falls in love with Laurie; while Beth becomes the center of a crisis when falling ill with scarlet fever. As for Jo, she moves to a boarding house in New York City where she encounters Fritz Bhaer (Paul Lukas), a kindly professor who encourages her writing ability.While it's impossible to recapture every page of Little Women to the screen, screenwriters Sarah Y. Mason and Victor Heerman successfully abridged many of the key elements taken from various chapters, with a few alterations, into playable length of 116 minutes. Previously filmed during the silent era (1918) and remade several times thereafter (1949 for MGM; 1978 television movie; and 1994 Columbia theatrical adaptation), this 1933 carnation remains one of the perennial favorites of all time, and it's easy to see why. Full of nostalgic touches, from its opening credits with a silent movie feel, authentic costumes and hair styles that capture the era, George Cukor's masterful direction with taste and skill brings forth winning performances by entire cast, especially Katharine Hepburn, in a role she was born to play. Although Hepburn's Jo is tough as well as confident, her biggest fear is letting go of her childhood, wanting things to remain as they are, continuing to have those carefree happy times with her sisters. She realizes how impossible it is after Meg, the eldest, marries to have a family of her own. (We can't be children forever.) Joan Bennett also does a commendable job transforming from child-like schoolgirl to mature young lady; and Spring Byington, best known for her lovable comedic characters in latter years, in her movie debut and one of her few opportunities on screen as a serious actress. Last but not least is the memorable Max Steiner underscore.When presented to commercial television during the Christmas season from the 1960s to 70s, all copies in circulation were shorter 107 minute prints. Aside from the Selznick International trademark in place of the original RKO Radio logo, the opening ten minute segment was missing, starting the story with Beth greeting her three sisters at the front door as they come in from the cold. This missing sequence was later restored in the 1980s when distributed to video cassette. The introductory RKO Radio logo was finally restored and presented for the first time in decades on Turner Classic Movies in 2006.Little known facts LITTLE WOMEN brought forth a sequel, LITTLE MEN (Mascot, 1935) with Erin O'Brien Moore as Jo. In TCM's December 2006 presentation of LITTLE WOMEN on The Essentials, in an after film discussion, movie critic Molly Haskell talks with host Bob Osborne making an interesting point about Jo's character from the book marrying and giving up her writing career as compared to Hepburn's more liberated Jo on screen.While LITTLE WOMEN is categorized a Christmas movie, for which it opens and ends years later during that joyful holiday season, it's one of those heartfelt family films that can be seen and appreciated at any given time of the year. (****) "},{"Title":"Supremely well made, but very sugary stuff. Watch for K Hepburn's great role.","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Little Women (1933)A fairly lavish affair, with one of my favorite directors, George Cukor, making the most of his growing fame as a woman's director. Of course, the leads here are four girls and their mother, among the children the rising star, Katherine Hepburn, in her second film (after Bill of Divorcement, also by Cukor, and a better film in many ways). The standards here are high, the acting solid, the sets uncompromised. The plot is very goody-goody, for lack of a better word. There is a lot of family sweetness, growing young love affairs, charity to the poor, and a feeling of life being simply terrific, whatever its worries (worries like the Civil War, raging quietly in the background, never seen and rarely felt).Cukor makes the most of Alcott's novel, I think, and Hepburn is wonderful, with all the hints of her real greatness on screen to come. The basic structure of the plot (or plots) is how each girl matures, overcoming personality flaws to become truly admirable people. It might be frustrating that human flaws are simply to be overcome, but we shouldn't resent a little optimism, and reaching higher goals, now and then. A heartfelt and really well made American drama. And I admit freely, I cried several times. That's better than any words. "},{"Title":"A joy to watch","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" As a fan of Katharine Hepburn, I was more familiar with her later works on Golden Pond, Woman of the Year, Adam's Rib etc. It was lovely to see a beautiful Katharine Hepburn slightly younger - and really show off her acting talent. I know she is the main character, but she really does stand out. Not only her beauty, but as I said before, her acting ability. Unfortunately, this does not apply for the rest of the cast. I mean, most of the girls are good - in fact, very good - but the same cannot be said for Laurie. In modern terms he would be considered a 'sap'. You really wonder why they like him at all. I was surprised that Little Women was so realistic, but I can't help but be disappointed by the ending. But I must give it credit for that. Full of emotion, it will move you. It is suitable for all ages. It is a true joy to watch - especially Katie Hepburn! "},{"Title":"CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS, a classic","Date":"8 October 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Katharine Hepburn's fourth film and first after her Oscar winner Morning Glory is an adaption of the Louisa May Alcott classic Little Women. Kate becomes the quintessential Jo March in this film and CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS she does a bang up job.I can't see George Cukor doing this with anyone else. In a sense Kate isn't acting, she really is a 20th century version of Jo March. Like Louisa May Alcott and her family, Kate comes from that Puritan New England background and in the 19th century she could have been Jo March. It would not surprise me in the slightest if back in the day Kate's grandparents from either or both sides hobnobbed with the Alcott clan.Little Women is set during the Civil War and it was a time for sacrifice on the battlefield as well as the home front. The March family patriarch Samuel S. Hinds is now engaged in the 'irrepressible conflict' answering to a higher law than the Constitution. That was a day when people put themselves on the line for their country and what they believed in.Spring Byington made her screen debut as the mother of four girls who in real life were not too much younger than the woman they called Marmee in this film. Hepburn, Joan Bennett, Frances Dee, and Jean Parker bring to life the distinct personalities of all the March girls under the careful guidance of George Cukor.Like Louisa May Alcott in life, Jo March loves her dad, not just as her father, but also for what he stands for. Alcott's father Bronson Alcott was a noted abolitionist and so was Louisa May. She leaves no room for doubt that the Union and the abolition of slavery is a righteous cause in Little Women. Alcott was a feminist and a suffragette as well, she wanted to do more for what she believed than provide warm home and hearth for some man who happened to believe as she did. Hepburn as Jo is developing as a human being and she realizes she wants the same thing and she also knows there's more out there than New England and its mores. Small wonder that visiting scholar Paul Lukas is who eventually wins her affections.By the way, one ought to either read the further Alcott novels on these characters and/or see the film Little Men with Kay Francis and Francis Lederer as older versions of these same characters to see how they've developed.Besides Lukas and Hinds the three other prominent male characters are Douglass Montgomery as the dashing young neighbor next door who first sparks Hepburn's attention and later Bennett's, John Davis Lodge who pairs off with Frances Dee and Henry Stephenson, Montgomery's stern father with a broad eye twinkle.And of course we can't forget the ever imperious Edna May Oliver as Aunt March who rules the roost whenever she makes one of her visits to the household. Oliver like Hepburn also had a New England background, she's as New England as Paul Revere and the Boston Red Sox. With an excellent recreation of New England both in look and style George Cukor created an enduring masterpiece in Little Women. And probably even more than Morning Glory, it's the film that young Katharine Hepburn is most identified with. "}{"Title":"A Hepburn tour de force - in hindsight, not one of her best films.","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Little Women (1933) is the first film to be based on Louisa May Alcott's novel of four young girls and their maturing in an age of affectation and Victorian sensibilities. It stars Katharine Hepburn in one of her early defining roles as Josephine 'Jo' March; the central protagonist. She's very much a defiant tomboy in petticoats, defying her Aunt March (played to perfection by the crotchety Edna May Oliver), cutting off her long tresses to pay for her father's train ticket, and always, 'always' usurping any and all interest to fall into the trap of becoming some man's noble wife&#133;at least for a while. Despite the fact that Alcott's novel is very much an ensemble piece about four girls growing up, this film is very much the story of Jo. Other roles are rounded out by Joan Bennett (as the vane and snooty, Amy), Paul Lukas (Prof. Baer), Jean Parker (in the thankless role of Beth) and Francis Dee (as the impetuous, Meg).Clearly with the goal of generating star interest in Kate Hepburn, director, George Cukor uses up the bulk of his running time to extol the idiosyncratic quirks that make Jo March tick. He delights, for example, showing us Jo sliding down the banister at her Aunt March's home, or throwing snowballs at the young master of the adjoining maison, Theodore Lawrence (Douglas Montgomery). Cukor, known throughout the industry as a woman's director, side steps Alcott's novel on more than one occasion to satisfy his own artistic vision. That said, overall then, the film is faithful to Alcott and a veritable lush and lovely cinematic experience in the vein of golden Hollywood film making.The transfer from Warner Bros. has been considerably cleaned up for this DVD presentation. The B&W picture elements from RKO were in very poor shape. While certain scenes continue to attest to this lack of initial preservation, most look quite marvelous and will surely please. There is a bit of digital edge enhancement that crops up now and then and distracts one from the otherwise sterling picture, but these are fleeting moments of distraction at best. Blacks are generally solid. Whites are generally clean. Contrast and fine details are as they should be and film grain, with minor exceptions, is kept in check. Extras include a music only selection of score that has been nicely remastered, as well as extensive notes on both Hepburn and Cukor; good stuff for both the heart and the mind. Bottom line this is a great golden oldie that will surely warm the heart. But it's not definitive Alcott. For that one has to jump seventy years into the future for Gillian Armstrong's masterful remake, starring Winona Ryder. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly fresh version of Alcott's classic.","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  It's over 65 years old, but this adaptation of 'Little Women' is as lively as it is sentimental. The outstanding cast is led by Katharine Hepburn as Jo, who gives a bravura performance that actually threatens to go over the top! Women's director George Cukor does his usual fine job. There's a certain amount of condensing done to the story here, but otherwise it's faithful to the book (at least that's what I'm told!) Even children who blanch at the prospect of sitting through a black-and-white movie may be captivated by this one. "},{"Title":"the first and the worst","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I admit I haven't seen this movie for years, and I suppose I should give it another chance one of these days. But I'm left with a strong impression of revulsion over Katharine Hepburn as Jo. I know that places me in the minority since her performance is apparently so acclaimed. But, speaking as someone who's read Little Women countless times and would be very hard to please with any adaptation of a beloved childhood favorite, Hepburn just didn't live up to my idea of Jo at all. The way she delivers the line Christopher Columbus! is enough to make me want to smack her.I don't care if others find the MGM version too glossy - THAT film is perfectly cast. June Allyson is a much more lovable Jo (and a more natural actress than Hepburn who can be very over-the-top and grating). Janet Leigh as sweet-but-prim Meg, Elizabeth Taylor as spoiled, vain Amy, and Margaret O'Brien as fragile Beth...why, they BECAME those characters - or perhaps their personalities were already suited to the roles! And who could be a better Marmee than Mary Astor, I ask you? She perfectly embodied maternal warmth and wisdom (Spring Byington isn't exactly known for playing women of intelligence!) None of the other actresses in this 1933 version made an impression on me. I realize that Jo is the most beloved character, but the other March sisters deserve a little more screen time. I dislike the fact that Little Women was turned into a star vehicle for Katharine Hepburn, and unfortunately, she dominates the proceedings. If you want a more balanced telling of the story, where all the characters get a chance to shine, I'd recommend the MGM version. I can't gush enough about how ideal June Allyson was as Jo - there's a reason she got more fan-mail over that performance than any other! I'd even recommend the Winona Ryder version of Little Women over Hepburn's (although Ryder is too pretty for the role) "},{"Title":"An Interesting Period Piece","Date":"26 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" This is Hepburn's film, no question about it. Her sisters are there merely for decoration or to play up her role. The novel itself is quite episodic which doesn't always make for an easy adaption to the screen, running from one plot element to the next without stopping for breath. When it does stop on occasion the sentimentality of the day (the early Thirties of the film) is often cloying for today's tastes so the rhythm is often out of step. And it was hard to distinguish the personalities of the other sisters and how they developed. Even their names were hard to catch.The fact that Selznick fought for its right to be made and seen speaks well for him and was instrumental for the movies of the period. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies. It has a combination of humor, romance, and sadness ( . All the acting is great, and all the actors/actresses really play the character well. It's based on a great novel written by Louisa May Alcott.  "},{"Title":"Maddeningly sincere, and always on the verge of overflowing with busy, bustling good will...","Date":"18 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Four New England sisters and their Marmee hold down the home-front during the Civil War, with the eldest of the clan, tomboyish Josephine, slowly realizing her ambition to become a professional writer. Sturdy, apparently heartfelt adaptation of Louisa M. Alcott's popular book by Oscar winners Sarah Y. Mason and Victor Heerman was reportedly worked on by many other, uncredited talents; they have managed to retain the Victorian stateliness of the novel--as well as its playful and daydreamy-romantic spirit--though too often the sequences are episodic, and weighed down by the stilted nature of the dialogue. George Cukor directs in a forthright manner which avoids treacly sentimentality, yet the picture is still a tough weeper adorned with variable performances and acting styles. As Jo, the backbone of the material, Katharine Hepburn glows with effusive life; she hits some bad notes on occasion (and Cukor too often reverts to Mona Lisa-like close-ups of Kate to create a mood), though the actress is a magnetic presence and holds together what would otherwise be a skittering narrative. Not so fortunate are Joan Bennett as self-centered Amy, Spring Byington as Marmee, and Edna May Oliver as Aunt March, all of whom are distinctly artificial. Jean Parker is a worthy Beth, the doomed pianist, and the men in the cast fare very well, particularly Henry Stephenson as the neighboring Mr. Laurence and Paul Lukas as a German professor. The make-up in the early scenes is extreme, as if from the silent-era (it seems to tone down as the film progresses), and there are too many characters entering and exiting to make the picture an emotional triumph. It has many fine moments, and Hepburn's admirers should not miss it, but the overall effect is more Hollywood than Massachusetts. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A nice little feel good movie","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The story of the March family, a mother and her four daughters, getting through day to day life while the man of the house is away in the Civil War is a classic charmer. A young Katherine Hepburn gives a very good lead performance as Jo, the Tom-boyish aspiring writer of the family. She may seem a bit out of place at times in this period piece, but she is still the definite pick of the cast. The rest of the female cast really fails to pull its weight, which is a major drawback, considering that the film is such an ensemble piece. The supporting actors, however, had much more to offer; especially Henry Stephenson as the fatherly next door neighbor to the Marches. Still, the mediocre cast can't do much to harm the pleasant, heartwarming story. Kudos to the filmmakers for staying true to the book in several key areas which went against the Hollywood norm. "},{"Title":"Christopher Columbus!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  What a great film! This has to be the best version of Little Women. I loved the scenes with Jo and Laurie. They were so much fun! Katharine was wonderful in this, as was Joan Bennett and Jean Parker. I did like the 1994 version, but in my opinion this one will never be surpassed. I give it 10/10! "},{"Title":"Victorian Dreams","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Saying I hated this film is perhaps too strong a word. Like most here I found it charming, with excellent acting and production. The problem is that I find the March family just too good to be true. I suspect the four sisters were what Victorian women wished their daughters would become and many would try. None of the sex and intrigue of modern female films is present here. I suspect it's no accident the 1933 film is generally considered the best of the film versions--the further modern society has gotten from the Victorian ideal, the harder it is for the actors to espouse it. While Katherine Hepburn may indeed have been born to play Jo March, I confess a partiality for Paul Lukas among the performers, his acting not reminding me of other roles where I've seen him.Having missed the book and other film versions of the story, I'm glad to have seen this one but I doubt I'll be looking at the others. But I am curious whether anyone has done a good parody of this story. It seems to be crying for one. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but still worth watching.","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  In fanfiction there is the phenomenon called the Mary Sue--a character who is an (idealized) version of the author who is inserted into the story to act out the author's fantasy. The original Mary Sue was in a Star Trek fanfiction where Ensign Mary Sue was braver than Kirk, smarter than Spock, more compassionate than McCoy, etc. who is able to save the day when nobody else can.What has this, I hear you ask, to do with 'Little Women'? I think that all the March girls, but especially Jo, are somewhat Mary Sues to Louisa May Alcott. They are just too perfect. Especially Beth. Oscar Wilde said of Dickens' Little Nell that it would take a heart of stone not to laugh out loud reading her death scene; the same remark could apply to Beth. And Marmee is just to saintly and patient to be believed. Still, in spite of it all, the film was worth watching, especially to see the young Kate Hepburn. I especially appreciate the time when she was asked when she would grow up and act like a proper lady, and she replied, Never! Even when I'm old and walk with a cane! (Or something to that effect.) Highly prophetic, as that was exactly how Kate lived.  "}{"Title":"Nice version of the Alcott story is showing its age...","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Movies were still in a primitive stage back in 1933 when Little Women was released. Sound was only six years old--and as a result, while the picture is always viewed as a faithful, beloved version of the tale, the truth is it has a soundtrack that is tinny, especially when it comes to reproducing the girlish sounds and squeals of the March sisters--as portrayed by Katharine Hepburn, Frances Dee, Jean Parker and Joan Bennett. The sound distortion is a major flaw.Their voices are so shrill that it makes listening to the first twenty-five minutes a bit of a strain. Of course, as you sink into the story, and accustom yourself to the poor soundtrack, the film becomes more watchable. But it's definitely one of those films in the early '30s that sounds like a creaky vehicle compared to the more natural sound we have for voices today.The production is a handsome one and the costumes, sets, props, etc. are all in keeping with the Alcott story. One could have wished for a better Laurie or a more romantic Professor Baer than Paul Lukas. Hepburn gives her all to the role of the tomboy and her early scenes with her sisters show plenty of spunk and warmth. The always welcome Spring Byington makes a good Marmee and Joan Bennett a suitable Amy.Max Steiner's sprightly theme that sounds like an old-fashioned music box was apparently considered so suitable that MGM used it for their version in 1949. A quaint film, made even quainter by the primitive early sound. The techncolored candy-box flavor of the 1949 version was quite a contrast, but at least the soundtrack was a more bearable one. "},{"Title":"Hard to watch....","Date":"9 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Had I not seen the version of Little Women (1994) that starred Susan Sarandon and Winona Ryder, I think I would have liked this version from RKO. However, in comparison the older version is just pretty dreadful. Much of it is because the story is MUCH more subtle and believable in the newer film--and this is odd coming from me because I adore classic Hollywood films and would have expected to prefer the original (as I hate remakes). But, the newer one is believable and sweet--whereas the 1933 version is, at times, just awful. Now I know this might sound like sacrilege, as it was directed by the great George Cukor and starred Katharine Hepburn. But, neither was on top of their game--especially Hepburn. There's little indication in her overly broad performance here that she'd one day be a multiple Academy award winner. Here, she talks VERY fast and seems rather fake. As for the rest of the cast, they are okay--but the film lacks charm and polish. Watchable but do yourself a favor and watch the more recent one--you won't feel sorry. "},{"Title":"Boyish, becoming, and easy to keep in order","Date":"12 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Pre-code Hollywood wasn't all wisecracking gangsters and gold-digging chorus girls &#x96; they did have room for the respectable alongside. In retrospect it was good insurance because the un-enforced production code wouldn't last much longer, and wholehearted decorum would prove a lot more solid fare than watered-down melodrama. At the time however it seemed like a huge risk. The early talkies tended to have short runtimes and were spiced-up with action, smut and variety acts. Would the public sit through nearly two hours of demure literary adaptation? Luckily, producer David O. Selznick was a bold yet shrewd risk-taker. He knew Little Women wouldn't be an automatic success, and that he would have to pick his creative team with great care. As was customary with his most cherished projects the screenplay passed through the hands of a lot of writers. In all likelihood most of these were simply doing a polish job. The bulk of the script is probably the work of the two credited writers Sarah Mason and Victor Heerman, the same team that adapted Stella Dallas and Golden Boy. Their adaptation realistically captures the feel of the passage of time, something that is very difficult to do in the process of a condensing a fat novel into a reasonable amount of screen time. In other words, the years in the story don't seem to jolt forward, and yet we are made conscious of the gradual maturing of Alcott's girls.For the director's chair Selznick selected the relatively young and inexperienced George Cukor. Another risk perhaps, but Cukor had learned quickly in the handful of pictures he had made. In particular, he soon established a talent for easing up stolid or stagy material without compromising its dignity. He does this by keeping a constant presence of motion to his images, with moving elements such as crackling fireplaces or rain-spattered windows gently framing the players. Often at pivotal moments in scenes, such as a new character entering the room, he completely changes the camera angle to give a totally new feel to the location, an example being when Marmee walks in on the girls' play rehearsal. These simple techniques keep the scenes constantly fresh without being intrusive. Cukor also has a really sparing use of close-ups and face-on shots of actors, using them like trump cards at the most emotionally powerful moments.But perhaps the greatest burden in Little Women lies on the shoulders of its young(ish) cast, and it is the young ladies themselves are the main standouts. Frances Dee, who plays Meg, was a highly talented but sadly underrated performer who never really got a big break, but was very visible throughout the 30s in roles like this. She's a subtle and solid performer, perfectly suited to the role of eldest sister. Jean Parker (Beth) was the youngest of the four actresses, and yet she gives one of the most mature and natural performances, perhaps because being the only genuine teenager she is most able to convince as one. Joan Bennett (Amy) also ages her character well, making perhaps the most successful transition from girl to woman. And of course, Miss Katherine Hepburn, who with less screen experience than any of them still looked like the old pro. She livens up the role of Jo with her simple willingness to play the tomboy and not give a damn. Still she is most satisfying in the later scenes when her character has matured, which makes one wish she hadn't been given all these girly roles at the start of her career.Well-balanced though the screenplay is, nothing could prevent Little Women from being the bucket of rose-tinted Victorian syrup that Louisa May Alcott's novel is. However the efforts of those four fine actresses and the good sense of Mr Cukor save it from being simply a series of twee vignettes, and turn it into a truly moving picture. For Selznick, this was the first of his many risks that would pay off in spades. "},{"Title":"Fun and sweet, if a bit corny at times","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Personally, I could watch Katharine Hepburn do nothing but play hopscotch all day and be happy, so I may not be the most objective commentator, but I will do my best.This movie starts out very sweetly (a bit too sweetly) and comes off as quite stagey and over-the top at times, especially towards the beginning. Most of the Marches are too old for their roles, which is a bit distracting. (I still cringe a bit at the thought of Marmee kissing a 25-year-old Hepburn good night and tucking her into bed...shudder.) However, the movie picks up quickly enough, and is generally fun and enjoyable, if a bit sugary. Hepburn makes an adorable Jo, although she, too, is quite over-the-top in the early scenes with the other Marches. Those scenes still makes for little guilty pleasures, such as the scene where Jo directs Amy for a fainting scene in her Christmas play (You have to get into the mood!) and the scene where Jo plays a mustached villain in said Christmas play.I would say that Hepburn's real turning point in this movie is after Jo rejects Laurie's proposal and decides to move to New York. From that point on, Hepburn's gradually develops Jo's character from an brashy wild child to a mature and strong woman -- who doesn't have to sacrifice too much of her personality.I recommend this as a good, clean family film - just try not to roll your eyes too much in the early scenes and you'll be fine. "},{"Title":"Good Production, Poor Acting","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The oft-filmed Alcott novel received its first lavish production in this 1933 version and it's quite good-looking. Hepburn is fine if sometimes overly expressive as the headstrong Jo March and Lukas makes a good impression as Professor Bhaer, but much of the acting is rather stagy and melodramatic. Montgomery makes a very effeminate and wimpy Laurie. Cukor made some fine films through his long career but his early efforts, including Dinner at Eight, also from 1933, leave much to be desired. He also has a tendency to make things schmaltzy, not helped by the sappy performance of Byington as the mother. The film also goes on perhaps a bit too long. "},{"Title":"Family classic","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" How anyone can rate this version as the best is beyond me. It is inferior in every particular to the 1949 June Allyson version. Role by role, the acting is better in 1949; the cinematography is better; the script is better and more faithful to the original, etc. In this early version in black and white, Katherine Hepburn is about the only reason to watch, even though she's nowhere near June Allyson's perfect tomboy. I found especially wanting the dreadful casting of Henry Stephenson as Laurie -- what a wimp! Edna May Oliver is memorable as the Aunt, but Spring Byington as Marmee pales next to Mary Astor or even Susan Serandon in the 1994 remake. I know this version is directed by the legendary George Cukor, but I found his gay sensibility a distraction rather than an asset. Also Rossano Brazzi offers a satisfying option for Jo March, rather than the pathetic professor of Paul Lukas. The all-star cast of 1949 completely outshines this 1933 version, especially in the casting of the four sisters -- Janet Leigh, Elizabeth Taylor and Margaret O'Brien, in addition to June Allyson. To get an authentic rendering of the great novel, see the 1949 version. "},{"Title":"Sillied Down for Kate","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Our Katherine had already been a success in one prior film, and only 5 years into the era  of talkies, they retooled Alcott's story to suit her personality. It worked, but was her last  success until the intense re-engineering of the Philadelphia story.That re-engineering was a massive change Hepburn recast as richly eccentric rather  than charmingly brash. For her entire life, she was amazingly incomplete as an actress  but knew how to play the personality game she overtly derided. But this was all before  that.Here, she moves with exaggerated movements and a severe phrasing of her lines. That  specific style was consciously adopted from Shirley Temple and (long after Hepburn had  abandoned it) popularized by Judy Garland. It features short phrases, with a rising lilt but  short of the questioning tone that submissive girls use today.Cukor stages this much like a play, with some extraordinarily long takes. The stagey  nature of the production is as far from life and realistic movies as Jo's parlor play was  from the world of the story. The sound is murky and the lighting muddy.The film was popular because it sweetens the book in absurd ways. Louisa May was an  important writer, one that really did change the world in a way. Her tone was one of  disciplined self-reinvention orthogonal to all the false romanticism of the age. The  notable feature of `Little Women' was that Jo unexpectedly escaped the form of the  Austen novel, and thereby the strictures of society that Austen emphasized. This was not  a matter of brattish tomboy energy as Hepburn would have it, but a matter of a woman  transcending the narrow channels available to her sisters.Just as Hepburn gets this exactly the opposite of what Jo is about, so does the whole film  spit in Alcott's eye. The very essence of the book is to escape the formula of syrupy  romanticism. The target of this film is to be thoroughly syrupy, all the way to the  repellent sweetness of the score.Winona's `Women' was flawed in different ways, but more true to Bronson Alcott's vision. Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"I tail of four sisters and their mother living together while their father is off at war. Sickness and marriage seem to be the main excitements of this film","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" This is one of my first black and white films to watch and I really enjoyed it. Mostly, because I was able to see the queen differences that time has taken on films. Compared to other older films I have seen, the actresses and actors don't seem as fake and script written. The four sisters show the true interactions that my sisters and I go through. This film was completed only six years after the first talkie was done. And for that, I believe that this films sound came out wonderful. It's a mono with a RCA sound system. For the music, it is blended with the voices of the actors well. There are a few times where there is only a song playing while the film becomes silent. The March sisters have a few screaming spells that seem to almost burst the speakers and become very raspy. But, overall the sound quality was great. The music in the set, such as the piano, and off the set, where cued in very well together. The date of this movie explains a few mishaps during the film. There are a few flickers through out the film, the alternation of light and dark caused by the opening and closing of the projector's shutter. Though they are small and almost unseen, they do exist. The frame shift is usually done by fading in and out of each other. The few times that one frame ends by showing a complete black screen, the next frame usually takes a while to show, which makes that frame seem very abrupt. The beginning of the films flashes that credits over a small cottage in the distance with the well done special effects of snow. The motion of the film is normal as you can see the movement of the characters as the camera viewed them during the shooting of the film. Camera movement if used seldom. Each frame is usually shot still, head on, facing the set. Some sets are seen from up to three angles. In the beginning of the film when Jo is trying to sneak out of her retched aunt's house, the camera is obviously rolled backwards away from Jo as she approaches the unseen door that you think is directly behind the camera. The camera does a few scenic swipes but nothing drastic. Since the film is older the camera shots aren't very creative and towards the end they become dull because you are tired of only being able to see the head on shot. In the scene where the two younger sisters are staring into the ball room watching the grown ups dance, I became eager so see what else was around the corner. But, the camera angle never moves and you have to imagine what is around the corner as you seen a couple dance by the open doorway every now and then. The lighting of the film caught me off guard as well. There would be candles lit in the March's house but the tops of all the girls head would be beaming with light. The film was well lit for being a black and white but the beaming light from the girl's heads gave it that old timely look. But, I do keep in mind that not every invention and adjustment that we have made in film making up to this point had been discovered during the production of LITTLE WOMEN. I assume that the men acting in this movie were wearing make up to help their features stand out. This is one of the ways in which they better improved the visual of black and white films. At times when the camera would shoot a close-up the characters seem to glow, giving off a halo shimmer around their heads. This film was done by Radio-Keith-Orpheum Corporation, RKO, founded in 1928, making this one of its first films. They did a great job by incorporating sounds from the actor's voices whether they were singing, talking, whispering, or screaming. Also, by having music come from the piano onset at the March's house, cued in my backstage instruments, or singing. The lighting always set the mood. When Jo was crying over her ill sister Beth in the upstairs attic like room, the only light seemed to appear from the moon light coming in through window, which gave a gloomy and sadden scene. Also, when the eldest sister was getting married everyone glow in white and there was no darkness. The morality of the movie reflected the hard times during the war which was over popular in all movies and novels during this time. But, I feel as though LITTLE WOMEN stood out because the plot and ending was not the fairy tales as most others are. It won an Oscar and showed many talented actors, directors, and composers. "},{"Title":"Movie Odyssey Review #092 Little Women","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" 092 Little Women (1933) - released 11/16/1933; viewed 6/1/07.DOUG Not much for me to say about this one, as I don't think I'm really the target audience. First of all, it's a chick flick. In fact, this is one of the seminal chick flicks of all time. I never read the book, and this is the first film version I've watched, so I wouldn't know how closely this film follows the book or compares to any other adaptation. Director George Cukor again shows his talent for getting fantastic performances out of good actresses. It's a little hard to remember which sister is which; Kate plays Jo, then there's Amy, Beth, and Meg, played by Joan Bennett, Jean Parker, and Frances Dee respectively. The best part of the movie is undoubtedly Katharine Hepburn. It's a little weird seeing Kate the Great playing a teenager. But of course she's awesome. I read a couple other reviews raise an interesting point the film is made during the Great Depression, and set in the aftermath of the Civil War, but it's really not very melodramatic. It's a very good film, very good family drama, with good performances all around.KEVIN Only George Cukor could direct the ultimate chick flick, the 1933 version of Louisa May Alcott's 1868 novel Little Women. This is our first movie on the odyssey with Katharine Hepburn, although it's after her first Oscar win. It's too bad we didn't watch Morning Glory, which came out on DVD mere days ago. But Little Women makes a very good introduction to, in my opinion, the best actress ever to live. Who else could deliver Christopher Columbus! so many times and nail it every time. There isn't much talk about the war that is going on (I had to look at the sleeve to see that it was the Civil War, as I didn't know exactly when the story was set). I was surprised that the story and the characters are so compelling, considering that there is no real villain and all the characters are basically good. Many of them have flaws to be sure, but everyone is impossibly gracious, noble, and understanding. The girls prove again and again that they can take care of themselves while their patriarch is away, so the drama doesn't really come from their struggle to cope without him. But the girls themselves are fully formed and individualized; they feel more real than in most dramas made during this time. (SPOILER) And the scene where Beth dies...well, yeah, it got me.Last film Invisible Man (1933). Next film Duck Soup (1933). "},{"Title":"awww, too cute!","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  So far, this is my favorite version!  Hepburn is a fabulous Jo, that character is so much like herself.  The other performance were wonderful also!  Cukor's direction, as always, was superb!  I thought that the eldest sister had a very very small part but it was well made up for by the others! The sets, costumes everything were magnificent!  Definately worth your time.  One of the truest film adaptions to date.  "}{"Title":"Christopher Columbus this is indeed a classic!","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Of all the adaptations of this, arguably one of the best stories in children's litereature, is the best.  What makes it so, well, not only do the characters seem fairly true to thier print counterparts but Katherine Hepburn is just as one would picture Jo March.  Winona Ryder can't hold a candle to this legend's wonderful portrayal of one of my all time favorite heroines. "},{"Title":"The BEST version....the others don't even come close","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" By far the best version of this timeless classic. All of the performances are first rate and this one version captures the real look and feel of austere New England during the Civil War.Besides the perfect performance by Katharine Hepburn, special attention should be paid to Spring Byington as Marmie and Jean Parker as Beth. Both are especially excellent, and are often overlooked in the other comments.The neatest bit of trivia is the actor who plays Mr. Davis repeated the same part in the horrible, tacky 1949 MGM glossy remake. I just watched that 1949 version on TCM, and typical for the over-glossy MGM films of the 1940's, it's really awful. "},{"Title":"at least it's educational...","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" This film is a useful encyclopedia of avoidable errors, which should be used by filmmakers as a list of what not to do.Looking at the credits, frankly, I would have expected more, especially from Cukor. However, the acting is stilted and exaggerated, the score is muddy at best, and painfully mawkish at worst ... pathetic; the editing is actually laughable. I'm not sure what Cukor was thinking ... but of course this is one of his early films.Even the set design was weak and detracted from any positive moments by its sheer, and at times odd, incongruity. The casting (with the possible exception of Hepburn) was predictable yet at the same time eye bogglingly blind to individual eccentricities that glaringly spoke against the actor in the role. This aspect is so bad it is actually funny in places ... especially the role of Laurie.Of course one tries to give allowance for the time and place in which it was made, but this was made only one year before It Happened One Night.Just awful. "}]