[{"Title":"Distinct Tendencies Towards Terpsichorean Excellence","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"50 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Guy Holden, the celebrated stage dance star, is touring Europe on vacation.  Mimi Glossop is a rich American living in London and is currently in the throes of a divorce.  They meet, they dance, they fall in love.Ginger Rogers was by far the bigger cinema star when RKO Radio teamed her with Fred.  She had appeared in 34 films to his 3, and two in the previous year had been smash hits - Golddiggers and 42nd Street.  This loose borrowing from Cole Porter's Broadway show contains only one of the master's songs, the immortal Night And Day, and only four other songs in the entire movie - Conrad & Magidson's Needle In A Haystack and The Continental, and Gordon & Revel's Don't Let It Bother You and Let's K-nock K-nees (featuring an 18-year-old Betty Grable, who had herself featured in no less than eight films in the previous year).At the depth of the Depression, this sort of film was all the rage - a fantasy of carefree opulence and ease, set in a world of Parisian floorshows, ocean liners and tuxedos.  The wit is sharp and the mood flirtatious.  What if the film-makers hadn't the first clue about how an English barrister conducts his cases?  This is about romance, not professional ethics.  What if the terrain of Brighton isn't an igneous intrusion, but in fact a sedimentary accretion?  This is about two people's sublime dancing, not geology.Fred is as always the quintessence of style, a naturally elegant creature, and Ginger is gorgeous.  The plot is very well constructed, containing all the misunderstandings associated with musical farce, but developing them with panache.  The denouement is both neat and unexpected. There are plenty of girls dancing in the usual geometric patterns, but there is also abundant creativity in the choreography - the playful steps in The Continental, for example, or Fred's reluctant dance for his supper.  Mimi is trying to resist Guy, and has to be drawn into Night And Day against her will - an instance of character  being expressed through dance.  Max Steiner's arrangement of this number is glorious, with its 'tacit', and the swelling fortissimos, and a dainty countermelody in the strings. Ginger sings The Continental like an angel, nicely ragging the time.Inconsequential?  No doubt.  Frothy?  Certainly.  A joy to watch? Definitely!  "},{"Title":"Fred and Ginger","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"34 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" After hearing Fred Astaire put his stamp in a song, it's hard to imagine anyone else attempting to improve in what seems to be the definite rendition of it. That is the case when Mr. Astaire sings Cole Porter's elegant Night and Day. In pairing Ginger Rogers with Mr. Astaire, Hollywood hit the jackpot as it produced a winning combination that went from film to film with such ease and panache, it will never be imitated.Mark Sandrich worked with Ms. Rogers and Mr. Astaire in several movies. Somehow, The Gay Divorcée is one of their best collaboration. This film is a lot of fun to watch, even after more than 70 years after it was made. It speaks volumes for all the people involved in the production of this movie.The Great Depression was the right background when movies like this were made. In a way, it was an escape from the harsh realities of the times America was going through. The public went to the movies to see their favorite stars that were shown in such a glamorous roles. How could anyone not admire the great Fred Astaire, always impeccably dressed? Or how could not any woman in the theater envy Ms. Rogers's beauty and easy grace? That era made it right for Hollywood to show the world a sensitivity and sophistication that only few rich types were able to enjoy in real life, while the rest was trying to eke out a life of whatever work they could find.The musical numbers are amazing. The Continental alone, must have blown the budget of the picture. Imagine how much it would cost today to have all those dancers in a sound stage! Not only that, but in that lengthy number, there are at least four changes of costumes for the women. Also, he is delightful singing Looking for a Needle in a Haystack. A young and radiant Betty Grable makes an appearance singing Let's K-knock K-knees in which she shows a bit of her enormous charm and talent.Ginger Rogers makes a gorgeous Mimmi Glassop. Alice Brady, is perfect as the dizzy Aunt Hortense. Edward Everett Horton plays an excellent Egbert Fitzgerald, the divorce lawyer. Erik Rhodes is one of the best things in the film; his Signor Tonetti injects a funny shot into the movie. Eric Blore, as the waiter, has great moments in the movie.In setting the film in London and Brighton, a rich texture is added to this winning picture that will remain a favorite that will live forever because of the chemistry that Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire produced in anything they did together. "},{"Title":"Sensational","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"27 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Following an apparently accidental teaming in 1933's Flying Down to Rio (a fun Dolores Del Rio vehicle), Fred and Ginger got their first starring feature a year later. It was based on J. Hartley Manners' play 'The Gay Divorce'. The Hays Office insisted on shoving an 'e' on the end, for how could a divorce be so trifling as to be gay? Some UK prints still run with the original title. RKO assembled a sparkling ensemble cast of top-flight farceurs, bringing together (in ascending order of sublimity) Eric Blore, Edward Everett Horton and Erik Rhodes (Are you a union man?). Mark Sandrich directs the thing with a maximum of fuss and style. Hermes Pan helped Fred choreograph the numbers.The plot is suitably - and delightfully - trivial. Musical star Guy Holden (Fred) happens upon a girl (Ginger), falls desperately in love with her, then spends the rest of the picture trying to free himself from marvellously silly plot threads and Everett Horton's exquisite quadruple-takes.Keeping just one song from Cole Porter's original score, the timeless 'Night and Day', and adding only four others, The Gay Divorcée is more a comedy with songs than it is a musical comedy. But what comedy - and what songs! 'Looking For a Needle in a Haystack' is a masterpiece of economy Fred a whirlwind of frustrated, lovestruck energy as he spins around his hotel room lamenting his missing love in peerless style. Men don't pine, he memorably concludes, Women pine. Men ... suffer. Everett Horton's rare excursion into song-and-dance territory is a breath of hysterical, liberating ludicrousness, as he knocks knees with a young Betty Grable. 'Don't Let It Bother You', performed by a chorus of dancing girls (and dolls), then spectacularly reprised by a tapping Astaire, is another treat. 'The Continental', the film's vast production number is peculiarly edited but sporadically fine and offers a fitting climax.It's exceptional fluff, the sort of heady, heightened escapism that you don't come close to very often. An extravagantly mounted, joyous comedy played to perfection by two stars at their irresistible peak. Unmissable. "},{"Title":"It's whumsical","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"27 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Quoting the Eric Blore/Alice Brady interchange in the restaurant, this movie is indeed whimsical (or whumsical) and beautiful to boot. There probably has never been a more perfect dance than Night and Day....or a more beautiful song to dance to. That is the highlight of this film, although the rest of it is well worth seeing. Erik Rhodes is absolutely hilarious as the paid correspondent and the humor is not dated which is unusual in a film of this age. The Chance is a fool's name for fate routine is priceless. Edward Everett Horton again proves that he is the originator of the befuddled sidekick without being irritating and his little dance with a very young Betty Grable is such fun The art deco sets and great 30's clothes are wonderful and it makes you wish for a time when everybody wore evening dress and danced at the drop of a hat. Don't miss it...this is one of the highlight Astaire/Rogers efforts. "},{"Title":"High point of Astaire and Rogers","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Fred and Ginger, two perfect partners, two of the best dancers in history. In 1934, the toast of RKO. What a great pair the studio that would become defunct in a matter of years had on their hands!In 1933, the pair had proven themselves as second leads in Flying Down to Rio, a musical heavily relying on special effects and little else. They stole the show, proven with The Carioca, the erotically charged dance number which started an American craze of pressing foreheads and even got the Best Song Oscar nod over the supposed show stopping title song. Before, Ginger had 42nd Street to her name, while Fred had the famous screen test analysis of Can't sing. Can't act. Can dance a little.The Gay Divorcee is the establishing musical of Astaire and Rogers. Silly, dated, slight, even stupid to a certain degree is the entire story. Without a doubt, high comedy and immense creativity make up for it. The mistaken identity plot was recycled for Top Hat the following year, but it hardly matters. It is littered entirely with hilarity! Writing was never the strongest point of these musicals anyway. The performances were not Oscar calibre but they were publicly loved, and it's obviously Astaire and Roger's singing, acting and most of all, dancing, that makes the movie what it is.A top wealth of talent was assembled for the movie. Erik Rhodes is absolutely side splitting as the Italian guy Tonetti, wielding the fabulous line, Your wife is safe with Tonetti, he prefers spaghetti!. Alice Brady is there as Aunt Hortense, but Edward Everett Horton is another stand out performer as the lawyer. His fumbling voice provides a character of clumsiness and two seem to go hand in hand. He was definitely one of the best supporting comedians of the 1930s and 1940s, in other Astaire and Rogers musicals, and movies like Lost Horizon, Holiday, Here Comes Mr Jordan and Arsenic and Old Lace.Only one song was retained for the filmic version of The Gay Divorcee. The censors even crashed down on the stage's original title The Gay Divorce. Fred performs a great rendition of the immortal Cole Porter song Night and Day. The Continental, the Best Song of 1934 is thrown there in the mix too. Other great numbers in there include Looking for a needle in a haystack, Don't Let it Bother You and Let's K-nock- K-nees. The latter is performed by a young Betty Grable. This is notable for the only time Edward Everett Horton sings and dances on screen. We can see from the results there's an obvious reason.The stylish period of courtship and even set decoration and costumes evoke great memories of eras gone by. RKO hasn't helped preservation of these technical elements by throwing what always appears to be mediocre sets, but it doesn't matter anyway. The whole thing is irresistible, spectacular and unforgettable. This is one of the forgotten musicals of the time which has it all.Rating 8/10  "},{"Title":"Sublime dancing, hilarious comedy, Art Deco time capsule","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" It's astounding that this all-time classic doesn't get a better average score.Nureyev said Astaire was the greatest dancer in the world, and Astaire is at his best here with his best partner, Ginger Rogers. No need to elaborate, just watch them in action.Erik Rhodes should have got Best Supporting Oscar. He was also wonderful in Top Hat, but it's here he gets to say the immortal line, Your wife is safe with Tonetti, he prefers spaghetti.The clothes and the decor evoke an ideal of courtship as aesthetic rather than as rutting, as it is today. Elegance, grace and wit give even the silliest scenes more dignity than anything, fatuous talents can concoct today.Some call the plot banal, but I think it's funny and inventive. Sure it's mistaken identity, which is indeed a cliché, but so what? It's what they do with it that matters. A professional co-respondent??? Of course it's silly but Hey, that's what farce is. And this musical farce is one of the very best. "},{"Title":"The Continental!","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The superb Fred and Ginger series always ended with a big, big set piece where the two of them could dance, and 'The Gay Divorce(e)' is no exception.  This time it is 'The Continental', which allows half of what passes for Brighton to join in the dance.  Not the most original of plots, this movie teamed the leads together for the second time (the first time they led the cast though).  Both are terrific, and Fred's dancing throughout is a treat.  Ginger is her usual bouncy self, all wisecracks and big eyes, and good on her feet.  They're ably supported by Edward Everett Horton (as 'Aunt' Egbert), Alice Brady (the towering matriach, Rogers' aunt), Eric Blore (as an irritating waiter who likes talking about rocks and playing with words), Erik Rhodes (as a daft Italian), and Betty Grable (as a hotel guest who has a terrific number with Horton, 'Let's K-knock K-knees').As you might guess, the story revolves around a divorce, which might be a gay one (in the 1930s definition of the word, of course), and, as so often in this series, mistaken identities.  Tiny roles go to William Austin (as Rogers' blustering geologist hubby), and Lilian Miles (an Alice Faye lookalike who gets to reprise 'The Continental' all to herself).This is one of the better entries in the series, ably directed by Mark Sandrich, and featuring a mix of songs including Cole Porter's 'Night and Day', and the jaunty 'Looking for a Needle in a Haystack'.  "},{"Title":"Fred & Ginger's first starring role as a team","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" After their hit dancing of the Carioca in Flying Down the Rio, RKO gave the teaming of Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers a star role in The Gay Divorcée in 1934. With few exceptions, the plots of the Fred-Ginger films were excuses to get to the important part - the dancing - but the story lines were always pleasant and the casting good. The Gay Divorcée was based on a Broadway musical (of which the only number retained is Night and Day) and it appears that a few of its plot devices were adopted in later Astaire-Rogers films as well. One such plot device is that of mistaken identity. In this movie, Astaire (reprising his Broadway role) is mistaken for a professional correspondent hired to help Rogers get her divorce. Another device is that at first, Ginger is never interested in Fred - that goes here, too. And there's a stock cast in these films, namely, Edward Everett Horton and Eric Blore (and of course, he's always the butler and always very funny). Horton plays Rogers' attorney whose major problem is Rogers' aunt (Alice Brady).What can be said about the dancing except that it's glorious? Fred and Ginger dance to Night and Day after Astaire sings it to her. For a supposed non-singer, Astaire could really put over a song - his voice is pleasant and he's so musical - no wonder composers wrote songs for him. Ginger is beautiful and spunky as Mimi, a young woman ducking Fred while she's trying to get a divorce. Betty Grable has a bit that showcases her in the number Let's K-knock Kneez. There's also I'm Looking for a Needle in a Haystack delightfully sung and danced by Fred. Astaire's dancing is fantastic throughout.It feels as if about half the picture is taken up with the elaborately staged production number, The Continental. In later films, of course, the dancing would center more around Fred and Ginger, but it's a great part of the movie and certainly solidified these two as a top box office pairing.For pure enjoyment, there's nothing like watching Astaire & Rogers in these movies. "},{"Title":"Divorce-Continental Style","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The Gay Divorcée (RKO Radio, 1934), directed by Mark Sandrich, reunites the supporting young couple who supplied the comedy relief and very little dancing to the previous year's success of FLYING DOWN TO RIO (RKO, 1933). The couple in question are Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers. With this being their first starring film musical as a team, in reality, they are virtually supporting players, this time supporting the supporting character actors who seem to be on more than the stars themselves. Even several production numbers are performed by others, but Astaire does manage to get at least one big solo spotlight to himself before doing his couple of twists and turns with Rogers. However, this doesn't take away from the chemistry they have, making this the one to set the pattern for their future films ahead.The plot centers upon Guy Holden (Fred Astaire), a famous American dancer, traveling with his lawyer friend, Egbert Fitzgerald (Edward Everett Horton). After a brief stay in Paris they head for London where Egbert finds himself filling in for his attorney father who's away in Scotland. As for Guy, he encounters Mimi Glossop (Ginger Rogers), traveling with her matron aunt, Hortense Ditherwell (Alice Brady). A situation involving a dress caught in her aunt's luggage leads Guy to help only to accidentally rip it and loaning her his raincoat to cover up her embarrassment, leaving her his calling card where to return it. Later, Hortense has her unhappily married niece, Mimi, seek divorce proceedings through Egbert Fitzgerald (whom she almost married three ex-husbands prior). Egbert takes the case and hires a gigolo, Rodolfo Tonetti (Erik Rhodes), to act as Mimi's hired correspondent so to have her geologist husband, Cyril (William Austin) catch them in the act and agree to a divorce. Before Tonetti accepts the job, and not knowing who the client is, he is given a secret password, Chance is the fool's name for fate, a line from one of Guy's shows. When Mimi meets up with Guy again, Guy uses that phrase in conversation, and stunned that the man she's been avoiding to be working for her attorney, she reluctantly invites Guy to her hotel room about the same time Tonetti arrives, further complicating matters to the situation.A drawing room farce if ever there was one, sometimes amusing, often silly, with this being typical of 1930s musicals. While essentially a filmed staged play, The Gay Dibvorcee does break away from drawing room settings with a car chase and brief street scenery. Taken from the hit play, The Gay Divorce (1932), which also starred Astaire, with Erik Rhodes and Eric Blore reprising their roles, the film succeeds due to the presence of Astaire and Rogers. Of the songs from the stage production, only Cole Porter's Night and Day remains.The musical program with new score by Mack Gordon and Harry Revel, Con Conrad and Herb Magidson, include Don't Let It Bother You (sung by French chorus girls/ followed by a tap dance solo by Fred Astaire); Looking for a Needle in a Haystack (sung and danced by Astaire); Let's Knock K-neez (sung by Betty Grable and Edward Everett Horton); Night and Day (sung by Astaire/ danced by Astaire and Rogers); The Continental (sung by Ginger Rogers/ danced by Astaire and Rogers, and others); and The Continental (finale).While some of the earlier songs are forgettable, with Needle for a Haystack inventing the Astaire character, Night and Day marks the first Astaire and Rogers dance on screen in its entirety. The Continental, a lively song that would be the first Academy Award winning song, is lavishly produced, interestingly choreographed (resembling The Carioca from FLYING DOWN TO RIO), it focuses more on couples dressed in black and white attire dancing in montage sequences, with time out for singing by Erik Rhodes playing his Constantina, and another, Lillian Miles, who appears, sings and is never seen or heard from again, before Astaire and Rogers take center stage going into their dance of Spanish, Hungarian, Viennese and jazz steps before its conclusion.Of the supporting players, Alice Brady comes off best with her amusing combination mixture of Margaret Dumont and Gracie Allen. She, like her counterpart, Edward Everett Horton, would become type-cast with such roles, but later proved her ability as a dramatic actress with her Academy Award winning role of IN OLD CHICAGO (20th-Fox, 1937). Other character actors in support include William Austin, briefly appearing as Mimi's husband, presenting himself close to the mannerisms of future character actor, Billy DeWolfe; Eric Blore as the waiter would have his share of comedic scenes with Astaire and Rogers in three additional musicals.Of the ten Astaire and Rogers musicals, The Gay Divorcée, Top Hat (1935) and Shall We Dance? (1937) , all with Edward Everett Horton, were the most commonly revived from local television through much of the 1960s to the 1980s, many substituting the Movietime or C&C Television logos over the original RKO Radio during its introduction and closing credits. Aired regularly on American Movie Classics during the stations beginning to 2000, it's also shown frequently on Turner Classic Movies. Availability on home video dating back to the 1980s from the now extinct Nostalgia Merchant to Turner Home Entertainment has paved the way for future generations to discover and enjoy the legend of Astaire and Rogers. The Gay Divorcée being one of the twelve feature films to be nominated for Best Picture of 1934, is vintage fun. Even as the latter Astaire and Rogers musicals started to wear thin, namely CAREFREE (1938), they never ceased to amaze in what the team can do with their dancing feet. (****) "},{"Title":"No Not That Kind Of Gay - The Original Definition","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Of the nine Fred and Ginger movies, this is possibly the most charming.  It is archetypal for the species -- boy meets girl, misunderstanding develops, misunderstanding resolves, boy gets girl.  No villains to speak of, no blood.  Lots of music and fun.  The paper-thin plot makes it all the more fun.  Nobody is taking anything seriously, everybody's in it for the good times. A rendition of The Continental is a very stylish song and dance number.  A very young Betty Grable stops in for a quick vignette in Let's Knock Knees.  The Italian lothario, played by Erik Rhodes, is one of the funniest comic characters ever.  Comedic standard character actors Edward Everett Horton and Eric Blore aren't far behind him.  Even if you were in the mood for Reservoir Dogs, you won't be able to ignore the natural enthusiasm and love of life in this film. "}{"Title":"Chance Is the Fool's Name for Fate","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" After staying in Paris on vacation, the American dancer Guy Holden (Fred Astaire) and his Londoner lawyer friend Egbert Fitzgerald (Edward Everett Horton) return to London by ship. Guy meets the wealthy American blonde Mimi Glossop (Ginger Rogers), who is traveling with her aunt Hortense Ditherwell (Alice Brady), in the harbor and Mimi asks him to call her aunt to open her luggage since her dress is trapped in the trunk. Guy tries to release her dress but he accidentally rips Mimi's dress. Guy lends his overcoat to her expecting to receive it back with a thank-you note with her name and address, but Mimi returns the coat without any card.Meanwhile, Hortense seeks out Egbert, who is replacing his father in the office, expecting to get the divorce of Mimi and her husband, the geologist Cyril Glossop (William Austin). However, Cyril advises that it would be difficult to make Cyryl accepting the divorce and he suggest to Mimi to hire the correspondent Rodolfo Tonettito (Erik Rhodes) to stay with her in a hotel room. Meanwhile, Egbert would hire private eyes to arrive in Mimi's room and surprise the couple, forcing the divorce of Mimi and Cyril. Egbert gives a password to Tonettito to identify Mimi and uses a sentence created by Guy &#x96; Chance Is the Fool's Name for Fate. Mimi believes that Guy is her correspondent and stays with him in her room. When Tonettito arrives in her room, the disappointed Mimi learns the truth and feels better. But she is still married and can not marry Guy. The Gay Divorcée is a great classic musical, with Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire shining and dancing. The long song The Continental was awarded with the Oscar of Best Music in 1935 and it is delightful to see the choreography of the dance. In IMDb Trivia, there are interesting information about this film that I will not repeat in my review. In addiction, Ginger Rogers drives the mighty Duesenberg Model J, one of the most popular luxury cars as well as a status symbol in the United States and Europe. This car that cost between US$ 20,000.00 to US$ 25,000.00 in 1935 was driven by Clark Gable and Gary Cooper (the rare model SSJ 125), Al Capone, Greta Garbo, Howard Hughes, Mae West, Tyrone Power among others personalities. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) A Alegre Divorciada (The Gay Divorcée) "},{"Title":"Forget the plot,enjoy the talent","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is probably one of their best,equalling Top Hat in this Astaire-Rogers series. Perhaps the wit and dialog are old fashioned and wordy by modern standards,but after looking over this film again, I would say that there is now no modern talent or effort to match it. Just watch the detail and hard work put into the 15-20 sequence of The Continental and try to imagine anything these days that would compare. This is a song and (very good) dance musical appearing in the Depression years.It's an absolutely uplifting picture. It seems that after Roberta,Top Hat and Swing Time and a few others, the style seems to fade a bit until we get into the more serious, later films.These early films are unique. And when Astaire is partnered with other dancers,somehow the panache isn't there;and Rogers goes off to be a character actress. "},{"Title":"Tripping the Light Fantastic","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is just a fun movie.. Nothing serious, just a cast of characters guaranteed to keep you laughing, from start to finish, the wonderful dancing of Fred and Ginger, and great music. From Eric Blore's waiter portrayal- which is worthy of a Monty python skit, to Cole Porter's Night and Day- this movie has everything to make you day better your heart lighter and your smile wider. Look for Betty Grable in a minor role- 6 years before she became WWII's favorite girl. RKO's staging of the big number The Continental is worthy of MGM. Grab your favorite dance partner, clear the living room and dance along with Fred and Ginger in this great old movie. "},{"Title":"Gay Divorcée- We All Need Other Correspondents Like This ***1/2","Date":"1 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The Gay Divorce produced the first song ever to be honored with an Academy award in 1934. That catchy tune was the continental. That elaborate, lengthy dance sequence was just truly memorable. Everyone would want to kick up their heels and start dancing to beautiful music, dangerous rhythm, etc.The thin plot evolves around Mimi(Ginger) going with her eccentric aunt (played with memorable timing by Alice Brady) to lawyer Eggbert. (Edward Everett Horton) Seems that Mimi wants to divorce her husband and Horton hires a correspondent, an Italian gigolo, who does this for a living to provoke her husband. Of course, Eggbert has a nephew, Guy Holden (Fred Astaire) who falls for Mimi as the fun truly begins. Imagine, Mimi soon has two correspondents. Naturally, she dances up quite a storm with partner Astaire.The ending is absolutely hilarious, but it's the great dance sequence and chemistry between Astaire and Rogers that makes this film. "},{"Title":"Why not on DVD?","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is the most enjoyable, if not the best, of the Astaire/Rogers hook ups. What in the world is taking so long to get this out on DVD? I would have thought it would have been an early pick, particularly since Hollywood is so anxious to slam anything to do with traditional values. It's unfortunate that the storyline treats marriage as a casual thing, to be taken so lightly. That notwithstanding, it is still a very enjoyable film.The password bit ... Fool ... chance ... love ... etc is one of the funniest sequences in all of filmdom.The supporting cast is superb! Please. Bring this to DVD soon! "},{"Title":"Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers are entertaining enough in their first starring film of The Gay Divorcée","Date":"17 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" After causing a sensation in Flying Down to Rio with their dance sequence there, RKO decided to give Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers a whole movie to themselves the following year. This would eventually lead to a series of films starring them to mostly great box office results. As it was, this would be the first time that Astaire would pursue Ms. Rogers with the latter resisting at first before a mistaken identity plot also takes effect. The comedy involving them and supporting players like Alice Brady, Edward Everett Horton, Eric Blore, and Erik Rhodes was funny enough to me but it's really the songs and dances that really makes these movies enjoyable enough for repeat viewings. The Night & Day sequence, especially, really puts the Astaire-Rogers dance numbers in full force and the later one called The Continental provides some fun among other dancers not to mention a now-forgotten singer named Lilian Miles. Oh, and Betty Grable-who was 17 at the time-also does a fine number called Let's K-nock K-nees with Horton who seemed game enough. Really, all I'll say now is The Gay Divorcée is well worth seeing for the emergence of the classic movie dance team of Astaire & Rogers! Trivia note William Austin, who plays Ginger's husband she's trying to divorce, eventually played Alfred the butler in the Batman serials in the '40s. His look there would eventually inspire DC Comics to change their previous physical look for Alfred to one that's thin and has facial hair. "},{"Title":"The Gay Divorce","Date":"14 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I was really lucky to catch this film when it was being shown, I only missed the first two minutes, had I of known it was the first film starring the famous dancing star couple together I wouldn't have ignored it, thank goodness I spotted it, from director Amrk Sandrich (Top Hat, Shall We Dance). Basically in Brightbourne, Brighton, England arrives Mimi Glossop (Ginger Rogers) from America who seeks a divorce from her geologist husband Cyril (William Austin) who she hasn't seen for several years. Her domineering Aunt Hortense (Alice Brady), who has been married numerous times herself, is there to give her guidance and get bumbling and slightly incompetent lawyer Egbert 'Pinky' Fitzgerald (Edward Everett Horton) to consult them, he also happens to a former fiancé. He tries to get an adulterous relationship started as they spend a night in the hotel he found them, and professional co-respondent Rodolfo Tonetti (Erik Rhodes) is who he has hired to try and make it happen. He forgets though to hire private detectives to catch them in the act, leaving Mimi free to do whatever she wants, and coincidently she again meets American dancer Guy Holden (Fred Astaire), they met briefly on her arrival. Guy is a friend of Egbert's and is now besotted with Mimi staying in the same hotel, and he is also mistaken as the co-respondent she is meant to be caught with. They are eventually caught by Tonetti who holds them prisoner as they wait to clear up the mess, and Cyril also arrives to speak his mind about the situation, but in the end Guy and Mimi escape to dance the night away and live happily ever after. Also starring Eric Blore as The Waiter, Lillian Miles as Singer, Continental Number, Charles Coleman as Guy's Valet and Betty Grable as Dance Specialty. Astaire is lovable and charming, Rogers is beautiful and innocent, and together their scenes are filled with fantastic chemistry, the film is has of course wonderful songs, with the Oscar winning The Continental, Night and Day, Let's K-nock K-nees and A Needle In A Haystack, the dialogue is witty and funny which creates most of the best jokes, overall a delightful musical comedy. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction, Best Music for Max Steiner, Best Sound and Best Picture. Fred Astaire was number 81 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 5 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men, Ginger Rogers was number 14 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Women. Very good! "},{"Title":"Fred and Ginger in their second musical delight","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Mimi Glossop wants a divorce.Dancer Guy Holden's lawyer friend assists her in that.The dancer falls for Mimi.The Gay Divorcée (1934)Mark Sandrich and produced by Pandro S. Berman.The music is by Max Steiner. is directed by Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers really hit it off.This is the second of their musicals, and the first one to feature the duo as the main attraction.The rest of the cast is great, too.Alice Brady is Aunt Hortense, who has been married to Egbert Fitzgerald, played by Edward Everett Horton.Erik Rhodes is Rodolfo Tonetti.Eric Blore is The Waiter.Betty Grable portrays Guest.Lillian Miles is Singer, Continental Number.William Austin plays Cyril Glossop.I really enjoyed the Knock Your Feet bit.Also The Continental was most amusing.That song won an Oscar.A really enjoyable musical delight. "},{"Title":"The Template","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Ginger's aunt concocts a scheme to get her out of her unhappy marriage, but complications arise. This film became the template for all the Astaire-Rogers films to follow - a silly plot involving mistaken identities, snappy musical numbers, and supporting cast featuring some combination of scene stealers Horton, Blore, and Rhodes. The formula would be perfected the following year with Top Hat, but this is entertaining enough in its own right. The big musical number is The Continental, which is enjoyable despite going on for more than 17 minutes. Sandrich directs the first of his five Astaire-Rogers films, borrowing a few tricks from Busby Berkeley. "},{"Title":"You know, you're beginning to fascinate me, and I resent that in any man","Date":"7 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I've got to say, it took me a while to work up the courage to borrow 'The Gay Divorcée (1934)' from the university library. Fortunately, I balanced things out by also renting the steamy neo-noir 'Body Heat (1981)!' Needless to say, my ill-ease was not necessary. The 1930s was a carefree and innocent time for American cinema, and here I can assure the reader that the divorcée indicated by the title is merely happy. The film (my ninth from Astaire and Rogers) was the pair's second collaboration, and the first in which they were the stars. The story, adapted from the musical play Gay Divorce, pretty much forms the template for their next half-dozen outings, a throwaway love-story fraught with screwball misunderstandings and elaborate art deco hotel- rooms. Ginger Rogers requires a divorce from her neglectful husband, and so tries to fake a love-affair (as you do) with a pompous Italian called Tonetti (Erik Rhodes). Fred Astaire comes along, falls in love with Ginger, but she mistakes him for the guy with whom she's supposed to be faking a love-affair.'The Gay Divorcée' has an excellent cast. Fred Astaire, of course, exudes the same classiness and boyish charm that made him the stand-out in 'Flying Down to Rio (1933)' -- and just check out how gracefully he is able to dance and get dressed at the same time. Ginger Rogers, ever the gifted comedienne, shows wonderful composure, effortlessly making the conversion from apathy towards her male co-star to adoration. Edward Everett Horton, whose constant huffiness bounces amusingly off the carefree Astaire, is unfortunate enough to be given a dance number (opposite Betty Grable), through which he awkwardly and hilariously stumbles. Erik Rhodes, who was the highlight of 'Top Hat (1935),' again manages to steal the show, his pompous Italian womaniser a constant source of amusement. There's also Eric Blore, doing that butler thing he does best. Musical highlights include Night and Day and the Oscar- winning Continental, which briefly abandons the long-takes you'd usually find in an Astaire film, instead lapsing into a rapid-fire Eisensteinian montage. "}{"Title":"Chance is the fool's name for fate","Date":"14 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Guy Holden (Fred Astaire) meets Mimi (Ginger Rogers) and pursues her for marriage. However, unknown to him, she is already married and is planning a set-up involving a hired co-respondent to facilitate her divorce. She mistakes Guy for the hired gigolo which makes for an amusing scene in her bedroom. However, events work out so that everyone is happy at the end.As with all the Fred and Ginger films, there are great songs and dances. They have 3 dances together, 2 of them with the songs Night And Day and The Continental, and a routine at the end of the film. The other songs are Needle In A Haystack sung by Fred, and Don't Let It Bother You sung by a chorus of showgirls at the beginning of the film. The film also has Betty Grable singing and dancing in Let's K-nock K-nees alongside Edward Everett Horton and you just can't help but wonder how she and Fred Astaire may have done as a dance team. Not that Ginger Rogers is bad.The supporting cast are all good, especially Erik Rhodes as Rodolfo Tonetti - Your wife is safe with Tonetti......he prefer spaghetti. It's a story of misunderstandings and it has genuine funny moments and funny lines delivered by the whole cast. Watch it and enjoy the magic of the 1930's - great sets and some black-and-white escapism. The story is ripped-off with pretty much the same cast in a film that they did the following year - Top Hat - but that film isn't as amusing or as good as this one. "},{"Title":"Tell of your love while you dance","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The movie musical had been a Hollywood staple since the dawn of the talkies, but after a few years the novelty of the all-singing picture was wearing off and the studios had to refresh the genre with new tricks and, most crucially, popular stars. Old hand Al Jolson had reinvented his image, Bing Crosby was a fresh-faced newcomer, but most successful of all was the duo of Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers. This was their second appearance together, and the first where they were the lead players and main attraction.The two of them were rather different in background. Astaire had already been an established star on the stage and having worked with Ziegfeld was very much in touch with that passing generation of theatrical extravaganza, but he was a newcomer to cinema. Rogers on the other hand already had two-dozen movie credits to her name, and had gained a reputation in small roles, often as a catty, antagonistic chorine. But despite their differences they have in common an approach to dancing that, despite professional precision, brings out a lot of personality. And both can act. Ginger would later prove herself to be an excellent dramatic actress, and is steady enough here. Fred just has an easygoing charm that seems as effortless as his dancing. In a non-musical, these two would seem an odd pairing &#x96; it's when they dance we see them click. But these were early days yet, and in The Gay Divorcée they lack that sense of familiarity around each other that would make their later romances seem so right.This was also the first time Astaire and Rogers were put before director Mark Sandrich, the man who helmed their most successful features together. Sandrich keeps a sort of gentle rhythm going throughout the picture with some delicate camera moves, such as the opening sweep through the restaurant onto Astaire's dancing fingers. His approach to the musical numbers was always oblique yet effective. For Needle in a Haystack, the song is born out of a dialogue scene, with the camera still in its place, the sofa in the foreground separating us from Astaire, who (very unusually) is framed in profile. After one verse, the angle changes to place us in front of him. The camera then follows him as he gets up and selects a tie from a valet, and the dance just segues out of that movement. Sandrich's ability to make the songs flow seamlessly in and out of the non-music scenes was a key part in the ongoing revolution in how musicals were made.One thing that makes a musical like The Gay Divorcée seem somewhat archaic is its plot. It's a comedy of errors that might have been quite good had it been fully developed as one, but the way the narrative twists to fit a song it becomes obviously artificial. It also suffers from an unpleasant quality of many romances of the era, in that the romance basically consists of the man stalking and harassing the woman until, against all probability, she falls for him (and not even the suave Mister Astaire can stop this from appearing creepy). The only thing that saves this from being a handful of noteworthy song-and-dance routines strung together with a limp story is the often witty dialogue and the way it is delivered by a wonderful supporting cast. Just as Fred and Ginger established their screen persona, so too did Edward Everett Horton become the fussy, mother-hen sidekick, Eric Blore the chirpy, intrusive butler and Erik Rhodes the bungling would-be Latin lover. These three are all excellent and, with the romantic interplay between Astaire and Rogers not quite as fizzing as it should be, dare I say they even overshadow the two leads? (Yes, I do dare say). "},{"Title":"Like The Beat, Beat, Beat of the Tom-toms....","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The movies that paired Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers between 1933 and 1949 (the last one being an unexpected MGM feature, as the rest were all made by RKO) remain one of the joys of movie lovers everywhere. The gracefulness of the pair as dancers was matchless (although Astaire would later be said to have done better with Eleanor Powell or Cyd Charisse). The music remains fresh too. And they are amusing films for the most part (except, of course, The Story Of Vernon And Irene Castle, which ends tragically). But there is one major problem we have to overlook - the story lines are (for the most part) idiotic.Because of the casts (especially with regulars like Eric Blore, Edward Everett Horton, and (in only two films, unfortunately) Erik Rhodes, we are willing to overlook the weaknesses of the plots. But occasionally the plot has a bit more meaning to us. Such is the case with The Gay Divorcée.Here, Rogers is trying to get out of a marriage to a leach-like husband (William Austin, who only pops up in the last five minutes of the film). She is wealthy, and he knows she is a great meal ticket - so he will never think of divorcing her. But Rogers and her aunt (Alice Brady) think they can arrange for Austin to be forced to confront Rogers in a compromising position by hiring a professional correspondent. The idea is that this fellow will be caught at the right moment by Austin, and he will have no way of avoiding divorcing Rogers if he has any self-respect left. (Small spoiler here This scheme is actually faulty because it is based on the scheming Austin having self-respect enough to demand divorce; it turns out he couldn't care less, and even forgives Rogers!).The fact is that Astaire, a professional entertainer connected with Horton, is mistaken as the professional correspondent by Rogers, and finds himself being romanced by her in a cool, un-romantic spirit. Rogers, after all is clearly interested in her use of this fellow only for the necessary divorce. But Astaire likes her, and slowly woos her into a more interested and romantic situation.Unfortunately, at this point, the real correspondent (Rhodes) shows up. This part and his subsequent role as the egotistical Bedini in TOP HAT are the two roles that ensured Erik Rhodes (a capable performer) of movie immortality. At the time of his demise in 1990 his obituary in the New York Times mentioned how whenever he showed up for a revival or either film he would start speaking in his clipped Italian voice, to the cheers of the audience. Bedini is a pretty unsympathetic idiot, but one likes Tonetti, the part he played here (and that Rhodes played in the original Cole Porter stage production of THE GAY DIVORCE a few years before - opposite Astaire). Tonetti is also all business, and it is not monkey-business (he happens to be happily married). His famous statement, You can trust your wife with Tonetti; he prefers spaghetti! happens to be true. But Tonetti does become (unwittingly in part) a pest, as he keeps gumming up the romance that is developing between Rogers and Astaire. The latter even happens to try to divert Tonetti's attention at one point with a cut out of himself and Rogers apparently turning back and forth around the room (the cut out is on a phonograph turn-table) with their shadows showing up on a window screen. But Tonetti keeps finding out the deceptions and turning up like the perennial bad penny.Still by the time the film is over Tonetti is fully supportive of the romance - and is still willing to help Rogers against Austin. The film is kind to Rhodes - he even joins in singing the song that wins the Oscar for best song The Continental.Except for one number of the original Porter score, all the tunes here were not by Porter (including The Continental). Porter, one of the greatest of Broadway musical composers, never won the Oscar that the Gerswins, Berlin, and Kern all got Highly ironic, especially as Night And Day is the surviving tune of the original show that is in the film. But the tunes were lost (including a number for Eric Blore about the disappearance of old England), while The Continental and Let's Knock Knees were added - at least the latter gave Edward Everett Horton and Betty Grable a song together. Despite the loss of Porter's score it remains a first rate musical, and an enjoyable look at the problems of divorce in the 1930s. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Music, Dangerous Rhythm","Date":"14 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The Gay Divorcée is the answer to the trivia question of which of Fred Astaire's and Ginger Rogers's is one that Fred Astaire had previously done on Broadway. When Astaire did it on Broadway, the Cole Porter musical had been entitled The Gay Divorce. But that extra 'e' was added on lest anyone get the idea that divorce itself was something frivolous. Imagine anticipating Britney Spears by about 70 years.Actually Fred had also done Funny Face and The Bandwagon on stage as well. But on stage The Bandwagon was a revue and Funny Face had an entirely different plot than the musical made by Astaire in the Fifties. Only in The Gay Divorcée was he asked to repeat a stage role.The basic plot is still the same, the usual Astaire-Rogers case of mistaken identity. Ginger is the budding divorcée going to London to get a divorce as Aunt Alice Brady hired a professional co-respondent. Ginger mistakes Fred for that co-respondent and it takes a while for Fred to warm her up.Fred's an American musical comedy star visiting London with his manager Edward Everett Horton who also happens to know Brady. This gives the excuse for the musical numbers.Cole Porter's score was cut completely from the screen other than the immortal Night and Day. In it's place came four songs, three written by Harry Revel&Mack Gordon and one written by Con Conrad&Herb Magdison. Fred and Ginger dance divinely to Night and Day.Fred does a solo dance to A Needle in a Haystack and Don't Let It Bother You. Betty Grable got her first notice from the movie going public, singing and dancing in Let's Knock Knees all of which were contributed by Revel&Gordon. But it was The Continental number by Con Conrad and Herbert Magdison that got the first Academy Award ever given out for Best Original Song in a motion picture. It's what The Gay Divorcée is remembered for today. It's a rather long, between ten and fifteen minutes of screen time, but as magical as everThe Gay Divorce ran for 248 performances on Broadway during the 1932- 1933 season. Sacrificed for romance are Porter's witty lyrics in the rest of the score containing their usual commentary on the social scene. Of all the American musical giants of the era, I would say that Cole Porter wins hands down as the man that Hollywood butchered the most in bringing his work to the screen. Even before The Code was in place, it seemed that the powers that be deemed that his work was way too sophisticated and naughty to be seen and heard as is.Still with the film being frothy romance instead of social commentary, The Gay Divorcée is still great entertainment. Also repeating their roles from Broadway are supercilious waiter Eric Blore and the real co-respondent Tonetti who prefers spaghetti, Erik Rhodes.Wit for romance, you decide if it was a fair exchange. "},{"Title":"Co-Respondents Course","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This was the first in the franchise of Fred and Ginger movies and the second to team them - following Flying Down To Rio in which they had supporting roles - and it's easy to understand the thinking behind it; they'd scored heavily with The Carioca so why not build a movie around THEM and ANOTHER 'new' dance. The only jarring note is the fact they picked on a fine Cole Porter show and then jettisoned all save one of Porter's songs (Fred Astaire had starred in the Broadway show, his first since his lifelong dance partner, sister Adele, retired from the stage in favor of marriage, and they probably figured a few thousand spectators would make the connection). True, they had the grace to retain Night and Day but the Broadway show wasn't a one-song affair by any means, there was a second fine ballad, After You, and a tasty upbeat entry How's Your Romance but in their wisdom RKO decreed that a gaggle of journeymen songwriters could eclipse Cole Porter. In your dreams, fellas.This initial top-billed teaming set the pattern for those to follow; Fred is invariably a performer (except in Carefree) who falls for Ginger more or less on sight leaving around an hour of screen time for misunderstandings, quarrels and reconciliations punctuated by some high class song and dance by the best in the business. Three of the comedy 'support' here, Eric Blore, Edward Everett Horton and Erik Rhodes would also be on hand for Top Hat - indeed Rhode's Tonetti is a warm-up for his Bedini in the latter - and only Alice Brady would be replaced by Helen Broderick. With one gorgeous 'romantic' dance number (Porter's Night and Day) and the obligatory novelty dance, The Continental, which occupied more or less the last two reels, this was an auspicious start to a timeless franchise. "},{"Title":"Astaire and Rogers get their own show.","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Following Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers's screen partnership debut, in the previous years Flying Down to Rio, the studio and the public alike were more than aware that it was their rendition of The Carioca, (their only dance together in the picture), which became the decisive factor in putting bums on seats and alone attributed to the movies financial box office success.Of course wanting to fully capitalise on this money spinning pairing, plans were soon underway to star Fred and Ginger, who in the previously named film were only 4th and 5th billing, in their own vehicle, with them as the undisputed leads and stars.In a Hollywood still heavily relying on Broadway for a decent script, RKO bought the rights to The Gay Divorce, a Cole Porter stage musical, and pretty much changed everything about it. The script, The plot, and all the song and dance numbers were replaced by new Hollywood friendly alternatives, with only the big show stopper 'Night and Day' and the original title remaining.Even then the title had to be eventually altered to appease the newly legally bolstered Hay's office, who did not want RKO suggesting to the world that a divorce was something big, clever or enjoyable, so they were forced to add an extra 'e' to 'divorce', which put the emphasis on the emotional state of the divorced character instead.It strikes me as ludicrous that Hay's and his band of do-gooder numpties, could see and accept that a woman coming out of a miserable marriage could be happy, yet maintain that the divorce which brought about this accepted state of euphoria still had 'straight to hell' implications. Crazy man!So with a story and title that bared little or no resemblance to the show originally purchased, production finally went underway on the first Astaire/Rogers starring vehicle, 'The Gay Divorcée'.Astaire plays American stage/movie dancer Guy Holden in England on an extended Holiday accompanied by incompetent but good natured barrister Egbert Fitzgerald played wonderfully by Edward Everett Horton.Here Holden meets fellow American Mimi Glossop (Ginger Rogers) and despite the embarrassing start to their relationship, they soon start the beginnings of a romance. In addition to this and unbeknown to Guy, Ms. Glossip is in England to secure a divorce from her estranged husband and has employed Guy's friend Egbert to handle the affair.Egbert's plan is to hire a co-respondent with whom Mimi must act out an illicit affair in a seaside hotel bedroom for the benefit of some hired detectives, which will then give her husband reasons to file for divorce. However when Egbert arrives at the resort with friend Guy in tow, Mimi wrongly assumes Guy is the co-respondent and is disgusted by his suspected line of work.When Guy is invited to Mimi's room for the entire night (the main crux of the divorce plan) there follows an uncomfortable atmosphere, of contempt an loathing from Mimi and confusion and desire from Guy.What then happens when her Aunt, the real co-respondent and Mimi's husband arrive on the scene??? This film features some great numbers principally Night and Day and the grandiose 'The Continental' which attempted and in places succeeded to emulate the previous movies 'Carioca' We are also treated to a great Astaire solo, 'Needle in a Haystack' and novelty number 'Let's K-knock K-knees' performed by a very young and very attractive Betty Grable accompanied by a very tired and very unmusical Ed Everett Horton.Add to this the great bedroom farce plot and wonderful comic performances by a film stealing Erik Rhodes as the greasy Italian co-respondent Tonetti, Eric Blore as the 'whumiscal' butler and Alice Brady as the confused and absent minded Aunt Hortense, it's clear that they started the Astaire/Rogers series proper on a high and entertaining note. "},{"Title":"Not their best but still a bit of light family fun that is easy to enjoy","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Traveling to the UK from Paris, famous dancer Guy Holden meets a young lady in peril in a train station and helps her out &#150; even if Mimi doesn't appreciate it one little bit. Smitten by her after this slightest of encounters, Guy is upset when she returns his coat to him without a note and sets out to drive the streets until he can find her. Literally bumping into her only makes matter worse for him as he feels even more in love and, against a backdrop of an English holiday, decides to win her over.Nowadays such a title would suggest a 'Will & Grace' style comedy with flaming homosexual clichés that offer an offensive to the gay community and an easy, non-threatening character for straight audiences but, given that we are in 1934 here, it is actually the first film that featured Astaire and Rogers in equal billing and is quite an enjoyable little affair despite sharing only one song in common with its source material. The film also features an extra 'e' because censors of the time insisted that divorce could never be seen as gay or cheerful and I suppose it was a concession on their part to allow the idea that a divorcée could be! The basic plot is very thin and involves the usual boy meets girls but don't get on, boys falls for girl and hunts for her before gradually winning her over but this is carried by some good song and dance numbers which, in fairness, is probably why we are all watching this film anyway!The crisp black and white seems a bit cold when the material is so colourful but it also helped to make me feel like I had been transported back to another time and I enjoyed the film on its terms. Although it doesn't really get to the heights of some of the more elaborate routines, those in this film are still quite fun and the mostly new songs are catchy and fun, although the fact that 'night & day' was the standout song made me wonder why the others were replaced. Astaire has great presence and is such a light touch and an enjoyable actor &#150; he seems to be the complete opposite of what modern cinema deems a 'man' to be &#150; although to be fair he plays in a genre that doesn't exist any more. Rogers is as good but I was never as taken by her as I was by Astaire but she has a feisty presence even if her character makes her hard to get into (I mean as a character and not the way Astaire's character was trying to!). Support is good from Brady, Horton, Rhodes and Grable &#150; all of whom are given minor funny moments of genuine wit.The script throws up some funny moments but the overall plot is very thin and I found it hard to really care about the film when it had long dialogue driven scenes. However when the song and dance moments come into it the film is much better &#150; light and enjoyable and easy to watch. Not the best example of Astaire & Rogers but a fun little piece of light family entertainment nonetheless.  "},{"Title":"The word is co-respondent, not correspondent","Date":"16 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Most of these reviews don't appear to understand the plot. As the law in England then stood, the only reliable way to get a divorce was on the grounds of adultery, which required citing a co-respondent (not 'correspondent'), who was required to have been discovered in flagrante delicto with the marriage partner, i.e. having breakfast in the same room. This was usually delegated to a professional co-respondent such as depicted in this movie, who was certainly not a 'would-be Latin lover' at all but just a guy hired to do a job and be seen by a chambermaid at a legally appropriate time.Stunning movie, perhaps my favourite of the series, with the unsurpassed 'Night and Day' number and an excellent large-scale production number for the Continental, using every inch of a vast RKO Big White Set, although it isn't quite as big as it appears in one shot look for a bit of matte work. "},{"Title":"Fred and Ginger's first leading role screen pairing and one of their best","Date":"29 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The plots have never come across as a strong suit in Fred and Ginger's films, however when everything else is so good it doesn't present much of a problem. That is the case with The Gay Divorcée and Fred and Ginger's other films too, if you want great escapism they provide that. In regard to Fred and Ginger's films, The Gay Divorcée is one of their best, personal ranking would be third place behind Top Hat and Swing Time(with Top Hat getting the edge, Follow the Fleet and Shall We Dance are extremely good too). The story here is thin, but one of the more cohesive and wittiest stories in their films as well. The Gay Divorcée, if not quite so much as Swing Time, is a beautiful-looking film, the sets are ingeniously delightful with the standout being the deco Brighton and the photography shows great technical skill and sensitivity. The score is lush and often romantic-sounding thanks to Max Steiner's very distinctive musicality and arranging. And the songs are just wonderful, Night and Day is timeless but as a whole scene, visually, choreographically and song-wise, while long The Continental was the highlight. The script has plenty of warmth, wit and heart, Erik Rhodes' line about Tornetti and spaghetti raises a big chuckle. The choreography merges so well with the music and looks so athletic and poised even now, and it's matched perfectly by Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers', both giving endearing performances, dancing. The supporting cast are also spot on, Erik Rhodes like he did in Top Hat comes very close to stealing the show while Edward Everett Horton and Eric Blore don't disappoint. Young Betty Grable really shines too in the number Let's K-nock K-nees. In conclusion, one of Fred and Ginger's best, a really exciting start to an iconic pairing which gave way to films that are equally as good. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"There's k-now k-nockin' this!","Date":"21 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" There's a lot to love in this lavish musical comedy loosely based upon Cole Porter's 1932 show, the only movie in which Fred Astaire got to repeat his Broadway role. Only one song (Night and Day) remains, and he has a new leading lady (Ginger Rogers replacing Claire Luce), so for their second pairing and first leads, Fred and Ginger entered film immortality. There's plenty of silliness to be had, a few lavish production numbers, and yet all results in a romantic film that has gone on to movie immortality.The basic storyline has American attorney Fred Astaire chasing the girl (Rogers), not realizing that his partner (Edward Everett Horton) is the attorney in her divorce case. She's at first annoyed by them (he catches her in a precarious predicament), and he actually stalks her for a bit, but once they break the ice (with Night and Day), she begins to warm up to him. But when she mistakingly believes that he's the hired correspondent paid to help her get the divorce, more confusion ensues until the correct one (the hysterical Erik Rhodes) shows up with his concertina.Alice Brady has some of the funniest dumb lines in movie history, her malapropisms filled with innuendo. Droll Eric Blore adds more amusement as the hotel waiter with Betty Grable coming on for a delightful song and dance number (Let's K-Nock K-Nees) with Horton. It's clear that there's a future star in this delightful peppy youngster, yet it took 6 years before she would find success in lavish color musicals over at 20th Century Fox.As for The Continental, it is set up nicely, although I laughed more at the fact that Astaire had a pair of paper scissors on him and could take a page out of a magazine and make it stand up on a record player to provide a shadow for him and Rogers while they went out and danced without Rhodes' knowledge. The production number goes on forever, but is so delightful that it really doesn't matter, seeming more like a music video with its brunette dancers in black dresses and blonde dancers in white dresses. "}{"Title":"Wild and woolly fun!","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Aside from Shall We Dance, The Gay Divorcée is my favorite Fred & Ginger film. It's a completely wacky, not to be taken seriously for one second, spirited fun film with an amazing timeless score.There are so many memorable moments in it. The whistling bits made me laugh out loud. The ending when F&G leave the hotel room while dancing is unforgettable. The Gay Divorcée has the usual F&G supporting cast, including Edward Everett Horton, Eric Blore and Erik Rhodes, who steals the show from the two whenever he's on screen. It's a wonder he never became a super star. A very young Betty Grable is also in it! The songs include The Continental, Night & Day, Looking for a Needle in a Haystack.A must see for fans of musicals and classic films. "},{"Title":"Fred and Ginger and all the usual ingredients...including Eric Blore...","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The first time Astaire and Rogers really shared top billing was in this RKO movie, THE GAY Divorcée (based on a Broadway musical Astaire starred in called The Gay Divorce).This one is notable for NIGHT AND DAY and THE CONTINENTAL, as well as a show-stopping number performed by a very young BETTY GRABLE and EDWARD EVERETT HORTON called Let's Knock Knees. Under Max Steiner's direction, the musical numbers are what give the picture its real lift with, of course, a little help from Ginger and Fred. They, in turn, get additional help from ERIK RHODES, ERIC BLORE and ALICE BRADY.Chance is the fool's name for fate, is the codeword that sets in force the mix-ups that occur when Ginger mistakes Astaire for a man who is the co-respondent her lawyer has hired to expedite her divorce.The big deluxe dance number is, of course, The Continental, which gets lavish art deco treatment and intricate dance routines by Astaire, Rogers and a whole bevy of exuberant dancers attired in striking B&W costuming. It should have been saved for the finale, but there's still a little more plotting devices to straighten out in which ERIK RHODES shines as the real co-respondent and ERIC BLORE does his waiter routine for maximum chuckles.Summing up Good fun all the way through, one of the best thanks to a marvelous cast. "},{"Title":"Perfectly Watchable, But Astaire and Rogers Would Make Better","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I don't know that I've ever seen a film that has less plot than The Gay Divorcée. It's like one of those Three's Company episodes where everything revolves around a misunderstanding, except with even less substance.I don't know why I'm surprised though, given the other Astaire/Rogers films I've seen. This one set the mold for a formula that needed no revision, since audiences ate it up again and again. If anything, this one feels more like a trial run -- the dancing duo would make better films later in the decade. But they have their usual kinetic chemistry; Rogers especially looks adorable in this. Character actress Alice Brady plays the dotty matron role that Helen Broderick would assume in Top Hat and Swing Time. Astaire/Rogers regulars Edward Everett Horton and (my favorite) Eric Blore are also on-hand and do what they're asked to do. Every one of these films has a big production number that serves as the film's centerpiece. Here it's The Continental, and it seems to go on forever.Also with Erik Rhodes, who plays a silly and outrageous Latin lover.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Astaire and Rogers FINALLY in their own film--NOT TO BE MISSED!","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The general plot style is pretty familiar to fans of the dance team of Astaire and Rogers--they meet, they hate each other, they fall in love, they hate each other again and they make up in the end and live happily ever after. Yet despite this, the film is amusing and captivating.Historically speaking, this is a super-important film, as it was the first film to star Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers in the lead. While they had danced together in a prior film, FLYING DOWN TO RIO, they were only supporting actors and the film lacked the beautiful chemistry and artistry of a true Astaire and Rogers film. Amazingly enough, even though this was their first starring film together, it is among their absolute best. It's really hard to say whether this or TOP HAT is their best film. I tend to very slightly prefer TOP HAT because the songs are the best of any of their films, but this one is nearly as good and is definitely more original. And what's not to like about the film?! The acting, dancing, class, sophistication, direction and writing were all top-notch and make this among the best musicals ever made. "},{"Title":"Astaire's first big Clopity-Clop with Ginger...","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" ...If you do not consider Flying Down to Rio.I have actually seen parts of this film for the last 15 years, but I finally sat down and watched the whole thing. Very amusing! Now, it was thought for some time that Fred actually brought Rogers to the dance floor, or that He Discovered her or some nonsense like that- but it has been said somewhere, she had been in 19 films prior to this one, and elsewhere, that she had been in 34 previous films. Regardless, she may as well have been invisible until Flying down to Rio where I guess Hollywood's Eyes noticed this two pairs of dancing legs But this film is the first deliberate pairing of Astaire/Rogers. I do not see how a woman as gorgeous as Ginger could be overlooked, and, well, she wasn't as a matter of fact- Even if her feet had not met Fred's, she would have still been one of the genuine beauties of the 30's and 40's. Looks like she was headed that way right at the time she met Fred Flying down to Rio So, The Gay Divorce(e) was actually, when it comes down to it, the film that matters for both Fred and Ginger It cemented them together as a pair dancing forever under the moonlight- It is the image we think of when we think of dancing. The basis of this film was a musical of a Cole Porter's which was performed in England, and apparently they were less rigid in allowing the name of the musical to stand as The Gay Divorce- But of course here we have that damned National Board of Review and so certain aspects had to be changed, including the title for some reason.So The first thing I see that Betty Grable is credited as Dance Specialty I am not sure where that was- Actually it was not a dance, but it was the let's Knock Knees song. There were so many legs in this film, it is difficult to remember who does what! Haha! That right there calls for a new viewing of the film. Now Fred was given a leading role. And we see that he is a very charming individual, with wry wit, but in fact he was not really an actor, he was a top-notch musician, an excellent percussionist. He could beat out a rhythm with his fingers, feet, arms legs and hands And he could dance with anything, Bowling Pins, Coat-Racks, gymnasium equipment. Looks like he knew his way around the piano, and he could also play a drum kit. The man was not only able to pound out magnificent beats, but he could sing and dance and make jokes and he had a great sense of style.And this film is some of his best work. Much better than a coat-rack, is Ginger as a dance partner and it works very well, even in the first actual dance they perform, she is trying to be stand-offish, and I have never seen anyone dance out an emotional part like that, she really gives you the impression that she wants Fred to get lost.And so that brings me to why I was so amused by this film, not just the interaction between Rogers and Astaire, in which she does a magnificent imitation of a refrigerator... But Fred just won't quit. So, the story here, is very straightforward ironic comedy, and there is not much to it, so the movie is fleshed out with songs and dance numbers and some jokes, and what works for me, is Edward Horton and Alice Brady- That pairing is almost as clever as Astaire/Rogers and had me roaring with laughter.Now, the last thing I wanted to say about this, is that the producers of the original musical brought Core Porter to England to write the music for this. Well, there was probably a reason for that... and I find it disappointing that Night and Day is the only Porter number left. The Song The Continental which won the academy award for the best song in a musical for that year... I don;t think it is as goos as anything Cole Porter wrote but in fact it is the film's centerpiece, huge dance number.Overall, the simplicity of The Gay Divorcée is still pretty humorous, even in 2006. I imagine a remake of this film would employ modernizations of some sort... Well, all I can say to anyone thinking of remaking this film... DON'T!What makes this film work, is the mainly footwork of our dancing fools. This kind of footwork was a big thing for Broadway and Hollywood in the 30's and in this day of computer generated creatures and explosions and such, who would we get to replace Astaire and Rogers that would would work so magically? I cannot think of anyone. In the 80's we had Gregory Hines... But not anymore. When I see the Huge Productions of the 30's and 40's and the huge sets and the big dance numbers and the synchronicity of the cast and crew of such productions... That appears to be lost for all time.But... As far as Rogers and Astaire? Bogart and Bacall?We may never see their like again "},{"Title":"Whumsical is much more whimsical than whamsical.","Date":"14 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I was in an awful mood when I started watching THE GAY Divorcée, but by the time I was finished everything seemed right with the world. Can you say anything better about a film?THE GAY Divorcée is the first proper 'Fred and Ginger' film, a rewritten and re-scored version of a successful musical play that Astaire had performed in New York and London. By most testimonies it's the best version despite having jettisoned most of Cole Porter's score (the exception being the brilliant 'Night and Day'). Replacement songs included 'The Continental', first Academy Award winner for Best Original Song (Night and Day, of course, wasn't eligible) and the even better 'Needle in a Haystack'. And Divorcée serves as a template for much of what will follow in the series. In most ways, few of their later efforts would better it.As in most of the Astaire/Rogers musicals we get a standard French Farce type of plot grounded in mistaken identities and general misunderstandings within which are strung various Vaudevillian-type comedy routines featuring a superb supporting cast (Edward Everett Horton, Alice Brady, the two Erics, even Betty Grable) and several dances by our principals. THE GAY Divorcée differs from the others in having two of our supporting actors (Horton and Grable) doing the terpsichorean honors in the first (happy, high-spirited, allegro, getting-to-know-you style) duet, and as good as Betty (only seventeen) is, and as fun as it is to see Horton shuffling about (he actually had experience on the stage in musical comedies), the routine (Let's K-Knock Knees) pretty much stops the movie dead, and I for one very much miss Ginger and Fred in it. Without them the little production number does nothing to further the plot, an innovation that this series pioneered (apparently director Mark Sandrich made a major contribution in this respect).You can't say the same about the great duet danced to 'Night and Day'. Something of a choreographic miracle (Fred had never designed a romantic duet before), it remains one of the finest dances ever put on film despite a certain stiffness on Ginger's part, a deficiency (she was not a trained dancer and had never done anything like this) that she would overcome in later films, and which was more than made up for by her brilliant acting ability, bringing an emotional clarity and depth to the number that would later prove to be lacking with many of the technically better trained partners of Astaire.The perfect introduction to Astaire's genius is his earlier solo to 'Needle in a Haystack', a wonderful example of complexity within simplicity as he dresses to go out looking for Ginger while manipulating props, combining explosions of tap with flashes of ballet, and making everything seem absolutely effortless while doing so. He would do more elaborate solos later on, but for my taste he would never do a better one.The celebratory Continental dance, however, is charming so long as Fred and Ginger are doing the dancing but goes on far too long when the chorus takes over. No such problem for our delightful epilogue, a joyous dance over the furniture and out the door, whetting the audience's appetite for more.I find the comedy funnier in THE GAY Divorcée than in any of the other Astaire/Rogers films, with wonderfully witty lines delivered by expert performers popping up everywhere. Besides the great dancing and electric chemistry between them, Fred was a perfectly competent light comedian, exceptional in a great dancer, and an excellent singer (in manner if not in the quality of his voice), while Ginger was an excellent actress of extraordinary range, positively unique in someone who could do dances of the complexity and difficulty that she could manage. It isn't any surprise that we haven't seen their likes since. "},{"Title":"The Old English Definition of Gay","Date":"20 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I had a period in which I was infatuated with the greatness that is Fred Astaire & Ginger Rodgers. Prior to this I often heard of them, but I was occupied with later film musical of the 50's. When I checked them out for myself I got it, oh boy did I get it. When together dancing or not, Fred and Ginger are in a world of their own and everyone else ceases to exist. Just look as Night & Day (my favourite Astaire and Rodger's number), what could be more spellbinding? The Gay Divorcée is my favourite Astaire & Rodgers picture. This was their first film together as lead, and yet a feel it gets everything right, and I consider it a much better film than Top Hat which itself I find overrated.I find the humour of The Gay Divorcée is more creative than that of Top Hat. Take the sequence in which Astaire finds Rodger in London by near impossible luck, then the two engage in a car chase into the country side (how often do you get a car chase in a 30's musical), and then in a wacky races type moment he goes ahead or Rodgers and gets road closed sign out of nowhere in order to stop her. Astaire's stalker attitude could come off as creepy, but he is charming enough to get away with it, making this moments morbidly funny. This whole sequence is so surreal and plays like a live action cartoon, as if the filmmakers are making fun of the film's own highly improbably mistaken identity plot. This is much more clever than the handling of the mistaken identity plot in Top Hat. I don't mean to completely undo Top Hat, I think it's a good movie, just whatever Top Hat did I can't help but feel The Gay Divorcée did much better. I've always championed Astaire's unsung abilities as a comedian. His timing and line delivery is easily on par with the likes of Cary Grant; I wish he could have appeared in some non musical comedies. Ginger Rodgers usually had a female companion throughout the series, and I think Alice Brady is the best of them all with her histrionics; the sound of her voice alone cracks me up. The Gay Divorcée may have slipped through the recently instated production code. If not then it certainty feels like a pre-code film, with sexual tension throughout and an air of scandalousness to the whole thing.Fred and Ginger, they where gods! "},{"Title":"Fantastic initial pairing of Fred and Ginger as the official stars","Date":"16 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This was the second film pairing of Fred and Ginger, and their first as the starring couple. Already, Fred had enough clout to demand that the dance scenes, in particular, be devised and filmed according to his specifications, which were quite different from those of the competing popular dance-oriented musicals of Warner, choreographed by the innovative Busby Berkeley. Fred insisted that all dance routines be filmed in one shot, if possible, and show the dancer's entire body throughout. No zooming in on one body part, such as the face or legs, as often done at times in the Berkeley films. No overhead shots of interesting geometric patterns of masses of dancers or single couples a staple of the Berkeley films. Songs and dances were to be integrated into the screen play, helping move it along, rather than being stage productions that had little or nothing to do with the screenplay, as in the typical Berkeley film. Fred always had at least one solo dance(two in this film), usually did most of the solo singing, usually with a back and forth duet or two with Ginger, and usually included at least one purely romantic partnered dance, along with one or more novelty, comedic or pure energy partnered dances. He very rarely did duet vaudeville-styled dances with other males, exceptions occurring in the later Broadway Rhythm of 1940 and Ziegfeld Follies, for example. Throughout his RKO period, he always worked closely with choreographer/dance director Hermes Pan, who had been the assistant choreographer in the previous Flying down to Rio, which included Fred. Pan would leave RKO soon after Fred, to serve as dance director for many of Fox's musicals during the '40s, then to MGM during the '50s, again as dance director/choreographer, including the occasional Astaire musical. Typically, Fred and Pan worked up the dance routines, Pan taking the role of Ginger, then brought Ginger in to learn her part. Unlike Fred, who did virtually no other films without Ginger during this period, Ginger was usually busy taking part in various non-musical films. For example, 5 films were released including her in '34 vs. just this one including Fred. Besides the presence of Ginger and Pan, Fred had several advantages in this film to ease his responsibility as the featured male. He, as well as Erik Tonetti and Eric Blore, reprised their roles from the Broadway play this screenplay is based upon. Although only Porter's classic Night and Day was retained from among the original songs from the play, the humorous complicated plot of the play was mostly retained.Besides Night and Day, 4 new songs were composed by others, of which only The Continental is memorable as a song so memorable that it won the Oscar as The Best Original Song, and was played to death during the extremely long dance production it was the center piece of. It wasn't until the much more varied ballet production in the '51 An American in Paris that a slightly longer dance production was staged. Here, it includes several segments featuring Fred and Ginger as the exclusive or main dancers, interspersed with segments with many dancers, sometimes acting as if they were in a Berkeley film. As in the long Carioca dance production, in the previous Flying down to Rio, the lyrics were periodically sung by 3 soloists, beginning with Ginger. In addition, Fred comes up with a very imaginative way of fooling Tonetti into thinking that he and Ginger were still upstairs, when they go down to join the other dancers.Early in the film, Fred does two solo dances, to Don't Let it Bother You and Needle in a Haystack. The second of these has him dancing around his room, including on the furniture, though not on the ceiling, as in the later Royal Wedding. The point of the lyrics is that he desperately wants to find Ginger, whom he briefly interacted with, by chance, with no clue where to find her.Let's K-nock K-nees is a fun romantic novelty song and dance, begun by a very fresh-faced 18 y.o. Betty Grable, while trying very hard to 'put on the make' with the puzzled middle-aged E.E. Horton, who eventually joins in(I'm surprised this passed the censors). Later, it's taken over by a squad of male and female dancers, with Betty and Horton again dominating near the end. Unfortunately, Betty would make little further progress toward becoming a leading lady until 6 years later, when she moved to Fox, and lucked out as a last minute replacement for the ailing Alice Faye.Fred is still trying to woo the non-receptive Ginger, as they happen to be alone on a danceable floor at a beach. Fred begins to sing the lovely Night and Day. Ginger tries to leave, but Fred keeps pulling her back, 'forcing' her to dance with him. During the dance, it appears she tries to leave several times, but Fred pulls her back. But at the end, she looks enthralled with Fred briefly, but then becomes angry again, as she mistakenly believes he is the man she expecting to show up, relating to her desire to divorce her estranged husband. This is one of the best of the Fred and Ginger romantic dances, through their film series, with Ginger's periodic reluctance actually adding to its interest.The supporting actors E.E.Horton, Erik Rhodes and Eric Blore, as well as Ginger's scripted aunt, Alice Brady, are all great in contributing humor to the screenplay. Ginger's acting, which largely consists of trying to resist Fred's advances, is also superb. I really miss Alice's humor and Grable's independent number in the subsequent Fred & Ginger films. "},{"Title":"Just Perfection There's Nothing More to Say","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Based on a stage musical but with most of Cole Porter's score jettisoned - except for the enduring Night and Day - THE GAY Divorcée tells a story familiar to most musical comedies of that period of a divorcée (Ginger Rogers), her pursuer (Astaire), an incompetent lawyer trying to manage the divorce (Edward Everett Horton), a husband who turns out not to be quite what people expect (William Austin), and a professional co-respondent with a broad Italian accent (Erik Rhodes). The plot exploits what were perceived as the draconian divorce laws prevalent in Britain, whereby a couple could only part if one of them was caught in flagrante delicto by a detective, and the case reported to the authorities.As with most Astaire/ Rogers musicals, however, the book takes second place to the music, dancing and comedy. There are at least two memorable sequences in the film - the Night and Day interlude sung by Astaire and the lengthy Continental sequences that broadens out into a full-scale dance number involving a series of dancers elaborately costumed in black and white and shot from the air by director Mark Sandrich. Verisimilitude falls by the wayside here the sequence is supposed to take place at a hotel in Brightbourne, England, a genteel seaside resort modeled on Brighton. No one would even conceive of staging a sequence so elaborate in such a venue. Bur no matter; we can enjoy the dancing, as well as Lillian Miles' spirited delivery of the (lesser known) verses to the song.THE GAY Divorcée also manages to integrate the comedy into the music. This is chiefly due to a clutch of effective supporting performances Everett Horton is a master of camp, waving his hands about frantically while pretending to be a 'serious' lawyer. He is far more at home trying to dance in the Let's K-nock K-nees number with Betty Grable, ludicrously attired in shorts. Alice Brady as Hortense is perpetually absent-minded - except when it comes to men. She has a delicious comic routine at the beginning of the film as she arrives in Britain and confuses the chief customs inspector (E. E. Clive) who tries and fails to investigate precisely what she has concealed in her luggage. Eric Blore's rubber-faced expressions are put to effective use as a waiter with a fondness for mispronouncing words, especially whimsical. THE GAY Divorcée evokes a long-lost world of white tuxedos, gorgeous evening gowns and perpetual leisure, in which Americans were perceived as representatives of a sophisticated world that far transcended that of their British counterparts. Apart from one or two notable exceptions (Blore, Clive), the British characters in this film are either buffoons or untrustworthy - the kind of people that behave shamefully, unlike Astaire's main character. Director Sandrich does not stress this point too emphatically, but we are made well aware that this is an American representation of pre-1939 Britain.Even after eighty years, the film still remains one of Hollywood's high-points in the musical canon. "},{"Title":"Let's Knock Knees","Date":"5 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Top Fred & Ginger musical comedy; one of their best. Sparks fly when Mimi (Ginger Rogers) and Guy (Fred Astaire) meet. But things get complicated when Mimi mistakes Guy for the gigolo hired to help expedite her divorce. Fred and Ginger are terrific. That perfect chemistry, whether they're dancing or not, is something you don't want to miss. Phenomenal supporting players Edward Everett Horton, Alice Brady, Eric Blore, and Erik Rhodes (Your wife is safe with Tonetti, he prefers spaghetti). Great musical numbers includes Night and Day, The Continental, and my personal favorite, Let's Knock Knees with an early performance from an adorable Betty Grable. In addition to the lovely music, there's a very funny script. It's a bona fide classic I would recommend to everyone. A great starting off point to get into the movies of Fred & Ginger. "}{"Title":"Be feminine and sweet . . . ","Date":"7 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  . . . if you can blend the two, Aunt Hortense advises her niece Mimi (Ginger Rogers). Why not be an instant winner of Dancing with the Stars, too? The premise of THE GAY DIV0RCEE is that pro hoofer Guy Holden (Fred Astaire) falls in love with a geologist's estranged\neglected\divorce-minded wife (Mimi). Furthermore, whenever he smiles at her, she can instantly dance backwards upstairs and across furniture by the unexplained magic of his proximity. She's rich enough to drive something that looks like a Dusenberg, and it just takes a few sappy love songs (such as Cole Porter's Night and Day) to make Mimi fall for Guy's charms. Best original song always has been the strangest Oscar Award category, and the first winner from THE GAY DIV0RCEE sets the pattern. This 16-minute, 50-second (!) song--The Continental--features a patio full of random night club dancers getting sprinkled with Astaire's fairy dust and suddenly appearing in coordinated show costumes, dancing in formation like something from the mind of that old drill sergeant, Busby Berkeley! "},{"Title":"'Fate is a foolish thing. Take a chance.'","Date":"13 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Well, Fred and Ginger were really beautiful together. Try to imagine this clean, very clean environments with some evocative&#x97;artificial&#x97; horizons, here a seaside resort, lovers who are destined but fate dredges up all sorts of dreamlike illusion to keep apart, a plot that emphasizes both fate and multilayered worry about hidden selves, the illusion (the worry) conquered with persistent love and expressed with dance.And yet, what a striking thing that it doesn't work like noir, where fate and hidden selves play a similar function; the difference is that the viewer has too much control over the players and plot.Is this why it registers like magic? We trust that all is going to turn out well.. Like Fred's character, we persist with the story because we feel safe and happy that it will all turn up for the better.From this pov, mishap thrown up by the gods is not as in noir the cause of anxious hallucination, but small, glittering bubbles of fate. Of course it is all so sunny, because the protagonist is, and is unafraid to take chances&#x97;this infectious radiance colors the world.Top Hat is much more intricate, because you have two characters doubled with several more layers, here just one. This is easier to digest, more fun. "},{"Title":"Chance is a Foolish Name for Fate.","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I've been trying to figure out the difference between Fred Astaire and Gene Kelly. I don't mean their physical presences. Those differences are obvious Kelly was muscular and Astaire was skinny. But their styles are different too. Kelly's background was in athletics, Astaire's in ballroom dancing, and it shows. Kelly's style was a lot more robust. There he goes, jumping from rooftop to rooftop, swinging on ropes, and whatnot. Astaire's style was less repetitious and more graceful, and he was a better choreographer.This was Fred and Ginger's first outing as a team and if it falls short of their best work it has some truly winning moments. It's from a play, The Gay Divorce, and I suppose some of the dialog is left over from that source. It can be whimsical and witty. You've gotta love the exchange between Edward Everett Horton as a customer and Eric Blore as the waiter who prompts him to think of what he might like for breakfast. Blore's face seems made of plastic as it twists with consternation. You with this gnawing doubt and me with my duties left undischarged. (What outlandish ham.) And later, when Astaire meets the professional co-respondent, Erik Rhodes, in Ginger's apartment. Astaire tells Rhodes to beat it. I'm taking your place. And Rhodes glows rubescent with indignation and exclaims, Are you a UNION man? The musical arrangements are by Max Steiner. This is the mid-1930s and the music is of the period. There's a banjo discernible in the sassier numbers and in general the band sounds like Paul Whiteman without Bix Beiderbecke.Well, the plot established the foundation for the rest of the Fred and Ginger movies -- a comedy of errors in which Fred's pursuit of Ginger is frustrated by a misunderstanding concerning identities or intentions. You can't blame him for his pursuit. When she first appears, Ginger Rogers has her long skirt caught in a portmanteau and pulled up above her pretty legs. And she's cute as hell.But the dancing is first rate, as always. In his first number, Needle in a Haystack, Astaire whirls and jiggles around like a marionette and, like a marionette, sometimes seems weightless. For a skinny guy with no shoulders he has a lot of energy, if that's what it takes to do two tours jetee over a sofa. There is no equivalent of the sorts of dramatic duets that were to appear in later movies. There's no solemnity whatever. Astaire and Rogers' most serious number is to Cole Porter's Night and Day, and it's exquisitely complicated. I can easily imagine myself falling flat on my face after the first step or two.A spirited flick. If only OUR troubles could be so terribly small. "},{"Title":"Movie Odyssey Review #115 The Gay Divorcée","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" 115 The Gay Divorcée (1934) - released 10/12/1934, viewed 9/3/08.DOUG Ah, the first true Astaire & Rogers vehicle. After slogging through 'Flying Down to Rio,' it's nice to watch a movie that's more than a footnote. Also, quite a double feature we watched 'The Merry Widow' the same day as this, another romantic comedy musical revolving around mistaken identity. But where one singing, dancing comedy couple (Chevalier & MacDonald) finishes their run, another (Astaire & Rogers) begins theirs. *Contract Player Alert* 'Widow' also had the always-reliable character actor Edward Everett Horton, who appears here as Astaire's sidekick. So, onto the movie After a chance meeting with Rogers, Astaire begins obsessing over her like a stalker, despite never learning her name or anything about her. I have a problem with any movie or TV show that perpetuates the idea that stalking a woman is romantic. Leave these women alone. However, I guess her very unusual situation (having to fake an infidelity to get her mooching jerk of a husband to divorce her) makes Astaire coming into her life kind of okay. Another first on the Odyssey is Cole Porter, who contributes the song Night and Day. As for how it compares to other A&R vehicles, it's hard to say at this point; we've seen 'Swing Town' before, and I thought that was better; I can still remember a lot of those numbers years later, whereas I've already forgotten all of the numbers from this. I'll have to decide down the road where this ranks among all the other Astaire & Rogers movies.KEVIN Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers take the lead for the first time in an overall better movie than 'Flying Down to Rio,' although this movie probably could've done more with its exotic locales. It's routine, but I wouldn't say it's hopelessly routine. The likability of the leads makes this one rise above that extra inch. Edward Everett Horton makes another great sidekick foil (just as he did in our previous similarly titled movie). The dancing scenes are great (though I didn't care for the ones without the two leads), but the characters and storytelling are not nearly as provocative now that the Production Code has anesthetized everything cool about movies. I guess that's something we'll have to get used to.Last film The Merry Widow (1934). Next film It's a Gift (1934). "},{"Title":"Some of the best Fred and Ginger Dancing","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"10 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This and Top Hat have been our two favorite Fred and Ginger films. The combination of the beautiful dancing and the comedy make this really enjoyable. Betty Grable does a dance number in this as well. If you enjoy Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers then you have to watch this film!  "},{"Title":"A Glimpse At What Was To Come","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This was a typical Fred Astaire-Ginger Rogers movie which means one really good thing and one really bad thing. You could count on both for the remaining films these two entertainment giants did together over the next decade.THE GOOD - great dancing, as always, and a little humor thrown into the mix; THE BAD - a stupid story filled with people who are misunderstood and another slam at marriage, trivializing it once again.This was the first film in which this famous duo were paired in leading roles. Have you noticed Astaire always looked the same age for at least two decades? Rogers really looks young here. She exhibits a nice singing voice, too. Astaire sings more in this movie than in later films. The musical highlight is a very long song-and-dance number near the end, done to the tune The Continental. That helps make up for the stupid story.Alice Brady makes repeated attempts at humor but falls short most of the time. The same goes for Edward Everett Horton, who seems to play these annoying roles in many films. A very young Betty Grable is seen early on in the film in a Busby Berkeley-type number. "},{"Title":"A so so outing","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This was not one of Astaire/Rogers best outings, but some of it is fun non-the-less. Of course the plots of their films, including this one, are all quite inane. But no one watches their movies for plot or story lines. They watch them for the glorious music and outstanding dancing by these legends. All else can be swept under the carpet. I find it odd that the Edward Everett Horton character is portrayed as so gay, as the Eric Blore character as well. Didn't anyone notice how offensive these portrayals were? They almost ruin the movies in which they appear. This and TOP HAT as well. But again, do see this for all the plus values and seeing Betty Grable at the start of her illustrious career. Just be aware of illogical plot holes and some silliness of the characters. "},{"Title":"One of the weakest of the Fred & Ginger teamings...","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Screen treatment of the comedic Broadway success The Gay Divorce (a title which was considered too scandalous for American moviegoers, though it was used in the U.K.) concerns a man and woman (Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers) meeting under embarrassing circumstances while she's in the process of divorcing her spouse; they dance, argue, make up, dance, argue some more and dance some more. Betty Grable is very appealing in a brief bit (singing and dancing in the number Let's K-nock K-nees with overtly sissified Edward Everett Horton), but the star-couple looks distressed and unhappy throughout. The surroundings are screwball-sophisticated yet the characters are not more than one-dimensional. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Overlong and very very slow and dull movie","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Oh! Boy! Is it slow! Ginger Rogers really sleep-walks through the whole film. She doesn't even wake up when dancing! Not that she's a bad actress, usually, she isn't. But in this one, sorry Ginger, you simply did not have IT! On the contrary, Fred Astaire is the perfection he always is in dancing, acting, singing, clothing... God Bless him! So far, I've never seen a movie without adoring him completely in it each time. He was a genius in the same category as Leni Riefenstahl, Nanni Morretti, Charlie Chaplin, etc.Alice Brady should shut up completely - she's not even funny! - while Edward Everett Horton is equal to himself, meaning, good.Now watch for the bubbling, sparkling, very young and very beautiful Betty Grable in her single scene. One cries, watching this movie, that it is not she who is cast in the Rogers part besides Fred Astaire. A Astaire/Grable pairing would have been a big artistic dream of mine but the only contact they have is a quick mutual nod...and that's it! I could cry over it eternally! At least, she's featured during an entire routine, well executed, well sung and well danced though simple. She literally irradiates! Watch that film if only just for her. That's what I did! "}]