[{"Title":"The Feel Good Movie of the Century","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"197 out of 264 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  Set aside your preconceptions, notions of political correctness, kick back with some nachos and enjoy the spectacle, pageantry, patriotism and just plain ole unmitigated evil of a bygone era. Yes, this is the documentary of the events of the Sixth Nuremberg Nazi Party Congress in 1934, featuring a cast of thousands, mind blowing special effects, and show stopping musical numbers, as well as (of course) Hitler, Himmler, Goebbels, Hess, Goering and assorted other Nazi superstars of the day. Get caught up in the wackiness as Hitler and Goebbels lead the German people around like neutered sheep on thorazine with an economy artificially over-inflated by military spending, appeals to mean-spirited patriotism and pathological xenophobia, and cheap military victories against third-rate opponents. The brilliant camera work and editing ratchet up the tension incrementally from the opening marches and speeches to the closing speeches and marches, creating a yearning and semi-religious awe for the realization of the full spectrum dominance of Nazi ideology. The legendary cinematic genius Leni Riefenstahl creates in the viewer an irresistible excitement over the images of mindless obedience to patently psychotic leaders and vulgar nationalistic narcissistic myopia. But politics aside, one can't help but admire the energy and skill that went into this classic; the sweeping vision, the epiphanic insight and the joy of marching along in human herds. In most versions, the I'll See You In Poland, Baby musical climax number has been left out of the final cut, but Triumph of the Will still pays off in sheer entertainment value despite the cliff-hanger ending. Unfortunately, during the production of the sequel, The Nazi European Tour, featuring Adolf Hitler, about 50 million extras died, including most of the leads, and it was never completed. But fear not, I've heard from reliable sources that Hollywood plans to resume work soon on that unfinished masterpiece. "},{"Title":"one of the greatest films - ever","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"148 out of 167 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  Utterly brilliant film that was unfortunately very difficult to find (along with some other great films by propaghandist directors like Sergei Einsten)until a dvd release recently . Just look at the long shots. Absolutely no cameras visible. Truly meticulous work. Astounding score. The opening sequence of Hitler's descent is brilliant artistry, with the director creating the implicit parallel of God's descent from heaven. Excellent film for anyone remotely interested in politics since all these techniques are routinely used in campaign ads. People often neglect to realize the inherent politicality of all art. Art's  politics is at its most dangerous when we fail to realize this simple truth - art and politics are inextricably linked. Do you think there's not a reason why the American market will soon be glutted with war films as we prepare for one? gee, i wonder. Riefenstahl is an amazing director, one that should have done more films. When we censor great works for fear of what they might do to the 'ignorant', we're a lot closer to the fascists than their detractors. "},{"Title":"Thought-provoking, and scary","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"148 out of 183 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" This is the thinking person's horror film. Zombies? Ghosts? Lunatics with hockey masks and chainsaws generating gallons of fake blood? Not a tiny bit as scary as thousands upon thousands of people lined up in squares, gleefully losing their individual identities and glorifying in the group, willing to perform some of the most evil deeds imaginable for the perceived benefit of that whole.If this film was done badly, it would be something to laugh at or study as a historical artifact, a relic of a past we left behind. However, its power, and why it can disturb to this very day, is the fact that it was done beautifully. Anyone who talks about equating truth and beauty should think about this film. It is certainly beautiful, but it is also in the service of a lie, and an evil one at that.Sadly, I suspect that the types who make modern political propaganda and advertising get on their knees at night and pray for some of the inspiration that made this film. Stars? This film defies a star rating. "},{"Title":"An oxymoron of a film A masterpiece about Nazis","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"108 out of 130 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  This movie has driven cinephiles and artsy folks crazy for years.  Taken objectively, the film is a masterpiece of images, technically flawless, and really quite a stunning achievement.  The real problem is that it's a masterpiece about the master race -- it glorifies Nazis.  In fact it unquestionably rises above simple propaganda and succeeds in being a film about ideas and society.  That's the next problem, the ideas and society it idealizes and promotes are quite compelling.  There's no death here, no gashouses, no corpses, no pure evil, nothing like that. And it's also not just inane images of noble people doing noble things, etc., like run of the mill propaganda produced by every political party.Ultimately, this is not a film to be seen in a vacuum; were this the only thing a person knew about Nazis, one would get a very, very incomplete view. But strangely, it provides insights as well, once one knows about the evil that the Nazis did--the movie shows the attraction, the compelling nature of some ideas.  And that evil, no matter how clear and vicious in nature, is still attached to a human being, and hence is ultimately enormously complex.This is a great film that any serious film student or lover should see.  If only to understand how funny it is to see the artistes of the world trying to describe it without saying anything nice about Nazis. Evil is never pure, that's what makes it so compelling and this film helps to explain that.  "},{"Title":"Powerful and history-making film masterpiece!","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"56 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Triumph Des Willens was a blockbuster film in a number of ways. It was meant to be a proper memorializing of an annual NSDAP Parteitag held in Nurenburg. A prior attempt, Sieg Des Glaubens, had proved to be a failure. Adolf Hitler gave director Leni Riefebstahl full rein to use all means to make this film the success which he wanted. First, many innovations in camera techniques, sound synchronization, storyboarding, staging, etc., made movie history. Second, it was an overt appeal to the emotions of both Germans and foreigners that suggested the excitement for and the apparent power of the new Third Reich. Third, the film was part of a multimedia campaign ahead of its time. Its success was confirmed for many years by the almost universal ban most countries placed on its showings. And sixty years later it is still effective in both thrills and chills. Highlights the first 20 minutes or so resemble a media drama; the solemn military reviews demonstrate components of state power; speeches illustrate the personnel in power at the time. Quite a package! "},{"Title":"An objective masterpiece.","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"54 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  This film is truly a landmark work, and it is only an unfortunate historical accident that Hitler was involved. Leni Riefenstahl was the first and, so far, only female genius when it came to film-making. Her innovative uses of the camera, lighting, staging, etc., truly laid the groundwork for future cinematic endeavor. If you can divorce yourself from the glorification of the Nazi regime, you can appreciate the merits of this film purely on artistic grounds. It is brilliant, plain and simple. (Ironically, the French awarded it a gold medal upon its release!)   "},{"Title":"View as a historical document, just maybe not an accurate one.","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"49 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" The friendly face of German fascism, brought to you live from the fairy-tale town of Nuremberg.This film has been described as horrible, disgusting, infamous and what have you. The interesting thing is that it's horrible only because everyone knows what followed, and because we have learned to look at images of swastika flags with revulsion. This film is really about some blokes enjoying themselves on a field, with lots of silly parades, speeches about how Germany's suffering has made its people special, and other diverse alarums. There are one or two remarks about 'racial purity', but for instance Jews are not mentioned even once.But there is also a vague reference (the main culprit calls it a dark shadow in one of his speeches) to what happened several months earlier, when, in June, Hitler ordered the SA leadership murdered in cold blood. This act was condoned by most of the German people, and these are the same people we see waving and cheering and saluting. With that in mind, yes, the film takes on an added, horrible subtext, a feeling that something was definitely rotten in the republic of Germany.Riefenstahl has always maintained that her point of view was an apolitical one, and that the work should be regarded as a work of art. I am not well-versed enough in the history of cinema to have an opinion on the artistic and technical merits of this film (aside from the tedious marching music) but I can easily imagine that back then it was quite an achievement, both as a work of art and as a relentless piece of propaganda aimed at this specific 1935 audience. I can also imagine that Riefenstahl was too caught up in what she did, to actually realize what was happening around her. She was not the only artist who, with 20/20 hindsight, should have known better.View this film as a historical document, just maybe not an accurate one. And try to see the excellent documentary 'The Wonderful, Horrible Life of Leni Riefenstahl' for some context.  "},{"Title":"Documentary","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"39 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Leni Riefenstahl was way a head of her time. Her filming techniques,unheard of at the time. She was commissioned to make this film,and whether you agree or not with the subject matter,she did it well.The cast of characters will be seen for all time,in all their infamous glory.While Leni was not a member of the Nazi party,she absolutely captured the essence of the German mass hysteria which prevailed at that time.While she was a great film maker,she was a political moron swept up in the times as many others were.It was a job, and she did it well.Lou "},{"Title":"The Nazi Woodstock","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"48 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Great music and inspiring festive footage makes this one of the best propaganda flicks ever made. It did what it intended to do, instill pride into and devotion from the German people. Put your  judgements aside and one can appreciate the technical expertise  put into this film. Great editing keeps it flowing. It is like a collage. "},{"Title":"Riefenstahl's Powerfully Cinematic Sensibilities Remain Noteworthy Despite the Controversial Subject","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Before her death in 2003 at the age of 101, filmmaker Leni Riefenstahl would have you believe she had no affiliation with the Nazi party when she was asked by Adolf Hitler to document the momentous four days leading to the 1934 Nuremberg rally. However, it's obvious from her concurrently celebrated and reviled 1935 propaganda film that she was mesmerized by Hitler's oratorical skills judging from the dynamic way she has captured his undeniable charisma. She shows a remarkable deftness in editing techniques and camera movement and placement that remains the gold standard among documentarians. Riefenstahl succeeds in making Hitler a larger than life figure to the masses without resorting to editorial commentary to validate what is obvious from the images.The film begins with Hitler's arrival in Nuremberg by personal aircraft where he is greeted by enthusiastic throngs of Nazi supporters. In fact, the first third of the film focuses primarily on civilian support of Fuehrer and then transitions to the opening of the Reich Party Congress where we see familiar historical figures, such as Rudolf Hess and Joseph Goebbels, speak. This leads to the third day of activity with rather unsettling shots of Hitler Youth as they prepare to greet Hitler from the rows of teepees in which they have camped. Her discriminating use of close-ups is most striking here when we see tow-headed Aryan boys hypnotized by Hitler's speech. The film ends with the startlingly choreographed rally with the famous shot of Hitler, flanked by Heinrich Himmler and Viktor Lutze, walking down an emptied aisle to place a wreath at a WWI memorial (a shot replicated by George Lucas at the end of the first Star Wars). The climax is designed to be celebratory as Hitler leads the masses toward unity under the Reich with his fanatical delivery.Like D.W. Griffiths' Birth of a Nation, it is difficult to defend the intended messaging behind such a trenchant film, yet it is criminal not to recognize the powerfully cinematic sense with which Riefenstahl imbues her work. The 2001 Synapse DVD contains a good though not outstanding print transfer. However, there are two worthwhile extras - the extremely informative commentary track from historian Dr. Anthony R. Santoro (which I recommend you switch on immediately to fully appreciate the individual personalities and historical details behind the rally) and a short Riefenstahl made at the following year's rally to celebrate the Wehrmacht (the German army), Day of Freedom. There is little use in attempting any sort of objectivity about this film as it was intended to evoke strong emotions with the sole goal of solidifying the Reich in a country still feeling weakened from WWI. In this respect, Riefenstahl succeeds admirably. "}{"Title":"Visually Very Impressive","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Yesterday I saw this documentary of the Sixth Nazi Party Congress in 1934 for the first time, and I was visually very impressed with the images. The grandiose and powerful scenarios where the Nazis parades and speeches happen are amazing. Everywhere the viewer looks are huge places, with the crowd worshiping Hitler, as if they were hypnotized. The quality of the images is also amazing for a 1934 shooting. The director Leni Riefenstahl was accused of making propaganda for the Nazis and I am not sure whether she was absolved or not of these accusations, but in IMDb biography I noted that she stayed from 1954 to 2002 without making any film. This movie is mostly recommended for students, since for a regular viewer it becomes boring after 114 minutes running time. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) O Triunfo da Vontade (The Triumph of the Will) "},{"Title":"David Jeffers for SIFFblog.com","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" &#133;the most talented woman ever to make a film.The life and career of Leni Riefenstahl reads like a Greek Tragedy. David Thomson described her as ...arguably, the most talented woman ever to make a film. As a young dancer, Reifenstahl studied under Max Reinhardt until injury forced a career change to acting. Her name became as synonymous with Mountain Films as Fanck's. Riefenstahl possessed a physical beauty and robust vitality that made her the perfect embodiment of the Alpine lifestyle, and she could ski! Fanck and Pabst persuaded Riefenstahl to direct herself in The Blue Light (1932), and her directing career began as the genre was about to end.At this point, the foundation of all culture within Germany changed as the National Socialist German Workers Party seized power in 1933. A flood of artists and intellectuals fled the country, while others were imprisoned or forced into humiliating circumstances under this new fascist oppression. Riefenstahl was seduced with praise and the offer of advancement, producing Triumph of the Will (1935), which documented the 1934 party conference in Nuremberg. It remains the most sublime example of cultural propaganda ever produced on film. It was effectively used to stir great nationalist sentiment within German society. As a documentary film, it is beautifully photographed, edited and no doubt was extremely useful as a tool of mass persuasion. Triumph of the Will was also the horrific testament to what it preceded. Riefenstahl for the rest of her life denied it was anything resembling propaganda. Two years later she filmed the 1936 Games of the IX Olympiad in Berlin, for what is now considered the greatest sports documentary ever produced, Olympia (1938). Her accomplishment and skill are abundantly clear and Thomson's observation is quite possible. Riefenstahl also possessed an arrogant denial of her own complicity and the truth. How could a woman of such extraordinary intelligence claim ignorance, or excuse away a personal friendship with Adolph Hitler? She paid for her avarice, with imprisonment and persecution after the Second World War. She wrote a fascinating autobiography toward the end of her long life (101 years) and produced beautiful volumes of still photographs, but never regained her place in cinema or the brilliant career that might have been. "},{"Title":"Nazi narcissism","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Despite its reputation, prospective viewers can be certain of one thing at least the infamous Triumph of the Will isn't going to brainwash you into becoming a fervent Nazi, and even the lauded genius of Leni Riefensthal cannot make a sweat-dripping, toothbrush-moustached Hitler a surreptitiously alluring prospect. To be honest, aside from historical interest the film is more likely to set you yawning (I'm sure I wasn't the only person in the cinema last night surreptitiously pinching myself at times to stay awake...) Leni Riefensthal does her best to create art and entertainment out of the unpromising material of a Party Congress -- compare, for example, the challenge of depicting the sycophantic speeches, party hacks and troop-rousing at Brighton or Bournemouth in the modern-day party conference season -- and initially at least succeeds, although some of the interest to the viewer nowadays is more ironic than iconic. Little did she know that in the shots from the Fuehrer's aeroplane she was preserving a roofscape of ancient Nuremburg that would be destroyed for ever by the war that followed the rule of this self-proclaimed 'man of peace'; or how many of the cheering boys would die in the snows of Stalingrad, and the country girls in their folk costumes starve on acorns and roots...The style of the film's opening is largely that of the silent era events are introduced and participants characterised without dialogue, as -- in scenes reminiscent of a Royal Wedding or Jubilee procession -- Hitler arrives at a Nuremburg decked for the occasion, and the waiting crowds burst into a fervour of excitement as they catch sight of the main attraction, in a swell of cheers and waves that break out ahead of his car and ebb away behind. (Empathising with my own experience, I couldn't help wondering just how long they had been waiting under the sun for those brief glimpses in return for their day out!) By the time we reach the hotel tastefully decked out with lightbulbs spelling 'HEIL Hitler', the adulation has been thoroughly established. After a torchlight mass serenade, the most interesting part of the film starts.Here we get a backstage insight, as it were, into the human organisation required to assemble those faceless marching masses the vast soup-kettles, the volume of wood that has to be hauled, the tents and troughs and links of sausages, the shoulder-jousting and tomfoolery of the young men -- not just 'evil' Nazis, but cheerful, fallible individuals living for the moment and enjoying the novelty of their camp under canvas. The proceedings of the congress itself are represented by clips from many speakers (one could feel a collective stir across the cinema when Goebbels was captioned, as I suspect he was the only 1934 Party official most of us had heard of...) which have an oddly inward-looking air one gets the feeling of eavesdropping on private party policy.This is the Nazi Party looking out at Germany rather than preaching to her directly -- which makes me curious as to the intended purpose of this film. It feels to me like a production intended for 'inside' viewing rather than for national distribution, an impression that with hindsight I think partly derives from the way that the speeches deal openly with how the Party should manipulate and lead the German people, and partly from the determination to show absolutely everything in the subsequent parade -- frankly it reminds me of official videos of school plays, where the photographer has to make certain that every single parent will get at least one close-up of their own child. I have an irreverent mental image of the SS, the SA, the cavalry, the 'Arbeit-Soldaten', and every other unit in that interminable march, all sitting through the entire film just waiting for their own individual moment of glory...The famous massed movement sequences, I'm afraid, leave me cold. They remind me of nothing so much as experimental abstract film, a curiosity as an art-form for five minutes or so but with nothing really to hold the interest for long periods an idea of this section of the Congress could have been given via a few illustrative sequences in very much less of the time. And the march-past, as mentioned above, becomes simply tedious did people -- other than those involved -- really sit and watch this stuff in adoration? It's one thing to line the streets in anticipation of spectacle and cheer when something actually turns up to amuse you, but TV highlights are always edited; and for good reason.The shots of Hitler orating are interesting not for themselves, or their content -- you realise at the end of each utterance that what he has actually *said* is fairly vacuous -- but as an attempt to understand why he was said to be such a powerful speaker. I have to say that I just don't get it. This doesn't seem a man who can whip crowds to hysteria, or indeed -- even with all Riefensthal's efforts -- hold our attention. The crowds hail him because of what he represents rather than who he is, but how did he ever get there? As a film, I didn't find this the work of mesmerising yet horrible genius I had been led to expect. Sections of it are artistic, sections intentionally entertaining, others unintentionally so. It is basically a silent documentary with interpolated speeches (we never hear any dialogue save the scripted exchanges -- all the 'spontaneous' glimpses are visual only), and the soundtrack, while inoffensive, is all on one brassy note and becomes fairly monotonous. If this is, as advertised, widely regarded as the greatest propaganda film of all time, it doesn't actually seem to me terribly persuasive; and it could have been a lot more tightly edited. It's a record of self-congratulation by the Nazi Party in their years of ripe ascendancy, and of interest mainly as such. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"22 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Whatever ones beliefs this is amazing. Leni Riefenstahl was a great director with amazing vision.Not alone is there all the marching and saluting which one would expect from a documentary filmed in Nazi Germany but Riefenstahl also gives snap shots of the people who are in the crowd at the various events.The looks of amazement and zeal on the faces of many who are watching is testimony, in my opinion ,to how mesmerizing an event this was.Riefenstahl captures the atmosphere and the excitement of this event.The last seen where Hitler is giving a fiery speech shows Riefenstahls genius at work.The camera angles are amazing and give a feeling of being there.I would highly recommend this not only to historians but also to students of film. "},{"Title":"A masterwork of cinematography and documentary film-making.","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Triumph Of The Will is the official record of the Nazi party congress held at Nuremberg in 1934.It's a devastatingly brilliant piece of film-making - right from the opening sequence of Adolf Hitler descending from the skies, his plane shadowed against the clouds. The rally scenes are a terrifying example of the camera's power of propaganda. After World War II the film was banned for many years because of general fears that it might inspire a new Nazi party. Director Leni Riefenstahl won several awards, not only in Germany but also in the United States, France, Sweden, and other countries. "},{"Title":"Should eighty million march as one man","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  I take my line from a turgid hymn of the Nazi period which does not feature in Leni's film but has the ubiquitous chorus Sieg Heil.Eighty million was the pre-war population of Germany, you get the feeling that they were all involved in this film sometimes and quite definitely that National Socialism was going to turn them into a combat unit-one man-the mystical body of the Brown Antichrist! So what can we glean anew from the fact that this film is one of the best extant media gateways into things we are never going to see again- There is a definite feeling after this film that Hitler was probably the greatest orator.Opponents of the regime now criticise him for what they think is a banality and yet political oratory has never been about complication and it is fascinating to view both the compacted simplicity and innovatory design which Hitler melds in front of audiences-he purloins the language of both religion, idealism and even social science and turns it into a thunderous drum song on his lips. I would always put it to people that when this film was released there was not an inkling that this man with the commanding voice was not engaging himself in a radical programme to rebuild his nation.If one does not believe this, how can we account for the expressions particularly on the people who greet him from the plane? As the film progresses, there is an utterly overwhelming sense that the stadium is a shell where Hitler is going to virtually rebuild the world. He was a failed architectural student, those banners that multiply like subatomic particles were his own design.Now to someone like Leni Riefenstahl I would imagine that the offer to join him in this heaven of the Aryans at that time was irresistible. Against the constant claim that this is only propaganda, I lay the fact that Riefenstahl was no friend of Hitler's propaganda chief Goebbels. I would qualify judgments that it was obviously used as that when found to be so effective.However Leni Riefenstahl deifying Hitler through an absolutely staggering film spectacle compares to the situation of Jan Van Eyck who painted beautiful Madonnas in the service of the Roman Church.Propaganda probably since the time of the Nazis and the advent of Communism has slipped into the category of a very dirty word.I wonder if people who attack this film to the point of hysteria cannot live with the fact that it hints more than many other things from the period at the visionary element which seduced people about Hitler. If that had not existed, of course it wouldn't still come from the film. Fewer and fewer of us are going to be left of a generation who saw this man saying these things...consider if for one moment an image could be retrieved of a similarly charismatic person, if Napoleon spoke out...we actually could see and hear Julius Caesar.Something has happened by way of this film, but it went on going on throughout the time when Germany confidently conquered Europe , there was a claim made that no other face had been more photographed and filmed than Adolf Hitler'sThe tag IM AUFTRAG DES FUEHRERS (filmed by the Guide's order)sends the title sequence into that hierarchical mannerism used to this day in German Bureaucracy, but more than that , I wonder if it indicates the intense delight that Hitler took in having the rally filmed by this extraordinary woman.There are some photographs of her in the latest fashionable suit and with the gentlemanly distance he poses in that arm cross with the armband -both sets of eyes, hers and his pondering a mutual dream?But then another shows her crouched upon the ground wearing the technicians badge whilst Hitler is distant standing in his car.Two very different understandings of just how close the artist and her subject ever really became.  "},{"Title":"One for the film historians...","Date":"23 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" This film can only be judged or analyzed in any meaningful way only by those who can envision Germany and its people with the hindsight of the decade following its defeat in WWI and the ensuing economic chaos of the 1920s. For those of us who can objectively remove ourselves from our time and revisit the year in which it was filmed, 1934, and then compare it only with all other films made during that early part of the 20th Century can we locate the single word describing it &#x85; astonishing.We are called to objectivity when commenting on a book or film, a piece of art, or product. Only when that is accomplished does a comment have any enduring and meaningful value. Another thing I have found astonishing about this film and its creator is the seemingly unique inability of those commenting on it to be objective. It is seen in the overwhelming number of cases, not from the time in which it was made but with the hindsight of decades of history that had not yet taken place. "},{"Title":"A great piece of historical filmaking but also one that serves as a frigtening warning.","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  After I had seen this film I could well understand why it was banned in Germany for so long after the end of WWII. I recently purchased the DVD of this film and as I watched it I had to marvel as to how successful this film no doubt was in alluring the German people to join the Nazi Party. We who watch this film today watch it having with us the knowlege of the the holocaust the Nazi Party created. We know about the Final Solution in which millions of people were murdered. The frightening aspect of this film is imagining ourselves as young people in 1935 Germany, sitting in the theatre and viewing this film. Could we be attracted into the Nazi Party based on watching this charismatic piece of ingenious propaganda? I would have to say easily. The segment of the film that shows the Hitler Youth encampment shows this. I wonder if any of those young people had any idea of the terrible holocaust that was to follow and the part they would play within it? As far as the film itself is concerned based on cinematic art, it is excellent. The photography, sequence of scenes and music combine to make this film a tribute to the talents of director Leni Riefenstahl. Today this film serves as a great lesson as to how easily a nation of people can be swayed into such a thing as Fascism. This film helps serve as a warning that the terrible events that took place in the 1930s are not so far behind in the scope of time and hopefully will not be repeated due to our ability to look back at and study history such as in viewing this film.Trailrider "},{"Title":"A cinematic gem","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" This is the movie featuring the most beautiful visual and audio sequences ever done. Leni Rifenstahl does truly unparallell job transmitting the unique atmosphere of unity, pride, joy, love and compassion of 3 days in Nurnberg onto the screen. Her ideas of camera work, sharp editing and close-ups served as example for most modern directors. Since it's a documentary, the movie revolves around prominent Nazional Socialist leaders delivering speeches in a large party meeting. Most of the speeches deal with then-current events in Germany, so it's a good idea to read a history book if you're not familiar with them, to fully understand the movie. Some scenes are absolutely fascinating Hess's opening speech, Hither addressing Labour Movement and the SA/SS meeting. P.S. BTW, despite popular beliefs, there are no antisemitic or chauvinistic remarks or propaganda speeches in the movie, so it's no more offensive than history channel. A must-see for everyone, who's interested in history and sociology. "},{"Title":"Forget what you know now and watch it as someone in 1935 would have","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" I have seen this film twice. I must say that one should not view it just as piece of art or just evil. I've read some reviews even suggesting to watch this film in German with no subtitles, so to see only the great camera work - this is exactly how I watched the film first time and I completely missed the point all I saw was Sieg Heil, Hitler, speeches and countless marches (this actually is the only nuisance in the film as an original work - some scenes are a bit too long). Just as every other film, this film has a message and that message is not, as you might expect, Let's kill all Jews, but a message to German people that, after a terrible war and a period of economical and political instability which followed, there finally is someone strong enough to unite all Germans and guide them in rebuilding Germany and bringing its former glory back. Unfortunately this unlikely Messiah, whom we see descending from clouds like some sort of Olympian demigod, is Hitler, who would lead the World into even greater tragedy and orchestrate execution of millions. But - no one could foresee this in 1934, an age when nationalism and fascism was extremely popular and racial segregation was viewed as normal in many parts of the World. It is a great propaganda film, but it also documents that particular moment in history when many people saw Nazis as bearers of a new hope. Perhaps Riefenstahl herself was one of these people and that is what made her make such a great film. She is indeed a storytelling genius - while some scenes from this film have been replicated over and over again by every self-respecting army out there, others truly surprised me. I don't remember seeing any other film, where crowd is not merely cheering onlookers, but individuals longing to see their leader; she makes you believe that even statues and cats of Nuremberg have been expecting Hitler. Combined with aerial and low angle shots this film makes a great spectacle, I could not help, but wonder, what effect it would have on me, if I had seen it in a modern cinema, with booming sound and in full color - probably the same effect it had on someone in 1930s, when this was something no one had ever seen before and even sound was something new "}{"Title":"Right in the Gut...","Date":"20 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" The reason this film upsets us so much is because, no matter how we try to deny it, it works. Well. Riefenstahl's intent was to move the audience to react with positive emotion to the images and people depicted in it, and we do. If we allow ourselves to be completely unguarded, we find our spines tingling in time to the shining faces and blonde hair and lockstep masses of troops passing the camera to the tune of The Koeniggraetzer March. If we aren't careful and view this film too objectively, the subject matter ceases to be repulsive.We who are descendants of The Allies have a difficult time with the idea that the Germans were anything but willing participants in an evil movement. This film makes us rethink the image that the movement held up for itself and how easy it might be to buy it without the hindsight of history. Perhaps the Germans weren't so stupid...it might have just been a bad national purchase based on one hell of an infomercial.Grade A+.Things to watch for Hitler as Wotan; World's Scariest Youth Rally; Foot-Tappin' March Music "},{"Title":"More of a great visual document than it is propaganda.","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" I might not call it propaganda, at least in the usual pejorative sense of the word, meaning lies. Because I think it probably represents the nationalistic spirit of the time and the way a lot of people really felt. I see it as a documentary and whats-her-name was more interested in artistic cinematography than Nazism. A film like this could never have been imagined by anyone and at the same time its hard to see it as anything other than some strange fantasy. Its hard to imagine people really acting and behaving like this. For someone who loves militarism this film would be like porn. Empty, repetitive, perverse and harmful, but also alluring.This propaganda film should be shown in schools, first because it shows how Hitler, now considered the embodiment of all evil, was, in 1935, a popular guy and most Germans loved him. And second because it features a lot of the Nazi leaders speaking to huge crowds and what do they say? Not much. Although their speeches were delivered with great confidence and fervor, I don't know, maybe the the translation was bad, but they didn't really say anything of substance other than Go Germany! Go Hitler! But then I guess thats the point of a pep rally. There are ominous similarities in many political leaders today.* SPOILERS AHEAD* It was fascinating to watch Hess, with fanatical devotion, verbally prostrate himself before Hitler knowing that later he would be pushed out of the inner circle and denounced as a lunatic.The part about the Hitler Youth camps qualifies as propaganda. All fun and sports and camaraderie when in reality it was military training. And their leaders, having fought in WWI, knew what these youth were in for. Its sad to watch the hopeful, smiling faces of these kids knowing that most of them would be dead in 10 years, and many would be abandon by the government they devoted their lives to. Like the 400,000 who died at Stalingrad. "},{"Title":"An short analysis of Triumph of the Will and some of it's historical significance","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Triumph Des Willens, as it is called in German, was a very successful film directed and filmed by Leni Riefenstahl who was contracted by the German Propaganda Ministry in 1934. The film is based around the events of the Sixth Nuremburg Party Congress and is filled with powerful speeches by Adolf Hitler, Josef Goebbels, Otto Dietrich, Rudolf Hess and other important leaders. It is strictly a propaganda film designed by the Nazis, for the Nazis, and about the Nazis (Anthony Hughes &#150; one-liner).After having watched it for the first time, I was both shocked and impressed by the passionate, careful and yet forceful speeches by Adolf Hitler and Rudolf Hess. The organization and structure of the movie was just too perfect to be true. It was unreal to see over two-hundred thousand German soldiers aligned in perfect columns and not having it be some effect created in 3D Studio Max 8 as seen in the Lord of the Rings and the Star Wars Saga. While I have seen quite a few propaganda films, I was seriously impressed with Riefenstahl's directing and innovative camera angles. Cameras were put on the ground, rolled on carts, pulled up with ropes and were constantly moving. One of the most prominent camera angles throughout the film is when Hitler is pictured from below. This angle puts out the effect that Hitler is bigger and higher up than everything else. It is a shot used purely for propaganda but is also an innovative shot created by Riefenstahl.The perfectly choreographed marches, powerful speeches and amazing camera angles worked extremely well together and put out a seemingly harmless product. I say 'harmless product' due to the fact that there is nothing truly bad in the movie. It's basically just a statement of nationalism without anything hinting to the annihilation of the Jews. After having researched a bit more about the way people have reacted to the movie nowadays I was quite surprised to find a very diverse group of answers. While quite a few people have condemned the movie and stated that it was produced by a bunch of fascist bastards about an even more fascist nation that should suffer even today for its history, I have also read many insightful comments. It came to my attention that in order to understand the movie entirely you have to put yourself back into 1935. At that time no one was expecting the extermination of the Jews and they saw Hitler as a person to look up to. After WWI, Germany was destroyed financially (due to the reparations) and was suffering from an economic depression. During that time Adolph Hitler came around and began speaking on how he would improve the current situation. Unlike most politicians, he actually also fulfilled his promises which increased his reputation with the public dramatically until finally he overtook the government and made Germany back into a prospering nation. So now, it is actually quite easy to understand the movie; it is basically just a documentary on a series of events based around the Sixth Nuremburg Party Congress that shows German nationalism.On a different note, the cinematography in Triumph of the Will was superb. Leni Riefenstahl was a true innovator. Within Triumph of the Will she constantly used moving shots, crane shots, close ups, and also a few static shots. In one scene, where Adolph Hitler, Lutze and Himmler walk down a long path in between rows and rows of soldiers, she uses a great overhead shot of the entire scene. Moreover, the camera isn't just sitting there 100m above the ground but it is moving, which is something I haven't seen before in movies from the 1930's.It was quite hard to maintain objectivity when I watched Triumph of the Will due to the fact that I'm German, and this is a propaganda film by my country. It was especially hard since I understood what the people were saying in their speeches, which had an immensely greater influence on me than any other person. After my second viewing and rethinking about the Nazi movement, I regained my objectivity and dismissed any sympathy for the speakers since after all, they may have been talented, magnanimous speakers but they were still leaders of the Nazi party (and the Waffen SS).The soundtrack isn't spectacular; however, judging by the time period and the positions the cameramen found themselves in while filming it was probably impossible to receive any better sound. The soundtrack throughout the movie is in its original 'Dolby 2.0 Mono'. While today this bad sound quality isn't even featured on the cheapest of the cheap digital video cameras around, it is still acceptable for viewing the film. In most cases there is an extreme amount of background noise but it still doesn't take away from the viewing experience. Most of us are used to the amazing Dolby Digital 7.1 Surround sound of home theaters and find it hard to get used to the creaky, sometimes annoying sound of the 1930's soundtrack. However, after around twenty minutes, it's not really that bothering anymore and in my opinion actually adds the experience since you usually don't hear Hitler very clearly in his recorded speeches. I think the distortion is simply part of the viewing experience when watching a Nazi propaganda film.Triumph of the Will is quite a tough film. As a German, I thought it was necessary to witness the events that happened within my country. For those wishing to view the film, I suggest you open up Firefox and start looking Germany's economic position after World War I and how Hitler came to power. It is also necessary to understand that in the year this film was made; 1934, only a few concentration camps had already opened and they were in fact at that time, only for those Jews who opposed the Nazi movement and not for all Jews. Look it up and then watch the movie. "},{"Title":"Groundbreaking Documentary","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  No matter what you think of Nazis this film is brilliant. It was the first of the kind political documentary. The beginning may bore some viewers, but those who stay will be rewarded by some of the most famous documentary footage ever shot. I feel I could see this movie a few times without being bored. In fact, the more you watch the more fun it is. "},{"Title":"Something beautiful for something horrible.","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" No matter what Leni Riefenstahl claims, this movie is just pure propaganda for the NSDAP. Seriously, if it wasn't supposed to be propaganda, the movie would had been edited in a totally different way. Everyone with common sense sees this is pure propaganda. Horrible yet beautiful propaganda.The movie is historically important and for the WW II buffs among us because of that simply a must see. It's about the Sixth Nuremburg Party Congress, 4 years before the real beginning of WW II. What we get to see is a display of power and race supremacy. It's really impressive to see literally hundreds of thousands of different SS and SA soldiers all marching perfectly in columns while holding flags and a military march is playing. The precision and perfection is scary to see, just as it is scary to see how thousands of civilians young and old all hail Hitler. Most young girls even scream like it were actually The Beatles that were visiting. Seeing and hearing all those 'normal' hundreds of people raising their right hands greeting Hitler and his officers and soldiers was chilling to see and sends shivers down my spine. It was horrible to watch...Yet the movie is also in a way 'beautiful' to watch. In an artistic way the movie is just simply wonderful. The camera-work but especially the editing was impressive. Only thing is that some moments drag on for too long. For instance the marches just seem to go on forever (Also proof for that this movie is purely propaganda.). Also it was nice to see some of the 'old' Germany. Of course most of it got bombed down later during WW II.I'm sure and hope that most people these days don't agree with him but you have to admit that Hitler was one powerful political public speaker. His speeches in this movie are both impressive as terrifying to look at and listen to. He seriously puts all the other speakers to shame like Hess, Darré, Todt and Dietrich. And although he doesn't smile or show any other emotion you can tell that Hitler was enjoying every minute of it, you can tell it by his eyes.Horrible propaganda, yet beautiful and historical important as a movie. And lets hope none of this will ever happen again.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A much needed reality check","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  Nazis have been the staple bad-guys for numerous modern entertainment pieces, so much as being cliched to the point of absurdity. So it's rather uneasy to watch Triumph des Willens nowadays. Gone are the humorous absolute evil movie-nazis - replaced with serious ones. DEADLY serious.The cinematography is quite astounding. Executing complex visual movements and playing up the symbolisms of glory and comradeship like a rose in full bloom. We're well aware of the thorns it possesses unlike most of the folk back then, but it was probably too late by then The political battle for Germany was over - Hitler was Germany and vice versa, like Rudolf Hess triumphantly proclaims in the closing of the political rally. Hitler chillingly speaks of the sweet, succumbing surrender of the populace to the will of the nationalsocialistic movement. And the men, women and children embrace it with blind devotion, never fully comprehending the consequences.When one watches this one hour movie, one starts to understand what was in stake in WW2 The whole individualistic way of life - to be replaced by a totalitarian collective society not far apart from an Orwellian dystopia. We were lucky we survived that ordeal, but just. And for now. "},{"Title":"A Propaganda Masterpiece","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  This film was more or less a documentary of the early years of the NSDAP and Hitler's rise to Chancellor in 1933. As a propaganda work, it is unsurpassed in its content and and portrayals. All that seems to be missing from it was Hitler opening the 1936 Olympic Games. It encompasses all of the elements necessary to maintain a command over an entire nation and people.Until just the last few years of the 20th Century, the film was classified; a piece of seized property and therefore unknown to most of the American people. Interestingly enough, it is connected with our history by way of the Watergate burglary and scandal. It has been said that G. Gordon Liddy took men connected with this event to a showing of the film which he apparently had access to. It was said to have been the most striking example of a mission and of the elements of command.Not the lone film of its kind, the American public was subjected to propaganda films as well. One that comes to mind is North Star, which was a film purporting to portray life in the Soviet Union in the late thirties and early forties. Communism was not a popular subject with the American people so this film was produced with much pro-Russian sentiment and fanciful portrayals of the Russian people. At this it may be said to be successful as much of the anti-communist furor was dispelled and the American people accepted sending billions of dollars in equipment and aid to Russia who after 1941, was fighting Germany on a wide front.The American equivalent to Triumph of the Will was the series, Why We Fight, which contained seven films about the American interests in World War II.For sure grandeur and gesture, Triumph of the Will likely receives several stars, however has no great redeeming value other than spectacle and showing a few faces and voices from that time. A must-see for historians and military aficionados "},{"Title":"Decide for yourself!","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  There is scarcely a review which doesn't focus on the meaning or message contained within this film. I don't mean to suggest that those elements don't exist; I merely want to suggest that there is much more in this powerful film.Like Olympia, this is a masterfully crafted work of art.  "},{"Title":"A flag is not a flag","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" After winning elections, the National Socialist Party of Germany held a congress in 1934, a demonstration of force that was filmed to show the world the triumph of the will of the German people. After the Führer literally arrives from heaven and we witness the healthy, disciplined and pure Arian party members gathered in Nuremberg, the documentary goes from the general to the particular with clever audiovisual manipulation, through marches, speeches and banners, turning the masses that celebrate the triumph of their will into a perfect piece of architecture, a magnificent structure that is reduced to the power of the Party. For decades, this so-called work of reactionary modernism was dismissed after the revelation of the Nazis' iniquity. However, after emotions are subdued, the masterfulness of director Leni Riefenstahl is evident (see Die Match der Bilder.) In this and her 1938 film of the Olympic Games in Berlin, Olympia, she coined techniques that today are common place in the entertainment industry. So don't be surprised if today you watch a football game with technical solutions of Nazi origin... "},{"Title":"This film is very well done","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  I recently saw this movie and I was very impressed with the camera work and the use of motion and sound. Very artistic. The director did a great job. It is a shame she was black listed later. It is our loss. It amazed me how we are super sensitive to anything that happened in Germany during the Nazi period. Not everything was bad during that time. The autobahn was initiated, the Volkswagon beetle was born. At the same time, we as Americans still give credence to the so-called confederate side of the civil war. Attempt to show the humanity of the slave owner during the American holocaust of Africans and Japanese internment of WWII and allow directors of such racist films a Birth of a Nation D.W. Griffith a great career and still honor him as a great producer. Shame we are such hypocrites. Maybe we are only appalled by inhumane treatment to people with white skin. As long as those being oppressed do not look like us, we can justify it. We give credence to their oppressors. Shame on us. If this film is so disturbing then hopefully we are as disturbed the black face images in the movie The Jazz Singer, White Christmas, Amos and Andy and the list goes on. Of course we are not. These are different, not the same as the Nazis films, not as bad or evil. How long will we continue to lie to ourselves? Let us admit our race bias and twisted view of history and treat all films and directors equally. "}{"Title":"Cathedral of Lights","Date":"14 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Cathedral of Lights was the name given the stage of titanic proportions built by Speer for the Nuremberg rally. It reflects the colossal effort, light on nothing short of a godlike scale. Hitler's architect was one of many who collaborated to achieve a spectacle designed to be history, a record that created reality, including Riefenstahl and Hitler himself. This is what is ultimately so frightening about this, before we get of course to the horrors of war and genocide, eerily foreshadowed in the Nuremberg display of state power, the thing - Nazism on the level of show business - was already being manufactured at this point, and as an image.This is enough to give us pause, the construction of an entire cosmology, on the abstract level, that would soon create an actual world from it.Nazi politics are slim, in the film and I presume in the actual rally itself, that is if we ever accept they were any deep to begin with. Sloganeering is the whole point. Fuhrerprinzip, a Great Germany, expansionism, and only a passing comment on racial purity - antisemitism toned down for broader appeal.No what is really political about this, in several ways, is the image itself. Of course a show about a show being staged, the entire event specifically prepared to be the film about it. More importantly, a show and film that would not have been possible on this scale and fervor, if the collective heart of a people, including those filming it and the thousands in rapturous attendance, had not so firmly desired it. Make no mistake, following the squalor of Weimar, Germans wanted to be proud again, wanted to celebrate power like they hadn't been allowed to in some time.So this is the thing that fascinates so much. The marches and counter-marches of immaculately groomed regiments saluting their caesar, the perfect grouping and re-grouping of different military formations, the rows of featureless men like pillars, this is nothing short of the internal landscape of an entire peoples in the making. Whether they liked it or not, and many didn't, Germans were going to be as envisioned here, a new soul being forged for them.On a deeper level, despite Riefenstahl's many claims to the contrary for the rest of her life, this was only possible because this woman was so attuned with this soul. Not the concentration camps, no, but purity - sublime will on the abstract level. She was one of the most talented, her grasp of film language at that point on par with that of an Eisenstein.As a film the thing is immaculate, but, according to mandatory wisdom, evil. Beyond the obvious political level, my entire cosmology is firmly against what she strived to represent idealized beauty, power, controlled harmony. I thrive in the exact opposite, asymmetry, transience, damaged nature, Buddhist as opposed to fascist aesthetics of non-self. But I do not doubt for a moment that she was conceiving something pure and from a deep place, and in fact had done so before Hitler's time in power. And this interests me a lot, ways to embody inner worlds.In Blue Light from three years prior, Riefenstahl conceived a landscape of some purity, a mountain with mysterious lights sparkling in the top, that she - she was also the protagonist - was intuitively drawn to climb. These lights she discovered from much personal risk, were snatched from her by the crass - domesticated - valley people below and she was left broken. And I do not doubt for a moment that she was perfectly aware of her allegory, and proudly believed in its value, as much as Eisenstein and Vertov rigorously believed their own polemics. No film of this magnitude - or Potemkin's - would be possible otherwise.So there it is. A woman of amazing talents who choreographs a world, thousands of people, according to the call from inner soul, transforming the thousands of people as this triumphant mountain, which in our film's case is staged as an actual show that will embody that soul as an image. Evil in simple terms - but monumentally achieved. "},{"Title":"The Wrong Word","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" They should take the word infamous off the poster and out of the summary because this is and will always be the best documentary ever made. People who study film in college this is the first film they study because it was a historical moment in film history. This documentary was made by a female in 1934 which was unheard of in that time period which shows you that we were more sexist back in 1934 then the Nazi's were and yet they are the so called bad guys. It was also made with over 100 camera's and was filmed 5 years before the war even took placed and yet it is banned in Germany only because they do not want it to happen again which was the most foolish thing that the German government could of ever done. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, Stunning Documentary","Date":"2 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" One of the most impressive things about Triumph of the Will which has not been mentioned is the gorgeous dramatic lighting. The sun and shadows emphasize the fantastic Third Reich 1930's architecture and bold imagery, in addition to the perfectly photographed wholesome fair- skinned faces. Nazi eagles and swastikas seem to embody super power, strength and resolve. The soft evening light and long shadows cast by Hitler and his two companions as they slowly walk between the perfect rows and columns of thousands in the massive stadium is spine-tingling.Leni Riefenstahl should be recognized as a genius, not reviled as a Nazi. She made a documentary, and did it brilliantly. The film was made years before World War II started. The industrialized killings of the 'Final Solution' had not yet been contemplated, and certainly Riefenstahl had no part in the homicidal horrors of Nazism. Triumph of the Will should be understood from the point of view of a 1934 patriotic (not necessarily nationalist) German filmmaker who saw her country being reborn. The film has no racist overtones or anti-Jewish rhetoric.It is truly unfortunate that the Nazi leadership became evil mass- killers. But this movie shows partly through imagery and symbolism how they achieved the immense power to do so. It is shallow to simply call TotW a well done propaganda film. It is fascinating cinematic art and history. "},{"Title":"The most notorious propaganda film ever made","Date":"7 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  Triumph des Willens is a unique film, it is very unlikely that you have seen  anything like this before or will see anything like it ever since.  It is a  hybrid between a documentary and a propaganda film and it most certainly is  a powerful piece of film-making; unlike other propaganda films made over  half a century ago this will not make you laugh.The film documents the party rally the NSDAP held in Nuremberg in 1934.  How  boring, you may think.  Party political broadcast, you may think.  The  British Conservatives in Brighton, you may think.  Follow this thought and  compare Adolf Hitler (perhaps the most hated man in the history of mankind)  with John Major (perhaps the least remarkable prime minister Britain ever  had) and you get a hint what's wrong with it.  This is not any old  political party, and this is not any old party rally - and Riefenstahl sure  knows how to present it most impressively.Triumph des Willens is one of the most dangerous propaganda films ever made.   It does not tell us what we should believe in (not in words anyway), it  seduces us into it.  The impact is emotional, not rational.  There is no  debate, no argument.  There are speeches, but these speeches resemble more  the religious ramblings of prophets than the reasoning of a modern  politician.Riefenstahl appeals to our herd-animal instincts, our desire to be engulfed  in a large group and contributing to it. Riefenstahl tries to impress us  with grandiose pictures of masses of people being transfixed by the  speakers (especially Hitler, of course), the architecture of the place,  torch marches, lots of banners and all that other Nazi mumbo jumbo.   In historical hindsight, these pictures get a second, more sinister meaning  Riefenstahl would not have anticipated.  If not put in his rightful  historical context the film would still have the power to seduce today.  "},{"Title":"compelling masterpiece","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" A historical film capturing the1934 Nazi party rally in picturesque Nazi hotbed of Nuremberg, Filmed over a number of days it contains all the leading lights of National Socialism in pre-war Germany making speeches to the faithful. It also shows the various clips of the different organizations within National Socialism ie.The Hitler Youth in all their Arian glory excited and in gleeful expectation of seeing their Fuhrer,The goosestepping standard bearers of the S.A. and the S.S. paying homage to their glorious leader. Triumph of the Will captures the state of the German nation and the Nazi mindset perfectly ,and I felt a sense of foreboding with the bluntness of some of the speeches. The film is full of very striking German Expressionism Cinema techniques,never more so than in the night shots, full of torch bearing storm troopers and the Nazi faithful hailing their glorious leader..Goebbels vision was put brilliantly to film by Riefenstahl who had over thirty cameras to film every incident of the event.This is truly a masterclass in Propaganda but it is also one in Cinema,Triumph of the Will truly is a triumph of Cinema and despite its content should be seen as one. Riefenstahl for her part was imprisoned for four years after the war and never was able to reinvent her career as a top Director,a real and tragic loss to Cinema "},{"Title":"Chilling film","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  Considering when this thing was made (1934) it is extraordinary, unlike modern films which we've all gotten desensitized to, there were actually millions of people on march cheering the rise of Nazism. They were there to make something to manipulate people in a certain way; the film has a solid purpose, albeit a dark one. This film was not made for profit or amusement-those people weren't actors. This is a prelude to a war that would shatter Europe (and the world, quite frankly) once again. Clearly, this film illustrates the failure of the Allies to prevent the rise of a madman portrayed here- the follies of capitalist greed and senseless decadence and cowardice that dominated the democracies at the time is something to avoid. There is a lesson to be learned here. Thank heavens the politicians today r mostly idiots out there as puppets taking in the joyride of power.The madness of the human spirit present is intoxicating- how often do u see so many people with such an unified mind? The overwhelming sense of order is amazing. The accompanied music and various filling scenes showing the beautiful countryside makes the film all the better. Anyway, without further verbiage i give the 10/10- only because it was a film very well done, not because it was one i liked.  "},{"Title":"A landmark work by a great film director.","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  Due to making this film Leni Riefenstahl has been considered an immoral monster who glorified history's worst criminal.  If only we all had the benefit of 20-20 foresight!As others have noted here, in this film and Olympia Riefenstahl proved herself as so far the only female genius in the history of film. The undeniable power of this mesmerizing documentary is truly frightening.I can't feel too sorry for Leni Riefenstahl losing her career due to making this film;  the millions murdered and tortured by Hitler's regime suffered far worse.  I do regret not being able to see the films she might have made later as a mature artist.  It's as though the only films we had from Hitchkock were The 39 Steps and The Lady Vanishes;  you would always wonder what he might have done later in life.  "},{"Title":"An astonishing documentary achievement, NOT a propaganda film","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  It is hard to remember that artists as diverse as Phidias, Leonardo da Vinci, and Michaelangelo, as well as great modern film makers like Sergei Eisenstein (under Stalin) and Leni Riefenstahl (under Hitler) had to be funded in a particular time and a particular place. And as their political masters changed, so did their ability to continue working and so did the focus of their efforts. The talent of da Vinci in his later years was diverted to the design of fortifications for the Sforzas of Milan and he died in France as another captured work of art stolen from Italy by Francis I.The constant disregard of this recurring fact of life for many centuries causes us to constantly rewrite the history and misunderstand the accomplishment of their works in the light of our current political ideologies.If there is one amazing thing about The Triumph of the Will it is the extraordinary acceptance and critical acclaim the film had all over the world at the time it was released, culminating with its being awarded the Gold Medal at the 1937 Paris World's Fair. The French had been driven out of their Rhineland occupation barely a year earlier and were rather unlikely to honor anything they regarded as a propaganda film for the Nazis.It was a film Riefenstahl never wanted to make. She continually risked her career by refusing Goebbel's demands to make films like this and only weakened when Hitler asked her personally to make the film and gave her total control of its production and final cut. The Ministry of Propaganda constantly interfered with its out of control production during its creation as well. It was an unloved stepchild of the Third Reich from its conception to its birth.Few of the millions who have seen it realize there is NO voice-over script cueing them how to react. Voice-over scripts were common in  newsreels and documentaries then and now, and it impossible to think of a single propaganda film since the invention of sound film that has ever failed to contain one. Very few even know enough German to be able to understand what is said in the speeches unwinding before them. And fewer still realize how much the subtitles leave out. And few of us have seen the film in a cut that the director has approved, given the many bootleg versions floating around.What overwhelms audiences is the power of the medium of film itself handled by one of its early masters. In capturing the mesmerizing experience shared by those participating in the multiple events of the annual Nurnberg Nazi Party Days. Riefenstahl exposes our vulnerability to the totalitarian temptation to throw away all the uncertainty of our individual responsibility for some great cause which can unite and thrill us with a sense of invincibility. And, of course, we blame her as the artist for that terrifying insight.Riefenstahl's film work has one common theme her love for the heroic. From her early Alpine films and adventure films as both actress and director, to her later work on the Nuba tribespeople of Africa, that has been the thread that unites it. There is nothing in this of the Aryan delusions of the Third Reich which would never have allowed her to find nobility in Sudanese black subhumans like the Nuba. Her Olympia on the 1936 Berlin Olympics neglects no nation's accomplishment in favor of the Germans who won the largest total of medals there. And she has the best and most exciting footage of any documentary or newsreel account of the triumph of American black athlete Jesse Owens. Any illusions Riefenstahl may have had about the heroic film possibilities of documentary making during World War II evaporated in her first trip to the front during the invasion of Poland that commenced it, when she fled after witnessing an atrocity and never made another contemporary film for the remainder of the war.These are the simple facts. They have been tested in deNazification procedures, dozens of libel cases, and best and worst efforts of critics and social historians for over fifty years. And in spite of them, Leni Riefenstahl was effectively prevented from working on any major film project for the remainder of her career.Unfortunately, heroes can be Spartan warriors destroying the glories of Periclean Athens, Confederate soldiers fighting bravely to maintain a slave state, Nazi troops whose heroism had been perverted to the spread of racist genocide, or Viet Cong attacking American soldiers against impossible odds during the Tet Offensive. But at least soldiers honor the heroism of their adversaries whichever side they may be on. Intellectuals and critics do their best to find any excuse to avoid being soldiers and only value what they find correct, depending upon what ideological fashions blow them from one generation to the next.No critic's name is long remembered. Great art endures. And so will the powerful documentary art of Leni Riefenstahl.  "},{"Title":"A high scoring film in the votes for its quality not content.","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  This is a unique film, it is worthy of note due to Leni Riefenstahl's powerful ability to use imagery to make a documentary / propaganda film.  Interesting in terms of how a director uses the imagery to portray the values and feeling of the time.I have heard the film likened to a party political broadcast.  However such broadcasts usually endeavour to set out the parties ideology and plans.  In 'Triumph des Willens', despite its two hour length, there is very little of either. What Leni Riefenstahl portrays is the beginning of the personality cult. Frequent cut away's, Hitler always has the last word, the greatest applause.  Aspects such as continuity are given little attention as the focus in on the imagery.Many techniques used by Leni Riefenstahl in this film became the standard for other later dictators in their propaganda films and are still used today.The film documents the party rally the NSDAP (Nazi party) held in Nuremberg in 1934, having been in power for one year.  It is also shortly after the 'night of the long knives' in which Hitler's henchmen consolidated their power by murdering opposition within their own ranks.  It is therefore as much a bit of breast beating as propaganda, hence the title 'Triumph des Willens'.If, in watching the film, you feel 'I've seen that before' then you probably have.  A great many 'clips' have been taken from this film and used in other documentaries covering the period, giving testimony to the quality of Leni Riefenstahl's work.A last note Leni Riefenstahl's requests for royalties for public viewing of the film have always been refused, so she has earned little from it, despite it's infamy. The film is held by the Imperial War Museum and is considered War Booty. "},{"Title":"Powerful ANTI-Nazi propaganda-- do you agree?","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Leni Riefenstahl was hired by Hitler himself to produce a film that glorified the Nazi party, and she delivered in spectacular fashion. She needed 30 cameras to capture the pageantry of 1934's week-long, 700,000-strong Nuremberg Rally. The result is a film as tightly controlled as the paramilitary troops who march and salute on the grand stage of the arena designed by Albert Speer. Her masterful edit of the rich variety of images creates a film that ebbs and swells like a symphony. When it concludes, you will recall with surprise that, but for the rousing speeches by Hitler and others, it is pure cinema-- a sweeping array of images with music, but not one word of narration.Why, then, was the film described as the most marvelous anti-Nazi propaganda by the great film critic Dwight Macdonald? In his wordsWhen I saw all those people shouting Heil Hitler and Sieg Heil, I thought this is menacing and sinister. Those close-ups-- the porky, beefy, misshapen faces of the Nazi leaders, they are the faces of a bunch of crooks and murderers-- you can see that... There were some shots of Goering and Goebbels that you couldn't possibly admire. Nobody but a Nazi could admire these people. (From Interviews with Dwight Macdonald, University Press of Mississippi, 2003).His conclusion was that Riefenstahl was so good a director that she produces truth even when she wants to produce lies.When I watched Triumph of the Will again recently, I realized how strong Macdonald's words were. My heart hardened against what I was seeing, even though it was meant to glorify-- the frank close-ups of the stolid faces of those high-and-mighty men, men who are staged as individuals standing tall against rows upon rows of those paramilitary troops, the handsomest of whom get their own sunlit close-ups. If you're not one of them, if you're not a German chauvinist, it is a chilling, frightening picture of imperial power and rank submission. "}{"Title":"The Greatest Proof Of Nazi Power and benevolence !","Date":"4 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Hail NAZI , HAIL ARYAN RACE, HEIL Hitler, HEIL FUEHRER, HAIL SCHUTTZSTAFFEL, WE ARYAN RACE ARE THE TRUE AND JUST RACE IN THIS WORLD AND WE SHALL REIGN THROUGH OUR Righteousness, THOSE WHO ARE FOOLISH ENOUGH TO STAND IN THE WAY OF A TRUE WORLD, SHALL BE PERISHED BENEATH OUR IRON WILL TO MAKE RIGHT THE WRONGS OF THIS WORLD, THROUGH ATTRITION OR DECISIVENESS WE SHALL DESTROY ALL THE ENEMIES OF THE NAZI AND FUEHRER, AND SHALL MAKE A NEW WORLD WITH THE BANNER OF SS HANGING AT THE TOP OF IT AND COVERING EVERYTHING IN IT !!!!!!!!!!!The Triumph of will is an actual and living Proof of the Nazi Greatness ! the Power that Third Reich wielded and the Good and Just cause that they were using that power for !!! Let those who gaze with hatred to the truth i am preaching, be Blinded by the Light of The Nazi's Benevolence and Power. The people Know it, the World Knows it ! We Aryan race, the race of Just and powerful are the true Inherits of the God's Land and we shall reign with Justice and Honor and clean the World of the Taint that Israel and America, are covering it with, the taint of Evil Worship, the Taint of Abominational Sexualities and bi-sexualities , the taint of corruption in cultures and concepts of just and right and Godly ! we fight for the Justice and Power of the Creater, the God ! let those who cant bear my words downrate this Review or even remove this !! but The Right Words will always find their way to the ears of those who can hear !!! Hail Nazi , Hail Schutzstaffel , Hail Aryan Race ! "},{"Title":"Is It Disturbing? Yes. But All The Same, It's A Powerful Film.","Date":"11 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" This is a Nazi propaganda film that depicts numerous rallies, particularly the 1934 Nuremberg rally.Is this film disturbing? Yes it is. But nevertheless, it's a powerful film. Regardless of what you think about Hitler and The Nazi Party, this film is an extremely powerful film that is without a doubt one of the best propaganda films that I have ever seen. Now first off, let me say this. By no means do I support Adolf Hitler or anything that he or the Nazis did. However, I have to admit that this is a very well made film. But at the same time, it's very disturbing. When it came to propaganda, the Nazis were masters at it, and it usually takes something big in order to make people believe something that's untrue, and this film was definitely that, and that really makes it scary, because this was something that really got the German people riled up and pro-Hitler. Hitler once said that Great liars are also great magicians. And that can be very true in many instances, because if you tell a big enough lie, people are bound to believe it, and that definitely worked during 1934-1935 Germany, as the Germans did believe it.Director Leni Riefenstahl was ahead of her time as far as making movies go. Even if you don't agree with the subject material, the way she captured everything truly astounding. In this film, you see numerous parades of German troops marching in goose-step formations and of Nazi leaders making speeches. And there's something very unnerving about seeing these, particularly Hitler's speeches, in which he usually starts out calm before he begins shouting and yelling to crowd about his beliefs, in which the people believe. Seeing the way Hitler would get so emotional in his speeches with his shouting, it makes it even more unnerving when you take into account what would happen when he began his attempts to exterminate the Jews. And interestingly, there are no mention of Jews anywhere in this film, which is quite surprising considering the Anti-Semite that Hitler (and most of Germany as a whole) was.Triumph Of The Will is kind of a tough film to review. I strongly disagree with the subject matter, but I do have to give credit to Leni Riefenstahl for the work she put into this film, and it had to have been good if was to get the attention of the people of Germany at the time. When a propaganda piece like this manages to get the German mass-hysteria riled up, that is truly something, something disturbing. One review I read compared this to a horror film. Well it kind of is, not with killings, blood, murder or anything like that, but horror in the form of thousands of people at rallies to listen to Hitler give speeches and give their support to him and the party, which would set the stage for some one of the most terrible things in all of history. All in all, Triumph Of The Will is a disturbing film, but there's something about the way it's made that earns itself as a classic.10/10 "},{"Title":"Great Film, Bad Intentions","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" I believe that a great film is a great film, no matter what its intent is. Triumph of the Will is practically the definition of an excellent work of cinema with awful intentions. It remains one of the most influential and important works of cinema and, without the Nazi propaganda masterpiece, today's cinema would be a bit different.It is one of the most monumental and epic films of all time, purely because of Leni Riefenstahl's filmmaking techniques. Using various, experimental camera angles, she documents a Nazi Party rally in a magical and breathtaking way.She films thousands of Nazi supporters from high helicopter shots, giving the audience the feeling as if we're flying with her camera. While it is a work of true evil, it is also a work of true beauty in it's visuals.It also manages to be one of the most unintentionally frightening films of all time. During the opening sequence, in which Hitler has arrived to the rally, it is terrifying seeing all of the excited, brainwashed Nazi supporters cheering him on, some of them actually being children! Knowing about all of the horrors that Adolf Hitler caused and committed, it truly is strange and disturbing to see things like that.Overall, this is a true gem of documentary/propaganda filmmaking and, no matter what your politics are, it is important for any true fan of cinema to see the film. "},{"Title":"Worth a watch for the historic context","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Triumph des Willens or Triumph of the Will is a German black-and-white documentary film from 80 years ago. 1935 means this was done 2 years after the Nazis' rise to power, one year before the Olympic Games (fittingly the mentions of peace in this film) and 4 years before World War II. It documentary the Nazi Party rally 1934 in Nuremberg. We see great parades, we see significant speeches by all the big players from German politics at that time. Of course, this also includes Adolf Hitler, who we see in quite a few speeches, also the one that closes the ceremony.I must say it is a very absurd watch, sometimes even funny in an embarrassing way and it is hard to believe that people took this really seriously. But obviously they did and it's difficult to judge them as we have not lived during that era and have not lived through the hard times of World War I and the years afterward. It is your decision what approach to take to that film. If you see it from the perspective trying to find out about and understand history in 1930s Germany, this may be a rewarding experience. If not, you will probably disgusted by the despicable recordings, even if it is nowhere near the likes of Jud Süß obviously. It is propaganda, but not that hateful really.I do not agree with the decision to ban films like these. We need to keep them alive and watch them in order to understand history, even if it is about dark times. We need to be informed in order to make sure times like these won't repeat themselves again at some point in the future. Denial of the past is not the way to go. This is also why I give this film a thumbs up, a fairly high rating and recommend this one to people with an interest in global politics of the first half of the 20th century. If that description fits you, go check it out no matter where you come from. "},{"Title":"Very well-made documentary","Date":"22 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" As bad as the past had been during the Nazi regime, Triumph of the Will, is an extremely well-made documentary. The outstanding edits that had conveyed the audience to follow the Führer, Adolf Hitler, just show the intensity of propaganda used. The shots almost always showed a full setting, along with what was happening, as if preparing to guide us viewers in the direction to what would happen next. Leni Riefenstahl used great footage to show all the excitement that was exclaimed by the people before Hitler's arrival to each event. The use of it really portrays Hitler as a person who is extremely well respected and praised, giving us an impression that he was the one who deserved it. Because of this documentary being filmed in the 1930's, it fascinates me that something so old can still be so interesting. I found it exciting to be able to hear a speech that was about to be made, because of all the build up of cheer that Riefenstahl showed. One last thing I would like to add, even though this is in the German language, it is very easy to keep up with the subtitles and still get to see the footage without missing much. "},{"Title":"Triumph of The Cinema Maybe","Date":"28 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" This is not a thinking-person's horror movie, it's a story. About the rise of a nation which had the potential to be the greatest in history but instead chose to fail epically. Not spoiler marked because seventy years or so is the ultimate late arrival spoiler. Where've you been? As a movie, here are my ratings Music 10/10, just love the Königgrätzer March, among other great pieces. Aesthetic 11/10, perfect uniforms and symbolism Quality 5/10, fairly shallow but passable Depth 7/10, intellect could use work but at least it has intellect unlike today's trash Overall 9/10. As a propaganda film, here are my ratings Music 11/10. Often gets my blood running swiftly, especially with the aforementioned march. There are some bits that don't appeal to me, but apparently they do to other people, therefore they are effective. Aesthetic 11/10. Here it's in reverse. Not many people think much of the film's imagery, uniforms, etcetera, but I think it's among the best ever made. Paints a beautiful picture. If only its owners actually lived up to the image of heroism they painted of themselves. Quality 2/10. It was a very effective film for swaying the masses, who are cowardly, unscrupulous, and easily manipulated via emotions. However, even though that's fun and all it should not rely solely upon that as a propaganda film. Logical reasoning for the intellect should also be painted finely However it fails as it chose to use purposely large lies instead of truth as its source of persuasive power. Depth 5/10. Decent, goes a good way into murky waters even in its lying. I really like how each actor in the film plays himself or herself. Standard of documentaries. Overall 5/10. Has all the makings of a good propaganda film but just didn't do it right. Of course it would help if its owners were right to begin with, but they chose not to be as well. "},{"Title":"That's Some Marching","Date":"7 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Due to economic collapse and the rise of arguably the most evil man who ever lived, the German people fell into line and accepted the rhetoric he was putting forth. This is a stunning portrayal of some of the most horrifying acceptance of a message ever seen. I realize that editing makes it so, but the close order drill that dominates the film isn't just the soldiers; it is the populace on the sidelines. Think of the devastation and destruction that followed this. The Holocaust. The Lightning Wars. The bombings of civilian populations on both sides. And this cowardly nut was seen as the savior. In hindsight, we can make comments like this. The film shows the worst side of humanity when it comes to being led down the path. Riefenstahl's work is cinematic magic and social poison. We're all part of it, right. Think of the waste of war. If the treaty after World War I hadn't discounted the possibility of reprisal from desperation, Hitler would have never had a power base. Don't poke at the snake. A remarkable and disheartening film, to say the least. "},{"Title":"Captures The Undeniable Power Of Cinema Like No Other Film","Date":"7 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Crafted with rigour, shot with astute vision & resonating an undeniable power throughout its runtime, Triumph of the Will is arguably the most powerful propaganda piece of all time that presents the ideals of Adolf Hitler & his Nazi party in such a clever manner that it convinced the German civilians that their nation is destined for eternal glory if they put their faith in the leadership of the Führer, and is also a celebration of Germany's revival as a great power.Triumph of the Will chronicles the Nazi Party Rally held at Nuremberg in 1934 where some of the most infamous Nazi leaders give their speeches in front of 700,000 Nazi supporters. The whole picture is filled with images of Nuremberg, multiple scenes featuring countless troops rallying through the city's streets, various moments that capture the public reaction and rally speeches, all repeated several times over the course of its 114 minutes of runtime.Directed by German filmmaker Leni Riefenstahl under the orders of Adolf Hitler himself who wanted to reach the masses through a movie that would capture the ideals of his party and influence the civilians to join & support his cause, Triumph of the Will provides a calculated view of National Socialism for the only thing its leaders keep talking about is restoring their nation to its once-mighty status & reviving the nationalist spirit in every German citizen.There is no explicit mention of the numerous atrocities Nazi would later perpetrate during the Second World War and in most ways, the documentary succeeds in painting a positive portrait of National Socialist Party. Each frame brims with strong feelings of patriotism, the wide shots of massive troops formations serves as an inspiring reminder that Germany is powerful once again and the profound effect of Hitler's speeches cannot be understated.Triumph of the Will also features politics of the highest order. It beautifully exhibits just how easily public will rally its support to the party's cause if they can manage to create a perfect illusion. Using the humiliation Germany was subjected to after World War I to his advantage, Hitler's speeches make relentless use of religion, power & unity to instil the German pride in every citizen and by delivering on previous promises, easily succeeds in earning their trust & services.The infamous documentary is also influential for a number of innovations it brings into the world of filmmaking, both in its use of camera & music. Sitting through the picture however is a tedious experience for it becomes repetitive very soon and stays on the same level for the rest of its runtime. The propaganda element works only on looking back & in more ways than one, it's a documentary that captures what possibly was the true state of Germany in the 1930s.The most memorable thing about Riefenstahl's direction, apart from her technical mastery over all aspects of filmmaking, is the strong psychological pull she's able to generate just by those ingeniously photographed images. From the outside, Triumph of the Will appears as an immensely boring documentary in which similar set of events unfold in loop form for the majority of its runtime, but it also manages to seduce its viewers into admiring as well as believing in the Nazi propaganda.It's astonishing that this film still retains a certain level of its potency despite being 80 years old which makes me wonder just how persuasive it must have been for the German public back in 1935. It sheds a completely different light on Hitler & his party and while it isn't an enjoyable experience by any means, it's bold, powerful & evocative nonetheless. Significant for its contribution to cinema & illustrating a vital segment of human history, Triumph of the Will captures the irrefutable power of cinema like no other example, before or after. "},{"Title":"impressive propaganda","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" It's Sept 5, 1934. Adolf Hitler is flying into Nuremberg to head the Nazi Party Congress. It's an infamous propaganda film from Leni Riefenstahl. It contains speeches from many Nazi leaders. Of course as a piece of propaganda, it is pure evil. It solidifies the power of Hitler and makes him a demigod. Even though the speeches are mostly veiled in allusional hate disguised as self-empowerment, the militaristic context is in no doubt. This is a call to arms.As a technical feat, it is an amazing coordination with a massive pageant undertaking. It starts off a little wonky. Hitler's arrival is sometimes out of focus. The speeches from the other Nazis get stale. There are scenes that try to soft peddle Nazism like the youth camp that seems amateurish. When night scenes started to be incorporated, the theatricality of the rally starts to elevate to another level. It's a massive rally in reality. This thing looks huge and the film captures it perfectly. Hitler is a natural orator and Riefenstahl gives him every bit of his powerful voice. She takes the mass rally and gives it a slick presentation. "},{"Title":"Magnificent cinematography, but otherwise hollow","Date":"29 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Before I get to my assessment of this cinematic work, let me remind you of my bias I hate Nazism, I hate fascism in all of its forms (and I would hate an American fascism, so it is not a matter of hating fascism because of its ties to some foreign culture), I consider Hitler and all of his associates pure evil. Even if I fit all the criteria for being a perfect Aryan by Nazi 'racial' criteria, I would rather become a Jew than a Nazi. At least as a Jew I would be able to maintain my current moral and cultural values.Yes, it is an infamous piece of propaganda showing how completely and quickly Hitler took complete control of Germany, offering himself as a focus of national unity. Riefenstahl shows some of the best camera work to its time, advancing the great achievement of German cinematography that before Hitler rivaled anything else -- even Hollywood productions. It is worth watching as a depiction of Nazi Germany as the purest despotism that has ever existed. Much of this staging is choreography showing the extreme regimentation already in effect in Germany roughly a year after the Devil Incarnate took power. But such, alas, is now educational -- a study of Nazi propaganda, and that is the cause of my mediocre rating.Hitler already gets treatment that rock stars of our time get even if the lyrics are banal and the music is shallow. Even if Hitler manages to avoid the infamous denunciations of foreign powers and especially the Jews -- even the arch-bigot Julius Streicher is shown calling only for Germans to protect their 'racial purity', which is no nastier than the racist rhetoric in the USA at the time. If Hitler is not responsible for the music, the music (which is the choice of Riefenstahl) is uniformly banal -- unison brass over pounding drums. The great irony is that this bad music comes from the country that gave the world Bach, Beethoven, Schumann, Mendelssohn (excuse me -- the Nazis banned his music!), Wagner, Brahms, and Hindemith (oh, he fled!). Needless to say, any value as entertainment is sparse at best.The choreography within the rally site is clearly the doing of the Nazi Party and its subsidiary organizations. It does with people what Hitler's paintings do -- trivialize everything human. It is hard to imagine that Riefenstahl could make any mistakes with that except to use too few camera angles. That, of course, she commands masterfully. Of course some of the regimentation looks ludicrous -- the farmers and construction workers marching with the tools of their work as if they were soldiers. But such is my contemporary bias against military-style discipline where it serves no obvious purpose other than to obliterate individuality. Much is made of ceremonies at night, with fire taking a prominent role... I can think of some American fascists who typically have their rallies at night and heavily use fire to 'illuminate' their ceremonies.This is a Party Congress... and one must admit that it is more impressive in its pageantry than any party convention, Democratic or Republican, in the United States. Of course, in American political conventions, words and policies are not preset pablum. But that is a valid comparison -- something like the Republican National Convention of 1980 or the Democratic National Convention of 2008, both of which had far more wit and wisdom than did speakers at the 1934 Nazi Party Congress. We get a unique insight into Adolf Hitler as a speaker -- and how fit his prose is for infantile, obedient simpletons. We get to see his pious lies about the Night of the Long Knives, a series of murders against rivals and old enemies. Hitler is not John F. Kennedy, Ronald Reagan, or Barack Obama. If you were looking for something as profound as Lincoln's Gettysburg Address or Churchill's Finest Hour speech, you will be terribly disappointed. Heck, the speech of Charlie Chaplin's Jewish barber impersonating Der Phooey at the end of The Great Dictator (which spoofs Hitler) has richer rhetoric. Hitler has learned nothing from Goethe or Schiller. Hitler is introduced flying into Nuremberg as if a god -- consider that Hitler could exploit the novelty of flight to impress people who thought that fliers were gods. He leaves the venue by automobile. The adulation of the closest person ever to being the Antichrist is genuine enough; people are making the Nazi salute with no obvious prompting or staging. As Rudolf Hess put it, Hitler then is Germany, and Germany is Hitler on the days of the 1934 Party Congress. "}{"Title":"Triumph of the Will","Date":"9 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" This is one of the titles that was reasonably easy to remember from the book of 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, I knew it was something to do with the reviled dictator of World War II, I was only going to watch because of the recommendation. Basically this German documentary and propaganda film was personally selected and commissioned by Adolf Hitler in 1934, who gave director, producer, editor and co-writer Leni Riefenstahl, a German actress, unlimited financial resources, the full co-operation of the Nazi hierarchy and a crew of more than a hundred. The film was originally intended to document the early days of the NSDAP (Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei), or The Nazi Party, so future generations could look back and see how the Third Reich began, but it actually covers the events of the Sixth Nuremberg Party Congress in 1934, to historians it is seen as showing how the Nazi state drew in the masses through propaganda, and also how Adolf Hitler had a unique and terrifying ability to entice crowds to his beliefs by the very power of his words. Thousands of people are seen in the footage, including the crowds of men and women, and their children, as they cheer the Führer and the thousands of Nazi soldiers, and the majority of the film is seeing the soldiers marching at the 1934 Nuremberg Rally, and the many speeches by Adolf Hitler and the other abhorred leaders, associates and followers, or they are just watching, including Joseph Goebbels, Hermann Göring, Heinrich Himmler, Rudolf Hess, Alfred Rosenberg, Hans Frank and many more. I guess the reason this film is seen as a landmark is because it is one of the best for displaying the indoctrination (making people follow a specific ideology and opinion, like a cult) of Hitler and the Nazi regime, and it is definitely one that shows how it repugnant it is too, it is shocking to see children cheering at the evil power of the Nazis, I very much I will be watching this documentary again, but I can appreciate it as a historical record and classic propaganda. Good! "},{"Title":"Occasionally artful document of the cult of charisma that drove the Third Reich","Date":"30 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Technically, there are some interesting things for this layman to note. The film is a well-edited, free flowing assembly of wide shots from height, interesting dollied shots, often in Hitler's car (which show how much access Riefenstahl had been granted) and head-height shots of fanatic crowds or parading soldiers. This is where Riefenstahl's gifts are most evident. The crowd shots - almost always shot at an angle so that the hordes taper away to an off-screen vanishing point - are augmented with a selection of well-chosen, portrait-like head shots of individuals, sometimes staged. There are also a number of detail close- ups, not only the beating of drums but also standing on tip-toe or the clutching of flowers.Thus the film works its magic spell through documenting the extraordinary public showing in Nürnberg but spinning it with bucolic and humanised inserts of the German Volk (witness the jolly, almost homoerotic sequence early on with the men preparing for the Reichsparteitag) and, of course, the ubiquitous, manicured juxtapositions of Hitler himself. I was also fascinated by the use of music, sometimes vaguely diegetic, but now and again clearly written for the film. Particularly noteworthy is the early re-working of Act 1 of Tristan und Isode (Heil, König Marke, Heil!) for Hitler's disembarkation from the plane to a chorus of Heils.As far as the content goes, I (inevitably?) found it rather dispiriting that the centre of Nürnberg should look so lovely (both Riefenstahl and the Nazis got lucky with terrific sunlight) and the Speer-created party arena so soulless. It's also very interesting to hear Goebbels talking so openly about the importance of propaganda on the same platform as Otto Dietrich demanding foreign journalists report the truth about the Reich. It's that brazen. "},{"Title":"The night of the will vs. the day of the thinking","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" I have always been astonished that the Will played such an important role as concept for the NS ideology. We meet this term step by step in Hitler's and well as Rosenberg's (and their adepts') writings. Of course, the term is borrowed from Nietzsche's famous slogan The Will for Might and stands for a whole vitalist program whose traces are to be found already in Schopenhauer's work. But nevertheless - as we know since Hegel - the Will stands in opposition to the Thinking, and while the Thinking stands for logical position, truth, goodness and beauty - the Will must logically stand for logical negation, falseness, badness and ugliness.However, there is another concept of philosophical thinking - but neither Hitler nor Rosenberg could have known it, since it was to be developed only decades later -, according to which the Night of the Will stands also for subjectivity, while the Day of the Thinking thus stands for objectivity. Now, objects are dead, so we find in accordance with Nietzsche vitalist concepts only in subjectivity. Subjectivity, therefore, is the pool of creativity, since here we deal with a potential of reflection of immeasurable depth and width, while objectivity has nothing else than the Facta Bruta.Looked at in this way, the supremacy of Will over Thinking, in the last instance, leads to Terminator-like robots, hence a very special kind of Nietzsche's Übermensch, and thus necessarily to the elimination of the human race and not only of certain parts of it. Therefore, the often criticized inhumanity of National Socialism is nothing but a consequence of their logical structure. The basic idea to put Will over Thinking may lay in the Thinking's extreme boundedness of the Procrustes bed of two-valued Aristotelian logic, which describes a world of innumerable colors solely in terms of black and white or a light-switch logic, respectively. It is thus possibly not a mere coincidence that the emerging of National Socialism happened to exactly the same time as the big discoveries of modern physics did which proved that the two-valued logic is inappropriate for scientific description. --- After all, one should be aware of all that in order to understand that National Socialism, understood as a metaphysical phenomenon, is by far more than the alleged insanity of a certain man born in Braunau am Inn. "},{"Title":"A Happy Time","Date":"13 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" There was a time ago that this child here now providing this comment watched the respected opening moments of Victory at Sea while in front of the RCA Television.The Waves of the North Atlantic were a distant but nevertheless foreboding time that the stirring Richard Rodgers score brought to bear but distant and most certainly a time ago was long ago for this child here now.I knew then and though not always entirely cognitive I was aware of this time of this time ago it was far away this time ago and it was as it in fact is of a time past and it was of a time ago.I could recall that World War II seemed of such a long time ago and it was of such a foreboding distance from this child in front of the RCA television that for what it is worth its foreboding bearing ceased not and for more than now some 25 years the great World War II has leant such a deeply etched impression that its effect lingers still and perhaps still means more than anything since then.It is with deep care that this resolve has not gone without notice as this event in time has provided a witness the world over to its occurrence and there is so much available that the need to know will not go unquenched and questions and inquiries can be dealt with unflinchingly.This particular film is merely a film and one whereby the state is the artist and the artist is the state.It,That is the Rise of Nazi Germany took over all control of anything not what it was and whatever that was not to the liking to Nazi Germany was labeled something as more than merely unliked but degenerate and perhaps not so important but compelling none the less undesirable.Though most certainly a fringe party The National Socialist seemed to take advantage of opportunity if only marginally and move steadily from marginal,less than 4% of the electorate in 1928 Germany to nearly 29% in 1929.The party promises provided by Adolf Hitler allowed many to look toward the Nazi party as a way out of this terrible prospect of many years of decreased opportunity and increased inflation with unemployment to grow to some 6.5 million.This film is an excellent reference for the kind of inspiring conversation that Adolf Hitler provided in his attempt to circumvent the obstacles caused by what he attempted to resolve as a Leader and perhaps The Furher of Nazi Germany.Were his arguments fallacious ? I'am not able to dismiss his contention of this financial hell that has many leaks as to how why and so on that a profit motive and the apparent exploitation of humanity were one of the underpinnings as to the suffering that many not only Germany felt.the failure of the league of Nations,the failure further of appeasement with a terribly uneven and unfaithful world community that such division was more of an opportunity than a limit to Germanies future.The Triumph of The Will shows with skill the effect of what Adolf Hitler wished for Germany as one people.It was equally inspiring to see that what one felt all felt and it was as one Gemany all felt as one German people could share in one feeling for all of Germany.This was quite excellent it was equally excellent to see the common worker seem so in charge that that privilege was not lost on a time ago.There was credible evidence that perhaps maybe this marginal position would not be so damned ? The black cloud indeed is of a time ago and indeed a time ago knows that that black cloud does not abate merely because all of these dead characters are indeed gone for good.I am not willing to dismiss the appearance of this legitimate attempt to make good on promises however it is terrifying to realize what was unfolding as all participated as good German citizens.This film was nearer an inspiration than not and what was expressed was not without merit,I would suggest Good Cause was something that came to mind as I listened and learned.A time ago should not go without a most definite word of caution know your subject matter and know it well. "},{"Title":"Boring, boring ...","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" After watching the first time entirely Leni Riefenstahl's Triumph of the Will, I wonder why it is considered a major work of cinematic art. It's boring, to me it extremely boring to watch stupid speeches and endless marching and blank facial expressions. The fact that some parts (they are what always displayed when trying to convince how talented Ms. Riefenstahl was ) of the documentary are skillfully filmed, does not save the awfully long, boring whole, and those parts don't last many seconds. Of course, it is propaganda, but I would have thought that the Nazis would have been able to do better. Such trash would have convinced only the true believers. Well, perhaps the Nazis were no longer in 1934 needed better propaganda, but, I wonder, whether the true believers were able to watch the film without felling asleep. "},{"Title":"5/10 stars for movie but 10/10 for message","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Come and see them all, the movers & shakers of Nazi Germany in 1934. Those you know & some you may not. This was peace time Germany & Rally's were the order of the day. There's not a lot of action in this movie but there is a lot of display. The symbols of the NSDAP, in English that's the Nationalist Social German Workers Party, in German it's Nationale Sozialistische Deutsche Arbeiter Partei, are everywhere in multitudes to rival the number of attendees. This is not an easy watch & quite frankly can become boring. Even seeing the faces of the Nazi leaders can grow old though it is a great introduction to their faces. You may have to use the pause button to read the names & offices held by these men.A glimpse of the players which you see & hear speak at the rallies- Adolph Hitler Fuhrer Rudolph Hess Deputy Fuhrer Paul Josef Goebbels Reich Minister of Enlightenment & Propaganda Martin Bormann Sec. to the Fuhrer & Head of the Party Chancellery (in order to talk to Hitler you talked to this man first) Hermann Goering Air Marshall then Reichmarschall Werner Von Blomberg Minister of War Victor Lutze S. A. Chief of Staff- these are the brown shirts that pacified Germany internally. Alfred Rosenberg Reichleiter & later Reich Minister Dr. Otto Dietrich Reichleiter & Propaganda Press Chief Dr. Hans Frank Reichs Minister of Justice, Gov. Gen. of Occupied Poland Dr. Franz Todt Gen. Inspector Highways & Construction, Minister Armaments & Munitions Fritz Reinhardt State Secretary Ministry of Finance Richard-Walther Darre Agriculture Leader & Head of Central Office Race & Resettlement Dr. Robert Ley Reichleiter & the Head of the German Labor Front Baldur von Schirach German Youth Leader Konstantin Kierl Head of the German Labor Service Julius Schaub SS Adjutant to Hitler Wilhelm Bruckner SA Adjutant to Hitler Adolph Wagner Gauleiter of MunichThe only way to get through Triumph of the Will is to watch the people & ask, What are they doing that millions of others haven't? The show is all Nazi Rally documentations, one after another, the saturation of political symbols exceeds a Democratic or Republican convention. You do get an A-list of the movers & shakers in the Nazi Party & a chance to actually experience Hitler's speeches to his faithful.It's just difficult to believe that from these fires comes the historical Germany of WW-II. The people went for it hook line & sinker having just come out of terrible inflation & what they deemed to be national embarrassment. It's not inspiring or riveting but it is informative & leaves lots of questions about that nation & its people at that time. It brings the question of how far nationalism should be accepted by people up for consideration. They sold their allegiance for a feeling of safety & well-being along with the promise of a brighter future if only they committed themselves faithfully to their leaders.I once lived there in '71 & '72 and I can state that it's extremely difficult to associate the German actions of WW-II to my living experience in the country about 30 years later. This subject should not become an obsession with anyone in my way of thinking but it should be an awareness & a warning, I believe you'll like the directorial touches used by Leni Riefenstahl who perhaps had talent that was wasted after the war due her working for the Nazis. "},{"Title":"A Technical Marvel","Date":"2 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Triumph of the Will (1935) **** (out of 4) Leni Riefenstahl's highly controversial propaganda documentary of Adolf Hitler and the 1934 Nazi Party in Nuremberg Germany has come under attack throughout the years but there's still no question that it remains one of the most impressive looking films ever made or constructed if you prefer. It seems every time someone reviews this film they have to give a big speech about how they don't support the movie or what it stands for. This is a big duh to me because no one could put into words the evil that Hitler stood for so there's no point in talking about it. I've seen quite a few propaganda movies from this era and all of them were made to make the subject look good so you can't blame Riefenstahl for doing that as it's something everyone did. Of course, time is well known and viewing this film today you can't help but feel sad and the so-called greatness she's trying to present to the viewer. With that said, the downright beauty of the images are so strong that it's really impossible not to give the director credit. The majority of these propaganda movies barely reach the level of being good movies so to have one be this great and this great looking says quite a bit for Riefenstahl. There are so many images that just jump out at you and especially the beautifully shot aerial scenes that are looking down on the crowds of people. These shots are just so perfectly framed that you do wonder how long it took to set everything up. It's now known that not everything here is as it seems as the director edited separate things together and even re-shot some of the material. This really doesn't take anything away because it's clear her goal was to promote the subject and his thoughts and there's no question she did a remarkable job doing that. Still, viewing TRIUMPH OF THE WILL today is certainly a history lesson for the events this captures as well as an education on how to film things. As entertainment I think the director's OLYMPIA is much better but there's no question that this film here won't die because of its beauty as well as the evil it spotlights. "},{"Title":"The Original movie of Hitler","Date":"13 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Triumph of the Will--is the most brilliant movie/documentary as a propaganda film revolving around the Nazi party's rise and the life before the Holocaust and World War II. Despite it being known as, The Infamous Propaganda Film I think there's nothing bad about it. It's only looked at as infamous because of the Holocaust. But people seem to gap the idea of how Germany was before these shocking events happened.It's even more groovie that it is all the real deal footage. No actors, no glitches, no goofs and no errors. Just perfect and exactly how it should be for a film such as this. I love seeing the real life versions (not saying I hate the theatrical versions)of the Nazis. The film connects you into the party and brings you into an idea of what they were. For anyone who is willing to watch anything on Hitler Put this film before any other documentary or film. This is a must-see. "},{"Title":"Technically fabulous documentation of Nuremberg rally","Date":"9 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Leni Riefenstahl's documentation of the party political rally in Nuremberg cannot be gainsaid on technical grounds. Her use of tracking, innovative cinematographic techniques, and editing are almost without parallel in movie history. There is no doubt that cinematically, this is a significant document.Morally, while death camps had not at that time been established and Hitler had not illegally expanded lebensraum, Riefenstahl had read Mein Kampf and Hitler had already ordered the elimination of the SS by SA, showing his ruthlessness. He had also enacted the Supremacy Law allowing him to enact laws by decree and had become the Fuehrer. Hitler's anti-Semitism was clear from his book and she seems to have shared his beliefs.All that said, Leni Riefenstahl was a very talented filmmaker. There is no narration in the film. The film includes footage of Hitler Youth, of people greeting Hitler as he traveled to the political rally in Nuremberg, and of the disciplined display organized by party apparatchiks for the congress. It also includes lengthy-but never boring-footage of party political conventions and rousing speeches. As propaganda, it is first-rate. There is no doubt that Riefenstahl was a filmmaker of top caliber. As to what sort of a person she was, the evidence seems less flattering. "},{"Title":"Forewarned, ignored","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" This was 1935. Long before Austria, Poland and France.How could a generation of Americans, British and the people of the other allied countries not get it? This didn't frighten the crap out of our parents and grandparents? Why? Leni Riefenstahl provides a poetic cinema portrait of a repugnant troll who has mesmerized a nation.At the end of the film, Rudolf Hess says Adolf is Germany, the Party is Germany, Adolf is the Party! Riefenstahl laid it out perfectly, with breathtaking composition and angles. The music? Move over Soussa, this makes you want to march forever.Hundreds of thousands assembled, youths with shovels, enough military formations marching to shame West Point and the Naval Academy, unisoned response from the masses....yet we didn't get it. "}{"Title":"Not a documentary...","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  In spite of what you might read, Triumph Of The Will is by no means a documentary.  The word documentary infers a degree of objectiveness, where the director stands back from the action, delivering an image more or less as it was.The Nuremberg rallies, which are depicted in Triumph Of The Will, were staged (note the deliberate use) as a display of Nazi strength.  Riefenstahl was given complete power over the actions that proceeded, resulting in a document of history (not documentary) so subjective that it can be classed only as propaganda, pure and simple.  This subjectiveness is evidenced in the fact that this film was banned in most countries for over thirty years following its production.On a less inflammatory note, it serves as testament to an important aspect of recent world history. "},{"Title":"Chilling but Spectacular Nazi Germany","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  This Film Is still banned In Germany, but remains a breathtaking piece of Cinema A documentary about the Nuremberg rally of 1934 and probably the most famous made during the Third Reich To the viewer at the time (1934) it was ground breaking in its use of montage, light and skillful camera angles. This film over the years has been used to show the world the chilling aspect of the Third Reich, and with that it succeeds, but also shows the hidden beauty that gave a nation hope,From the ashes of the First World War.  "},{"Title":"Style Over Content","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  So much has been written about this film that it seems unnecessary to add further commentary.  Instead, I will relate a personal viewing experience.  The second time I saw Triumph of the Will was in a college auditorium.  The students, who had never seen the film, were a typical collection of middle and upper class youths, largely ignorant of history, but curious about the Nazi era.  As the film unfolded they occasionally laughed at the pomposity of the speeches, but generally watched in silence until the scene where Hitler, flanked by Himmler and Lutze, begins his march toward the flame.  At the start of this sequence, the three figures walk alone, but then the camera slowly pulls back to reveal that on either side of their path are at least 100,000 people.  At that point, many of the students were so completely stunned by Riefenstahl's technique that there was an audible gasp in the auditorium.  In spite of their instinctive contempt for Nazism, they were overwhelmed by the imagery.  This surely was the greatest example of style triumphing over content that I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"a good film","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" it will be good to remember that when you see all the ww2 commentaries, You realize where they got the pictures from, its sad that most of the are actually stolen from this 1935 film, taken out of context with attributed wording that does not match what was actually said. its refreshing to see that at one time a world leader could ride in an open car without suffering the fate of Jfk. Its truly bizarre how any History class could pass a student along without having seen this film. This movie is stunning in its open realism. A person viewing this will be a lot like a religious experience How you view the film will have a lot to do with what you thought before viewing the film. This is the ultimate in Poiltically incorrect thought. "},{"Title":"a film with alternate versions..the chilling prequel to genocide","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  TRIUMPH OF THE WILL was a prolific propaganda film. More broad in scope and powerful than the WHY WE FIGHT SERIES which started in 1941, this film surpassed many hollywood production of that era in terms of style and visual flair. This film puts a pristine look on the chrisitan pagan athiest myth and lies of the nazi empire. The film chronicles HITLER at the zenith of his power being the founder of a street gang in the 1920's based on the red and black order secret society of THULE. propelled into political power, Hitler hired the director to make this film which was shown in german movie halls across the nation. A favorite of history buffs, and nazi sympathizers across the globe; this film marks a technical triumph in film production even though the message was mass genocide. In later years NIXON men like BUCHANAN and G GORDON LIDDY and others would study this film for it's value and as a work of propaganda art. The power used to tell the lies in this film can also be used to tell the truth but (historically) seldom is, since it is much easier to lie. I have often wondered why this film is not packaged with a tape featuring USA DOD concentration camp footage taken for NUREMBERG. "},{"Title":"Ingeniously Beautiful","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  Leni Riefenstahl was an amazingly talented women in a male dominated society.  Her style captures the spirit at a time of the inexplicable. But seeing her documentaries, it may be a little easier to understand how a country could be so consumed with something so terribly wrong. Leadership, beauty, loyalty, the human spirit and the love for one's country are all emotions she connects through the lens of a camera. "},{"Title":"1934... and it took 5 more years to notice a megalomaniac?","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  Stunning movie - with the benefit of between 11 and 70 years hindsight a stomach churning movie. I only hope that 'right thinking' people wanted to be sick in 1934 too. Certainly the speeches, let alone the OTT militaristic and leader worship imagery, make it only too clear what was to come. How come it DID take a further 5 years (7 years for slow starters) for other countries to notice - surely this movie wasn't just shown in Nazi sympathisers homes ???As a work of art/propaganda a fantastic piece of work for any time let alone 1934. Just imagine what it would have looked like in colour!Worth watching for anyone who hopes history won't repeat itself... but notices other national(istic) leaders enjoying the pomp of militaristic adulation and claiming 'god' is on their people's side. "},{"Title":"Like a family film we all know?","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  Has anyone ever noticed that the opening of Triumph of the Will and the opening of The Sound of Music are really quite the same? That the sense of space, time, occasion, heavenly bliss, descent from the clouds, is pretty identical in the two movies? And obviously that's not a coincidence. The makers of our preeminent family film had firmly in mind this most notorious of propaganda films when they composed their opening. Could it be otherwise? The broad masses of film fans do not see Triumph, but every filmmaker does, and with reason. It's one of the world's most strikingly beautiful films. From a compositional viewpoint, its only real weakness is that it outstays its welcome -- like the regime it portrays. What of the verbal content? The only thing that strikes the educated viewer as egregious is the comment by Streicher about racial purity. All the comment about Hitler being Germany is annoying, to say the least; but our friends in the socialist camp have historically had no objection to similar statements about Castro being Cuba, Lenin or Stalin the U.S.S.R., etc. When you see the film through the eye of the filmmaker, you can put the polemical afterthoughts in another perspective. A cold eye to the film will see, first and finally, its utter plastic beauty. It's propaganda, but it's honest -- nothing in the realm of a twisted piece like Kalatozov's I Am Cuba, which jerks history around in order to make exorbitant claims about the Castro regime. And it's highly annoying that people who attack Riefenstahl (Susan Sontag and others) have been rather incurable admirers of so-called Leftist regimes, especially Castro's, whose legacies one can view in retrospect -- unlike the situation with Riefenstahl, who had no retrospective view and was working in the frenzy of the moment. In a word Hitler is bad, Riefenstahl is good. If you have trouble with that idea, then have a look at the first few minutes of world's favorite family film, and you can see an instance of how the good in Riefenstahl has resonated across time.        "},{"Title":"I filmed the truth as it was then. Nothing more.-Leni Riefenstahl","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  I think It's a shame that Leni Riefenstahl was persecuted for her work on this film. The truth is that this documentary (and it is a documentary) is brilliantly filmed. The cinematography is a thing of beauty!This film is extremely biased, like all propaganda, (and let's not forget that propaganda is not just used to promote support for evil dictators, propaganda is anything that sways our opinions), but at the same time it is a factual, primary source, historical account of life in Nazi Germany.If you choose to watch this film, think of it as an educational piece rather than an exciting feature film. Eventhough Hitler was a monster, as a public speaker he far surpasses any other world leader I've ever heard speak. If you have questions as to how Hitler persuaded people to jump on his bandwagon, this piece will enlighten you.The one thing that truly got on my nerves in this film, was that damned Third Reich march music that serves as the score for the film. If you hate marches (i.e. John Phillip Sousa), this could drive you insane. "},{"Title":"ain't hindsight wonderful ?","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" so many people, sooooooo many people just give a reflex response to *anything* related to the rise of naziism and the terrible impact one man had on the last century.well I've got news for all you arm chair experts, Hitler was VOTED into office and enjoyed ever increasing popularity. all through the mid to late 30s and the video archive of the jubilation after the fall of France in 1940 shows a crowd of 1/2 million deafening cheers.so who is the 'bad guy' here? film makers like Leni who document the inexorable rise to power? the public that collectively and individually throw their support behind the charismatic newcomer? who? you have to watch the film to get a sense of the intoxicating lure all the bright lights and dazzling show has.so that you can watch out for it in future and NOT be drawn into this tried and true step by step process of being swayed by very clever and effective propaganda. because now we have no excuse for letting warmongering leaders spend trillions of dollars preparing for, waging, and cleaning up after their conquests and aggression. "}{"Title":"Good For What It Is","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" The infamous propaganda film of the 1934 Nazi Party rally in Nuremberg, Germany.Trying to critique this film is hard to do outside of the context of history. Because the Nazi party went on to bigger and more terrible things following the rally filmed here, this document became an important piece of history -- it shows many of the key players, and the speeches and how the crowd appears to love their dictator.But what if the Nazis had not tried to take over the world? I suspect this film would be long forgotten. Despite any technical achievement it has, the real value is in the history. How many people want to watch a losing candidate's political ads years later? As a student of history, I think this is a valuable film. However, that is about all I can say to recommend it. There is no plot, so if you want a movie to entertain, this is not that film. Just pure propaganda beginning to end. "},{"Title":"Meh....","Date":"13 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" I am a big fan of film and in particular cinematography and had heard wonderful things about this film and how it was a propaganda masterpiece...I was left feeling very underwhelmed by Mrs. Riefenstahl.Yes the rally is an amazing spectacle but the film itself is nothing spectacular in terms of film techniques. To see so many Nazi's lining up is pretty haunting but the film itself was not filmed all too well. It instead ran as a fairly standard documentary with little or no artsy shots, no ounce of strong propaganda is present anywhere in this film...This film is so well renowned partly because it is the only film to fully capture the massive spectacle of the Nuremberg Rally but it does not deserve its praise for cinematography or as a wonderful propaganda film as these attributes are not present.Before watching the film, I felt that Riefenstahl had gotten off lightly following the war when she looked to clearly be pro-Nazi having made this film and her Olympics ones but, unless her Olympics films show otherwise, she looks to be just a standard film maker who was lucky enough to get the opportunity to film one of history's most infamous gatherings.If someone else had been commissioned to make this film, the result could have been much better. Although filmed and edited in 1934-1935 but even for this time, the film displays no revolutionary techniques even for its time and is instead at times a bore. "},{"Title":"Exquisite film, but it's still propaganda","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Triumph of the Will is undoubtedly an exquisite film, awe-inspiring in its best moments and yet it is still the most frightening piece of art I have ever seen. Riefenstahl perfectly captured Hitler's charm and knowledge of the mobmentality. However, no matter how much you praise the cinematography, thefact remains that this movie was pure Nazi propaganda. Hitler was indeed anexceptional public speaker, and between his awesome power over the massesof Germany and the director's use of camera angles, Triumph becomesterrifying in its ability to cause the viewer to agree with what is being said. There is a point at which you ask yourself if he was really as bad as the textbooks say, and then you snap out of it. Yes, an amazingly awesome movie, beautiful anddefinitely the best horror film of all time. "},{"Title":"Excellent DVD release.","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  This thoroughly evil masterpiece of propaganda has never been released in a video format as sharp and clear as one will see on this Synapse Films DVD release. The commentary is rather mundane, but the other bonuses on this DVD more than make up for it. They include excellent subtitles in English (optional) and another Riefenstahl short propaganda film,TAG DER FREIHEIT (DAY OF FREEDOM), about the Wehrmacht. The video transfer is first class from a 35mm fine grain print. Even the presentations from television broadcast are not as sharp as this. "},{"Title":"Sophisticated example of film as political tool","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  The only reason I didn't vote a 10 or a 9 was because I wanted to stay off any FBI list. )  Talent like Leni Riefenstahl could be so dangerous in the wrong hands.  The imagery, the pace and the sound (or lack of) of the movie together creates a mass hypnosis which takes you one step closer to empathizing with the Nazi mentality.  It's a good thing that contemporary propagandists no longer make movies this good.ToTW totally freaked me out.  "},{"Title":"It's reputation precedes it but does it deserve the reputation it has?","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" What is 'Triumph of the Will'? It's a hybrid of a film that can't quite fit into any genre. It's been called a documentary, it isn't that the film is far from being subjective. It's been called propaganda, it isn't that, no sane person would view the Nazi Party in a favorable light upon viewing this film. What is it? In the long run it's a love letter from the Nazi to the Nazi. What does someone get from it upon viewing it today? The truth is not much. It offers some fantastic camera work but that's really it.It's a tough picture to review and I think I succeeded in staying subjective enough to be fair to it. Riefenstahl is careful to remove the unsavory bits of Nazism out of the film. There isn't any Anti-Semetic rants from any of the Nazi Party members portrayed in the film.Riefenstahl no doubt wants patriotism or nationalism to be the underlying glue of the picture. These men are loyal to Hitler though and no to Germany. They've been brainwashed into thinking Hitler IS Germany. The film doesn't work as propaganda because it is so inhuman. The chants, the rallies, and the opening congress aren't shown to be filled with individual men. They are one collective body devoid of individuality. While trying to promote Hitler, Riefenstahl has made a film about the worst part of Fascism, the loss of the human soul. These men have sold their souls to Hitler.How could she have avoided this? Well for starters she could have shown the lower men. I think the film would have been much more effective had she shown these people prepare for the event and the excitement for it. It would work more as propaganda that way. Instead it is merely a dull parliamentary film filled with speeches and marches. You don't get to know anything about anybody or anything, even Hitler and his Nazi Party seem far off from the audience. I highly doubt that this picture would speak to anyone but a true Nazi.As a documentary the picture doesn't work either. It lacks a structure in which to comprehend everything. It doesn't signify when the day begins or ends. It doesn't introduce anything other than the speeches of some of the more obscure Party members. It's somewhat confusing to follow at times because we can't truly grasp what is going on. There are also long gaps between events filled with footage of marching and rallies. Riefenstahl seems to let the footage speak for it's self.What cannot be denied is that Riefenstahl is one of the great camera handlers. I don't know if I can call what she is doing 'directing' but she is no doubt one of the all time great cinematographers. What she does with the camera is truly magnificent. She takes full advantage of the endless resources Hitler and his film industry provided her. She really only points and shoots much of the film but how she points is what has given her respect despite her being a Nazi. I don't think I need to bring up the beautiful scene among the clouds in the beginning which is the finest sequence in the film. What she does with her crane shots is truly the stuff of dreams ( or in this case nightmares). With these crane shots she gives the rally tremendous depth. I swear one of the most frightening images I've seen is where Hitler accompanied by two officers walk through a parted group of thousands of Nazi. My subjective lens was off for that scene.In the end it isn't a great documentary or propaganda. What it is though is one of the great technical achievements in film. It's a movie that I'd recommend seeing at least once. In the end I can't help but feel sorry for some of those crowds of 'workmen' or especially those boys because soon the majority of them would be dead and their demigod would spit in their face. It's this cold reality that takes you out of Riefenstahl's dream. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, Horrible Leni...","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  So many artists have died for their beliefs. So many more have refused to use their talents to perpetuate evil. Leni Riefenstahl had a wonderful talent. Instead, she chose to use her genius to sell the image of Hitler and to propogate Nazism.Triumph of the Will is cinematic genius. But to just judge it as just a movie is to allow her to abdicate responsibility. This is not the work of an auteur. Her brief was to make the most evil man in history look good.Much as I despise moral equivalents; how would Americans feel about a movie glamourising Osama Bin Laden? He is responsible for the deaths of 3,000. Hitler was responsible for 50,000,000. You do the math...But, then again ToTW, is an important film. It is an historic document. It is breathtaking cinema and like the sirens of Greek mythology, it seduces.To watch this film on its own, without historical reference, is to watch it without context. This year, synagogues were razed to the ground across Europe. In Europe and America, there is an upsurge in the popularity of the far right. Whilst I praise this film for its aesthetic qualities, I do worry about how the weak and simple minded will interpret its brilliant photography, choreographed set pieces and sheer power. Will they see it through the eyes of a lover of freedom or a lover of Hitler....?  "},{"Title":"A Collective Madness","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" In light of the terrible events that would follow over the next decade, Leni Riefenstahl's propagandistic masterpiece becomes almost impossible to analyse in a completely objective way. We all know what is to follow, we all know that most of the smiling youth on display here would be dead within ten years, that the madman they hail as a saviour would lead them down a path of destruction, and that their collective madness would become a generation's shame. So watching this film is like watching someone fitting a noose around their neck in preparation of kicking away the stool on which they stand you don't really want to watch but you are compelled to by an awful fascination with the events unfolding in front of you.The film opens with shots of clouds, followed by Hitler's plane descending like a chariot of the Gods over Nuremburg. Make no mistake about it, despite Riefenstahl's insistence that she wasn't making a propaganda piece, this film is as much about the deification of Hitler in the eyes of the German people as it is about the admirable economic progress of the nation. When he is not seen surrounded by admiring hordes he is filmed from a low angle so that he dominates the screen, or is seen looking down upon his thuggish cohorts. The very things Riefenstahl captured to signify the advancement of the German race now serve as a chilling indictment of all that was wrong with the country &#150; which was so devastated by the aftermath of the last war that it was desperate for a strong leader to give them back some national pride and hope. Small children raise their right arms in salute to the Fuhrer; young men gaze in plain and simple awe of the man; crowds cheer and wave and crane their necks for a glimpse of him as he passes. The regimented ranks that receive his keynote speech make a terrifyingly awesome spectacle, as does the huge mass of Swastika flags that fill the screen as another battalion of acolytes make their way along the central thoroughfare. The Swastika is everywhere while the German flag is barely glimpsed at all.Oddly enough, many of the speeches delivered by various ministers are no different from the self-serving declarations of successes and ambitions touted by modern-day politicians at party conferences &#150; they are just delivered in that strident fanatical manner exclusive to the executive of the Third Reich. Only when the odious Julius Streicher appears on stage to rant about the need for the racial purity of their nation does the comparison fall apart &#150; and his speech serves as an indication of the dark undercurrents at work beneath the successful rebuilding of a defeated nation.Triumph of the Will is a brilliantly filmed - and staged - film that serves as a warning from the past now, where once it stood as a celebration of the future and tribute to a man a nation mistakenly believed to be their saviour. It works much better as the former than it ever could have as the latter, and should be required viewing for all history classes. "},{"Title":"Wunderbaum!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  This is one of the most spectacular propaganda films ever made and is still viewed as a how to film for politicians. This film was made by the lovely Leni Riefenstahl as a Nazi propaganda film for Adolf Hitler in 1935. The camera work is absolutely spectacular - one scene shot at night shows 250,000 Germans marching carrying torches into Nürnberg; another scene looks down at at 100,000 S.S. Troops goose stepping in precision. Speeches by Adolf Hitler, Herman Goering, Albert Speer, Josef Goebbels, Rudolf Hess and a host of other Nazi party leaders. Excellent  "},{"Title":"Astonishing Documentary Chronicling The Rise Of The Nazi Party","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" In 1934, the year after their succession to power, the Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei, a German political party led by Adolf Hitler, hold a series of rallies in Nuremberg to mark their sixth annual party conference.This amazing documentary is hard to review because it is fundamentally three things; an incredibly detailed account of one of the most significant movements in political history, an eye-popping, brilliantly-made propaganda film on a technical level, and an utterly loathsome celebration of an obscene and contemptuous fascist organisation. It is both intimate and epic; to see Hitler so close up is undoubtedly fascinating (we right behind him in staff cars, walk down lines of the party faithful with him as he shakes hands and stand next to him on the podium as he makes his speeches), yet the sheer scale of the events is just astounding - the penultimate stadium rally dwarfs anything in the fantasies of D.W. Griffith or Cecil B. DeMille. Riefenstahl's film-making style is inspired - her multiple cameras capture every amazing scene and her brilliant editing juxtaposes the mighty scenes with carefully measured reaction-shots of people in the crowds and cleverly constructed pre-rehearsed sequences, and everything is swept along with great music by Richard Wagner and Horst Wessel. In the end though, whilst one might admire both the film and Riefenstahl's talent, one cannot help but be chilled by the knowledge of the unspeakable horrors of the Second World War to follow and of a great country's tragic seduction by the evil that was the Nazi Party. The gifted thirty-three-year-old Riefenstahl directed, edited, produced and scripted the film, was imprisoned for four years after the war and remained a controversial figure for the rest of her life, both lauded and demonised. English title - Triumph Of The Will. "}{"Title":"Beautiful masterpiece","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Politics aside. As a film this is fantastic.To compare this to Michael Moron's 911 piece of crap is ludicrous.THIS is a true artistic film, Moron's crap is patchwork hogwash that gives true documentaries a bad rap.Riefenstahl was a master film maker, Moron is a moron.Triumph of the Will is one of the greatest films in history about one of the most important times in history. 911 is buffoonery at a critical point in history...no comparison.Riefenstahl wipes the floor with this clown.Recommended to TRUE film lovers. "},{"Title":"only  masterpiece","Date":"8 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" or precise lesson. about art, history, propaganda skill, alternative scenarios and pulse of a time. it is began and end. picture of a regime and impressive introduction in its circle. and artistic, it is a remarkable masterpiece. not for subject but for its metamorphose. not for speeches but for levels of a event as ladder in dark room. emotion remains. because the film is curtain of velvet and lead. behind its - Shoah and its fruits. it is a document but in strange way. it is a warning and a subject for profound reflection. it is a seed - the Comunist system is perfect proof. it is part of our past. maybe our future. because it was not an accident. only a nightmare with open eyes. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of film and a warning from history","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  A gloriously made documentary that is described as a water-mark in cinematography, that documents one of the most (if not THE most) nightmarish periods of world history. Where does one begin to describe this film? The presentation of Adolf Hitler in god-like form, his lock-stepped followers, the praise and glory heaped upon him by his henchmen...it all seems so surreal in hindsight. But it is the masterwork of Leni Riefenstahl that makes what could have been a very boring film about a political rally into one of the most infamous propaganda films ever made.Film historians, film-makers, and even TV commercial directors have studied this film down to the last and final frame. The magnetic draw it has on people is almost demonic, and that only proves what a magnificent film-maker Reifenstahl was. It is a tragedy that this film would haunt her for the rest of her career, even though she was never a member of the Nazi party. One can only imagine what sort of epics she could have made in later years.Only near the very end of the film does Reifenstahl show, for but a brief second, the real Adolf Hitler. He reads from a speech, and is interrupted by the cheering crowd. As they chant Sieg Heil (Hail Victory)!, Hitler pauses, looks down at his papers, and nods approvingly with a slight smile on his face. An egomaniac to the end.What was originally one of the most successful pieces of propaganda ever made now serves as a warning from history about the seduction of image and words.To paraphrase one of the other reviewers for this film, we should be thankful that today's propaganda isn't this good.  "},{"Title":"Powerful film and even more powerful reminder.","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  The film, Triumph des Willens (Triumph of the Will), is a masterpiece of the propagandist's art.  What is even more stunning about it, is that Leni Riefenstahl used many special effects that were hitherto unknown within the film industry, and that she used them so successfully.  For this alone, Leni Riefenstahl and  Triumph des Willens should be hailed as a critical innovater to the movie industry.  This movie was powerful then as a propaganda film.  It is now a powerful reminder of the ultimate horrors of Nazism in Germany and Europe as well as an example of the innovation of the use of film for propaganda purposes. That having been said, I find it sad to see Riefenstahl's work written off as being that of a Nazi and to see Riefenstahl held accountable for the negative aspects that her film highlighted.  In the context of the times, and in the context that Riefenstahl made the film, Nazism was a positive (if brutal) social phenomona in Germany. I feel that she accurately represents this feeling in this documentary/propaganda film. Riefenstahl had several violent rows with party members because she was adament that the film not become just the tool of a propagandist, but rather that it show the social revival as Nazism was looked at by Germans, and many non-Germans (taken from John Toland's book, Adolph Hitler, where he interviewed Leni Riefenstahl).  There is no way she can be held responsible for any of the events that came later. If Leni Riefenstahl is guilty of anything, it is of creating a movie that was too good, a documentary that crossed the line and became a strong propaganda film for a group who later used it for more evil purposes.   "},{"Title":"Art perverted by evil","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  Can art come out of evil? This film is a powerful example of the insidious effect of an artistic cloak for a totalitarian regime.It is difficult not to feel drawn along by the film's message; the faces of the people in 1930s Nuremburg are much the same as those of 1990s London, and they share the same aspirations and fears. When the film shows us a saviour-figure descending from the clouds after the privations of the Depression, it is possible to understand how the Nazi regime became so ingrained in German life. It was not through oppression; it was because the people welcomed a new dawn.Only a few moments in The Triumph of the Will allow us to regain a sense of the innate absurdity at the heart of all totalitarian regimes. These are due to the staging of the Nuremberg rallies, with their emphasis on a militaristic agricultural life taken to a ridiculous degree. The command rings out across a field of identically brown-shirted farmers Shoulder... Spades!.In sum, this film may awaken emotions in you which seem disturbing or even repulsive, as a mass-murderer is venerated by an adoring people. Yet to understand the darker side of the human character, it is necessary to recognise it first. No other film shows the depths to which Man may sink.  "},{"Title":"eh.....","Date":"28 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" I can appreciate some of the artistic elements of the film, however, even as a lover of history I am bored to tears by this movie. Yes, I am very able to put aside the terror of Hitler and look at this objectively.I saw it for the first time in my Hitler and Nazi Germany class in college. Now I am well aware of why my Professor (who was a member of the Hitler Youth) was constantly fast forwarding this movie... because it really isn't all that inspiring.I can see how it's purpose is to demonstrate the incredible organization of the National Socialists which was important to convey in post WWI Germany; I can see how that might have been impressive. I can see how it might have been powerful to hear Hitler speak these words. But it gets old pretty quick.The Soviet filmmakers were far more talented and innovative. And they could keep the story flowing. My husband fell asleep 1/3 of the way in and it's 30 minutes from ending and I am just going to turn it off.If you have never seen it before, I do recommend it for the historical import, but feel free to fast forward till you see the subtitles at the bottom. You really wouldn't be missing much. One viewing in one's lifetime is enough. "},{"Title":"Not for entertainment, but a great piece of history and a great documentary.","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  What Hitler or the Nazi Germany in general has done is insane and disgusting by all means without any sort of discussion, but it's quite interesting to see this film which happens to act as an advertisement for the Nazi ideology. 99.9% of the people who start to watch it will get bored before 5 minutes, and I wouldn't blame anyone for that. But it's certainly to be seen for history enthusiasts, and to be kept in archive even if you don't have fun (I think one that actually has fun watching this film must see a psychologist immediately) watching it.  "},{"Title":"ZZZZzzzzzzzzz","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" A legendary propaganda/documentary of the Third Reich's 1934 Nuremberg Party Rally. Featuring a cast of thousands as well as, of course, Hitler, Himmler, Goebbels, Hess, Goering and other top party officials. Legendary? Yes. Masterpiece? Not so much.The film-making is nothing extraordinary for the time and frankly what we really have here is largely a silent movie for a third of it that is over dubbed with military band type music.The reviews for this film are clearly over blown. After 12 minutes you will be bored to hell. As I watch this movie, I'm not even sure what the plot is. It's a montage of Hitler et.al with no purpose and scenes of food and beer! Finally, close to a half hour into this movie Hitler gets roasted. It's not any different than an obama propaganda rally. Let's be honest. But because Hitler was so evil, we put a heightened significance to it. Silly. Boring is boring.More silent footage and band music and fireworks. It makes me want to run from the Nazi party, not join it! There are a couple of interesting parts however -- watching Hitler speak to the crowd. I guess times have changed cuz I'm left wondering why people thought he was charismatic. He comes across as a kook. The other interesting thing is just looking at the scenes and the way German was way back when -- the scale of this craziness. It can remind you of clips from the rallies in North Korea today!But it doesn't hold your attention. In the end, you'll be very bored.PS What's with the Nazi salute? It's the gayest thing on the planet. "},{"Title":"Fascinating, yet chilling, motion picture","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Watching an Adolph Hitler, a year-and-a-half into his installation as Germany's absolute head of state, represents as clear, yet eerie, picture of history unfolding as ever presented. We observe Hitler arriving at Nuremberg in his Lufthansa aircraft, and boarding his Mercedes-Benz to be taken to his hotel - realizing the prominence these two firms still hold in the world today. Shortly later, we hear Hitler proclaim that their regime will endure, and cannot help but think of how, in actuality, it would be destroyed by the Allies in about a decade. Although the speeches contain some small, oblique reference, there is little overall indication here of the degree to which this group would descend to the religious and racial atrocities which it was to commit a few years later. Much of the film deals with the marshaling of German manpower during the Great Depression, which affected this nation as badly as any, and worse than most. (It seems, in retrospect, that Hitler cleverly used this, at least partially, to obscure the extent of his wholly-evil intentions which subsequently unfolded.) This film, cited often as the greatest propaganda presentation of all-time, clearly shows Hitler's dominance, and how even his closest associates (Hess, Goring, Goebbels, etc.) are clearly subservient to him. But as you watch it, stand back, realizing that this historic city would a decade hence be the site of the war crimes' trials, symbolic of its place in Nazi emergence and history. And view this evil, yet fascinating, man as we see the unfolding of his regime - which would eventually place him at a point where he bests Attila, Genghis Khan and all others as the most evil presence in all of history. "},{"Title":"Pure National-Socialist propaganda from Leni Riefenstahl","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  The NSDAP(Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei, National socialist German Worker`s Party or just the Nazis) had before the war annual party-rallys in the city of Nuremberg that lasted for one week. Triumph des Willens is meant to be a documentary of the party-rally in Nuremberg in 1934, directed by Leni Riefenstahl. This is probably one of the scariest movies ever filmed, arguably not the because of the movie in itself but because we know what followed later. The pictures found here give us the impression of Germany under the National Socialists; they point in a direction of the total destruction that followed during the Second World War. When seeing this movie, you cannot deny that Leni Riefenstahl is a very skilled director, and Hitler himself is of course the main character. Hitler delivers here many of his most infamous speeches, that are often used in general documentaries about either Nazi-Germany or World War II. This movie pictures that Nazis in the way they saw themselves.  One example of this is the opening scene of this movie. It shows Hitler in his plane up in the sky, a scene, which deliberatly gives the impression of a God descending from the sky to meet his loyal followers on earth. Trully one of the most controversial movies ever, but one that you should see. The DVD also comes with an additional commentary-track by an American professor of history, who has many interesting comments to the movie although his pronunciation of German names and words are not very good at all. This is pure propaganda, but one that is worth seeing, at least only once. "}{"Title":"Yikes!","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  **POSSIBLE SPOILERS**First of all, the film was well made for its time.  Second of all, it's not a documentary, it's a piece of Nazi propaganda crap.  Third of all, it should be seen by every aspiring historian and film student to get an idea of the time period and how films were made during this time.  Don't expect to be entertained by this film.Let's put it this way.  In terms of propaganda, this movie takes the cake. It makes D.W. Griffith's Birth of a Nation look like a stunning adaptation of history. "},{"Title":"A villified, yet stunning pro-Nazi edict","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  While people state this film is  nothing a pro-propaganda piece  for Hitler and his way of being, the  power and beauty cannot be denied.  Any country could have made this  film, using the nearly exact visuals  and ideas to push their own political  agenda. Even the scenes with the  hundreds upon hundreds of Nazi  soldiers, it is still amazing to watch  such a mass of humanity lined and  visualized in such a matter. It gives  someone an appreciation for what  a row of soldiers looks like rather  than what a CGI artist can conceive,  a greatly misunderstood film of all I have seen. "},{"Title":"After us, the savage gods","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  After us, the savage gods is supposedly what Yeats said after seeing Ubu Roi.  This is a movie about savage gods; the beginning parodies Christian mysticism as the Leader's plane arrives at the Party Congress in Nuremburg.  This goes on and on as stereotyped masses of human bodies line themselves up in geometric forms or stylized tributes offered to the leader (who in spots seems a bit pudgy).  The film is technically proficient; possibly the best propaganda of its era.  American propagandists learned a great deal from it.  Like all propaganda it is secular religion.  It is a terrible beauty, a warped beauty of death. One cannot watch it now without knowing how much it is a celebration of death, a worship of death.   "},{"Title":"As a film it is a bit dull but with hindsight it is coldly fascinating and depressing","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" In 1934 Germany has been reborn under the inspired leadership of the Fuher Adolf Hitler. To rally the country further, Adolf Hitler came to Nuremberg to deliver a series of speeches along with other key members of the Nazi party. He addresses the workers of the country, the Nazi party, elements of the armed services and other groups as he stirs up belief and support for the way forward for the future. This film captures those speeches in a key propaganda film for the Third Reich.How does one judge such a film? Do I look back on it with hindsight or do I just try and review it as if it were any other film? The answer is of course the former, but first let me do the latter. The film is a fairly straightforward record of the Nuremberg speeches but delivers very good up close footage as well as good crowd shots and a real impression of how many people were involved in these meetings and how they respected the Fuher. Occasionally the direction is a bit shoddy (shadows of the crew get into shots a few times) but mostly it is good. However, to my mind, this is not a film that I can approach with my usual eye for direction, plotting, acting and so on. No, this is a film that does a completely different job now than it was originally intended to do.What I mean by this is that the film was originally intended to raise the spirits of the German people, however watching it now it is hard to hold off the feelings of the utter pointlessness of the whole affair. It is a boring film, that is one thing that many viewers will probably acknowledge &#150; I struggle to watch political speeches at the best of times but Hitler is not exactly the most interest debater, rather he should slogans and lies. However it is impossible to watch without knowing what would follow and the sheer magnitude of the lost life; particular it is hard to look on the faces of the Hitler youth without wondering how many of them would be dead within the coming decade. The cold rise of evil is interesting to watch in hindsight and, having seen Downfall the other week, it was perhaps fitting that I watch the lies along with it.Overall this is a boring film in terms of content but it is interesting as a record and gripping in terms of context. Looking at it in hindsight makes it disturbing, engaging and just left me with the feeling of hopelessness that so much talk and pomp led eventually to so much dead and suffering. Worth seeing as part of your wider historical understanding but even as such it is a rather plodding watch. "},{"Title":"Visual and Subtext","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  Amazing how Russian talent moves its way to America.  From Eisenstein comes Riefenstahl, subsequently duplicated by Walt Disney in both parody and serious form.  Eisenstein had better control of his images and editing.  Disney introduced color and better music with 'Fantasia'.  So where does this have an edge?Scope.  Examine the crowd scenes, the speeches, the parades--the whole of 'Return of the King' in half the time!  Filmmakers, even George Lucas, have tried duplicating the same with computers.  Here's Riefenstahl's edge--the real McCoy.  Even Spielberg couldn't do the same with his miniature rally.Do not be misled; Riefenstahl is not a real artist here.  Yes, she casts the events in an admiring eye, but that's it.  That eye has, in the last 70 years, become the default template for any other public address film.  How ironic that American athletic organizations--the commercial Nazis of today--shamelessly duplicate everything here to boost their own stars.  Only Nichols and Scott have accurately latched onto this with the right subtext--greed.So this fits in my Top Movies from the 30s list based not on its visuals, but its subtexts.  These two are what separates film from other mediums, not plot and character.  To a populace recently experiencing film as a communication tool and--to lesser degree--an art form, no wonder Hitler became a deity.Americans--including John Ford--tried this 10 years later.  They failed.Final Analysis = = Learn from this... "},{"Title":"Perfect propaganda for something terrible","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  How do you review a documentary like &#145;Triumph des Willens'? To be honest it is great documentary filmmaking but the message it contains and the reaction it provoked is simply terrible. You can say there are parts in this documentary that honestly can be called impressive and you can almost understand why the mass did go along back then. Actually, you can totally understand it but we don't want to. We know what has happened after the events in this documentary and therefore we don't want to acknowledge that there was some kind of brilliance in the way Adolf Hitler handled things. This piece of film is one of the examples. Unfortunately it was made for a madman otherwise we would be able to fully appreciate it. See it as an important part of human history and may be you admire the way of filmmaking.I have given it a 8 out of 10, because of the filmmaking and the historical value. This is definitely not entertainment. Every time Adolf Hitler or people like Himmler, Goebbles, Göring, Hess, Reinhardt or Lutze appeared on the screen it was a little creepy. "},{"Title":"A Great Historical Document.  Not to be destroyed.","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  Now, I'll probably get kicked around the soccer field for this, but if Disney got their hands on this..  They'd burn every copy.  They don't like remembering history.  They censor half of their best older films.  And some they've totally forgotten.  There's an old saying.  If your forget the past your doomed to repeat it.  Well, Disney's just looking for trouble now aren't they.  Synapse Films however has done the right thing by preserving a piece of history.  This is some of Leni's finest work.  Alot of people wish she was dead, but a 100.. she's seems just fine.  Whatever religion you are.. it should be a require watch to watch this film.  Although, there's a good chance that some of you might be pulled into the web by the stunningly good chance of addiction into propaganda.  Hmmm, who shall I tick off by picking on propaganda.  I know... Charleston Heston.  Ever watched one of those 1/2 hour NRA ads.  They try to twist every left wing speech.  They use the power of video just like Hitler did.  I'm not saying that we should ban guns, but come on.  What does NRA stand for?  National RIFLE Association.  Not National Sub Machine Gun Asso.  There's a KKK film someone suggested I watch.  (Birth of a Nation??) 1916.  Perhaps I will.  Although from what I've heard it isn't about the KKK.  But alot of KKK members sure do love it.10/10Quality 10/10 Entertainment 2/10   (You better not get alot of enjoyment out of this!) Replayable 10/10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant Marketing of Horror","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  This film truly brought home to me how one can appreciate a film while not enjoying it.  I turned off the DVD after watching it twice back-to-back, once without and once with the commentary track, which is worth a listen, and felt sick. Cheering crowds, banal-looking politicians, and a madman with horribly incredible charisma...all set on the backdrop of a beautiful city that would be bombed to the ground less then ten years afterwards.  My stomach sank watching the HJ Children, most of whom would be soldiers in the looming War, how many of them died for that cause?I watched Triumph des Willens on the day before Thanksgiving, my God do we in the free world have a lot to be thankful for.Watch the film.  If only to be reminded that a skilled marketer can give anything a pretty package.    "},{"Title":"strictly for pseuds and revisionists","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Artistically, this is ghastly and vacuous a repetitive barrage of dull, bombastic images, with the camera-work veering between, at one extreme, the woefully inept and, at the other, unusually accomplished for its time. Occasionally accomplished camera-work does not a masterpiece make. If you have not gone out of your mind with boredom by the time this drivel is halfway through, you'd better check your mind is working correctly. Having dealt with the pseud's argument in favour of Triumph Of The Will - a harmless and silly argument - we come to the more sinister apologia that dear old Leni was no Nazi, did not know of the horrors to come, etc. This argument is dangerous, moronic piffle, and those who make it need to take a long hard look at themselves. Hitler had risen to power on the back of a campaign of organised violence and murder, using the rhetoric of hatred, militarism and murderous racism. His intentions were there for all, including the oh-so-sweet-and-unworldly artist Leni, to see. By the time she made this film, concentration camps were open for business and the Night of the Long Knives had taken place. She was, at best, a willing apologist for a brutal dictatorship and she knew it. Plenty of other German artists were already expressing their doubts about the regime, at great personal risk; other film makers, such as Fritz Lang, had had the good sense to turn down the Nazis' advances and hotfooted it out of the country. So don't tell me the director of Triumph Of The Will didn't know what she was doing. But even if you don't take an artist's intentions into account (and admittedly, if we did, quite a lot of great work would suddenly become out of bounds) it doesn't matter judged on its own merits, this film simply isn't much cop. Why sit through this film spellbound when you'd almost certainly turn off a military tattoo the next time it came on TV? "},{"Title":"Frightening homo-eroticism","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" As with all of Riefenstahl's work this is very beautiful. For those who think that nothing produced with the glad eye of the Nazis; this is the perfect tonic.Riefenstahl's fascination with the naked human form is clear hear - a precussor to her later African photographs - as young handsome German soldiers and Nazi volunteers are showed engaged half naked in strenuous outdoors activities. It is of course very beautiful but the knowledge that all viewers will have that soon the men giving shrieking melodramatic speeches would lead Germany to her near-doom and millions of human beings to their deaths will make this a frightening experience nonetheless.This is a valuable piece of history and it is a wonderful photographic essay.Jochen L. "}{"Title":"Not worth the infamy.","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  This movie contains four basic elements people introducing Hitler, Hitler speaking, people listening to Hitler and shouting Heil, and soldiers marching. There is little political sway in all of this, and the film is certainly not worth its infamy. If the Nazis had not done terrible things, this film would been seen as harmless and rather boring. It should not be judged by the immorality of its subject matter. Riefenstahl did nothing worse than any TV producer has done by covering the Democratic conventions, Olympic games or by making countless government sponsored instructional videos. The worst that this film suffers from is bad taste. "},{"Title":"Triumph des Willens","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" ... Ok this is basically the biggest piece of propaganda you will ever see!!! ... I don't care what Reifenstahl says either. She often denies that Triumph of the Will is propaganda... maybe she should watch it again! ... I am not saying she is was a Nazi. This was a Germany that lived in fear of it's leader in many ways. But this is propaganda!  ... You don't make a documentary film about a political party WITHOUT including cons and not call it a piece of propaganda! ... All that aside out of many of the documentaries I've seen this was one of my favorites!  ... It is shot really well and Miss Reifenstahl in her day was a talented lady. ... If you ever watch this film you can see little shots which were later used by the likes of George Lucas is STAR WARS7/10 "},{"Title":"Actually it´s just propaganda, what means the movie is sh...","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  And because it´s Nazi propaganda, the movie is even more sh...But there are 3 things that make the movie interesting to see-you shouldn´t watch it as a real movie, but take it as a history lesson; I mean you see a 70+ year old movie, like it was real shown as propaganda to the crowds. (probably it´s one of the oldest things you get over the net!)-the scene when 3 men (one of them is Hitler) slowly walk through uncountable (I think there are about 50.000), not moving soldiers. It´s a very impressive ceremony of death. This is one of two good scenes in the movie)-during a speech to thousands of boys and girls, Hitler lists things how they must be, to continue his Germany. He also says they must be peace-loving!!!, but strong. For me it was an interesting aspect the movie was made in 1934. 5 long years before the war. Could it be, he had in this time other plans. In the end I think no, but why should he lie, if he anyway built a huge army?At last If you watched this, and you saw how the crowds celebrated him.... What an effect must it have on normal people watching movies like this every day, to hear every day his speeches, to see everywhere (it shown very well in the movie) his symbols...? "},{"Title":"Nothing to see here","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"10 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" Let me start by saying IMO, this is NOT a documentary. When scenes have been so clearly staged and manipulated in the editing room there's very little of truth left. I know many documentary filmmakers tend to be biased towards, and sometimes against their subjects, but in this case this is just too 'in your face'. I knew it was Nazi propaganda and I thought I knew what I was getting into, but the truth is this movie bored me to tears. I had heard a lot of good comments of Riefenstahl as a filmmaker but all I saw were...***I'm not sure if these constitutes a spoiler, but be warned just in case*****...Nazis marching and giving boring generic speeches. Nothing worthy of merit here. Any History Channel doc would've rendered similar results. The cinematography wasn't that bad and the only interesting point to me was that it was shot from within the lion's den if you will. Other than that I was so bored that I struggled not to turn it off before it was (mercifully!) over. 2/10 "},{"Title":"ZZZZZZZZZZ.","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"10 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  This film was well made, but....speeches, marching, speeches, marching, speeches....I didn't know if I should either fall asleep during the film or to stand rigidly straight and utter a few Seig Heils.  While it is absolutely amazing to see just how enthralled the German people were with Hitler and the Nazi Party ideals, the point was made about 15 minutes into the film.  I found this film to be dreadfully LONG. "},{"Title":"Triumph of the Yawns","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  I have heard so much about this art film that I couldn't help but purchase a copy, not that I was much intrigued by the subject or premise, personally, watching a bunch of fascist goons in their Sunday best does not feel very entertaining or intellectually stimulating. But I proceeded, how unbearable, lacking all artistry, this is nothing more than a documentary in which some moron holds a camera against the scene. It's black and white, very dull, extremely boring and without any merit, Leni was not very good as either a director or artist. . . . ..  "},{"Title":"See the sequel","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":"  Whacky TV commercial for  Nazis - small bloke with comedy moustache buys sausage factory, organises a party for local schoolchildren, everything goes black and white. Sequel ('Where Eagles Dare') was much better. "},{"Title":"triumph of anti-semitism","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"9 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, War","Review":" This film is pure propaganda from start to finish. What slays me is that people, and I'm speaking to those of you who call themselves modern art critics, have latched onto the idea that if one critic hails this film as an artistic triumph, then it must be so. However, Steven Bach in his new book, Leni puts this film into the perspective that needs to be said. This film is all about propaganda. Look at the way it opens with Hitler landing in the plane (descending from on high, like a god?). Riefenstahl cleverly intercuts shots of people giving the Nazi salute (not even present at the airfield) and cuts Sieg, heils! into the background to heighten the importance of Hitler stepping from the plane, pure manipulation. In my mind, the people impressed by this film are swept up in the false bravado Riefenstahl tried to instill in German citizens where the film often opened during Hitler's need to gain popularity for his programs (since it had multiple showings in Germany during his reign).Riefenstahl is on record as being a profound anti-semite. She said of Hollywood, They are a bunch of Jewish bankers blackmailing everyone to get their way. Let's get one things straight, Leni Riefenstahl and her films are not art, nor did she intend them for anything other than to make her, Leni Riefenstahl, important in the minds of other people. She and Adolf Hitler are the historical trash of the world that needs the least amount of praise, and the most condemnation for the terrible crimes they supported. "}]