[{"Title":"The Role She Fought For","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"42 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If Jack Warner had had his way, Bette Davis would have wound up playing all kinds of molls in various Warner Brothers gangster films. Of Human Bondage was a significant milestone in her career because she proved to everyone, including herself, that she was capable of so much more.Like Frank Sinatra with Angelo in From Here to Eternity, Davis knew she was born to play the slatternly amoral Mildred from W. Somerset Maugham's classic novel. Though she rarely used false accents in her movie career after this, she got the Cockney speech pattern down perfect. Davis will keep you riveted to your seat with her performance her. And what a scandal it was that she wasn't nominated. I suspect some intrigue was at work there, possibly the brothers Warner who didn't want her to get a swelled head. Also she'd gotten this break through role at another studio so they weren't going to make a dime on it.Two years later Leslie Howard and Bette Davis would team up again in The Petrified Forest. But what a contrast between the dreamy naive Gabby and Mildred. The same with the male leads. In The Petrified Forest, Leslie Howard is the world weary blasé Alan Squire. In Of Human Bondage, Howard's Philip Carey is a shy man with a deep inferiority complex because of his club foot. He clings to Mildred because even though she's degraded him, he feels he'll never find another attachment again. For both the leads Of Human Bondage represented a considerable stretching of considerable talents. The two later screen versions are markedly inferior to this one. "},{"Title":"The movie that put Davis on the map.","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"39 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After 21 movies and three years of working in Hollywood Bette Davis finally got a role she claimed as her own and which put her as a force to be reckoned with. As Mildred Rogers, Davis burst forth with a completely unsympathetic role of a slutty waitress who becomes the target of Leslie Howard's affections, and already eager to sink her teeth into a role like this, she had no qualms of the awful things her character was meant to do throughout the course of the film and the awful transformation she would undergo. It also has been widely noted that her performance here, one of the few things that makes this slightly uneven movie watchable, has been the one to remember even after two remakes and the scenes where she rips into Howard have made cinema history.At circa 85 minutes, the story moves at a nice pace, telling the story of Philip Carey (Howard) as his life crosses that of the destructive Mildred Rogers over and over again.Howard and Davis' chemistry is all but non-existent -- Davis sustained in an interview much later in life she personally didn't care much for Howard's iciness towards her and that helped her act even worse (in character) towards him as Mildred. All the same, the two seem awkward with one another; their scenes together remain stiff, only salvaged by the ferocious acidity Davis brings to her lines and her own nervous presence. Then again, Cromwell's direction has a certain stiltedness about itself that fails to come through at times -- he tries to fill in some space (whenever Davis is not there) with dissolves and montages indicating the passing of time (a calendar superimposed over a changing Frances Dee). All much in the style back then. This was before technicalities and complicated camera angles came into being, and in essence, the visual story is a simplified, bare essentials translation of the Somerset Maugham's novel -- which is saying a lot, since at 600 pages, Of Human Bondage would have been indeed hard to film even then.Storywise, it feels that Philip Carey may be something of a glutton for punishment, since there is no discernible, sexual attraction between he and Mildred and to compound that, Mildred never hides her displeasure from the get-go. Howard's performance never seems to go through much external emotion -- his eyes are constantly sad, his expression never veers too far away from lost (he could almost be a distant cousin to William Hurt in The Accidental Tourist -- dejected, hurt, and absolutely passive), but this is possibly a part of his character and the reason he fails to see that other women (played by Kay Johnson and Frances Dee) are making themselves vulnerable to unrequited affections. Interestingly, Johnson's Norah, once she realizes Carey will never fall for her, is the one who sums the story up with her observation that people are bound to other people -- she is bound to Carey as Carey is bound to Mildred, and Mildred herself is bound to Miller (or men who fit the role of provider). In her short but memorable scene, she's the one who holds the essence of the story's moral. "},{"Title":"Still gives me goosebumps!","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Bette Davis became a star with her role in this first and best film adaptation of the Somerset Maugham novel of the same name (well worth a read). This was her first nomination for an Academy Award, for her portrayal of Mildred Rogers; a tawdry, sluttish, cockney waitress who bewitches hapless Philip Carey (Leslie Howard, best known for his role as Ashley Wilkes in Gone With the Wind). She lost the award, receiving it for her role the following year for Dangerous, which is generally viewed as a consolation prize. The supporting cast includes Reginald Denny, Alan Hale Sr. (father of Alan Hale Jr., who was the skipper on the TV series Gilligan's Isle), and a breathtakingly beautiful Frances Dee.The film starts out with Philip, a failed art student with a clubfoot of which he is highly sensitive, turning to the study of medicine after facing the fact that he has no artistic talent. Shortly thereafter he meets and quickly becomes obsessed with Mildred, despite her sneering and obvious disdain for him because of his deformity. Her standard response to his affectionate overtures is a chilly I don't mind. In his dreams Mildred is sweet and kind to him; during real time she uses him, well aware of his affection for her, leaving him for other men and returning when she is down on her luck, ruining his chance for having a career or a normal life with another woman; he seems to continually finds himself inexorably drawn to her, even after his love for her has waned, until the day she finally pushes him too far.At that point, the camera fully turns to Mildred as her facial expression shifts from supplication to shock to full-on bitch in a matter of seconds, and she reacts to Philip's statement with a barrage of blood-curdling insults. Bette Davis as Mildred never fails to raise the hair on the back of my neck and arms with her performance in this particular scene.This is the role that made Davis a star. It's also one of my all-time favorite Davis films, along with such others as The Little Foxes, The Letter, and All About Eve. "},{"Title":"The best filming of the classic novel and one of best films of the 1930's, too!","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" How amazing this film is! I've seen it over and over throughout the years and I'm always spellbound by it. The reason why the film is so easy to re-watch is, of course, the arresting performance given by the young Bette Davis. She not only steals every scene that she's in, but is actually much prettier and better photographed here (not to mention sexier) than she was in any of the films that she had made thus far at her home studio, Warner Brothers (this film was made by R.K.O. Radio Pictures). She wears a very flattering make-up and has very attractive hairstyles and oh, those lovely big eyes (especially, in the restaurant scenes that take place in London's Soho). Her body was so curvy when she was young. Get a load of it in the cheap negligee that she wears for her big explosive confrontation scene with Leslie Howard. And oh boy, she is an absolute powerhouse in that scene. Howard is a little too nervous throughout, but he does captures the hero's sensitivity. Frances Dee scores as the sweet, pretty young Sally who truly loves him. Max Steiner's score is both charming and poignant. Splendid performances and thirties flavor make this the must see version of the classic novel. "},{"Title":"The First Version (of three) is Still the Best","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"26 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Coming shortly before the imposition of a morality code darkened the spirits of writers, directors and actors, the first film adaptation of W. Somerset Maugham's Of Human Bondage titillated countless moviegoers. It has no shock value today, just fine acting.While the cast is excellent, this is Bette Davis's first great role and one of Leslie Howard's best performances.  Howard is English wannabe Parisian artist Philip Carey who is gently and firmly told that he lacks any talent and that his dedication is no substitute for true genius.  Taking the lesson to heart he returns to London and enrolls in a medical college (one, by the way, that seems to have no female students-at that time there would have been at least a few.  Perhaps author/physician Maugham didn't care for distaff medicos).Having tea one day Carey is entranced by a waitress, Mildred Rogers, Bette Davis in a role as a morally loose and basically wicked farrago. Her Cockney accent is as sharp as Eliza Doolittle's.  His repeated attempts to date her are greeted with the less than enthusiastic reply, I don't mind, a sure sign for any man with his head screwed on straight that he's plumbing the depths.  Maugham's Mildred supplemented her waitress tips with a bit of old fashioned street-walking, something not clearly brought out here.Carey's besotted prostration serves Rogers' avaricious need for support of the financial kind.  He is desperately in love with her-she plays him as a Sunday church organist effortlessly plies her instrument. No sex here.  Recognizing that he is getting nowhere, he begins a chaste relationship with Norah, a woman who adores him.  Re-enter Mildred, replete with a baby, and in her usual need of being taken care of.  Exit heartbroken Norah. Another separation from Mildred and Carey begins a long-term friendship with Sally, abetted enthusiastically by her dad who seems to view eventual marriage as both a good thing for the two young people and a chance to be relieved of one of his nine offspring.The movie reasonably but not entirely follows Maugham's excellent novel.  Howard's Carey is naive and vulnerable and for much of the movie his sad eyes remind one of a doe facing a double-barreled shotgun.  Mildred is unrestrainedly wicked, a user of the worst kind, her sole preoccupation with her own needs barely disguised when she tries to wheedle Carey with a thin patina of affectionate words (and offers-at one point she promises she'll do anything he wants, a daring statement for the times and one I'm sure audiences fully understood.Pre-Code it may be but Mildred's quick-march dissolution would have satisfied the League of Catholic Decency.  The ending is conventional-sin loses, principled behavior triumphs.Director John Cromwell wrought excellent performances from his two main stars, one well-established, the other established largely because of this film.  The atmosphere is 1930s London and the trip back in time is worth taking.Available on DVD.9/10 (for Davis's and Howard's performances) "},{"Title":"Unleashing the Soul of  Great Actor by Withholding an Oscar","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"30 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Every motion picture Bette Davis stars in is worth experiencing. Before Davis co-stars with Leslie Howard in Of Human Bondage, she'd been in over a score of movies. Legend has it that Davis was 'robbed' of a 1935 Oscar for her performance as a cockney-speaking waitress, unwed mother & manipulative boyfriend-user, Mildred Rogers. The story goes that the AFI consoled Davis by awarding her 1st Oscar for playing Joyce Heath in Dangerous. I imagine Davis' fans of Of Human Bondage who agree with the Oscar-robbing legend are going to have at my critique's contrast of the 1934 film for which the AFI didn't award her performance & the 1936 film Dangerous, performance for which she received her 1st Oscar in 1937.I've tried to view all of Bette Davis' motion pictures, TV interviews, videos, advertisements for WWII & TV performances in popular series. In hindsight, it is easy to recognize why this film, Of Human Bondage, gave Davis the opportunity to be nominated for her performance. She was only 25yo when the film was completed & just about to reach Hollywood's red carpet. The public began to notice Bette Davis as a star because of her performance in Of Human Bondage. That is what makes it her legendary performance. But, RKO saw her greatness in The Man Who Played God, & borrowed her from Warners to play Rogers.I'm going to go with the AFI, in hindsight, some 41 years after their astute decision to award Davis her 1st Best Actress Oscar for Dangerous, 2 years later. By doing so, the AFI may have been instrumental in bringing out the very best in one of Hollywood's most talented 20th century actors. Because, from Of Human Bondage, onward, Davis knew for certain that she had to reach deep inside of herself to find the performances that earned her the golden statue. Doubtless, she deserved more than 2 Oscars; perhaps as many as 6.Dangerous provides an exemplary contrast in Davis' depth of acting characterization. For, it's in Dangerous (1936) that she becomes the greatest actor of the 20th century. Davis is so good as Joyce Heath, she's dead-center on the red carpet. Whereas in Of Human Bondage, Davis is right off the edge, still on the sidewalk & ready to take off on the rest of her 60 year acting career.Perhaps by not awarding her that legendary Oscar in 1935, instead of a star being born, an actor was given incentive to reach beyond stardom into her soul for the gifted actor's greatest work.It is well known that her contemporary peer adversary was Joan Crawford; a star whose performances still don't measure up to Davis'. Even Anna Nicole Smith was a 'star'. Howard Stern is a radio host 'star', too. Lots of people on stage & the silver screen are stars. Few became great actors. The key difference between them is something that Bette Davis could sense the difference between the desire to do great acting or to become star-struck.Try comparing these two movies as I have, viewing one right after the other. Maybe you'll recognize what the AFI & I did. Davis was on the verge of becoming one of the greatest actors of the 20th century at 25yo & achieved her goal by the time she was 27. She spent her next 50 plus years setting the bar so high that it has not been reached . . . yet.Had the AFI sent her the message that she'd arrived in Of Human Bondage, Davis' life history as a great actor may have been led into star-struck-dom, instead. "},{"Title":"A True Classic","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie, even though it is over 70 years old is still a very moving, strong film. Bette Davis, as the slutty, vicious Cockney waitress Mildred is absolutely believable. Watching her performance is still spellbinding. She makes the viewer absolutely despise her and pity her at the same time. Leslie Howard's performance as the weak, obsessed Phillip Carey is not as strong, but I don't see how any actor could hold their own against Ms. Davis's performance. She chews up the scenery in every scene she is in, totally stealing the show. This is the movie that sealed her stardom and she deserved to win the Academy Award, but lost. It was shocking for it's day what with themes of unwed pregnancy, multiple sex partners, and Mildred's vicious language so it is somewhat dated, but still an excellent movie. Just to see the scene where Mildred tells Phillip what she REALLY thinks of him (You cad, you dirty swine....) is still some of the greatest acting I have ever seen on film. "},{"Title":"IMDb Votes Conclude...","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...that the Bette Davis version of this film was better than the Kim Novak version.Despite all of the other comments written here, I really prefer the Bette Davis version, even though the Novak version has a more coherent story line.However Davis' Mildred's raw emotions seem to me to be more apt to a sluttish girl who seems easily to become a prostitute.And it is those raw emotions that constitute *part* of what the poor doctor falls in love with. He has emotions of despair, of failure, of otherness - strong emotions that he represses. Davis' Mildred, on the other hand, displays her emotions immediately and without censure. She has no feelings of despair, or of failure, or of otherness; rather, she is merely surviving as a poor Cockney woman in the Victorian era.Novak's portrayal was a more vulnerable Mildred than was Davis', almost through the the whole movie. Davis' Mildred was **never** vulnerable until she actually had to go to the doctor and beg for assistance. And when he reviles her - for her method of keeping body and soul together, and for continually taking advantage of his love for her - she unleashes arguably the most passionate repudiation of snobbish holier than thou attitude ever seen on screen I wiped my mouth! I WIPED MY MOUTH!! Novak's vulnerability was excellent. Davis' realism was monumental.IMDb votes concur! "},{"Title":"POPEYE THE MAGNIFICENT!","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bette gives what LIFE magazine called ...the best performance ever recorded on the screen by a U.S. actress. It put her on the Hollywood map, and almost 70 years later remains one of the most powerful and original performances ever created. Some people argue that Bette likes to go over the top. I really think these individuals don't understand her unique genius. A brilliant performance in a visually intelligent movie that has not dated one bit. "},{"Title":"Bette Davis is electrifying!!!!","Date":"20 November 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Bette Davis' electrifying performance is such that it is hard to remember the other female players. They were as perfect in their parts as Davis was in hers - they just didn't have as much to do. Some of the reviewers felt that the book was so much better - it was but to give the film it's due, to condense a 600 page book down to 83 minutes is no mean feat. The first part of the book didn't even make it to the screen - it told of Phillip's childhood, then moved to Germany and Paris, where Phillip had gone to try to make good as an artist. It also chronicles his first romance - with Fanny Price, who kills herself when she realises Phillip cannot return her feelings of love. It is a wonderful book but rambling and I think that anyone who does not think too highly of the film should read the book and will realise how good the film is.After realising that he will only ever be a mediocre painter, Phillip Carey (Leslie Howard) comes back to England hoping to take up medicine. When out at a tearoom he meets a sullen waitress, Mildred (Bette Davis). Even though she has no interest in him and basically treats him like dirt, Phillip is obsessed. It is so hard to watch his efforts at trying to find any civility in this vicious shrew. In one scene she promises to meet him in a second class railway waiting room, when they almost miss each other, she berates him with why would I wait in a second class waiting room when there is a first class one available. You just want to shake him. The only time she is pleasant to him is when she tells him she is going to marry another man, a coarse sales- man, Emile Miller (Alan Hale). With Mildred out of the picture, he meets Nora (Kay Johnson) a lovely woman, who writes romantic novels under a male pseudonym. She jokes about the popularity the books enjoy among servants (in the novel he had seen Mildred reading them.) Nora gives Phillip all the love and confidence he needs but he is incapable of returning her love. When Mildred returns (Miller didn't marry her and she is having a baby), of course he takes care of her and helps her with the baby (in the film it is treated as an object - always called baby, never given a name or gender) - she repays him by running off with his best friend.At the hospital he meets Sally Athelny (Frances Dee) who is visiting her sick father. He begins to visit her home and for the first time in his life gets a sense of family. Then surprise! surprise! Mildred returns like a bad penny and surprise! Philip takes her in. But he has changed and feels only disgust when she tries to show gratitude the only way she knows how. Then follows one of the most vicious, verbal fights on film with phrases such as you cad, you dirty swine, I only kissed you because you begged me and when you went I wiped my mouth, I WIPED MY MOUTH!!! In the book a lot of Mildred's stock phrases such as you're a gentleman in every sense of the word, I don't mind, and Mr. High and Mighty were associated with prostitutes and when Phillip meets her for the first time he is struck by that.The end of the film shows Phillip (being truly free of Mildred in the only way possible) now free to love Sally. Again in the book Sally tells Phillip that she thinks she is having a baby but that just makes him more sure of his love. That ending, like Mildred's sickness could not be in the film - even a pre-code one.Kay Johnson was always called on to play sensible, believable women - which she played to perfection as she was obviously sensible herself. Her Nora was the woman Philip should have stayed with. Frances Dee was one of the most beautiful of screen ingenues. She was obviously being groomed for stardom with some roles that proved she was not just a pretty face (The Silver Cord and Blood Money) but when she married Joel McCrea her career started to peter out. Her Sally did not push her talent to the limits. Apparently Leslie Howard was not very helpful to Bette Davis on the set - he was annoyed that an English actress was not given the part. He used to throw her her lines whilst reading a book off camera. He did start to take an interest when a newspaper reported the kid was running away with the picture!!!Highly, Highly Recommended. "}{"Title":"Well thought in every detail - acting, editing and music","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Reading web sites on Bette Davis one can find instances where authors claim that there is nothing special about her acting. I even found a site which claimed that Bette Davis' success was probably due to her luck. But Ms Davis films of 1934 tell quite the opposite. The most evident example are two films that she did only few weeks apart Fog over Frisco and On Human Bondage. Characters she played in these movies, though both being negative, are quite different. Arlene in the former is a beautiful, glamorous and frivolous heiress and much more likable character than Mildred in the latter, which is a pale, uneducated and impudent Cockney waitress. Needless to say that Ms Davis played both characters very authentic and with the same enthusiasm. But even that is not all. The point is that the former role, which would be wished by most actresses of the day, was the one she was forced to play. The latter role, which seemed to most actresses as undesirable, career destroying role, was the one she fought for ferociously for months. And it was the latter role that launched her among the greatest stars. So there is no question that Ms Davis knew from the start what she was doing.The film, which tells about a medical student Phillip Carey (Leslie Howard) which falls unhappily in love with Cockney waitress Mildred Rogers (Bette Davis), has a few week points, but many more strong ones. The story is simply too big to be told in mere 83 minutes. For example, it is quite unclear why refined student found any interest in an impudent waitress in the first place. Well, there is one scene in which we are exposed to Ms Davis captivating eyes, but this is when his emotions are already fully evolved. Nevertheless, the integrity of the story is preserved by superior acting from Howard and Davis as well as fantastic Steiner's music which tells tons of emotions even when we do not see characters' faces. In fact the film is amalgamated by Phillip's walking sequences showing him from the back supplemented with shuddering two-tone repetition. Every detail is well thought - Max Steiner wrote a beautiful leitmotif for each women in Phillip's life, which is consistently used through the film. And a beautiful scene in which we see Sally's face in front of calendar is one of the sweetest scenes I've ever seen exactly due to Francis Dee's breathtaking beauty (Ms Dee was by the way considered to be too beautiful to play leading role in Gone with a Wind) as well as Steiner's captivating music. Camera movements between the some scenes is also original and refreshing.But my strongest objection is that events are presented too two-dimensionally, which induce viewer that Mildred is an ultimate slut. The most disgusting characters ought to be men which lure her into relationship, despite well knowing that they will abandon her after taking use of her, but they, curiously, finished portrayed as likable characters. After all, Mildred always - in her own specific, but still a honest way - lets Phillip know that she despises him and had no interest in him. Which he just refuses to hear. It is Phillips masochistic nature connected to his club foot and infantile experiences that is the principal reason of his love problem. He is enslaved to his club foot as much as to Mildred and perhaps has to be free of both to start a normal life. Of course, selfish and impudent Mildred, after discovering voluntary Phillip's bondage to her, did its own share to make his life hell. Even taking into account that she exploded after realizing that the bondage has loosen, it is less than clear why would she burn Phillip's money (Maugham intended different in his novel). After all, she could as well steal it and drunk gallons of champagne.For modern standards the film is a bit outdated, but each subsequent time you watch it, you can reveal new interesting details due to superior acting, fascinating music and original editing, so it does deserve the highest possible mark. "},{"Title":"Classic and the best adaptation  based on  the Somerset Maugham's story","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie concerns about Philip ( Leslie Howard ) , he's a serious but handicapped medicine student . He falls fatally in love with a heartless , predatory waitress named Mildred( Bette Davis ) . She leaves him , engaging with other suitors ( Alan Hale, Reginald Denny ). Meanwhile he is romanced with other women ( Kay Johnson, Frances Dee ) but she goes back in a mutually destructive affair.Easily the best and first of the numerous versions on Somerset Maugham's novel . Bette Davis as the cockney cruel waitress winning yet another magnificent interpretation with an alluring and smoldering role , absolutely hypnotic in her account of the bondage , a sadomasochist relationship that occurs from the beginning to the end . Davis rose the stardom with her performance that put her on the map in Hollywood . Her role as sluttish and crude domineering woman will be repeated several times in his posteriors acting . Leslie Howard as the essentially good and decent student subtly destroyed gives an excellent and melancholic performance. He was an awesome actor ( Gone with the wind ), besides producer and writer , though unfortunately died in plane crash during WWII . Both of them will play again in ¨ Petrified forest ¨(1936) . The atmosphere of the film is elaborately recreated in the RKO ( Radio Picture Inc ) studio and is entirely convincing . Remade in 1946 by Edmund Goulding , with Eleanor Parker and Paul Henreid ; and in 1964 by Ken Hughes with Kim Novak and Laurence Harvey . The motion picture will appeal to classic cinema buffs. Rating  Very good but a little bit dated. "},{"Title":"You Dirty Swine!.. I Never Cared For You Not Once!","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"16 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" **SPOILER ALERT** W. Somerset Maugham classic on film about a love obsessed young man who's abused hurt and humiliated by the object of his obsession to the point of losing everything he has only to find true love in the end under the most unusual circumstances. Leslie Howard plays the role of Philip Carey a sensitive young artiest in Paris trying to make a living by selling his paintings. Told by a local art expert that his work is not at all good enough to be sold to the art going public Philip decides to go back to his native England and study medicine and become a physician in order to help others. Philip being born with a club foot is very hypersensitive about his awkward condition and makes up for that by being a very pleasant and friendly person. One afternoon Philip is at a local café with a fellow medical student and spots pretty waitress Mildred Rogers, Bette Davis, and immediately falls in love with her. Mildred at first rebuffs the love-sick Philip but later realizing just what a sap he is takes advantage of his feelings for her. Mildred has him spend himself into poverty buying her gifts and taking her out to the theater every time she off from work. Phlip also falls behind on his studies, by paying so much attention towards Mildred, at the medical university and fails his final exams. Going into hock buying an engagement ring for Mildred in an attempt to ask for her hand in marriage the cold hearted Mildred tells the startled Philip that she's already engaged to be married to Emil Miller, Alan Hale. It turns out that he's one of the customers at the café that she's always flirting with. Philip broke and heart-sick slowly get his life back together and later retakes his medical exam and passes it and at the same time finds a new love in Nora, Fay Johnson, a writer for a local love magazine. Later to Philip's shock and surprise Mildred walks back into his life. Mildred telling Philip that her husband Emil, who's child she's carrying, threw her out of the house has the kind and understanding Philip take her back at the expense of Nora who was very much in love with him. It later turns out that Mildred wasn't married to Emil but had a child out of wedlock by having an illicit affair with him! Emil it turns out was already married. As before Mildred takes advantage of Philip's kind heart for her and her baby daughter, where he supports them with food medical attention and shelter, to the point where he again goes broke and can't continue his studies ending with her leaving Philip; after having a very heated and emotional encounter with him. Out on the streets with nowhere to go Philip is taken in by Mr. Athanly, Reginald Owens, who he once treated at the hospital and falls in love with his daughter Sally, Frances Dee. Later Philip has his club foot corrected at the medical center and with the help of Mr. Athenly gets back to being a doctor. It's then when he encounters Mildred again who's really at the end of her rope. Dying of tuberculosis and having lost her daughter she's all alone with no one to look after her. Philip now well to do and respected in medical circles does all he can to help the sick and poor Mildred but in the end she succumbed to her illness and passes away.Mildred had the love and devotion in Philip all those years that he was in love with her but choose to abuse him and have affairs with man who were just like her, cold unfeeling and selfish. In the end Mildred got back just what she gave to the kind and sensitive Philip She became both unloved and alone. Philip found in the sweet and caring Sally everything that Mildred wasn't and in the end also found the true love that he was looking for all of his life. "},{"Title":"Bette is first noticed!","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A good, historical movie for the Bette Davis fan in that this is the first movie where she was noticed, based on her merits as an actress. This was a role that was offered to others, but others thought that playing such an evil belladonna role would harm their career. Bette never flinched from playing the bitch and it helped push her career forward. Bette does a good job in this story of an evil woman and the man who just won't/can't let her go. As another writer here has stated, this should be required viewing by young men. The scary thing is, there truly ARE such women out there. A cautionary tale that delivers.. "},{"Title":"Over-rated, yet Groundbreaking Portrayal and Film","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I do not think this is a movie about love. It is a movie that compares and contrasts MANY human emotions that hold us in bondage - most notably, love and obsession. I pity people who think that what Philip (Howard) feels for Mildred (Davis) is LOVE! Of the 3 versions of this Somerset Maugham tale, this one is the weakest. Davis' Mildred is physically unattractive, mentally deranged, intellectually stunted, spiritually empty, and emotionally disturbed and inaccessible. To compensate for her shortcomings, she treats Philip with contempt! Hey, what's not to love? Philip's obsession with such a creature is unimaginable! Even as allegory, this is too much of a stretch!For my money, both of the remakes are better movies. Eleanor Parker and Kim Novak both portray a Mildred who is prettier and less shrewish - and consequently more believable. Mildred becomes both more understandable and more pathetic. Also, because they are both prettier than Davis obsession with either one of them is a great deal more conceivable.This film and Bette Davis' performance may have been groundbreaking, but neither one is great. Davis' performance leaves indelible impressions; however, it is not very nuanced. She is nothing but a shrew. Moreover, she is simply not pretty enough to inspire Howard's obsession with her. Davis' one-note performance and lack of beauty render the character of Philip incomprehensible. This film and this portrayal by Davis are classic not because they are great, but because they are groundbreaking.Also, Leslie Howard's Philip, while sensitive and intellectual, is a real weakling. I like Paul Henried in the 1946 version much better. Maybe not as sensitive or intellectual, but not nearly as weak. I think a woman is more likely to feel sympathy or pity for Howard, NOT love. Henried seems more lovable. After all, 2 women actually do love Philip!This is a must-see for people interested in films for their historic significance. But for somebody interested in entertainment, I recommend both of the other versions of this film. "},{"Title":"That darn Bette Davis!","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just saw Of Human Bondage for the first time a few days ago and WOW! What a mysterious and almost spooky film. I loved how the music went with the pace of each step of Philip's feet. It gave me the chills for some reason...One of the greatest aspects of this film is that you get to see Bette Davis coming into herself right before your eyes. She's great, not necessarily because this is her best work, but because it was so out of the ordinary to be so vicious, gritty, and unflinching as an actress in 1934... Bette was a risk taker, always wanting to be different and this is right about when she started to realize that she could be as nasty and daring as she wanted and people would love her for it. If you're a true lover of film, it's amazing to see...She just had a way of delivering a line that made the part, and the film for that matter, belong to her. Like A mass of music and fire. That's me...an old kazoo and some sparklers or But you are Blanche, you are in that chair! or WITH ALL MY HEART, I STILL LOVE THE MAN I KILLED!!... Those are from a few of her films, but you get my drift. She was just so brave, sassy, and exotic looking with those beautiful big eyes. After seeing this, I can't believe it was remade twice...Leslie Howard was gorgeous...so calm and persistent, needing to be loved. I thought he was adorable and couldn't understand how everyone wasn't falling for him, but then again, everyone was...except Mildred. He did a great job...The only thing that I didn't like was something that was common with the writing in the early films. They'd make a character so hateful that it's almost unbelievable that someone would actually fall for them in the first place. The performances were great, but in real life, Philip would have never been interested in Mildred. That's just the simple truth... See it!! "},{"Title":"A coldly amusing Bette Davis performance","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bette Davis turns in a coldly amusing performance as Mildred Rogers in this 1934 film. The film seems rather dated now in 2003. It is no doubt well worth watching for film buffs and Bette Davis fans but may not have as much appeal for the average movie watcher today. It was startling for me to see how young Ms. Davis looks in this move. The actors turn in performances which are basically sound and the story is meaningful and interesting. Leslie Howard is well cast as Philip Carey, the club-footed medical student. This is a film with a strong message about whom we choose to love and why. However, Of Human Bondage didn't seem to have a strong impact on me mentally or emotionally. I felt slightly indifferent and detached about the movie after viewing it. I have an intuition that this may be the reaction that the director was going for. You be the judge! "},{"Title":"Unrequited Love, Betrayal and Sexual Obsession","Date":"1 May 2010","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The clubfooted aspirant painter Philip Carey (Leslie Howard) is advised by an acquaintance to give-up his artistic ambition since he is a mediocre artist. He joins the medical school in London using his inheritance to pay the school and to have a comfortable life. When he meets the cold cockney waitress Mildred Rogers (Bette Davis) in a restaurant, the shy Philip has a crush on her but she rejects him. Philip stalks her and dates her; however the easy woman scorns him. When Philip proposes Mildred, she tells him that she is going to marry her lover Miller (Alan Hale), leaving the brokenhearted Philip obsessed for her. He tries to move on, dating the affectionate Norah (Kay Johnson) in an unrequited love. However, when Mildred returns alone and pregnant, Philip lodges them in his home. Sooner Mildred becomes lover of Philip's friend Reginald Denny (Harry Griffiths) and leaves Philip again. When Philip finds Mildred and her baby later abandoned on the street, he brings them home. Mildred unsuccessfully tries to seduce Philip but he loathes her; Mildred feels humiliated and wrecks his apartment and burns his savings, forcing Philip to quit the medical school. However his teacher offers to operate his feet first and Philip becomes a normal man. But he does not succeed to find a job and his life goes downhill fast until he meets a friend that helps him. Of Human Bondage is an unpleasant romance about unrequited love, betrayal and sexual obsession. The restrictions of the moral code of the society in the 30's force the director and screenplay writer to be vague and open in many scenes, destroying the full understanding of the plot like, for example, the dialog between Sally and Philip in the last scene. I found a reasonable explanation in the IMDb Message Board from a user that read the novel. The good point is that there is no use of clichés and the story is not dated. I loved the performance of Bette Davis, but I am a great fan of this awesome actress therefore my opinion might be compromised. However, the nomination to the Oscar also corroborates with my comment. In Brazil, this movie was released on DVD by Continental Distributor. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Escravos do Desejo (Slaves of the Desire) "},{"Title":"You dirty swine!","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Enjoyable in spite of Leslie Howard's performance. Mr. Howard plays Philip as a flat, uninteresting character.  One is supposed to feel sorry for this man; however, I find myself cheering Bette Davis' Mildred.  Ms. Davis gives one her finest performances (she received an Academy Award nomination). Thanks to her performance she brings this rather dull movie to life.  **Be sure not to miss when Mildred tells Philip exactly how she feels about him. "},{"Title":"That anemic little witch!","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The story is somewhat stilted, what with the main character's sudden reversals of fortune, but Leslie Howard and Bette Davis's portrayals of Philip Carey, the naïve obsessed lover and Mildred Rogers, the unworthy object of his affections, raise this film considerably above standard melodrama.Sensitive, cultured Philip, who for most of the picture is in bondage to first his infatuation and then his pity for Mildred is not unlike a character Howard was to play a few years later--Ashley Wilkes, the Southern gentleman too refined and decent to make it in the rough Reconstruction era. Philip in fact seems resigned to disappointment even before Mildred enters the picture&#151;he doesn't even seem particularly surprised when his art teacher tells him he'll never make it as a painter. It is perhaps this passivity, these lowered expectations that makes him put up with the selfish Cockney waitress for as long as he does.Although Leslie Howard is memorable, today Of Human Bondage is mainly thought of as a Bette Davis picture, perhaps because of the well known story of how she had to fight Jack Warner to get the part of Mildred, and perhaps too because movie audiences tend to prefer characters with her sort of brash energy. Mildred may have a grating voice, but she also has the ethereal beauty of a stained glass angel, making it somewhat understandable why Philip let himself be strung along for as long as he did. Although man eating Mildred may at times seem one dimensional, she does evoke sympathy in the viewer from time to time as when she becomes ill and belatedly realizes that Philip is the only decent man who ever cared for her. One may also think she is on to something when she accuses Philip of looking down on her for not being fine enough. (The scene in which Philip and Norah dismiss romance magazines as trash for kitchen maids seems to confirm this).Most of the supporting characters are also effective, particularly Norah the sensible romance writer who loves Philip but knows she can never compete with Mildred and Sally who has Mildred's beauty and Norah's decency and emerges as the deserving woman Philip is rewarded with in the end. The only character I found hollow was Sally's eccentric, ale slurping aristocratic father who seems like a stock character from an earlier era.A classic that deserves it reputation. "}{"Title":"A star is born!","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"      After laboring in Hollywood for nearly four years, playing one nothing role after the other in one forgettabe film after the other, Davis won the role of a lifetime. That of slatternly waitress Mildred Rogers, the 'bitch' heroine of Somerset Maugham's classic story. Davis in BONDAGE is an example of an actress's triumph. Lester Cohen's script, making for a picture that runs in length 83 minutes, is breezy and admittedly fails to capture all of the qualities that made Maugham's book such a compulsive read. But Bette Davis' performance in BONDAGE makes the film every bit as good as the book itself. She is absolutely fascinating. Her role of Mildred is as spiteful and bitchy as they come. Yet Bette plays the part so well that you can't help but root for her. That's not to say that she doesn't overdo it at times. But she is clearly into the role and rightfully so. Having played so many thankless background parts(secretaries, gun molls, etc.), this was her chance to break loose and show critics and audiences alike her full capabilities as an actress, and did she ever! Even keeping in mind all of the memorable Davis movie moments that followed, Mildred Rogers still remains her most stunning achievement. The great British actor Leslie Howard, playing the club-footed medical student who becomes infatuated with Mildred, seems over-powered, and possibly intimidated by his co-star. Oh yes, Davis was not yet a full-fledged star and was supposed to be playing second fiddle to the already distinguished Howard, but with BONDAGE, that situation quickly reversed. Shockingly, Davis didn't receive so much as an Oscar nomination for her brilliant performance, and when she won a year later for the tired melodrama DANGEROUS, everyone(including Bette herself) assumed it was out of sympathy for not receiving her full due for this film. "},{"Title":"Davis' breakout role","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Today actresses happily gain weight, dye their hair, dress like slobs, and lose their glamor for a role, and Bette Davis was probably the actress who started the trend. Even as a pretty young woman who occasionally wore designer clothes and Constance Bennett-type makeup in films, Davis was willing to ravage herself in order to create a character on the outside as well as the inside.Her determination is amply demonstrated here in her breakout film, Of Human Bondage, in which she stars with Leslie Howard as Philip Carey. Davis plays Mildred, a slutty, manipulative, greedy low-life to Howard's masochistic, club-footed Philip. He first meets her when she's a waitress, and she allows him to take her out to dinner and theater while she frolics with a wealthy older man (Alan Hale Sr.). In truth, Mildred is repulsed by Philip's club foot. On his part, Philip seems to enjoy the abuse of her open flirtation and her coolness toward him. He allows Mildred to bleed him dry financially in between boyfriends who drop her when they tire of her, while he blows off a couple of truly lovely women (Kay Johnson and Frances Dee). When he gets the gumption to throw her out, Mildred trashes his apartment and robs him, forcing him to withdraw from medical school and lose his lodgings.Of Human Bondage looks rather stilted today in parts. Though Leslie Howard was a wonderful actor and attractive, his acting style is of a more formal old school, and as a result, he tends to date whatever he's in. He shines in material like his role opposite Davis in It's Love I'm After or The Petrified Forest which call for his kind of technique. His dated acting is even more obvious here because Davis was forging new ground with a gritty, edgy performance that would really make her name. If she seems at times over the top, she came from the stage, and the subtleties of film acting would emerge later for her. Contrast this performance with the restraint, warmth and gentleness of her Henriette in All This, and Heaven Too or the pathos she brought to Dark Victory. She was a true actress and a true artist. Davis really allows herself to look like holy hell; Mildred's deterioration is absolutely pathetic as Philip seems to gain strength as her spirit fades.An excellent film in which to see the burgeoning of one of film's greatest stars. "},{"Title":"Bette Finds Stardom in a Slut","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I happen to like Leslie Howard, in his better films. Yet, for some reason, his performance in OF HUMAN BONDAGE never has moved me tremendously. I first saw the film on my college campus in 1972 and the reviewer in the college newspaper made the comment that in the 1930s and 1940s Howard played the roles supposedly later picked up by Dirk Bogard as the man who was born to be betrayed. This is not usually the case (off hand I think of Ashley Wilkes as a man who might be betrayed, if he and Scarlett O'Hara were meant to be an item by Margaret Mitchell - but Ashley loved Melonie, not Scarlett). Howard could play any type, and a role like R. J. Mitchell or Professor Henry Higgins is not one who is betrayed.*(*One can make the case that Philip Armstrong Scott is betrayed by the two strangers he shows hospitality to in 49TH PARALLEL, but they are Nazis who consider him - a liberal, westerner, Canadian - fair game to double cross in wartime. It isn't the same as emotional betrayal, and Howard does not shrivel up as a result, but faces the Nazis and captures one after beating him up.) I think what the reviewer meant was that Howard could be soulful - or try to be soulful. Witness his poet - dreamer - wanderer in THE PETRIFIED FORREST. But that character was not betrayed, except by history perhaps (as he feels his type is as out of date as the gangster played by Humphrey Bogart). The character of Philip Carey in Somerset Maugham's OF HUMAN BONDAGE is soulful too. He is sensitive for several reasons. He has an interest in art and tries to become a painter - but unlike the artist Strickland in THE MOON AND SIXPENCE he has no real talent. So he decides to concentrate on medical studies, accentuated by a club foot condition he has. Here he is a man with low self-esteem who is set up to be betrayed.Philip finds that betrayal in the form of Mildred a Cockney waitress (Bette Davis) who is mercenary and as selfish as they come. Why Philip falls for her is not really addressed in the film, but he does find the woman fascinating. And she finds him an easy meal ticket. Ironically in being so captivated by this slut, Philip fails to notice two other women who are interested in him (Kay Johnson and Frances Dee), and are more fit to be his mate. He also keeps finding himself forgiving Davis when she has affairs with other men (Alan Hale and Reginald Denny - the latter a friend of Howard's). Although Howard's performance captures the doormat tendency of Philip towards Mildred, he really does not show enough passion (until late in the movie, when he turns on her). That is why I find I never cared for his performance here - it lacks any reality. His later tortured insistence in GONE WITH THE WIND that he loves Olivia De Haviland, not Vivian Leigh, has more consistency with a man in love. But the performance of Davis as Mildred makes the film important. She had a wide variety of parts up to 1934, like the girlfriend of the deaf pianist in THE MAN WHO PLAYED GOD or the spoiled heiress who gets murdered in FOG OVER FRISCO or the mouse-like secretary in THREE ON A MATCH. As Mildred she finally showed she could be a major actress by playing a selfish bitch.Curiously her performance was not all of one note. While she uses and abuses Howard for two thirds of the film, culminating in that famous scene where she shows how disgusted his kissing of her made her, her last scenes show she too could fall apart due to her health deteriorating, and her inability to keep any honest jobs. When Howard rejects her the viewers fail to note how equally vicious he becomes (he asks what happened to her baby - she tells him the baby died and Howard says brusquely that he is glad, which is hardly the response she expects). In the end Howard does finally get his life in order, but Mildred ends a casualty (ironically her death discovered by her old boyfriend Denny on a medical call). The Motion Picture Academy of Arts and Sciences did fail to nominate Davis in 1934 (leading to the largest write - in campaign in it's history, and a permanent change in it's rules), but Davis was established as a star. In one year she won the Oscar as Joyce Heth in DANGEROUS. And in two years she co-starred with Howard again (as equal stars) in THE PETRIFIED FORREST. "},{"Title":"A Strumpet and her Puppet","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is about sexual obsession. Bette Davis plays Mildred. This is a woman who men are drawn to. Not because she is a nice beautiful girl but because she is a sexual entity. Now the movie does not come out and say that but it is obvious. There is a scene in the movie in which men are all going googly eyes over her. She works as a waitress in a coffee shop, she can't read and she not really anybody to look at but she is a flirt. It is obvious the male customers in that coffee shop are there because of her. One day Phillip a club footed failed painter medical student comes in the shop to say a good word for his friend but he becomes besotted the moment he sees her. He starts buying her things even pays for her apartment. Meanwhile she is seeing other people and she makes no secrets of it. He dreams about her like she is a angel, but she is no angel. He is constantly thinking about her. His med school grades are even failing. So what the nookie is too good. He wants to marry her but she rejects him because she is marrying another guy. She always lets Phil know she really doesn't have love feelings for him all of time. He is heart broken but he meets another woman. They seem fine but it is obvious he is still dreaming of the Bimbo. Mildred does comes back with a baby and unwed. Phillip takes her in again, but she starts going out with a friend of his, the light bulb comes on a little and he kicks her out. She does what she knows works so she tries to seduce him, well it doesn't work and she proceeds to burn his tuition money up. Oh we have a club foot that he has problems about, even though a street teenager who has the same problem tells him to lighten up about it. He meets another girl named Sally we have a March of time montage which shows her aging while he strings her along still waiting for Mildred. Well he has no school tuition, can't find a job. Finally Sally and her dad takes him in. Not before another March of Time montage showing him going downhill. Soon his uncle who raised him dies and he gets money to become a doctor. Meanwhile he finds Mildred needs him again. She has TB. meanwhile he is still leading Sally down the Primrose path about marriage and he takes a job on a steamship. Finally the bimbo dies and Phillip declares he is free now and he will marry Sally. I wished she told him to stuff it. Now I know my take on the characters are not going to get me any points. But I feel Phillip was the bad guy. Yes Mildred is a Strumpet BUT he knows it, and he keeps coming back. Mean while he has two other girlfriends who love him but he treats as appetizers. I guess the sex wasn't as good. But in any case he dogs those women waiting for Mildred. Not only that but the man who gets Mildred pregnant is already married and when Philip asks him what he intends to do about Baby ( apparently the baby's name) he laughs is off, he has no intention in supporting her and Baby and he is wealthy. Sally's father who has 9 children say some pretty nasty things about women but he is said to be a old traditionalist. Philip doesn't seem to refute his feelings either. Men are using Mildred as a Boy Toy but the men in this movie come out as unscathed. Yes she was not a respectable woman but far from a villain. To me it is Philip who was had the real problem and it was his sexual obsession for Mildred. "},{"Title":"An entertaining piece of drama from early cinema","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Several features of this film immediately date it. The sound is rather shrill and one realizes what great strides have been accomplished in sound reproduction in the ensuing years. The language of the dialogue is rather quaint and unnatural and the acting is still reminiscent of its transition from the stage techniques.Bette Davis always gives a strong performance in all her films as she does in this early period of her very successful career. I do feel however that somehow the cockney accent does not fit the facial expression. I think it is the assumed cockney accent that does not ring true for me.Somerset Maughan loves to delve into human relationships of great dramatic intensity which will please all movie-goers. As in so many of her character roles, Bette Davis can switch from a beautiful seductive woman to a viper full of fiery hatred. Leslie Howard is well cast as the withdrawn English artist with a club foot desperately seeking a partner and making a bad choice in a scheming little waitress.Towards the end of the film the young doctor meets his true love in a busy street. They cross through the traffic completely oblivious to a multitude of horns and whistles screaming at them. This scene is possibly meant to be funny, but i find it quite ridiculous in this otherwise very serious film. It is probably construed to send you home with a smile on your face. And after all as far as we can see (and hope for) it is a happy ending. "},{"Title":"Lurid Melodrama reminiscent of a D.W. Griffith Film","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" W. Somerset Maugham's Of Human Bondage is supposed to be a English language classic. If so, much must have been missing from the film version here. Phillip's (Leslie Howard) attraction to Mildred (Bette Davis) is so utterly inexplicable as to make the scenario seem like the post-breakup retelling of a relationship from the man's point of view. Being a family lawyer I've heard many such accounts; the man depicts himself as noble and always correct, and the woman is a hellion who has had no other objective than to exploit the man.Indeed, unless one is willing to laugh at the social assumptions of the film maker, this is an uncomfortable movie to watch. Phillip even indulges Mildred when she brings over a baby of indeterminate paternity, but the real high point comes when Phillip allows Mildred - enraged and now of dubious sanity - the free run of his flat, with predictable results. Bette Davis was attractive for about five years of her life, but that period didn't occur here. In fact, by the end of the movie she looks a lot like the Baby Jane character she would play thirty years later.I note how Howard's character is always impeccably dressed and groomed. It tells me that Phillip craves middle class respectability. Someone like that could not run from a woman with a course Cockney accent fast enough. Phillip is, for most of the movie, a student; such a person would have been more believable if he had been younger, and had the disheveled looks that bespeak the low income and the low self esteem that often accompanies student status - an English Raskolnikov, as it will. And balanced that by allowing Mildred a modicum of charm. "},{"Title":"Contempt","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Of the three remakes on W. Somerset Maughan's novel, this one is the best one, and not particularly because what John Cromwell brought to the film. The film is worth a look because of the break through performance by Bette Davis, who as Mildred Rogers, showed the film industry she was a star. Finally, her struggles with Jack Warner and his studio paid off royally.The film is dominated by Mildred from the start. We realize from the beginning that Mildred doesn't care for Philip and never will. She doesn't hide her contempt for this kind soul that has fallen in love with the wrong woman. He will be humiliated by Mildred again, and again, as she makes no bones about what she really is.Poor Philip Carey, besides of being handicap, is a man who is weak. When he tries to cling onto Mildred, she rejects him. It is when Mildred returns to him, when she is frail and defeated, that he rises to the occasion, overcoming his own dependency on this terrible woman who has stolen his will and his manhood.Bette Davis gives a fantastic portrayal of Mildred. This was one of her best roles and she ran away with it. Her disgust toward the kind Philip is clear from the onset of their relationship. When she tells him she washes her mouth after he kisses her is one of the most powerful moment in the movie. Leslie Howard underplayed Philip and makes him appear even weaker than he is. Frances Dee, Reginald Denny, Alan Hale and Reginald Owen, are seen in minor roles.This is Bette Davis show, and don't you forget it! "},{"Title":"If it's love you're after, stay away from this petrified female!","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Leslie Howard and Bette Davis appeared together in three films-this outstanding adaption of a classic novel, a crime drama with psychological overtones, and a screwball comedy set in the world of the theater. They first showed each other their acting prowess in this biting adaption of the Somerset Maugham tale of sexual awakening and the revelation that physical attraction doesn't always transfer smoothly into emotional attraction. As only part of the story is seen here, the story focuses on two of the major characters, but what is here is so divinely acted and brilliantly written that the shell of the entire story is good enough and certainly could have warranted sequels including the remainder of the tale.I always thought that at the beginning of her career, Meryl Streep truly resembled a very young Bette Davis, and in several extreme close-ups here, I believe that to be even more true. The fact that a good majority of Streep's early films depended on a variety of accents and that Bette Davis provided a totally believable cockney accent here was even more validation for my belief. Davis truly gave 150 percent of herself in creating this character, alternating between being rude and seductive, yet never lessening the fact that this crass waitress she plays is truly the epitome of the tramp, having only her interests at heart and incapable of love, even when facing the destiny of eternity.Davis's Mildred seems to have the inability to look at anybody straight in the eye unless she is doing one of two things, trying to seduce them or trying to destroy them. She is the epitome of the passive/aggressive bitch, using men for whatever she can get from them, treating them like crap (which makes them seem to want her all the more) and finally turning on them when they make it clear that they have discovered what she's been up to all along. She goes after crippled medical student Leslie Howard with every gusto, practically ignoring him when he begins to gently flirt with her, then providing him with no type of commitment when he makes it clear that's what he wants. He wises up to her very fast, especially when he begins to see other women who are true ladies. Her predatory female obviously will destroy herself, but even then she can't resist the last ditch effort to try and bring him down with her!As for Leslie Howard's character, he starts off as a bit of a naive but isn't perfectly innocent, collecting paintings of nude women Mildred eventually harasses him about. He finds that his attraction to Mildred was a misguided case of lust and finds two true ladies (Kay Johnson and Frances Dee) worth his time more than trashy sexpot Davis. Alan Hale (Sr.) plays the gregarious rich man who steals Davis away from Howard and leaves her pregnant and very much in need. A scene between Hale and Howard where he shows him a picture of his real family ends up being very funny in an ironic way, but the fact that he pretty much leaves Davis and her newborn baby to fend for themselves makes Hale just another cruel cog in the wheel which shows the type of history which lead Davis's Mildred to becoming the cold female she turned out to be. In fact, there's not really an ounce of niceness here in scenes not involving Howard and the true ladies in his life.It's easy to see why this may not have pleased Academy voters in 1934 even though Davis got the best reviews of any actress probably in sound films up to that time. In the early-mid 1930's, the Academy only nominated three performers, and Davis's omission was quite the talk of the day. She won the following year in an obvious consolation prize for a similar film of a predatory female in Dangerous, even having the similar tell off scene which she did so brilliantly here and which mimics still repeat word for word to this day. While excellent in Dangerous, it really still was a repeat of what she had done here (minus the cockney accent) and lacking in the details in the script which made her mesmerizing here. This too obviously faced the wrath of the Hays code, updated this year, and that too could have influenced voters not to choose someone so obviously worthy of the award. "},{"Title":"The Sadist and the Masochist","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There are a Number of Memorable Things in this Pre-Coder. The Most Obvious Example is Bette Davis Star Turning Performance. The soon to be forbidden Subjects like Out of Wedlock Pregnancies, Obvious Prostitutes, Promiscuity, and Such. Extensive Use of Surreal Wipes, Double Exposures, and Other Photographic Tricks that Manage to Move Along the Depressing Nature of the Films Protagonist and the Mostly Stilted and Oddly Staccato Line Deliveries. Leslie Howard's Self Loathing Never Ends Until the End and it can be quite a Burden that Tends to make the Film Experience Frustrating at Times. It has been Reported that when the Scene Arrives where He Looks at Bette Davis and Proclaims You disgust me!, Cheers Erupted from Audiences in Theatres Across America.It is No Wonder. Davis' Character Mildred is so Loathsome, Selfish and Sadistic that an Ounce of Sympathy is Forever Absent. The Performance is Remarkable and Garnered Davis a write in Oscar Nomination. But the Howard Character is a Masochistic, Self-Pitying, Bore and his Acting Consists of Not Much More than Staring at the Floor (or is it his foot?) and Books, as well as Into Deep Space. "},{"Title":"The Carey Treatment","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" OF HUMAN BONDAGE (RKO Radio, 1934), directed by John Cromwell, stars Leslie Howard and Bette Davis in the first screen treatment from the 1915 novel by W. Somerset Maugham. Essentially a Howard film in which he's the central character, it's Bette Davis, on loan from her home base studio of Warner Brothers, who virtually gathers enough attention for her powerful performance. Although it didn't place Davis immediately to the major ranks of motion picture stardom, at least not right away, it did present her to be just more than another movie actress, just more than another a face on the movie screen, and just more than what she can do in a much challenging role.As the opening credits begin through a superimposed view of France, the story opens in the city of Paris where Philip Carey (Leslie Howard), a struggling young artist eager for recognition on his paintings, being told by a respected Parisian artist that he would be nothing more than mediocre. Told to try another profession, Philip decides to follow in his late father's field by becoming a doctor. As a medical student at St. Bartholomew's Hospital in London, Philip, quite sensitive about his club foot deformity, becomes the subject matter for both boy patient and medical students, much to his personal humiliation. Boarding with two fellow students, one being Harry Griffiths (Reginald Denny), a ladies man, Philip finds himself attracted to a cockney waitress, Mildred Rogers (Bette Davis), who's constant response being, I don't mind. Though they have a courtship, Mildred shows no love and compassion for him. Being rejected for Emil Miller (Alan Hale), a married businessman, Philip, with an attempt to forget Mildred, encounters Nora (Kay Johnson), who, after failing his medical examinations, is encouraged by her to resume with his studies. As romance blossoms between them, Mildred comes back to his life, broke and pregnant. He supports her and her child, but his devotion goes unappreciated. With her out of his life once again, Philip, now an intern in a charity hospital, becomes acquainted with Thorpe Athelny (Reginald Owen) and his attractive young daughter, Sally (Frances Dee). Romance blossoms between the two until Mildred returns, leading to further humiliation and heartaches through his trying times of human bondage. What might have become a two hour plus super production containing many important passages from the lengthy novel, this 83 minutes screen adaptation to OF HUMAN BONDAGE, does have enough ingredients offering the basic elements of Maugham's detailed work to make it a satisfactory whole. The film itself eliminates much of Carey's personal life from his boyhood days, going to brief passages leading, through super-imposed camera methods, to basic formula material that has made this screen adaptation a true classic. Though the Mildred character in the original novel was of minor importance, screenwriter, Lester Cohen, made her important enough to become the center of attraction, one hard to forget during the stretches she absent from the screen. As much as Davis wasn't Academy Award nominated for her performance, the Academy simply didn't forget her by awarding her two winning trophies with additional nominations besides. As Mildred, Davis in true form, is very convincing right down to her British cockney dialect. She doesn't hold back on how her character is to be portrayed, unlikable as she is unsympathetic, enough to the point of making one wonder why such an intelligent and cultured individual as Philip Carey himself should fall victim of such treatment from an uncaring person for so long, yet, the whole purpose of the story. Without Mildred, whose makes the other female co-stars (Johnson and Dee) seem pale in comparison, OF HUMAN BONDAGE might have become as mediocre as Carye's paintings. On the other hand, the other women in Carey's life are beneficial for this shy man's self-esteem, yet worthy of recognition. Classic Philip Carey moment Telling Mildred, You disgust me! OF HUMAN BONDAGE was remade twice, first by Warner Brothers in 1946 starring Paul Henried and Eleanor Parker, set in gas-lit London at the turn of the century, as opposed to the modern-day original; and again by MGM (1964) with Kim Novak and Laurence Harvey. Though Parker tries her best making her Mildred character believable, the 1946 remake might have succeeded with the casting of British born/ American actress, Ida Lupino has she not refused the assignment. The Kim Novak carnation, which kept the first two editions from circulation for decades, ranks the weakest of the three. Interestingly, the 1934 original, unavailable for viewing and at one time believed lost, eventually surfaced sometime in the seventies at revival movie houses. Local public broadcast stations and cable television (Arts & Entertainment) followed in the 1980s and 90s. Over the years, the film has fallen into public domain with poor audio/video quality when distributed to home video and later DVD formats. The best available print for OF HUMAN BONDAGE happens to be from cable TV's Turner Classic Movies where this, the latter two BONDAGE remakes, as well as other Howard and Davis collaborations (THE PETRIFIED FOREST (1936) and IT'S LOVE I'M AFTER (1937)), are shown on numerous occasions.OF HUMAN BONDAGE, now in highest regard as a Bette Davis classic, should not go without mention regarding Max Steiner's pleasing underscoring and its agreeable supporting cast. (****) "}{"Title":"An incredible film of the greatest human tragedy","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Much has been said regarding Bette Davis's outbreak performance in Of Human Bondage and I would certainly never argue it - her acting is magnificent. As is Leslie Howard's ....the two play off of each other perfectly - Howard as the shy, introverted and self-conscious lonely man and Davis as the brash, insensitive and malicious waitress. But it's the message of this movie that is so powerful, Davis and Howard are simply the messengers, albeit great ones.Of Human Bondage is the story of unrequited love, and hopeless bondage to another. Right from the outset, the relationship Between Philip and Mildred is doomed to failure, as is Howard's to Norah after Mildred leaves him. After all - what can one really offer someone whom they do not love? It really makes no difference whether it's Midred's abusive behavior towards Philip - who is basically obsessed with her, or Philip's cool (yet still very caring) indifference towards Norah, who adores him. The end result is the same. Perhaps this movie can only really speak to those that have been through it - but most of us probably have, as this is one of the great tragic human conditions. Person A loves person B, but they love person C, and so it goes.Forget the somewhat dated dialogue and sound quality, and watch a film that transcends most others with powerful acting and an even stronger message. "},{"Title":"Not your typical romance","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Of Human Bondage is one of these old movies that fell into the public domain by lack of copyright renewal, therefore it is widely available and when I saw that it had both Bette Davis - who I enjoyed in All About Eve (1950) and What Ever Happened to Baby Jane (1962) with her characteristic gaze; and Leslie Howard who was in Gone with the Wind (1939) but also in the lesser known The Petrified Forest (1936), a friend and supporter of Humphrey Bogart he helped him rise to fame.In the film, Philip Carey is a young English man living in Paris hoping to become a painter. One night a man who he asked for advice tells Philip that he is talentless and needs to find another meaning to his life. Philip decides to become a doctor, however, a club foot severely impends on his self-esteem and confidence . When Philip goes to a café and sees the young flirtatious Mildred with another patron, he falls in love immediately. Mildred turns out to be really cold towards Philip and only uses him to go to the theater when it pleases her, while still seeing the man of the restaurant. Nonetheless, Philip decides to ask her to marry him but Mildred prevents it by saying she is already getting married. A few months later, Philip finds himself in a similar situation where a woman, Norah, loves him but he doesn't love her back. When Mildred reappears, broke, pregnant and alone, Philip can't help it and helps her, leaving Norah pondering about what happened to him. Philip and Mildred are unable to live together yet their paths will cross many times and again.The best thing in the movie has to be Bette Davis' performance of the cold and cynical Mildred. She is despicably perfect in her vanity. The main issue I had with the film is probably a very personal one, but it's the fact that a man falls desperately in love with a woman. I don't believe in such a thing. Now, I do believe a woman can take advantage of a man in this very same way, but Philip felt too at loss with his own feelings that I found it hard to believe--especially because of the fact that while Mildred is absent from Philip's life, he gladly partake in another woman's life, with or without shared feelings that remains to be seen.The dialogues are very clever, particularly the discourse which inspired the movie title about human bondage. I wish there were more to be analyzed from the line of work of Philip who goes from painting nude women to medical student to business man without particular choices, as if on railtracks. What pleased me the most was the character of Mildred, it was powerful and weak at the same time. A thin line that makes characters real.I liked Strong female lead. Cyclic. Pride and vanity - a downfall.I disliked Filming letters is annoying for the plot, I sometimes couldn't decipher them. The role of the child. Last scene with blocked out sound.73/100 Not your typical romance, fortunately carried out by two grand actors of the 30's.Read more reviews at www.theordinaryreview.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Dark but fascinating","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I found Of Human Bondage a very memorable, fascinating but dark (perhaps due to the horrible quality of the DVD - this problem MUST be fixed. The DVD I bought was terrible quality and I urge Criterion to weave its magic on it!) movie. Of Human Bondage may seem dated to some, but the concept of being head over heels with someone (who, more often than not, does not love you back) will always be relevant as it is human nature.Bette Davis is in her element as the worthless tea waitress who Leslie Howard's character falls for (who knows why? But he is infatuated with her). She makes very attempt to put him down, to shove him away and yet he still loves her and does anything for her. Personally I found this quite frustrating but I can understand it because the acting was very good - especially by Davis who is as always wonderful as ever. Her accent was pretty good but I felt she was pushing it a little bit too much at times.A little dated in some ways but Bette Davis in top form. Good film - recommended to everyone. "},{"Title":"Creaky and flawed drama is elevated by the performance's of Davis and Howard and the atmosphere","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Basic plotClub-footed medical student and artist Phillip Carey(Leslie Howard)fall's for sleazy,slutty London waitress Mildred(Bette Davis),but she ignores him when he's obsessed with her and she come's back when he's dating other women (one played by Frances Dee)with a new sexual vengeance and desire.The praiseThe performance's of Davis and Howard are both very good;you sense an excellent interaction between Davis's lightning-like,over-the-top,red-hot,tawdry performance and the understated emotion and obsession of Howard's role.These roles helped catapolt both to stardom.Also the sweaty,crowded,dark atmosphere of London help to enhance it as well.The Flaw'sDespite the performance integrity ,the film still is creaky and primitive, with some unintentional laugh's along the way.As well, the tape I saw was poor quality,diminishing the overall effect. "},{"Title":"Probably the best of the various adaptations of the book.","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Probably the best of the various adaptations of the book. Leslie Howard smoothly presents the character of club-footed Philip Carey, failed-artist-then-medical student who develops a disastrous dependency on a slattern waitress played by Bette Davis. The more she toys with him and wrecks his life, the more he tries to find some as yet untried method to make her love him. Frances Dee plays a young, dutiful, and sharply witty daughter (Sally) of a very anglo-eccentric hospital patient who, after release, takes in Carey after the waitress has financially wiped him out yet again. But the waitress will be back... The film employs a number of dated film-making techniques which can make it seem otherwise slow, and the staging is often stage-bound like a theatrical play. The writing is well-done, particularly the thoughtful dialogue,  and the main actors all give fine performances. Bette Davis, as the alternating loathsome and loathing waitress, easily centers all of the screen attention on herself.  "},{"Title":"A true classic not so much...","Date":"19 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Even if I was not expecting a full take on the long and complex novel, as I knew it focused on the gloomy romance between Philip and Mildred, I was nevertheless disappointed by this movie. Having read the book, I had my ideas about Philip, the character played by Leslie Howard. After all, he is a rather complex character&#x96; a shy, reserved boy, with an adventurous and daring side.Unfortunately, the script makes a complete wimp out of Philip and Leslie Howard certainly did not help with his very passive interpretation. Perhaps my total lack of appreciation for Howard contributed to the general feeling of disappointment about the movie.As mentioned by other reviewers, the movie comes alive only because of Bette Davis. She plays perfectly Mildred, the truly despicable maid. A cold, unfeeling, selfish, ignorant creature, so stupid to destroy the only man who loves her and herself along the way.Mildred is one of the most senselessly self-destructive characters ever. From the moment she enters the movie the audience &#x96; and Philip &#x96; are aware of what sort of creature she is. Her attitude is rude, she is vulgar and dismissive. It is almost impossible to understand what pushes Philip to pursue her, considering how she thrashes him.Also, given the cold approach of Howard, it is almost impossible to believe his character is so madly in love with her. The total lack of chemistry between Howard and Davis ruins the movie. Some of their scenes are cringe-inducing and involuntarily comic. The worst one involves Philip inviting one of his classmates to spend an evening with Mildred and him, and acting like a voyeur to their shameless flirting behavior. It is just impossible to watch without wondering what sort of man would stand that sort of humiliation.On a side note, it is interesting to note that Davis did not look particularly good at the beginning of the movie, with her classic 30's make-up (pencil thin, wide apart eyebrows which did nothing to make her bulging eyes look less protruding). However, her look improves during her descent to hell. Her hair is cut into a platinum bob; the smudged, smoky make-up around her eyes makes her face strangely modern; her whole features becomes less doll-like stylized.As I watched the DVD, I almost fell asleep towards the end, wondering how Scarlett O'Hara ever managed to be so passionately in love with Ashley, played by the very same Howard. . My apologies to Howard's fans, but I totally lack any appreciation for his skills. Bravo to Davis, as usual, but even she is not enough to make this movie a classic. "},{"Title":"The film that made Bette Davis a star","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This really is not a good Davis vehicle like Dark Victory, Jezebel, or The Letter.  This is certainly an antique, since all TV and video prints I have seen are in poor quality that cry for restoration.  Leslie Howard (who is stiff in this as every other picture he ever appeared in), plays a crippled med student who is fascinated by brutal, sluttish waitress (Davis), which eventually leads to his downfall.  The whole concept may not be that engaging, but one can see why Bette Davis became a household name after the performance she gave in this. "},{"Title":"Leslie, Bette and Mr. Maugham","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This 1934 adaptation of Somerset Maugham's novel put Bette Davis on the map as a movie actress. She might have won an Academy Award for her performance but the films was made on loan, so her studio didn't push for her. Her acting in this one doesn't come off well by today's standards. As the heartless waitress who jerks Philip, a sensitive medical student, around and nearly ruins his life, Davis is way too shrill, almost demonic. Director John Cromwell, who usually elicited good performances from his actresses, was perhaps overwhelmed by this one. Davis is watchable, for sure, but so strident and predatory as to seem scarcely human. I imagine the character of Millie as quieter, less feminine than Davis, with maybe a touch of the tomboy. Davis is such a strong, immediate presence that's there's no air of mystery to her, which makes Philip's attraction to her seem more overtly masochistic than it should be.As Philip, Leslie Howard is excellent. His wan, somewhat wilted good looks are perfect for this failed aesthete. Nor does he impose a personal interpretation on the part, as, say, Dirk Bogarde might have done, which gives his work a rare clarity. He seems completely in control here, as he should be, playing a man with a rational intellect who is in the grip of irrational emotions he cannot manage or even fully satisfy, as the object of his affections moves him in ways he cannot understand. Howard was a fine actor, too often cast in standard romantic parts which compelled him to fall back on charm, which he doesn't use here.It's been so long since I've read the book I don't feel comfortable commenting on the movie's faithfulness to it. I think it captures the spirit of the story well enough, and that it has in Howard a perfect Philip Carey. The sexual undercurrents are muted, and at times Philip behaves so masochistically that in the absence of strong sex feelings makes one wonder about the character's sanity, surely not Mr. Maugham's intention. Thanks to Howard's performance, Philip remains firmly in focus, as one can see in his various responses to and yearnings for Millie the extremes to which a reasonable intellect will go to understand the irrational, in himself and in others. Overall, a very good film, a little stilted at times, due to its age, it evokes London nicely, and is well acted for the most part. "},{"Title":"Any Bonds Today?","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Essentially this is a visualisation of the old joke about the two strangers who meet in a bar. 'I'm a masochist', says one, 'I'm a sadist' replies the other. 'Beat me', implores the masochist, 'No' replies the sadist. You have to hand it to Willie Maugham for turning a nine-word joke into a 600 page novel but maybe transferring it to the screen was a joke too far. On the other hand I have just seen it for the first time (and I've never seen any of the other versions) some 70 years after its initial release so maybe it has lost something in the interim. I admire Bette Davis as much as anyone but I found her habit of staring straight at the camera as if her words were taped there and then breaking into what can only be described as defiant cockney somewhat disconcerting. Added to this I think the last thing a girl like Mildred Rogers would do would be to have a child out of wedlock knowing the father is long gone; by nature a 'good-time' girl Mildred would have not thought twice about aborting a fetus and getting on with letting the good times roll. I found myself constantly questioning the behaviour of both Howard and Davis, him for being the perennial chump and her for not aborting an unwanted child that can only shackle her as she shackled Carey. Maybe you had to be there. "},{"Title":"Bette Davis is fantastic, but the story to this one is a little unpleasant","Date":"4 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's a little hard to watch this one, just as it was a little hard to read the novel by W. Somerset Maugham. Leslie Howard plays the sensitive, club-footed young man who falls for a lower-class, vulgar woman who manipulates and exploits him time and time again. Bette Davis plays the woman brilliantly, and for her performance I could have notched up my rating half a star. The movie has one scene worth watching in particular &#x96; the one where she viciously rips into him after he tells her that she disgusts him. Her response Me?! I disgust you? You, you, you're too fine! You'll have none of me, but you'll sit here all night looking at your naked females...You cad! You dirty swine! I never cared for you, not once. I was always makin' a fool of ya. You bored me stiff! I hated ya! It made me sick when I had to let ya kiss me. I only did it because ya begged me. Ya hounded me and drove me crazy! And after you kissed me, I always used to wipe my mouth! WIPE MY MOUTH! I made up for it. For every kiss, I had a laugh. We laughed at ya, Miller and me, and Griffith and me, we laughed at ya! Because you were such a mug, a mug, a mug! You know what you are? You gimpy-legged monster? You're a cripple! A cripple! A cripple! Despite that, he STILL returns back to her (arrgh), which is disagreeable to watch, even though he has a benign acceptance about being doomed to love her, just as a much friendlier woman is doomed to love him. And so it goes. The movie would firmly establish Bette Davis as an actress, and rightfully so, though she was snubbed by the Academy. I found it interesting to read later that there was such an uproar over it that the Academy president said write-in votes could be cast, and Davis received enough to finish ahead of one of the nominees, but not enough to beat Claudette Colbert who would win for 'It Happened One Night' (the process would be changed the following year). Unfortunately, Davis can't completely overcome the masochism of the story, or Leslie Howard's somewhat wooden performance. "}{"Title":"Human Bondage","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A young man finds himself attracted to a cold and unfeeling waitress (Bette Davis) who may ultimately destroy them both.While I am not familiar with the original book (blasphemy?), I thought this was a pretty decent film. The man with clubfoot who is treated poorly by society, possibly even within the medical profession. His friends and colleagues, and even his own supposed girlfriend, treating him like dirt.A younger Bette Davis leads the way, with many saying she deserved an Oscar for this. That may well be true. Not to be superficial, but it is interesting to note that her Bette Davis eyes make her look exotic, which would actually work against her later in life. She did not age gracefully. "},{"Title":"All About Bette","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Somerset Maugham's characters are brought to life in RKO's Of Human Bondage; but the movie is a too skeletal version of the novel, with Bette Davis' star-making performance sucking up all of the energy. Otherwise, it's the story of Leslie Howard (as Philip Carey); he dreams of becoming a painter, but is told he has no talent for the arts. As the film progresses, Mr. Howard's struggles, instead, to become a doctor. His efforts seem to indicate some bad advice regarding the arts; though successful in medicine, his painting seemed easier - also, note the symbolism of his disability, a club foot (explained in the film).Along the way (right away, in this version), Howard becomes infatuated with waitress Davis (as Mildred Rogers). Davis' characterization of Mildred is extraordinary, culminating in a spectacular speech, when she tells Howard, among other things, that she had to WIPE MY MOUTH! after kissing him. Howard also performs well, but the story fails to explain his prolonged fascination and love for Davis; so, their performances are wasted. Still, a film to watch for the acting, including some good supporting players. Davis' award-worthy characterization was famous for inspiring a write-in campaign for the 1934 Best Actress Academy Award. For the record, she placed third. The results were 1. Claudette Colbert - It Happened One Night 2. Norma Shearer - The Barretts of Wimpole Street 3. Bette Davis - Of Human Bondage 4. Grace Moore - One Night of Love ******* Of Human Bondage (6/28/34) John Cromwell ~ Leslie Howard, Bette Davis, Reginald Denny "},{"Title":"Shot Davis to Stardom","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although this film put Davis on the map due to her brilliantly intense performance as the illiterate guttersnipe waitress/prostitute Mildred Rogers, this film is strangely unsatisfying to me as a whole.  The acting is indeed fine in most every respect.  What I cannot fathom for the life of me is just how or why Phillip, a sensitive, well-bred young man would take the constant abuse this tramp constantly dishes out towards him I find his naive tolerance quite ridiculously unbelievable in certain respects.  Yes, I know he is a sensitive club-footed, introverted intellectual. But Davis is such a venomous witch that nobody that cultured would tolerate her attitude or actions and make it believable. Davis is astounding in her role yes, she may go overboard in her histrionics now and then, but it's a vividly creative portrayal any which way you look at it.  Too bad she wasn't playing a gangster's moll. Her character would have been completely believable as a tramp among low-lifes! "},{"Title":"good stuff","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, having wanted to see this for a while (I'd seen the confrontation scene where Mildred tells Philip what she really thinks of him, but that's about it) - a few points.  Yes, the print is in terrible condition even for its age and someone should restore it.  Yes, it has chopped a lot of the novel.  Yes, the performances are a bit OTT (in Bette's case) and understated (in Howard's).  But all in all it works, it is enjoyable, you care about what becomes of these characters.  Some of the camera work is great too, all those overlays and visions.  A strange film, but one which I think repays attention. "},{"Title":"Bette van Dyke","Date":"5 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A must watch film, I genuinely loved it. Easy to watch and get drawn into, not that dated at all, and a good story we can all relate to.Lots of reviews here waxing lyrical about Bette Davis' bawdy performance, and in general I go along with them, bar her pitiful attempt at a cockney accent.Its worse than Dick van Dykes (Mary Poppins) and I never thought I'd say that about anyone. Dick had a naiive comedic consistency in his americanised version. Bette is all over the place, mainly sounding like a posh girl pretending badly to be cockney and throwing in intonations I've never heard anyone speak. Very false and messed up, and irritating - but that is what she's portraying too, so it kinda works. She was either sheltered and made no attempt to get out and hear how people speak or she wouldn't have dared do what she did, or else she has no accent skills.Beyond the accent, yes, Bette makes the film funky and fun. The other actresses I think perform better, are more convincing character wise. Kay Johnson (Norah) is stiff upper lip British and understated, a mirror to Leslie Howards character, though lighter. Frances Dee (Sally) plays a young girl who accepts her place with a charm and a wisdom beyond her years - and is the heavenly beauty of the film.Watch, enjoy, and indulge in reminiscences of the unrequited loves in your life. "},{"Title":"Not About S&M!","Date":"31 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is based on the story by British author, Somerset Maugham. The story begins with a struggling artist, Philip Carey (played wonderfully by the late Leslie Howard). He is advised that he's a mediocre artist. With that, he returns home to London and goes to medical school. There he becomes infatuated and in an unhealthy relationship with Mildred Rogers (played wonderfully by the late great Bette Davis). I'm not going into the controversy of why Bette Davis was not nominated for an Academy Award for this performance. I know that she has done brilliantly in other film roles and would be awarded two Oscars in her lifetime. Anyway, the film really concentrates Philip Carey's character who was born with a club foot which makes him walk funny. His handicap is barely noticeable to the audience but the character feels it so self-consciously. His relationship with Mildred's character is complicated. The film is not about bondage at all which was not even discussed in that time. In fact, the film is about unrequited love, obsession, infatuation, and unhealthy relationships. It's still relevant to today's world. "},{"Title":"Haunting","Date":"1 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie gets one thinking about the nature of love, about the hidden and unhidden elements of relationships. Through the main characters' on and off romance, the subtleties of the dynamic between man and woman is explored in its extremes.A movie can't treat this as thoroughly as a well-written novel. It has to become its own thing and express in its own way, which this movie does brilliantly. Leslie Howard and Bette Davis gave some of their best performances in this movie, and truly gave us reason to feel for each of the characters and want the best for them.Leslie's performance make me wondered why he's not mentioned more often as one of the greats of this era. Bette's work on this film underscores why she is mentioned so much as a screen legend. Just before watching this, I watched Petrified Forest with him and Bette Davis and it was equally impressive in a totally different way. Where that movie was tight and terse in its plot, this one was just as much so in its characters. It turns out to be a very nice exploration of what makes us fall in love and fall out. "},{"Title":"Morbid Drama","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an interesting adaptation of W. Somerset Maugham's most famous novel even if it is not a particularly polished film. Cramming a long novel into a film that runs for less than 90 minutes is a large task for director Cromwell, yet the pace and major storyline arcs of Maugham's work remain intact.The central plot revolves around a club-footed young man's' encounters with a slutty waitress. Leslie Howard, of Gone With The Wind (1939) fame as sensitive Ashley Wilkes, plays sensitive Phillip here in an understated yet beautifully presented performance. Bette Davis is Mildred, our waitress friend who Phillip is 'bound' to and who creates havoc in Phillip's life. Davis gives an eye catching, memorable performance with some powerful dramatic moments, yet she overacts horribly in a number of crucial scenes- and let's not start on the Cockney accent debate! Bette sounds like a parody of Miriam Hopkins' great Cockney accent in the earlier Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde, especially in her astonishment over Howard's' offers of 'Champaaaaagne!'.The film has some major problems with technical efficiency- sound and camera-work. This is an early talkie, made for the low-budget RKO studio, and is therefore fairly static, yet when compared to the other low budget success of 1934, Columbia's 'It Happened One Night', it barely rates.A dark drama with great themes (the idea of each person being bound to another beyond their control is poignant and thought-provoking) and good acting but with an undeniably 'unfinished' feel to it. "},{"Title":"Not a great as suggested","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a well directed film from John Cromwell who was not a great director but who did make some fine films including the 1937 version of 'The Prsoner of Zenda'. Set in a London that only Hollywood could manage, atmospheric but nothing like the real thing, it is a story of obsession and thwarted love, from the novel by Somerset Maughan.I was looking forward to seeing it on DVD as I had never seen it before and being a great admirer of Bette Davis wanted to see her in a role considered one of her early great ones. So I bought it. Well she looked fine but I'm sorry to say her London cockney accent just made me laugh. Bette Davis was one of the greatest film actors, make no mistake, but here she did make one. It was impossible to take her character seriously. It wasn't as gruesome as the Dick Van Dyke 'Mary Poppins' cockney accent but close.In the other major role was Leslie Howard and he did it superbly. He was a subtle and intelligent actor The supporting actors acquit themselves well. Worth watching despite Ms Davis' vocal gymnastics. "},{"Title":"Bette Davis...","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although Bette Davis did a WONDERFUL job as Mildred, I felt that the film wasn't the best I had seen. At the end of the movie I was left feeling like there was something missing in it.Bette Davis did a perfect job, though, and she made me hate her and pity her all the while. Leslie Howard did very good as the lovelorn Philip Carey, and I so pitied him throughout the movie for being in love with such a horrible dame. It's such a sad thing when one finds him/herself in love with a bad seed. And especially if it's someone like Philp Carey, who is a sensitive person, though pathetic.In the end, the acting was what came through and not the plot. The ending scene was particularly good, but I am not one to give it away. Although others may find this movie good, I was one who found it so-so. I should recommend this movie to those who like a bad seed so they can see what may happen to them if they find themselves in love with that horrible person. "}{"Title":"Human weaknesses laid open for each of us to see","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is good reason that Somerset Maugham's story is a true classic. That's because the characters portrayed byLeslie Howard, whose bondage to his weaknesses, and his strengths, is solidly played to reveal the process of being human so we all can see how big decisions are best made;Betty Davis, whose performance, though somewhat forced in her early career, none the less provides the crucial lynchpin of evil and pain that comes from an unloved early life;andFrances Dee, who, though young yet deeply talented, shows us the absolute power of love.While many cite the importance of this role to Bette Davis' career, this reviewer finds that the now mostly forgotten Frances Dee, whose real beauty is not only in her gorgeous appearance, but even better is in the rock solid foundation of her own ability to portray the absolute strength of love.It is hard for this reviewer to not be entranced by Frances Dee. Her work in this film is the real show stealer. Frances Dee worked in at least 51 films over from 1929 to 1953 in 4 four decades. Frances Dee's beauty of face and character give a powerful example of how we all can live. Much more recognition needs be given to Frances Dee.In the now course, mean and mostly nasty times since the 1960's, it is Frances Dee's performance, and Leslie Howard's portrayal of of the rough individual road to redemption from our own weaknesses, that is why W. Somerset Maugham wrote the story, and why Frances Dee shows the magical wonder in us all.When I took the time to think through the whole film, and it's underlying message, I found myself personally enhanced by Frances Dee. "},{"Title":"interesting","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My mom is the classic movie watcher and is a fan of Bette Davis. I didn't realize she went this far back in films. As far as the movie is concerned it just goes to show that being demented isn't new under the sun. A definate must see! "},{"Title":"First great Bette Davis movie...","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've been reading many of the comments about this movie from my fellow IMDB-ers and one thing has come up in several messages.  The fact that people do not like the quality of the film.  As in the fact that it is over 65 years old, black-and-white, crackly and probably not in the best condition.  Do not hold this against the movie, y'all!  It's not the movie's fault it hasn't aged well.  And if you cannot bear the less-than-Titanic quality of the picture itself, you probably should not be watching a movie made in 1934.With that said, I must say that this is one of my favorite movies, for one reason and one reason only.  Bette Davis.  After watching it a few times, I fast-forward through the parts with Leslie Howard and his chums at school, or him and his various good girl girlfriends, or whatever else.  Bette is the only redeeming quality in a movie that suffered at the hands of the Hayes Code, a less-than-perfect script, etc.  She is wonderful in this as the bitch of all time without the obligitory heart of gold, Mildred, as she chews up the scenery (and gets away with it) for the first time.  Who can't love her in the scene where she chants You cad, you dirty swine!  I never cared for you, not once... and so on.  I am a big one for melodrama, and if you are too, I highly reccomend this movie.I truly believe that if you love a movie, you can mock it.  I love this movie, but boy can I mock it too!  Y'all know the scene where she's really whored-up and goes to Leslie Howard with a really charming hacking cough. He looks down her throat and she croaks, It's not me lungs...is it? Sure, Mildred.  He can see all the way down your throat to your lungs.  Actually, Mildred had syphillis, but in the old movies, syphillis and TB were really pretty interchangable. "},{"Title":"One of the best adaptation of a difficult novel","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film again and noticed how close it is to the novel if we ignore the part about Cary's Leslie Howard childhood. Considering thatat the time not much can be shown on the screen, not that there is much in the novel the obsession of the character with Mildred Bette Davis is very well conveyed to the audience. I recommend this film to anyone who ever fell for another person and the other side tried to take advantage of him or her. I have read that Maugham was asked to make a recording of the novel for sale, but when he started to in the studio he began crying and could not finish more than a few lines and whole project was chucked. One can tell the novel is written from the heart and the film is a goodadaptation of a part of it at least. "},{"Title":"A good story spoiled by a sanitized script","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Leslie Howard is great, given that the material wasn't that terrific. Maugham's morality tale has been changed into a semi-potboiler - something maybe more palatable to societal tastes at the time. The religious overtones are gone and so is the hubris.Bette Davis gives an overly dramatic, hammy performance - but you can see the brilliance in her that was to come later. This movie is interesting for just this reason, you can see these actors at a younger age. I can't recommend it otherwise, however. "},{"Title":"A cautionary tale of a thoroughly poisonous female.","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film should be mandatory viewing for 15-16 year old boys, that they may better recognize this brand of thoroughly poisonous and destructive female portrayed by Davis' character when they first make her acquaintance. Too many good men have ultimately lost their souls by becoming enamored of such a creature without any prior warning or experience, tragically mistaking this sort of female for an actual human being, deserving of care and compassion.  Davis did a fine job of portraying the kind of irredeemable succubus that the writer evoked (exorcised?) with such chilling accuracy. It is painful to watch the fine performance of Leslie Howard as the long suffering and credulous gentleman who mistakes this demon for a flesh and blood woman, worthy of his love.  Even when his painfully acquired insight reveals her for the filth that she is, the worst emotion that his gentle nature will allow is pity, rather than the utter condemnation that she deserves.For a character very evocative of Davis' portrayal of Mildred, Elizabeth Taylor's role in _Butterfield 8_  paints a picture of a very similar woman, though perhaps complicated by the barest hint of a conscience.  "},{"Title":"Showing its age","Date":"5 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Oh dear, how this film is showing its age the endless fades, the wooden acting, the actors twenty years too old for their roles. Perhaps also it is that the very ideas and themes are showing their age. In a modern era, Leslie Howerd's character just seems wet rather than sensitive - you wish the guy would just grow a pair; the attitude to his club foot seems horribly unenlightened in an era where we say 'disabled', not 'cripple'; and Mildred's 'shocking' behaviour and ultimate fate seem laughable and judgemental. Bette Davis's Cockney accent is dreadful, poor lass, but having said that, her acting is the only good thing in this film Leslie Howerd is dire and the only bit-parter worth his salt is Alan Hale the characters of Harry, Sally, Sally's father and Norah are all poorly drawn and the film attempts to cover far too long a time span. Although I am a huge fan of vintage movies, including silents, I was able to watch this particular film only as a curiosity piece. Worth watching perhaps once for the costumes, furniture and Bette Davis's eyes. "},{"Title":"Great Talky film","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Another comment about this film made it sound lousy. Given talking pictures were so new - I think the script and acting were good. Davis was so young and fresh. She had not yet found her own style that we had grown to expect. Yet it is great to see her this way - still learning the craft.So many clichés came from this film and it seems, this film blazed some trails for the next 70 years. My vote is see it and remember how young this type of film was. Keep and open mind and you maybe shocked at how troubled the characters were in this picture, for being 1934 and how we view the early part of last century as uptight.. I love it and hope you make up your own mind about it not influenced by others negative and one note comments. "},{"Title":"Let me just put readers straight about one thing...","Date":"22 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Bette Davis' cockney accent in this film is absolutely appalling. I totally understand that Americans and other nationalities mightn't realise this and that's fine; but believe me, it's about half as good as Dick Van Dyke's cockney accent in Mary Poppins, and that was a right load of old pony (slipped into London vernacular there - many apologies).The remarkable thing to me is that the strange accents and exaggerated acting styles don't detract from the films' power. Of Human Bondage is a fascinating piece of cinema despite its superficial faults. It also has to be viewed in perspective. The technical and cultural limitations of film making at the time have to be appreciated, and given those limitations John Cromwell does a very good job directing the camera and allowing the narrative to develop cinematically rather than solely via the mannered acting and stilted dialogue. A fine example of his skillful direction is the scene set at Victoria Station. It is beautifully conceived, shot and edited. Note too the stark shots of the prostrate Mildred towards the end of the film; they owe more to the early days of artistic film making than the sanitised, formulaic world of the studio that was about to dominate.The themes of the film are universally familiar and compelling ones sexual obsession, unrequited love, scorned passion, self-loathing, manipulative relationships, social divides and youthful folly. Though the dialogue is often rather hackneyed, the difficult task of portraying these themes and the inner lives of the characters is tackled well albeit in a low-key way. Some of the scenes of obsession and emotional rejection are uncomfortable to watch but the story doesn't descend into cliché; we're aware that the characters (even the poisonous Mildred) are both victims and perpetrators, and that their actions are motivated by their misunderstanding of each others feelings as well as by wilful selfishness. Whilst naive in style the story reaches to the complex heart of the human condition and the mannered nature of the acting and the occasionally grating exchanges don't diminish the veracity of the work.Of Human Bondage was one of the films that got Bette Davis noticed in Hollywood and whilst watching it you are conscious of being witness at the birth of a celebrated career. Her unconventional beauty and screen charisma (no one flounced or did disdain quite like Ms Davis) grab your attention from her first appearance. Whilst hers is definitely the memorable performance in the film, Leslie Howard is also excellent as the sensitive and fragile student Philip Carey. They are a good combination, though, why oh why didn't he help her with that terrible, terrible accent!? "},{"Title":"Frankly Scarlett, I forgive You","Date":"21 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Leslie Howard is only remembered today for marrying Scarlett in Gone With The Wind. Considering Howard would die in 1943 at age 50, that is not a surprise. He died as a casualty of the war. When you look at the work of his career, the legacy he left behind is impressive. He starred in 34 films, produced & directed several films and even found time to do some soundtracks to a couple of films, and wrote some films too. A busy 50 years.Here he is the main man with a problem that he had on Gone With The Wind too. He is in love with a waitress (Bette Davis) who does not love him. She runs off twice having a child with one of them, but when she comes back he welcomes her despite her indiscretions. Meanwhile, he gets attention from at least another beautiful woman but chooses to keep the living together relationship with the woman who spurned him. At one point in this film he utters to her, I know that you will never love me, which is not unlike a line he makes to Scarlett 5 years later.Howard is excellent here and Davis playing the bad girl is great. She throws what you can only call a hissy fit at one point in the movie that is great acting. Even though she is back after 2 lovers, she destroys everything that Howard holds of value. In the long run, this comes back to bite her as she winds up on the streets with him.Based upon W. Somerset Maugham's novel, this film is a solid drama that holds up well considering when the film was made. Frances Dee & Kay Johnson are featured in the cast. "}{"Title":"Don't read the book.","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie may be great. I just watched it last night, but feel unable to give an honest opinion of it because I read the book first. The book is so much better than the movie that I was disappointed with the film. If you plan to watch Of Human Bondage, don't read the book beforehand. On the other hand, the book is so good, and contains so much more than the love affair Phillip has with Mildred, you could still enjoy it after seeing the movie. I do not make this claim lightly. I average reading a book every 4 days, and read such disparate authors as Danielle Steel, Ovid, Faulkner, Plato, and Shakespeare. Of Human Bondage gets my vote as one of the top ten novels ever written. "},{"Title":"Notable for the Early Bette Davis Performance","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I saw that this film was only 80 minutes long, I thought we were in trouble. Condensing the gigantic W. Somerset Maugham novel down to a movie that clocks in at under an hour and a half seemed like a disaster waiting to happen. But you know, the movie's not half bad, and it even manages to retain much of what makes the book resonate so much with its readers.I've heard many film buffs complain that Leslie Howard was a wet noodle of an actor, and he was, but I can't think of anyone more suited to play the role of Philip Carey than a wet noodle, for that's certainly what Carey is. Howard plays him well, which means you want to shake him and slap him upside the head repeatedly, then finally take him out and buy him a spine.Ah, and then there's Bette, as the girl with whom Carey is obsessed and who brings his world crashing down around him. I didn't know what on earth the appeal of Mildred was in the book, and the movie stays true to that detail. But as played by Davis, she does become the most fascinating character in the story, and if she's nasty and unlikable, she's at least the most dynamic person on screen at any given time. Davis's performance here is credited with changing the course of screen acting, much as Brando's would do nearly 20 years later when he screamed out Stella!! in that little-known Tennesee Williams play, and it's not hard to see why. Davis is intense to the point of scary. She makes no effort to wring any sympathy from the audience, and she allows herself to look ugly and most unglamorous. Her appearance when Carey walks in on her late in the film to find her dead or nearly dead of an unnamed disease (though not much care is taken to hide the fact that it's an STD) is shocking. Of course, it helps that this movie squeaked out just before the Production Code went into effect; if it had been made a year later, you can bet things would have been a bit different.Yes, much of the novel, and many of its most interesting parts, are left on the cutting room floor, and the story really does become about Carey and Mildred and not much else. I found that to be the least interesting and most tedious part of Maugham's novel, but it is the part that gives the novel its title and seems to be the part that readers are still drawn to now, so it strikes me as a wise decision on the part of the film makers that they chose to adapt the novel the way they did.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"The role that made Davis a star","Date":"25 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm well aware this was the role that made Bette Davis a star, and was the cause of the Academy allowing write-in nominations. As it is, Davis is fantastic, playing the awful Mildred with such intensity and effective ferociousness that it was no doubt something shocking to see a woman playing back in the day. She's truly incredible here and I think people will only know of the film because of her. But Leslie Howard provides the heart, and you definitely feel for him while still being frustrated with how much he pursues Mildred. This is definitely recommended in more ways than one, and it's a pity that it doesn't seem to be available that much to be able to see. "},{"Title":"A Star is Born","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After failing as an artist, a club-footed man becomes a doctor and becomes romantically obsessed with a waitress. This adaptation of the Maugham story is little more than a dreary soap opera. The filmmakers have done nothing to raise it to anything more than a static, dull drama. Although the doctor is supposed to be a depressed character, Howard is still lackluster in the role. Davis fares better in the star-making role of the conniving waitress, a part she had to fight for after a series of forgettable films. Sporting an English accent, she does chew the scenery but also provides about the only reason for watching this lackluster film. "},{"Title":"Davis gives a no-holds-barred performance in flawed first rendition of Maugham's book...","Date":"4 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" W. Somerset Maugham's novel, about a guttersnipe waitress in London who becomes the object of a smitten doctor's obsession, becomes intriguing film giving Bette Davis one of the first startling, showy roles of her early career. This melodrama, later remade in 1946 and 1964, has a tendency to plod along, with disappointing cinematography and art direction (the look of the film seems wrong, artificial instead of gritty). However, when mercurial Davis is front and center, one is apt to be drawn in simply by the look on her face or by the delivery of her lines; Davis is so certain of her talents by this point, she cannot help but be mesmerizing--to us and to herself. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Every Time I had to Kiss you I had To Wipe My Mouth!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie saddened me and Ms. Davis's performance was great. Leslie Howard's addiction to her saddened me as he took her back time and time again. I don't care if Bette was a little overdone. SHe practiced for this role for a LONG time and she played the tacky trashy Mildred to the hilt. I almost felt sorry for her as her downfall (death) happened. But my real sorrow went for Leslie Howard who was a Fabulous actor and played his part with excellence. The other remakes were pretty well but this was the BEST. My opinion of course. Good film. It's almost a drama/horror film. This was only a part of the original book by Somerset Maugham's wonderful work. But it really hit me right in the gut, like a movie should . It shows how one's man's addiction to a heartless woman(or man) can wreck your life. As in ( we hurt the one's we care about) See it. Too bad the production code came into Hollywood That very year by the phony Will B. Hayes "},{"Title":"This film is great!","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bette Davis gives her best and is very believable despite the other comments that have been made. This is a true classic. Leslie Howard is also very believable in his role. I definetly recommend this true classic film. They dont make them like this anymore. "},{"Title":"a dreamy, beautiful masterpiece...","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the most striking qualities of this film is its hazy, gauzy, beauty. While this can be directly attributed to its age, each scene melts seamlessly into the next with watery dissolves and smooth fades.  Visually, this motion picture is pure art. Of the many splendid scenes, take note of the first date that Phillip and Mildred share. The glorious imagery of Bette Davis sipping champaignwhile her beautiful eyes lift above the glass is a classic example of herquintessential star quality. Leslie Howard carries himself with a dapper grace throughout the picture as well, despite his challenging role as a club footed cripple. This film is also very well cast. Many of the characters are extremelyendearing. However, regardless of her role as a vile, ill-mannered, and vulgar waitress, Bette Davis steals the show. While the theoretical politics surrounding her inability to garner an academy award for her performance might seem trivial by todays standards, it is a role that should never be forgotten amidst heraccomplished career. Of Human Bondage is a beautiful story, tragic and bittersweet. It is a movie that can be appreciated on many levels, most likely for its aesthetic grace and simplicity. It evokes dreamlike visions of ill-fated romance and mysteriousnostalgia for a distant past.  "},{"Title":"Good Performances In A Disappointing Movie","Date":"1 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Leslie Howard and a very young Bette Davis were both pretty good in this movie about a young medical student who becomes infatuated (obsessed might be a better word) with a waitress he chances upon who, while not returning his feelings of affection, is quite willing to get what she can out of the relationship. Aside from the decent performances from the leads, however, I found the story to be lacking and at times illogical. In fact, it might be an exaggeration to call this a story. It feels more like a study perhaps of obsession (and even the title implies that feel.) The illogic of obsession comes across quite clearly, since there was nothing in particular about Mildred that I thought should have led Philip to this obsession. Yes, in the early part of the movie she was quite cute, but her personality and clearly expressed lack of interest in Philip surely should have led him to back off. There was nothing here that particularly captivated me and held my attention. It seemed like the kind of movie you just had to glance at every few minutes to see what was happening without any real sense that you had missing anything of note. Overall I found it a disappointing movie, held together by Howard and Davis and by little else. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Of Human Bondage-Bette Davis At Her Best ****","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Outstanding Bette Davis film of 1934. Davis gives one of the best performances imaginable, as Mildred the cockney ed, cocktail waitress, bored and frustrated with life, who unleashes utter havoc to Leslie Howard, who befriends her, in a memorable tirade.Davis sure proved that she was entitled to outstanding roles after this film. The venom that she let loose at a poor unsuspecting Howard was memorable. How she screamed that he made her sick and how much she hated him. How she tried to wipe away from her mouth any reminders of his touching her, this was truly an amazing display of acting. Ironically, Miss Davis was not nominated for a best actress Oscar here. When she failed to be nominated, she became a heavy write-in candidate. That practice is now barred by Academy rules.As the victimized suitor, Howard showed the right temperament. Again, he showed himself as an Ashley Wilkes-like character-subordinate and easily dominated. "}{"Title":"Try following the book, or at least believable characters","Date":"9 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Such a disappointment after many readings of the W. Somerset Maugham's novel. The charm of the book's is main character, Philip, his struggles with poverty, a lonely childhood, fascination with Mildred, and other issues that are resolved beautifully by the author are totally missing from this movie.The movie begins with Philip as a full grown man. What motives are there for the viewer to understand his behavior? Nothing.The low-life played by Betty Davis is a huge turn-off. Gack! Who but a masochist could be attracted to her? The Sally of the movie is nothing like the Sally of the book.The books development of Philip and Sally's relationship has no development that is tender or shows Sally's character as in the book.Philip's internal dialog in the book as he ponders not living with Sally, is barely given account.So much of the book is missing this movie is a skeletal parody at best. "},{"Title":"A Feisty woman battling life in a man's world!","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Here in Of Human Bondage Bette Davis plays Mildred Rogers, a woman perceived as cold and nasty. This interpretation is a man's perspective of what was essentially a strong and feisty woman buttressed by her proletariat fighting spirit. As such, Mildred does not suffer fools, and moreover won't settle for second best.But the consequences of this in a man's world mean that Mildred succumbs to being labelled a slut, impoverished and eventually diseased with the final outcome her death. That is what happens to women who don't conform to man-made rules is ultimately the film's message. And Bette Davis does a sublime job of conveying this.But Davis' portrayal of Mildred has succumbed to criticism all the same. This is perhaps because Davis made an inadvertent portrayal of Mildred since the character was essentially an acting tool to further her own career in the art of film. Davis pulls it off though, and as such she succeeds.No less than a great film with a brilliant performance from Davis! "},{"Title":"Abbreviated version of the Maugham book is strictly '30s type of melodrama...","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bette Davis got her first chance to sink her teeth into a meaty role when Of Human Bondage came her way. She is stunning in several scenes but makes the viewer wonder what Philip (Leslie Howard) sees in her that makes her so much a part of his obsession. She alienates the viewer early on and makes you realize what a fool he is by continuing to subject himself to her boorish behavior. The story was more believable in the Somerset Maugham novel. Here it is reduced to the 1930s style of steamy melodrama--and by the way, the film itself has a very dated look in costumes, sets and the overall quality of the acting styles. Davis, as usual, is a bit over the top although her performance is an impressive one.For a deeper look at this story, by all means read the novel. The film is merely an outline of the novel with all of the substance missing. "},{"Title":"Gem of a Classic Film","Date":"12 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Betty Davis, (Mildred Rogers) gave an outstanding performance that will be admired for many generations and the great acting of Leslie Howard, (Philip Carey) who fell madly in love with Mildred. Philip was watching Mildred working as a waitress in a London café and fell immediately in love and he went way out of his way to win her heart and this feeling never left him. However, Philip had a club foot and was really a shy quite man and his relationship with Mildred was horrible because Mildred looked down on him and played around with other men right in front of Philip. Philip is trying to become a doctor and is going to college and trying to study and Mildred disrupts his whole career and then has a baby from someone else and Philip still loves and protects her. Betty Davis and Leslie Howard were both made for this role and it is a film you can see over and over again because it is a Gem of a Classic "},{"Title":"interesting curio that doesn't age well","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film has been praised as Bette Davis' breakout film and it did help to elevate her previously mediocre career. However, this performance so praised in its time, doesn't age well and you might incorrectly assume she wasn't much of an actress if you only saw this film. SOME films from the 1930s haven't aged well and overacting was more common. The acting style in the film is rather histrionic and the plot seems very old and haggard by today's standards. Also, it must be pointed out that only a few years later, her acting was to evolve into true artistry and I believe she was one of the greatest actresses of all time. Just DON'T be mistaken into believing this movie is on par with such greats a Now, Voyager and All About Eve! "},{"Title":"Poor sound","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Beware of buying the VHS tape as the sound is terrible. I kept rewinding to understand what was being said. And then there's the humming background. Awful. Black and white. Funny as the box says High Quality VHS. Commercialized in 1984 when they should have known to perfect the film where you can hear it. First role for Bette Davis and one among her best. Set at the turn of the century the story shows the tragic passion of a crippled young doctor (Leslie Howard)for a lowbrow, cockney waitress (Bette Davis). Rejecting him she still uses him when she is in need. A tale of human love and folly that remains a powerful, gripping, emotional experience from 1934. "},{"Title":"To Call This 'Drivel' is to Give Undue Praise","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Two of the most unattractive stars of Hollywood 30s team up to give 'life' to a poor conversion of what was already a pulpy novel to begin with. It's no exaggeration to say that this Mills and Boon reject could easily have been the product of some 16 year old schoolgirl's frustrations of unrequited love. Practically anyone who can work a typewriter can write a story like this. It's akin to sitting in front of a piano, randomly making pleasant sounding harmonies using the white keys, then claiming you've written a symphony. Whilst it may sound pleasant enough, it would exhibit none of the skill and brilliance that would make it true art. So it is with this &#150; anyone can imagine a series of events and write them down, then claim they have written a screenplay. But it takes knowledge of story construction and a great deal of skill to create gripping, emotionally involving drama. The only emotions created by this dog of a story are frustration and bemusement as to how anyone could think this was a good idea for a film.The screenwriter doesn't appear to have a grasp of the basic structure of drama. For example, all the setbacks are resolved within minutes of screen time. That's not drama! That's like television, where everything has to be resolved quickly to fit within a 22 minute episode. True drama is about struggle &#150; the protagonist rising up and using all his strength to attain the central goal. In this movie, a setback occurs, and then like clockwork, its resolution conveniently appears out of the blue in the next scene.This pattern of wasted opportunities continues until towards the end, when Mildred is about to do something that would have created real tension and interest &#150; I found myself thinking oh no, Mildred! Don't do that! And what do you know? She didn't do it. Another opportunity wasted. So much for drama! Perhaps the single biggest problem with the story is that the central concept &#150; a man's obsession with a woman &#150; is ridiculously unbelievable. Howard's character, Phillip Carey, is a semi-respectable gentleman, and yet he somehow manages to fall head-over for a vulgar wench of a woman who is completely devoid of all charm. A few insulting words from her at a café and suddenly he's on cloud nine. She continues to abuse him and treat him like an automatic teller machine; she still has absolutely no charm and nothing in common with him, and yet he still feels compelled to leave a much more attractive and charming woman for her, and even fantasises about her to the point of distraction during his medical exam. This particular sequence was so ridiculous that I almost laughed out loud. It was rather like seeing Phillip fantasise about John Cleese in a dress, doing his 'handbag lady' character. That anyone could possibly find Mildred attractive is well beyond my ability to suspend my disbelief and this is a fatal flaw given that Phillip's obsession is the central theme of the film. The ability of the audience to identify with the protagonist is a crucial element of successful drama and it is sorely lacking here.The fact that Bette Davis was nominated for an Oscar for this performance really shows just how meaningless an accolade they truly are. Had she portrayed Mildred with initial charm and attractiveness, then little by little revealed her corrupt, selfish interior, then perhaps the performance would have been something to admire. Instead, she portrayed Mildred as the ghastly, vulgar gold-digger she was right from the beginning and destroyed any concept of how Phillip could possibly have fallen for her. They might as well have cast some vulgar cockney waitress off the street in the role, for all Davis brought to it. Similarly, Howard displays the same adequate but charmless, boring mediocrity he brought to every role he ever played.The obligatory credit-where-it's-due part at least the directing is slightly cinematic, rather than just being a filmed play, as many of these overly talky 30s films tend to be. With that aside this movie is, in a word, abysmal. In five words it is laughable, nauseating, boring, contrived and unwatchable. If it's pain you want, save yourself the 90 minutes by sticking your hand in a pasta maker instead. "},{"Title":"Movie Odyssey Review #111 Of Human Bondage","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 111 Of Human Bondage (1934) - released 6/28/1934, viewed 8/24/08.Franklin Roosevelt signs the Securities Exchange Act into law. Donald Duck makes his debut in the short 'Wise Little Hen.' BIRTHS Harlan Ellison, Bill Moyers.DOUG IMPORTANT NOTE If you are a Netflix person like me and you are thinking about checking out Bettie Davis' breakthrough movie, rent the one called Pre-Code Hollywood Of Human Bondage. The other one is a horrible, horrible transfer that looks and sounds like twenty miles of bad road. On to the review This was my first Bettie Davis movie. I didn't really get into this movie; it just smacks of one of those prestige films that the Academy force-feeds you at Oscar time. Davis' accent bounces hopelessly between upper-crust and Cockney. Her performance is interesting to watch all the same, especially her famous meltdown scene. The cinematographer does everything possible to show off Davis' good looks where necessary (the song Bettie Davis Eyes was written for a reason). There is some good drama in this movie to be sure, but I didn't enjoy watching Leslie Howard (he of Gone With the Wind fame), playing the ultimate shlub, kicking a perfectly good woman to the curb and abandoning a perfectly good life and maybe even a decent career as an artist because he just can't deal with his childish obsession with Davis' lunatic albatross. Once Howard sets out on this foolhardy journey, I pretty much lost interest. As I said, this was my first Bettie Davis movie. I'm sure they'll get better down the road.KEVIN First off, let me say that this movie didn't really impress me. I can see why it was Bette Davis' breakthrough, as she does have a few memorable scenes, despite the fact that her character is really quite shallow. There is no real reason given as to why Mildred is such an ungrateful, two-timing hag. Leslie Howard's Philip, though bland much of the time, still manages to convey a lot with a single deadpan expression. There was a standout cinematography trick where the scenes between Philip and Mildred are played mostly with straight-on POV close-ups, rather than the usual over-the-shoulder shot, which made the otherwise standard scenes more memorable. I was surprised to find this in the Pre-Code Hollywood The Risqué Years Collection, as I didn't find it all that risqué. **SPOILER ALERT** In the end, the evil Mildred gets her comeuppance by dying miserable and alone, and Philip gets over it and lives happily ever after. What could be more code-approved than that? **END SPOILER** Overall, I found this potentially complex love-hate story severely lacking in depth.Last film The Thin Man (1934). Next film The Count of Monte Cristo (1934). "}]