[{"Title":"The best of all Frankenstein films!","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"105 out of 115 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Their are few sequels that are superior to their predecessors, however, Bride of Frankenstein not only equals it's masterful original prototype Frankenstein (1931), but infinitely surpasses it in every way. Despite the first films reputation as a classic, it's honestly not quite as witty and is much too straightforward when being compared to much more satirical, Bride of Frankenstein. Not to mention, it lacks much of the sophistication in the effects and eccentricities that the immortal sequel possesses. Needless to say, both films are justly hailed as classics, but it's the immortal sequel where James Whale's combining of horror and wicked humour (and hidden inflammatory work) is expressed more clearly and more prominently.After initially refusing to do a sequel to Frankenstein, director James Whale would eventually falter when Universal agreed to let him have complete artistic freedom. Production was much-publicised as early as 1933, however, Whale, who was following his towering success with Frankenstein, The Invisible Man, and The Old Dark House, wouldn't begin working on a sequel until late 1934, which was originally entitled The Return of Frankenstein. The film was adapted by William Hurlbut and John Balderston from an incident from the Mary Shelly novel Frankenstein, in which the monster demands a mate. However, in the novel, Dr. Frankenstein creates the Bride, but instead of bringing the monster to life, he decides to destroy it, greatly differing the film adaptation from the novel.Most of the original cast remained, as the film reunited Colin Clive (as Dr. Frankenstein) with Boris Karloff (as the Monster), but Mae Clarke, a blonde, who was dropped from Universal was replaced by then seventeen year old Valerie Hobson, a brunette (as Elizabeth). Clark was acceptable in the role as Elizabeth in the first film, however, Hobson excels when in comes to chewing up scenery; therefore handles the role much better in the sequel. Both Marilyn Harris (Little Maria from Frankenstein) and Dwight Frye (Fritz from Frankenstein) would return as well, but as different characters - Harris appearing uncredited and Frye appearing in another memorable role as Karl. Also, new characters were brought to the forefront Ernest Thesiger (as Dr. Pretorius) with Una O'Connor (as Minnie) and Elsa Lanchester having a dual role (as both Mary Shelley and The Bride).Unfortunately, Clive had suffered from a broken leg during most of the filming - a result from a horseback riding accident - and most of his scenes were shot sitting or laying down. However, once again, Clive did an absolutely incredible job portraying Dr. Henry Frankenstein and proved to be a perfect choice yet again. Though, for much of the film, he takes a backseat to the fine and unique acting of Thesiger, who gives an unforgettable performance as the mad scientist named Dr. Septimus Pretorius, who much of the film revolves around. There is a sexual uncertainty to Pretorius' character and many suggestions of homosexuality. With the films masterful blend of horror and black comedy, it's Thesiger who shines best and in many ways the film is stolen by him when he's seen on screen; the equally charismatic O'Connor works best when playing directly opposite of Thesiger.Bride of Frankenstein is also presented with the same terrific German expressionist camera-work by cinematographer John J. Mescall, although reportedly drunk through much of the production, uses brilliantly effective camera movements and angles that added eminently to the creation of the Bride scene. Mescall also composed a number of bizarre and inventive angles that intensified Thesiger's skeleton-like frame and vivid characteristics aiding his already superb performance. Although for Karloff, the four hour makeup job done by Jack P. Pierce, which was blue-green in colour, gave Mescall nothing but problems. The film is also accompanied by a fascinating score composed by Franz Waxman, which is nothing less than a masterpiece of excitement and melody. Though it wouldn't be Waxman's most mature work, it most certainly remains one of his most famous and probably his most influential.Much of the film concerns itself mostly with the Monster (Karloff) trying to find a place in the world and his growth; much of his character is seen as a humanely being craving for the company and acceptance of others but is mostly rejected. He fails to seek friendship with the young shepherdess (Ann Darling); with the Monsters experience in the first film with Little Maria, he knows that he must save her from drowning. Of course, everyone finds him too frightening, however, in one of the many incredible scenes the film provides, the Monster is eventually provided with sympathy and encouragement when he encounters the old blind hermit (O.P. Heggie), who becomes the Monsters first true friend. Karloff's performance is truly remarkable, as it was in Frankenstein. Although, he opposed that the Monster speak, his character benefits greatly from this, as he finds room to expand on his already brilliant craft.The memorable sequence of bringing the Monster's Bride (Lanchester) to life is unequaled - even the original scene in Frankenstein pales in comparison. The presentation of the birth of the Bride is stunningly as well, as Clive exclaims She's alive! ALIVE! Lanchester who only stood 5'4 tall was placed on stilts that made her 7'0 tall, as well as, her unforgettable shock hairstyle which stood up and hinted that the electricity had shocked her to life was held by a wired horsehair cage. Also, her darting swan-like movements were inspired by the angry swans in London's Regent Park. Although, the Bride's appearance is extremely brief, it's most certainly worth it, especially when she finally encounters the Monsters.The macabre, satirical Bride of Frankenstein is a key film to the horror genre (perhaps the best) and one of the genuinely great films of any genre. It's one of the most wonderfully crafted films in cinema history and is easily lauded as Whale's finest screen hour. This one has rightfully deserved it's ranking amongst the best of what Hollywood has to offer. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Whale's world...","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"87 out of 101 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forget the likes of The Godfather II and The Empire Strikes Back - Bride of Frankenstein is THE greatest example of a sequel completely surpassing the original in terms of sheer brilliance. Coming four years after the original 'Frankenstein' in 1931, director James Whale was originally reluctant to make a sequel but changed his mind after being allowed to make the film more on his own terms. No other director has ever managed to blend horror, comedy and pathos as successfully Whale. The film features some of the most memorable scenes in cinema history, notably the monster's encounter with a lonely hermit and the introduction of 'The Bride'. The film has it all superb casting, tremendous sets and make up, memorable dialogue (To a new world of Gods and monsters) and a brilliant score by Franz Waxman. Boris Karloff must surely be one of the greatest actors to ever appear on film. He manages to improve on his initial characterisation of the Monster, due mainly to the addition of dialogue (Friends, good!), and, unlike in the first movie, actually makes us feel total empathy for the Monster. Colin Clive returns as the reluctant Doctor F, Una O'Connor makes a wonderful addition as the twittering and hysterical Minnie, but it is Ernest Thesiger who steals the film with his hilarious performance (Have a cigar. They are my only weakness) as the sinister Dr. Pretorious. Although Elsa Lanchester appears as the Bride for only about 2 minutes at the film's finale, it will be the role for which she is forever associated. The film is regarded as the high point of the Universal horror series and stands as a testament to the genius of James Whale. "},{"Title":"Without a doubt THE greatest sequel ever, and a strong contender for the greatest horror movie of all time!","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"80 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  James Whale's 'Frankenstein' was a landmark movie (released in 1931, a year of two other landmark movies, Todd Browning's 'Dracula' and Fritz Lang's 'M'), and one of the most important and influential movies ever made. 'Bride Of Frankenstein' is a very rare beast, a sequel which not only equals, but surpasses the original! In my mind it is the greatest sequel in the history of motion pictures, and a strong contender for the greatest horror movie of all time. It's certainly one of the most original, stylish and entertaining ones, that's for sure. Horror legend Boris Karloff reprises his role as The Monster and manages to top his brilliant original performance, and give his character even more depth and emotion. Colin Clive reappears as Dr. Frankenstein, and legendary character actor Dwight Frye (Fritz in the first movie and Renfield in 'Dracula') plays another memorable supporting role as Karl. The beautiful Valerie Hobson replaces Mae Clarke as Elizabeth (a smart move!), and the eagle eyed with spot future stars John Carradine and Walter Brennan in bit parts, but the best thing about the movie apart from Karloff, is the addition of Elsa Lanchester as The Monster's bride, and the wonderfully eccentric Ernest Thesiger as the nutty and sinister Dr. Pretorious. Karloff, Thesiger and Lanchester between them are responsible for some of the most memorable scenes in cinema history, particularly the I...love....dead....Hate....living exchange, the sequence with the blind hermit (absolutely heartbreaking!), and of course, the totally unforgettable meeting between The Monster and his mate! This is still an astonishing movie experience almost seventy years after it was made. Every single time I watch it I marvel at it. 'Bride Of Frankenstein' is one of the best movies I have ever seen, horror or otherwise. This movie comes with my highest possible recommendation! "},{"Title":"Campenstein!","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"71 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Series note Although not imperative, it is strongly suggested that viewers take time to watch Frankenstein prior to Bride of Frankenstein. This is a linear continuation of the story of the first film, and the characters and motivations will have more meaning if you watch the series in order.Despite appearances to the contrary at the end of the first film, Frankenstein (1931), the monster has survived. The quickly recuperating Dr. Henry Frankenstein (Colin Clive) is paid a visit by Dr. Pretorius (Ernest Thesiger), who has been engaging in similar research into the creation and restoration of life. Although Frankenstein wants to quit the business after the atrocities documented in the first film, Pretorius tries to persuade him to continue, while at the same time, the monster starts to become more sophisticated.Although many fans prefer Bride of Frankenstein to Frankenstein, they are both 10s to me. Given tastes and typical comments about modern horror films, it is surprising that this film is the usual preference, as it is even more rooted in surrealist/absurdist fantasy and it is loaded with a wicked, campy humor--at times the film is more of a spoof of the first than a sequel.But at that, I love it. I love fantasy, surrealism and absurdism and I like my horror to be campy and humorous as much as I like it to be serious. Director James Whale had acquired more Hollywood clout in the four years since making the original film, and said that he wanted to treat Bride as a hoot--he found the premise to be highly amusing. And that it is. Whale gives us whimsical elements from minor characters, such as Minnie (Una O'Connor), who provides a healthy dose of comic relief during the monster's resurrection, to major characters' mannerisms, such as the Karloff's portrayal of the monster's newfound abilities and subtlety. Pretorius has a flamboyantly questionable sexuality (the film is permeated with all manner of complex sexual metaphors) and his creations are as bizarrely goofy as say, Jar Jar Binks (from Star Wars Episode 1 (1999)), although they do not dominate the film in the same way.Often noted as a standout element are the sets, and rightly so. Like the first film, the gorgeous sets show a heavy influence from German expressionist films, but here they are even more grand in scale and they are also more numerous and varied. The cinematography is as crisp as can be, and just as atmospheric (occasionally more so) as the first film. The presence of a score this time around works well, although the first film is just as notable for its ability to be just as dramatic without a score.The story in Bride of Frankenstein is much more sprawling and epic than in the first film. That fact neither makes it better or worse, but pleasantly different compared to Frankenstein's relatively tight, almost claustrophobic plot (which is appropriate for the subject matter). While Karloff's zombie-like muteness from Frankenstein was perfect in that context, it makes sense to have him mature here, and provides for some fantastic scenes, such as his interaction with the blind hermit (O.P. Heggie). Whale also chose to be much more literal and straightforward with the ethical and religious subtexts of the plot, and this film is notable for the large amount of verbal and visual references to God and Christianity--the visual references include the monster being hoisted on a pole as if being crucified, the monster descending into a grave with a crucifix looming over him, and a crucifix over a bed upon which the camera lingers.I actually prefer to think of Frankenstein and Bride of Frankenstein as two halves or a single film, and given their short running times, they can be viewed back to back in about two and a half hours. If you haven't seen either one yet, you owe it to yourself to watch them at least once. "},{"Title":"One of the all time classics from the silver screen","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"58 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This review also refers to FRANKENSTEIN (1931).The epitome of the Universal horror classics made by one the greatest practitioners of the genre, James Whale. He always wanted to be an A-list director and used to have mixed feelings about his horror work. Reluctant to make a sequel, he managed to assure himself of complete creative control over the project, putting together a unique blend of horror, suspense and tongue-in-cheek comedy that was quite unlike anything made before and has rarely been equaled ever since.It has been noted, but the original 1931 FRANKENSTEIN should be seen first, as this one picks up the storyline where FRANKENSTEIN left off. Considering the combined running time of about 140 min, both films can easily be watched back to back.The story sets off with a clever prologue between Mary Shelly (a short but great performance by Elsa Lanchester who also plays The Bride) and Lord Byron, who asks her to continue the tale of Dr. Frankenstein. Still recovering in his castle after the escape of the Monster, he is visited by the even more insane Dr. Pretorius (Ernest Thesinger). He is also experimenting with creating life (the miniature humans) and tries to persuade Frankenstein to join forces in order to create a female companion for the Monster (Boris Karloff), that is still at large wreaking havoc in the surrounding countryside.Although both films are justly hailed as classics, in my opinion BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN holds up much better to modern audiences than the original. Basically two things stand out a great music score is added, which make everything seem much more alive and fast moving than in the original film. Secondly, the black humor and it's sense of self-parody, spoofing the genre and even underpinning Whale's earlier films greatly adds to the fun, compared to the much more basic and primitive FRANKENSTEIN. Admittedly, this is partly due to a larger budget, but combined with the fabulous production values, splendid sets, stunning photography and absolutely striking special effects, that still look pretty amazing, even by today's standards. I was stunned by the scene in which Dr. Pretorius shows off his miniature people, that he keeps in the glass jars. Even modern-day special effects specialists couldn't figure out how they did it. I don't know anything that comes even close until computer-generated effects took over.The eccentric Ernest Thesinger plays the role of his life and almost walks away with the film with his wonderful portrayal of the menacing Dr. Pretorius, who delivers one classic line after another. But the rest of the cast is just as good with particularly outstanding roles for - off course - Boris Karloff as the Monster, Elsa Lanchester in a dual role as The Bride (billed as ?) and Mary Shelley, and Una O'Connor as Minnie, Frankenstein's servant. I think it's one the very few films that can be enjoyed at almost any level, equally fun for (older) children and lovers of classic horror. This film proves that horror can be funny and intelligent and can be combined with splendid cinematic virtues. Not just Whale's best, this is one of the all-time great films.Camera Obscura --- 10/10 "},{"Title":"The Monster is More True to Shelley's Vision","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"52 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When Ernest Thesiger points and says, The bride of Frankenstein, rolling his r's, he creates one of the greatest scenes in cinematic history. I do consider the second film superior to the first (though I love them both) because of the complexity of the characters and, more specifically, the monster. In Shelley's book the monster is lonely but articulate. He seeks out a bride. Frankenstein creates one but then destroys her, making his creature furious and vengeful. This monster actually has a kind part to him. For him to be blunt force thug can only go so far. It works in the first film but how much more growling and stomping could there be? The scenes of him wandering in the countryside, meeting the lonely old blind man in the house in the woods, and being shown kindness by him is very touching. The monster is allowed some humanity; some privacy. We know this can't last because his creator has doomed him. We often see Victor as some kind of hero, but, in reality, he has committed an incredible sin against another being. He wants a companion, but she turns on him and destroys his hope.The setup, with Elsa Lanchester as Mary Shelley, talking with the foremost romantic poets of the time, Percy Shelley and Lord Byron (who also rolls his r's), is a great lead in as she brags about writing a story that will make your skin crawl. She must have been something in that male dominated society. Of course, her mother was one of the first to demand rights for women. When she reappears as the Bride, it is awesome. And who came up with the hair. It is one of those things like the monster's neck bolts, that has become such an icon for our culture. These early Universal films deserve to be judged as major movies. Just because the subject is horror, doesn't mean they should be dismissed. James Whale was a great director with an amazing vision. "},{"Title":"Best horror movie of all time","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"44 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Without a doubt, this is one of the greatest horror movies of all time and the highlight of James Whale's career. The atmosphere evoked from the sets is near perfect, and although actually filmed on the Universal back-lot, you can believe that you are being led through a 19th century Bavaria. Although Karloff portrayed the monster only 3 times, this was undoubtedly the pinnacle of his career, and the film that most fans will remember him for. Mention should also be made of the excellent performance given by Ernest Thesiger as Doctor Pretorious. I've been interested in movies since I was 4 years old and have Bride of Frankenstein to thank for that. Superb. "},{"Title":"One of the Great Classics of the Genre","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"47 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Interestingly, Whale did not want to make a sequel to his incredibly successful 1931 FRANKENSTEIN, and bowed to studio pressure only when he received assurance of absolute control. The result is perhaps his most personal film--a strange collage of Gothic horror, black humor, religious motifs, and sexual innuendo--and one of the great classics of the genre.The plot elaborates an idea contained in the Mary Shelly novel Frankenstein is pressured to create a mate for the monster. In Shelly's novel, the doctor eventually balks; in the film, however, he sees the experiment through due to a mix of his own obsession and the manipulations of a new character, Dr. Pretorious, and the two create the only truly iconographic female monster in the film pantheon of the 1930s horror film The Bride, brilliantly played by Elsa Lanchester.The cast is excellent throughout, with Colin Clive and Boris Karloff repeating their roles and Frankenstein and the monster, and Valerie Hobson an able replacement for Mae Clarke in the role of Elizabeth; Ernest Thesiger and Una O'Connor also give incredibly memorable performances as the truly strange Pretorius and the constantly hysterical maid Minnie. The art design is remarkable, and the Waxman score is justly famous. But the genius of the film lies not so much in these new and bizarre characters, in the familiar ones, or in the production values it is in the way in which Whales delicately balances his elements and then subverts them.FRANKENSTEIN owes much of its power to its directness--it has a raw energy that is difficult to resist, still more difficult to describe. But THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN owes its power to its complexity. Nothing here is quite what it appears to be, and throughout the film we constantly receive mixed messages about the characters and implications of their situations. While Thesiger's Dr. Pretorius is justly celebrated as a covert gay icon of the darkest possible variety, and while many people quickly grasp Whale's often subversive use of Christian imagery, the film has many, many layers that do not reveal themselves upon a single viewing.The single most startling sequence, at least to my mind, is the famous scene in which the Monster stumbles into the lonely cottage of the blind hermit, a role beautifully played by O.P. Heggie. On the surface, the sequence would seem to be about how cruelly we judge people by appearances, and how true kindness can lift the fallen. It was not until I had seen the film several times that it dawned upon me that Whale has essentially endowed the a scene with a host of covertly homosexual overtones--and then tied them to a series of Christian elements for good measure. It is startling, to say the least.The current Universal DVD release is exceptional, and the film is supported with an interesting documentary and a still more interesting audio commentary track. Critics and fans continue to battle of whether FRANKENSTEIN or THE BRIDE is the better film--but I say they are so completely different that the question simply doesn't arise. Whatever the case, if you are a fan of 1930s horror and James Whale in particular, this is a must own see, must own.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Is it possible to improve on perfection ??","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"37 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first saw Frankenstein (1931), I was amazed. It was one of the greatest stories I ever saw and it impressed me on so many levels. I honestly didn't think I would ever see such a great phenomenon again. Well, I should reconsider that. The sequel is even more magical, more impressive and more perfect. The bride of Frankenstein can easily be considered as the best horror movie ever made and it even ranks high it the list of best movies in general ever made. The atmosphere, the locations, the acting and direction...really nothing at all can be criticized. Compared to what everybody thought, both the Monster and Dr. Frankenstein survived the incident at the windmill at the end of the original Frankenstein. While the Monster flees to freedom, Dr. Frankenstein is approached by Dr. Pretorius. A wicked scientist who created life himself, but he needs the genius of Dr. Frankenstein to complete his project. Although he swore to his girl Elizabeth he would stop playing God, Frankenstein is intrigued by the the project of Dr. Pretorius and joins his research. Meanwhile, the Monster is feeling terrible. He realizes he scares everybody away and only found friendship with a blind man. During this absolutely beautiful and magical scene he learns to talk and express his emotions. When he's hunted down again he meets Dr. Pretorius and demands him to make him a friend. Because of this, Dr. Pretorius can force Frankenstein to create life again. If he doesn't, Elizabeth shall die... This movie gives a completely other meaning to the word sequel. When this word is heard, people usually think about an inferior product which was made to make more money. This certainly isn't the case for The Bride of Frankenstein. Hard to believe, but this movie, in fact, ADDS a lot of great things to the saga of Frankenstein. It handles even more about the human emotions and contains some very important lessons. We also see a lot more about the personalities of the characters. The Monster of course, but also Dr. Frankenstein and his girl. And a few great new characters are introduced. The blind man to begin with...An adorable man who is as lonely as the creature. He doesn't judge on what he sees ( well, he can't of course ) and searches for deeper feelings. The character of Dr. Pretorius is fantastic also. A wicked and obsessed man, who doesn't care about normal life. He's rude and emotionless and terrific as the bad guy in the story.The story opens with Mary Shelley telling the complete story. This immediately sets the perfect atmosphere which is held during the whole movie. No doubt about this...one of the greatest masterpieces ever seen. If you haven't seen it yet, do whatever it takes to get a copy !!! I gave the original Frankenstein a rating 10 out of 10, so I guess there isn't a rating that is high enough to praise The Bride of Frankenstein. Just as good as cinema can get !!! "},{"Title":"Bride of Frankenstein (1935) ****","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"32 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Reactions to this, James Whale's ageless masterpiece, are varied; some say it just could be the Greatest Horror Film Ever Made, some think it's just an overblown tongue-in-cheek comedy sham. Probably Whale himself would have been the first to label his picture a farce, but count me among those who think it's a brilliant piece of work, well in consideration as one of the undisputed top-tier horror classics of any decade. It qualifies as horror, but mostly plays along more like a child's twisted storybook fantasy. It's renowned as one of the few movie sequels which may be considered even better than its original (in this case, that would be James Whale's 1931 FRANKENSTEIN). While I think both films are excellent, with the first being more serious in tone than its follow-up, I'd give the hair's edge to BRIDE.Boris Karloff returned to portray the Frankenstein Monster, and he gives what is easily one of his finest performances. Here, the scarred creature emerges from the charred windmill he was burned in, and falls into the unscrupulous hands of the demented Dr. Pretorius (Ernest Thesiger, note-perfect in a part he seems born to play). Pretorius was once a colleague of Henry Frankenstein, the monster's creator (Colin Clive), and now connives his way back into the disinterested Frankenstein's life just as he's about to wed his fiancé, Elizabeth (Valerie Hobson). This time, the idea is to fashion a female for the creature, and Pretorius enlists the hulking Monster as an anxious partner into his scheme.Karloff gets to talk as the Monster in this film, and while the actor himself believed it was a mistake to give the creature speech, I must respectfully disagree; it made him even more pitiable and human. The film's most wonderful sequence features the wandering creation stumbling awkwardly into the hut of a lonely blind hermit, who cannot see and therefore is unable to judge the Monster strictly from his unnerving physical appearance. Instead, he offers the creature food, water, and a place to sleep, while teaching him the most basic forms of communication. It is a truly great cinematic moment.There is very little to quibble about within this film (Valerie Hobson's hysterical Elizabeth comes the closest at achieving that), and Whale's passion for lightweight comic relief in his horror films works perfectly. Aside from Thesiger's Pretorius, much of that comes courtesy of Una O'Connor, who is a delight as Frankenstein's sniveling maid. Elsa Lanchester immortalized herself forever with her electrified hairdo as the Monster's intended Mate, and she is also seen early on in a dual performance prologue as the more dainty Mary Shelley, the author who penned the nightmare. Franz Waxman's glorious score punctuates the wondrous proceedings. **** out of **** "}{"Title":"Impressive Though Over Analyzed  Horror Movie","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One problem with film criticism is to over analysis a film and read things in to its subtext which just aren't there . THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN is a very good example of this . Once someone points out the fact that director James Whale was a homosexual it opens the floodgates for people reading the film in a way no one originally envisaged . We're shown an opening scene where Lord Byron describes himself as  England's greatest sinner  and as the film progresses we're introduced to nods and winks to a sin of that dare not be explicitly referred to . Instead we see Doctor Pretoruis , a sort of precursor to Quintan Crisp who is described as  queer looking  drinks gin , makes a queen and suggests that he becomes a partner of Baron Frankenstein . Oh purleese . Do you honestly think Whale made this film as a type of gay manifesto ? I'll say one thing about movie directors and that is they have kept a lot of pretentious pseudo intellectuals in a job As a form of entertainment ( Yes films are produced as a form of entertainment and to make money for studio investments ) THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN is very impressive . There is an irony showing the character of Mary Shelley because our thoughts of FRANKENSTEIN owe more to James Whale and Universal studios than they do to Shelley . I doubt if very many people have read the original text but we're all aware of the image of Boris Karloff staggering around a studio interior forest growling . The studio forest depicted in this film are obviously stage sets but are very impressive What Whale has done is to mix pathos with a grotesque sense of humour . I thought after seeing YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN I could never take the scene of the monster turning up at the blind hermit's cottage seriously ever again but after seen the movie it remains a touching , poignant segment of the film and Karloff elicits great sympathy from the audience . There's also a surreal image of Doctor Pretorious feasting in a crypt and while there's absolutely no logic for this scene ( Unless he is clairvoyant and knew the monster was going to turn up ) it remains a striking and morbid image James Whale directs at a very good and brisk pace and with his  midget people  he brings a sense of wonder that would have had audiences gasping  How did he do that ?  but I don't think it's his masterwork , that would almost certainly THE INVISIBLE MAN from two years earlier , a film slightly more enjoyable due to its insane , dark humour along with jaw dropping special effects . The narrative itself is rather episodic and plot less and the mix of different accents grate slightly with Una O' Connor playing an irritating comic character but it's still an impressive film though over the year's has become over analyzed by people who should know better "},{"Title":"First rate and  awesome sequel as good as the original Frankestein","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This sensational sequel deals about the Dr. Frankestein (Colin Clive), and the Dr. Pretorius (a sinister Ernest Thesiger) who are coerced by the monster (Boris Karloff) into creating a bride (Elsa Lanchaster in a double role also as the novel's author, Mary Shelley) for him.The classic actor of horror movies named Boris Karloff is magnificent and Colin Clive brings a strong portrayal of the scientific attempting to create a new monster changing hearts . Atmospheric, slick terror film , creaky at times but it's still impressive. The film displays excellent set design , ambitious screenplay with too many eerie scenes and adequate interpretation for all casting. Boris Karloff does a top notch performance in the role which made him a terror movie legend,it still stands as one of the great screen acting. Dwight Frye also is excellent in a similar role to Igor in a brief performance. Furthermore in role very secondary appears E.E. Clive as burgomaster and John Carradine as a hunter at the hermit's cottage. Special mention to Una O'Connor as sympathetic servant and of course Ernest Thesigher as mean scientific creator of homunculus. Appropriate musical score by Franz Waxman and dark black and white cinematography full of lights and shades by Mescall. It's followed by ¨House of Frankestein¨, ¨son of Frankestein¨, ¨Frankestein meet the wolf man¨ and ¨ The Zingara and the monsters¨ in which as the title suggests, various of Universal's most famous monsters confront and fight among them . The motion picture is masterfully produced and directed by James Whale who already directed his former classic horror film, ¨Frankestein¨. Rating  Top-drawer terror film, essential and indispensable watching. "},{"Title":"One of the more superior sequels you'll see and another superb addition to the Universal horror archive.","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of Frankenstein is definitely one of the more memorable sequels of all time. The first Frankenstein film was a truly memorable exploration of horror and was extremely advanced for its time; dealing with issues of modernity when the doctor starts talking of space travel and also pushing censorship to levels it hadn't been pushed to before; having characters exclaim they 'knew what God felt like' and also including images of dead bodies and murder. With Bride of Frankenstein, certain elements of surprise have been lost but the film delves deeper into its characters and explores different things to make it more of an 'entertaining' film.The film doesn't hang around and cleverly introduces the story through the original author Mary Shelley (Elsa Lanchester) dictating what it is that happens next. For a film in 1935 to use such a technique and manage to include elements of heartbreak when we assume Dr. Frankenstein is dead, horror when The Monster re-emerges AND murder when someone mistakenly crosses him all in the first ten minutes or so, is extremely impressive and is only the result of fantastic direction through great, inventive ideas.Then, the film uses the character of The Monster as a sort of MacGuffin. It is reduced to a wondering, babbling, hulking thing getting into mischief as it makes its way through the forests nearby but this isn't a bad thing. What we see is the first example of the characters in this, so far, series of two films develop. The Monster starts to develop emotions of pity when it sees someone in the forest in trouble and attempts to rescue them as well as intelligence because it manages to get itself out of trouble when danger threatens it &#150; there is no excuse for this development of ideas and intelligence but it's interesting to see anyway.What's more, this wondering and random character is a great excuse for it to cause havoc and/or get into adventures of its own and this it does to a basic level. Apart from stumbling across a picnic of some description when everyone assumes its safe since when last they heard, he'd been captured; The Monster gets involved with a seemingly lonely man who lives in a log cabin in the woods. The curse here to me is that I'd seen Kenneth Branagh's 1994 Frankenstein before this so I knew what was up and how things would develop.As a result, it was predictable to me but to fresh eyes what follows between The Monster and this man is an education and a friendship that truly supports evidence that this film really is all about developing characters such as The Monster further away from the 'dead' tag and closer to the 'human' tag. Not only this but Dr. Frankenstein himself is leaning more and more towards a 'normal' life away from insane experiments; tempted back only by blackmail. About half way through, Frankenstein's creation manages to get himself into a bit of trouble and is caught but escapes so soon afterwards, the sequence passes off without too much suspense or interest which was disappointing; also, the character of Minnie is so obviously an attempt at comic relief that she becomes annoying quite quickly although I suppose they had to include this character to stop the film appearing too dark.If Frankenstein from 1931 was an out and out horror shock&#150;fest for the time, Bride of Frankenstein remains a character piece full of 'what would happen if.....' a mindless, homicidal lab creation was loose in rural Europe. Some of the later scenes still made me squirm a little when the 'mate' is being created and if you can look past the rushed ending; you'll see a sequel to a film miles ahead of its time, ahead of its time. "},{"Title":"A Prisoner Of His Own Creation","Date":"16 January 2009","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Universal Studio in the height of the Hollywood Studio System was famous for three things that kept it in the black besides those famous studio tours that survive to this day. The Deanna Durbin musicals, the Abbott&Costello comedies and those great Gothic horror films with Dracula, The Wolfman, The Mummy and most of all Mary Shelley's Frankenstein. Those sets were used over and over again, you can recognize them if you're a real student of the genre. Although some have criticized it, I rather like the beginning of Bride of Frankenstein in a Regency drawing room where the creative minds of Lord Byron, Percy Shelley, and Mary Shelley are meeting. Of course the subject gets around to how she would continue the story, it just can't end right there. So while Gavin Gordon as Byron and Douglas Walton as Percy Shelley listen, Elsa Lanchester as Mary Shelley starts to tell about the further doings of her characters.Of course Colin Clive as Victor Frankenstein thought dead when he was brought out of the ruin, turns out to be alive, but in need of medical attention. The monster is also not dead, he's been put together even stronger than an ordinary human. As is first two victims he kills the parents of the little girl he killed in the original Frankenstein film.While Clive is recuperating at home under the care of his wife played here by Valerie Hobson, Clive receives a visit from his former teacher and mentor who originally aroused his interest in experiments along this line. Ernest Thesiger is Doctor Praetorious, a scientist whose reputation is more dubious than that of Frankenstein. He's been experimenting with bringing people back to life and he shows his little creations to Frankenstein. What he describes sounds a lot like cloning Mini Mes as Doctor Evil did. But DNA was not heard of back in the early 19th century.He thinks they ought to combine there efforts and create a female back from the dead to be a mate for the Frankenstein monster. Who knows if the big guy gets a little something something at home, maybe he won't have quite such a bad attitude. When the monster after wreaking havoc again on the countryside is finally back in the Frankenstein laboratory, he insists on a 'friend' for himself. It's a real mess that Clive has gotten himself in again.Bride Of Frankenstein with that incredible climax when the monster tries to court his bride will still give you frights for weeks on watching it. The Gothic horror atmosphere that James Whale created on the Universal sets is still capable of creeping one out. Boris Karloff did not repeat his monster role after this and Colin Clive died in 1937 before the next Frankenstein film was made. Still the cycle may have been the most successful of all the Universal monster franchises. It certainly my favorite of all of them. "},{"Title":"Hollywood's Strangest Sequel?","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The only thing odder than director James Whale making Bride Of Frankenstein after Frankenstein would have been if George Lucas had made The Empire Strikes Back as a musical.Whereas Frankenstein presented a serious-as-death horror flick, Bride presents us with over-the-top comedy. The continuity is off, with some characters like Victor and the Baron disappearing. Others reappear played by different actors. Most seriously, the most important role, and one played by the same character, goes from being a mute walking corpse to a chatty dancing machine, albeit still with homicidal tendencies.Okay, the Monster (Boris Karloff) doesn't dance so much as bob his shoulders in time to violin music, and his chattiness is mostly monosyllabic. Though last seen pinned under a burning rafter, he emerges in Bride none the worse for wear. Soon he is loose in the countryside again, while Dr. Frankenstein (Colin Clive) is approached by the mad, amoral Dr. Pretorius (Ernest Thesiger). Pretorius demands Dr. Frankenstein take responsibility for his creation and replicate his success by building another beast.The comedy of Bride would be more welcome if it worked within the context of horror. Instead, it feels absurd for the sake of absurdity, like Una O'Connor playing the hysterical servant Minnie or the tiny people Pretorius keeps in jars. Frankenstein works as an exercise in existential bleakness. Bride plays itself off as a nihilistic joke, less a true horror film than a Monty Python bit with lamer humor.What does work in the film is Karloff as the Monster. Despite the miscue of letting him speak this time, Karloff does bring empathy to his role. It's enough to almost allow for Whale's unsure handling of his character. Half the time the creature is a mad killer, and the other half of the time, merely misunderstood. At least with Karloff at the controls, you know the Monster will give the right amount of chills, and he does.Also good is Dwight Frye, returning from Frankenstein this time in the role of another henchman figure, just as compellingly creepy. Thesiger is also compelling that way, a lively figure amid an otherwise sleepy cast. You and I have gone too far to stop, nor can it be stopped so easily, he tells Frankenstein. To the Monster's comment I love dead...hate living, Pretorius deadpans You're wise in your generation. He's a bit problematic in his arch drollery, but at least he adds to the proceedings, even if he distracts from the film's menace.Whale doesn't do nearly so well with the other actors. Even Clive seems miscast playing the role he established so effectively four years before. The story goes off in weird, unresolved tangents like the strange fate of the Neumanns that never are properly explained. None is weirder than the opening, where we see Frankenstein's creator, Mary Shelley, with her lover Percy Shelley and their friend Lord Byron. I should say Lorrrrrd Byrrrrron for the way the guy rolls his R's. (I enjoyed haygraphs bright comment from March 2004 about how the prologue has the characters looking back on events taking place a century hence.)Whale may be celebrated today as an early gay director, but his penchant for jump cuts, awkward close-ups, and florid overacting should have stayed in the closet. Bride may have a certain camp sensibility its enthusiasts enjoy, but as a horror film it is neither scary nor successful. "},{"Title":"Triumphs of horror and horror parody lumped together with twisted genius befitting its creator","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While most films celebrated as genre classics generally function to fulfill the set of expectations associated with them in the cultural lexicon, James Whale's Bride of Frankenstein marks one of the most pointed examples where one's enjoyment of the film could prove largely contingent on watching without being bogged down by expectations. After vocally disdaining the idea of a sequel to his initial horror classic, Whale instead runs with the opportunity to play with an expanded budget and deliver even more surreal, somber yet gruesomely funny metaphoric musings on life, death, conventional relationships and sexuality and more, all under the guise of straightforward Gothic horror. And Bride of Frankenstein could still easily be appraised as a classic 'traditional' horror movie strictly, but remaining unaware of Whale's fiendish playfulness would doubtlessly leave many a viewer scratching their heads as to many creative choices. The trick is to regard Whale's approach as half self-parody, half serious and all willfully weird, extrapolating (and in many ways 'remaking') his initial classic in a subtly experimental, conflicting yet successful tonal fusion. Alternating between moments of high camp (the bizarrely flamboyant character of manipulative scientist Dr. Pretorius feels a cheeky prodding of the regulations of the Hays code) and heartbreaking poignancy (the Creature's infamous encounter with a blind hermit and the unforgettable reaction of the Bride laying eyes upon her 'friend' for the first time), Whale's film is a perpetually unsettling watch, darting between tone and approach for the sake of an unexpectedly arresting product.This is not to say the film is without fault the reigniting of elements of the first film feels largely contrived (turns out the Creature isn't dead! Nor is Frankenstein! Let's toy with morals and build another monster!), though whether this is a self-effacing joke on Whale's part or not is unclear. Equally, when viewed without the context of its predecessor, the primary characters do feel noticeably underdeveloped, and there lies an uneasy use of cinematic metaphor, whether religious (one scene, in which the Creature is bound and carried on a log, blatantly evokes Christian iconography) or a bizarre underlying theme of the dangers of substance abuse (the Creature's gruesome reputation is partially equated with its gorging itself on cigars, alcohol, food and lusting after women). Nonetheless, Whale retains his flair for filling films with delightfully gruesome, cartoonish supporting players (Una O'Connor's screeching maid toes the line between hilarious and infuriating) and phenomenal set design, torn between solemn Gothic and discordant expressionist terror, giving the film a uniquely disturbing aesthetic. No matter how much the film creeps into oddity, Whale always capably anchors it throughout from descending into surreal chaos, delivering a remarkable balancing act whose clashing elements serve to only make their points more effectively. Reprising his iconic horror creation, Boris Karloff proves most adept at bleeding aching pathos from his misunderstood Creature's whimpered attempts at human contact, as scenes of him ferociously snarling and stumbling around risk being (un?)intentionally funny. Colin Clive, the 'straight man' anchor to the variable strangeness surrounding him, hits a sturdy balance between charm and nervy perfectionism as Dr. Henry Frankenstein, and Valerie Hobson instills a considerable earnest glow into her limited scenes as Frankenstein's fiancé. Elsa Lanchester delivers a dual triumph of performances as both a savvy Mary Shelly in the film's prologue and matching her astounding hair and makeup job with an equally nervy and fascinating performance as the Creature's 'Bride'. That said, it is truly Ernest Thesiger who walks away with the show as the delightfully strange Pretorius. Though verging on feeling downright out of place, Thesiger's grimly knurled face and mad giggle somehow manage to epitomize the spirit of the picture though almost too strange to fit, somehow ambitious and deadly twisted enough to transition from comical spectacle to deadly serious moral manipulation. Though it seems the cultural lexicon has largely forgotten how strange and self-effacing the film truly is, Whale's Bride of Frankenstein boasts a fearless flair for experimentation, thematic exploration and tonal fluctuation to match its iconic visuals. As telling as any of the potential for mad visions unleashed on mainstream entertainment, Whale's work, though more tempered by age than many of its kin, still stands out as essential viewing for fans of horror, cinematic fun and psychoanalysis alike. -8.5/10 "},{"Title":"The Monster Returns!","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1818, Frankenstein; or, the Modern Prometheus was first published anonymously in London. Audiences in France would later discover in its second publication that the story was a product of a young and dark imagination. That imagination, aged 19 years, was Mary Shelley. No one could have predicted that her novel would be produced into a film over a hundred years later and her beloved monster would instantly become one of the most recognizable faces since the inception of film. It was never Whale's intention to make a follow-up film to 1932's Frankenstein but under certain contractual obligations and a substantial amount of pressure from executives, he finally agreed to make another film based on the Frankenstein monster. The original working title was known as The Return of Frankenstein but was changed to Bride of Frankenstein based on a small story arc in Shelley's novel. So, now that we've thoroughly explored the in's, out's, and around's, we have a solid background to build upon and we're ready to continue onward. So&#x85;onward!The story opens with Mary Shelley, Lord Byron, and Percy Shelley seated comfortably in a sitting room discussing the horrors of her novel. Mary states that a moral lesson is to be drawn from her tale and goes on further to explain that other events occur after the initial story's final act. Subtle screen transitions then depict the closing scene from the first film, as the Frankenstein monster escapes from the burning wreckage and flees into the woods. Meanwhile, Dr. Henry Frankenstein's body (his name was originally Victor but for reasons unclear to me they changed it for the sequel) is recovered and brought back to his fiancée Elizabeth (Valerie Hobson replaced Mae Clark who played Elizabeth in the first film). Henry is approached by his former mentor Dr. Septimus Pretorius (Ernest Thesiger) and expresses an interest in furthering their research. These introductory elements head smoothly into a classic moral tale.Bride of Frankenstein celebrates the same lavish sets and cinematography that helped make the first film beautiful. If you take the time to admire the set design it becomes clear that amazing things were produced 75 years ago &#x96; there are still several sequences where I had to ask myself, I wonder how they did that? We could agree on how similar these devices are but a welcome addition that you'll find in Bride of Frankenstein is the use of comic relief, especially from Dr. Frankenstein's housekeeper Minnie, played by character actress Una O'Connor. The presence of this comedic effect is quietly slipped into the dialogue but if you pay close attention and have an offbeat sense of humor you may pick up on it. In some ways it's refreshing to watch an enjoyable sequel without the overuse of marketing campaigns and slogans that slowly bleed dry the film's worth &#x96; but even in the '30's, sequels exhibit cliché moments to capitalize on the first film's success. Show business is show business but I've chosen to exercise a more lenient approach this time and ignore the negative attributes that plague most sequels. What may be the biggest issue with Bride of Frankenstein, though, is how little screen time that the Bride has. With a title that openly proclaims the main attraction and a female monster that is easily in the top ten of all horror icons, her part is a small one. The Bride is played by Elsa Lanchester who also fills the role of Mary Shelley in the film's prologue. James Whale did this intentionally, not on account of budget constraints but with the purpose of portraying the duality of man. The small increments that the Bride is available are, without a doubt, classic&#x85;it's wonderful how much of an impact her character has on the genre which is why many film critics hail this film as Whale's masterpiece.If you love old movie monsters from the silver screen and have always wondered what the hoopla was about, especially that of Frankenstein, The Monster, and the Bride, you HAVE to see this. I recommend starting with the original and then viewing this one &#x96; just a friendly bit of advice. Now&#x85;onward! "},{"Title":"One of the greatest achievements in the history of horrordom","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love the first Frankenstein, it was shocking and enthralling despite the complaints of it being dated and slow. Maybe so but I still love it. The Bride of Frankenstein is a wonderful sequel to an already wonderful film, and surpasses it technically I feel. Even if the acting is a little forced in the beginning scene, with the exception of Elsa Lanchester, that is such a minor flaw compared to how good and enjoyable this film was. If you ask me Bride of Frankenstein is one of the greatest achievements in the history of horrordom.First of all, it is extravagantly produced. The sets are really imaginative, the cinematography is beautiful and the costumes are extravagant. Along the way I noticed two improvements compared to the first film. One is that Bride of Frankenstein is faster in pace, and two the music score is more haunting and melancholic here, Franz Waxman was the perfect choice for composer. Bride of Frankenstein also has some really effective scenes, the ending was very well done as was the unveiling of the bride to the sound of wedding bells and the miniature people in the bell jars, but I found the scene between the monster and the blind hermit especially touching. James Whale's direction is innovative just like in the first film, and the script is also very good and adds to the atmosphere. The acting is excellent, Colin Clive is very good once again as the eccentric Henry Frankenstein, and Ernest Thesiger gives a genius turn as Doctor Pretorious. Valerie Hobson is alluring and sympathetic as Elizabeth, occasionally overdoing it with the hysteria but she was fine overall, while Elsa Lanchester is good as Mary Shelley but electrifyingly beautiful as the bride. Once again though, Boris Karloff gives the finest performance, his towering presence and frightening look ensures for some scares, but he is very poignant as well, as his monster only wants to fit in and is rejected by everybody.Overall, a wonderful sequel, and not to be missed! 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"the first Frankenstein picture was merely a monster story; the vastly superior sequel is a dramatic, surprisingly moving opus that captures Mary Shelley's original vision","Date":"3 November 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although its opening ten minutes are melodramatic and a little ludicrous, the remainder of the running time of James Whale's science-fiction classic Bride of Frankenstein proves to not only be superior to its predecessor, but also a surprisingly moving and imaginative motion picture which explores Frankenstein's monster the way that Mary Shelley had originally intended when she conceived of the creature for her novel long before.The original 1931 film also starring Boris Karloff as the monster and Colin Clive as Dr. Frankenstein, sparred and still spars controversy because there's very little resemblance between it and Mary Shelley's Gothic novel. The original film was based more on a stage production of the same name. So for the sequel, now that Whale had further backing from the studio, he decided to more or less take the material from the book that was left out for the original film and incorporate it with a new story to make a worthy sequel. And he did.The film picks up almost immediately where the first one ended. Dr. Frankenstein turns out to be alive after being thrown from the burning windmill by his own creation, who then later turns out to have survived the collapse of the mill and is on a new rampage throughout the country. The movie focuses on two stories. The monster and its excursions and Dr. Frankenstein's acquaintance with another discovery-hungry scientist (Ernest Thesiger), who has also stumbled upon a way to instill life into the dead.I personally am not the biggest fan of the original 1931 Frankenstein, so I had not so high hopes for Bride of Frankenstein. Its ostentatious opening did not really boost up my spirits, but I was delighted to see how moving and beautiful and poignant the film became afterward. For once I felt sympathy for the monster. Boris Karloff is no longer simply waving his arms about and grunting, but he's displaying a wide variety of emotions that were described in the original book, such as this very moving and classic scene where he befriends a blind hermit while being hunted. I was enthralled by Colin Clive's performance in the first movie, but he outdoes even that classic image in this sequel as the scientist who has learned from his mistake about playing God. Ernest Thesiger is also very good as the maniacal Dr. Pretorius. And the inclusion of a music score, more elaborate special effects, more characters, and a broader budget really boosted the results.In a way, the movie deserves a different title. Not only does Bride of Frankenstein sound ludicrous (and it's wrong, since it's the monster who desires a bride, not Frankenstein), but the whole subject of the monster's bride has very little to do with the story. If I had the nerve to re-title a classic, I would pick something more appropriate for this film, but nevertheless, it doesn't detract away from my enjoyment levels.I still say that the first Frankenstein picture is an overrated film, but its sequel is more than worthy of its title as a classic. I started out rolling my eyes, but ended up being really absorbed by the story. For it's not only about the monster rampaging or Frankenstein going mad. "},{"Title":"James Whale's masterpiece","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film had several things stacked against it going into production, potentially preventing it from being as great as it is for one thing, sequels rarely equal the original film in quality, and James Whale was reluctant to return to the Frankenstein story after the first film, so one might have thought he wouldn't put his heart into the project. Another thing that could have worked against the film is that it is immediately obvious that they had a much higher budget and there is a slickness that wasn't present in the original. The relative crudeness of FRANKENSTEIN worked in its favor; the smaller budget and lack of a score only added to its weirdness.Fortunately, James Whale overcame all of these factors (including his initial reluctance) and delivered not only one of the greatest horror films ever made, but probably one of the greatest films ever made in any genre. Just compare the scene of Frankenstein and Pretorius bringing the Bride to life to the equivalent creation scene in the original movie and you'll see how they ramped everything up to a whole new level for this picture. The editing, the production design, the sets, the performances, are so over the top yet dead on it almost creates a giddiness or a frenzied feeling for the viewer. In fact, as the movie progresses, the editing becomes more frantic, the camera angles more abstract, the overall effect more otherworldly. By the creation scene, the film feels half-crazed, the viewer somehow intoxicated. Ernest Thesiger as Pretorius as absolutely brilliant, his performance equaling that of any contemporary actor, and Colin Clive delivers yet another delightfully manic performance as a Henry Frankenstein torn between what is morally right and scientific curiosity. But of course it is Boris Karloff who gives an outstanding performance as the Monster (duly credited this time instead of being billed as ? as he was in the first movie), one that may even bring you to tears he when befriends a blind hermit.There is a great deal more humor in this film, most of it delivered by Thesiger in laugh-out-loud lines that are not funny at all taken out of context (You're wise in your generation for example), and I don't want to ruin any of the witty and florid dialogue for you. The film careens wildly from humor to pathos, creepiness to zaniness, in a roller coaster ride of styles and emotions. The slickness doesn't detract from the atmosphere, and since the first film was an enormous hit for Universal, to try and duplicate the low-budget look of the first film would have been pretentious.This is just about as close to a perfect movie that one will encounter, and certainly a perfect Universal horror flick. And who wouldn't enjoy that? "}{"Title":"The Universal Horror film that transcends its category to become something rich and strange","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I remember this movie, the first scene I think of is the one where the blind man meets The Monster. The creature appears at the hermit's cabin, attracted by the old man's violin playing. The hermit invites the Monster in, soothes his fears, gives him food and shelter, and then puts him to bed. He kneels beside the Monster and gives his humble thanks to God for sending him a friend to relieve his loneliness. Organ music plays in the background. The image of Jesus on the cross shines brightly before the scene fades to black. How this scene stands on the edge of parody without tumbling over is a mystery to me.This film's combination of sincerity and peculiar comedy, horror and subtle wit is unique. Do not miss it. Universal Horror of the 1930s and 40s has given us many exceptional films, but this one transcends them all, transcends its category as a horror film and becomes something unclassifiable and endlessly enjoyable. The visuals are peerlessly designed, with their strange lighting, tilted camera angles, unpredictable cuts and marvelous sets; all contributing to something that is both outré yet uncannily perfect. Franz Waxman's score is a constant delight, always adding to the comedy, suspense, pathos and horror its two highlights for me are the wacky-macabre piece in the tomb and the heartbeat-like pulses and shimmering sounds that introduce the Bride.Four performances help make this film what it is. Most unforgettable is ?, as she's billed in the credits, playing the creature-bride in her now-familiar makeup, costume and fright wig, making the most of her brief screen time. Most important is Boris Karloff, returning from Frankenstein (1931) to give another pitiful, funny and horrifying performance. Most emblematic of the film's comedy is Ernest Thesiger as the thin, desiccated Faust-like figure with his bizarre lines and fruity line readings. The best support comes from O.P. Heggi as the sympathetic hermit. Two more performances deserve note Colin Clive returns as Henry Frankenstein, crying She's alive with that rich, musical voice of his, and Una O'Connor plays the hysterical servant Minnie.From the weirdly mannered prologue with Mary Shelley, Lord Byron and Percy Shelley to the near-final shot of the hissing Bride, this is a movie unlike any other. "},{"Title":"Lightning strikes twice.","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The sequel to the iconic horror classic Frankenstein is an oddball one. That's part of its charm. The Bride of Frankenstein sounds like a piece of parody rather than a sincere followup, and in a way it's awareness of its sometimes satirical nature makes it stronger than its straighter predecessor. However, its finest facets are its ahead-of-its-time technical aspects. The stark cinematography is astonishing and the precision of its sharp editing is unprecedented, let alone the reliably impressive production design. It's a much more entertaining and enduring experience than other films of the 30s. James Whale got much better conviction out of his actors this time around and it deals with the moral consequences of their actions rather than leaving it to loud anguish. While the film is a bit of retread of the first film as Frankenstein's monster is chased from place to place, it adds development and essential sensitivity to his character leading its tragic end to be much more meaningful in its destruction. This was a very pleasant surprise, ominously horrific and slyly comic, without the two clashing.8/10 "},{"Title":"Not as good as Frankenstein","Date":"26 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN is one of my favorites. But unlike most film buffs, I don't think it lives up to Whale's original, or even to THE OLD DARK HOUSE (1932). In BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN comic relief featuring the usually marvelous Una O'Connor and E.E. Clive is much too broad, and the monster's meeting with the blind hermit is maudlin. Mel Brooks did not have to add too much to get laughs from scenes that were already unintentionally funny.Also a giant continuity gap opens when Elizabeth, Dr. Frankenstein's actual bride, who was being held captive in a cave, suddenly and with no explanation appears at the door of the laboratory pleading for Dr. Frankenstein to escape with her. In John L. Balderston's original treatment they all die. And a sub plot about murders committed by Dr. Pretorius' assistant Karl played by Dwight Frye (who bears some resemblance to M star Peter Lorre) was edited out of the original release along with a scene showing the body of a child being carried away. These were changes the studio demanded because of negative public reaction during previews, and they point to a much darker story.Whale may not have wanted to make another monster movie, but when he began work he did try to deal seriously with themes he explored in FRANKENSTEIN. Only after Whale's homosexuality became the subject of legend did critics motivated by cultural politics re-interpret the film as a dark comedy of sexual identity.Having said that, I do think Ernest Thesiger's Doctor Pretorius is deliciously wicked. But his character is not obviously homosexual, and I can only surmise that such a reading is a retrospective interpretation based on Thesiger's openly Gay lifestyle. Pretorius' character seems to have been suggested by the villainous alchemist Oliver Haddo in Somerset Maugham's THE MAGICIAN, a book that was filmed by Rex Ingram in 1926, starring Paul Wegener of THE GOLEM.Whale may have seen Ingram's film. He may have read the book. The thing that made the best directors of the '20s, '30s, '40s, and '50s better than the best directors of today is they created the art of cinematic storytelling by reading literature, not by viewing film. Details from Maugham's novel - Haddo's celibacy and his obsession with creating homunculi (little people) - are elements of Dr. Pretorius' character that could only have come from the literary source because Ingram never used them in his film.Negative comments aside, the film is a masterpiece of art direction (Whale's and Charles D. Hall's), cinematography (John J. Mescall's), and music (Franz Waxman's). And there is the brilliantly edited set piece of the bride's creation, and Elsa Lanchester's performance as the bride that bookends the story with the wonderful prologue where she plays FRANKENSTEIN author Mary Shelley. "},{"Title":"An engaging piece of classic horror that has a great Gothic atmosphere and design to it while delivering a great story with pathos, horror and comic moments","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" With his monster pursued by a mob, Baron Frankenstein is returned to his family home to be buried. However it transpires that he is not dead but is very weak. A visit from Dr Pretorius perks him up somewhat as the area of his work is the same as Frankenstein's &#150; that of the creation of life. The two men return to his lab; meanwhile his monster has been assumed killed as well &#150; only to have managed to escape the burning windmill and flee across the countryside.Using a discussion involving authoress Shelly as the starting point, Whale's sequel investigates the monster further as a childlike innocence given strength and anger along with his new life. Although it is the narrative arc with Frankenstein and Pretorius that gives us our title character (briefly) the majority of the film follows the creature's escape from the mob and his attempts to be human or to not be at all. For the middle section this is where the film is and I enjoyed it for this as it was delivered with heart. The final section sees us back in the lab for a rerun of the original film (to some degree at least) and this is effective for what it does well. Those expecting a 1935 horror film to still be scary by today's standards will be of course disappointed but this is their problem and not the film's.That said Whale does produce a real atmosphere across the film, mixing sensitive scenes with those that are of classic Gothic making. Hurlbut's script brings out the dark element of the creation as well as being quite humane and comic at times. The cast compliment the material and mostly give good performances. Boris Karloff obviously dominates the film with a great performance that grows the creature gradually so that the addition of language is not as clunky or forced as it could have been. Thesiger hams it up something rotten but it works within the context of his scenes &#150; few of which are treated too seriously by Whales. Lanchester is OK as Shelly but as the Bride she produces an iconic if brief performance.Overall then an engaging piece of classic horror that has a great Gothic atmosphere and design to it while delivering a great story with pathos, horror and comic moments. "},{"Title":"1935's The Bride of Frankenstein is classic in many ways","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 1935's The Bride of Frankenstein, director James Whale's sequel to his earlier smash hit Frankenstein, is considered not only one of the great horror films of the ages, but indeed, a classic movie in any genre. Bordering on camp at some points, but always on message, The Bride.. features several holdovers from the earlier film. Colin Clive, as stiff an actor as you'll ever find, returns as the Monster's creator, Dr. Henry Frankenstein. Boris Karloff, of course, reprises his role as the Monster, but this time learns how to speak with the help of O.P. Heggie as the blind hermit. Their relationship in this film has been the subject of debate for years due to Whale's own sexual preference. Karloff's Monster has a rough go of it throughout the proceedings and the mad scientist (even madder than Dr. Frankenstein) Dr. Pretorius doesn't improve matters for him one bit. Pretorius (Ernest Thesiger) is portrayed as perverted, cynical and unscrupulous (and possibly Jewish) and his own experiments have to be seen to be believed. His chief goal is for Dr. Frankenstein to assist him in making a mate for Karloff so that they can create their own race. That sounds like a great idea on paper, but doesn't translate as well in the laboratory. The mate turns out to be the most frightening and distinctively weird female image in the history of cinema. At first glance, she and Karloff look somewhat close to a match made in heaven, but their relationship goes to hell in a hand-basket faster than you can say I do. It seems she doesn't like his appearance. She obviously hasn't looked in the mirror herself lately. Before this love match takes place, Karloff is subjected to one abuse after another from the townsfolk, from the police, and from a few shots from John Carradine's rifle. In one scene, an angry mob drapes Karloff over a cross and director Whale exhibits him as almost a Christ-like figure. Between that scene and a host of others, there's enough implied imagery and symbolism in this film to keep a team of psychoanalysts busy. As for the rest of the cast, Valerie Hobson plays Henry's wife Elizabeth, replacing Mae Clarke from the first film. She's better looking but not much of an improvement in the acting category. Veteran Una O'Connor provides some much-needed comic relief as the idiotic Minnie. It's a role she could do in her sleep. Dwight Frye (the lunatic Renfield in 1931's Dracula) has a small but effective part as a gravedigger. Lastly, Elsa Lanchester is the Bride of the title and also appears as author Mary Shelley in the film's brief prologue. According to her associates, Lord Byron and Percy Shelley, little Mary has a lot of explaining to do. With some minor prodding, she soon gets the film rolling as she begins her sequel to the story. Without grading her on a curve, Ms. Shelley definitely deserves an A+ for originality. "},{"Title":"A Thrilling Horror Classic","Date":"27 October 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is an outstanding film in the Boris Karloff Frankenstein film series. If you love older classic horror films and monsters then this is a film you should like.The Monster (Karloff) learns to speak and is happy to gain a Bride (Lanchester). The Bride is just as creepy as The Monster - so there is not a lack of horror in this thrilling motion picture classic. Lanchester's performance as The Bride is amazingly good - she will not disappoint the viewers.If you like other horror film classics such as 'Dracula', 'The Wolf Man', 'Frankenstein', or 'The Mummy' then The Bride of Frankenstein should be on your must see horror movie list.10/10 "},{"Title":"To a new world of Gods and Monsters!","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of Frankenstein is the 4th and final horror movie from director James Whale. Seeking to top his previous efforts Whale pulled out all the stops and Universal gave him an increased budget and total creative freedom to produce what many feel may be his masterpiece.The movie opens with the famous prologue at the Villa Diodati, with Lord Byron, Shelly and Mary Wollstonecraft discussing Frankenstein; Mary awaiting its eventual publication. Whale created a film full of dualism, Mary is played by Elsa Lanchester, who of course later on appears as the bride of the monster; but we also have Colin Clive's tortured Frankenstein contrasted with Dr. Pretorius (Ernest Thesiger) and his wife Elizabeth - who is actually the titular bride - another Whale in-joke to deliberately confuse the monster with his creator.We quickly learn the monster (Boris Karloff) has survived the fire at the end of the first movie, and Whale, deliberately trying not to simply repeat Frankenstein, shows the monster developing, learning of his creator and being taught to speak by a blind hermit (O.P. Heggie.) Eventually the creature comes across Dr. Pretorius robbing the grave of a young woman; having already tried to get Frankenstein on board to create a mate for the monster, he now uses him to kidnap Elizabeth and force Frankenstein to help him.Whale's eccentric personality is given full reign here. In truth, the story does not quite hang together, being decidedly uneven. The genius is in the handling, however, from Whale's sly attack on religion to the black humour and finally the brilliantly constructed creation sequence, which comes off as a spoof of the wedding ceremony; Whale never loses his footing. The acting is top notch by all concerned,although Una OConnor's servant unbalances several scenes and grates on the ear. The star of the film is undoubtedly Thesiger, virtually inventing Camp and delivering a wonderfully fruity performance.Horror fans who prefer the stark and powerful first movie may sniff at the sequel; but this is a brilliant and distinctive work of imagination, humour and horror. It isn't just a great fright film - it's a great film, and is near the top of the tree. "},{"Title":"The Best Universal Monster Movie ever made!","Date":"29 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a great movie for the average horror movie fan, like myself. First let's talk about the acting, Boris Karloff and Colin Clive are absolutely fantastic as Dr. Frankenstein and the Monster. Every one else dose good but none as good as Karloff and Clive. Now the story line, unlike the First Universal Frankenstein movie, this one follows the book more, like with the old blind man, the bride the the creature wants so very badly, and so on. Never the less it is a great storyline no matter what. Now lets talk about the music score, needless to say it kicks a$$. It's no wonder that it eventually got nominated for an Oscar, which in my opinion it should have won. This is a great horror movie one of the best ever made so go check it out. "},{"Title":"You have to love it for its highs, not condemn it for its lows--it has both. But what a film!","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of Frankenstein (1935)Some people love this as high camp, and when the bride appears and cocks her head like a bird under the German Expressionist lights, it's dazzling, never mind the dress. But this is a great old horror film taken seriously, too, if you can take it seriously when you read that director James Whale did not, not wholly. Maybe that's why it works, because Whale and the actors never meant to make the movie more than what it was.But what it is, finally, is a fast moving, layered, Gothic horror film with the pathos and sadness of the original book better in place than the original. Many people comment that this is one of those rare sequels better than the original, and technically, formally, that's true. But the first Frankenstein is terrific, too, despite its creakier construction and some slow scenes, and for me it's a better movie. This has the really silly parts with the miniature people in jars, and the awful acting in the scene with the writers talking about the story (Lord Byron, feel free to roll over in your grave). And the original (from 1931) has originality on its side, and and the amazing first cries in the stony castle, It's alive, it's alive!Here we have the moving scene with the blind man, key to understanding the soul of the monster, and there is a sequence of ever changing sets and problems for the monster to cope with. The finale is sudden, for sure, but that is better than dragged out, a different kind of resolution might have been more effective, at least for contemporary viewers. But it's dramatic--indeed, the whole movie is dramatic, and the lighting and sets alone are worth the ride. Seeing Dr. Frankenstein back in an extension of his first mania is confirming in a good way (it makes the first film stronger) and the real depth given the monster is maybe what makes the movie powerful in away that goes beyond sensation.See them both. Some individual scenes in Bride are astonishing, and it'll never get boring. Of the five or six period Frankenstein films, these two are head and shoulder's above the rest, and above most horror films from the 30s. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Bride!","Date":"19 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This follow up to Frankenstein by the same director, James Whale is easily better than the first film which was more primitive but was very good. Bride is brilliant and far more polished and flawless than its predecessor.All the acting is up to a better standard with Karloff equally superb to his first appearance as the monster and the great addition of Dr. Pretorius excellently played by Ernest Thesiger. It is also atmospheric and beautiful.One of the truly great parts of the film which is rightly very famous is where the monster arrives at a cottage inhabited by a blind man. This is a wonderful aspect of the story and is done superbly here. It is often thought to be part of the first film as it is a well known highlight of the Frankenstein story. Its inclusion in this film adds to its superiority over Whale's previous Frankenstein film.One of the greatest and most influential horrors of all time. "}{"Title":"Brilliant Cast and Crew!","Date":"29 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Who doesn't love this movie, which Boris Karloff absolutely steals, you just cannot take your eyes off of him. Even the casting of the bit players makes you wonder where Central Casting found all those authentic-looking extras. The fantastic sets that are so realistic it's hard to believe the filming took place in Hollywood.James Whale's direction is gifted, and he fully brings to life this adaption of the Mary Shelley novel. His timing in the scenes where the monster comes to life are absolutely the most chilling in film history. Once you see this movie you won't soon forget the scenes, each one a work of art, almost a separate play which can stand alone.As a horror movie, this film has no peer, and you don't need to be a film buff to appreciate the direction, acting, and cinematography. So suspend belief, turn down the lights, root for the monster, and enjoy this great old movie! "},{"Title":"Timeless, It's become more legend than film","Date":"21 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here we have a movie that is timeless and iconic on the level of Citizen Kane or the Godfather. A movie that is not only outstanding but is a staple of the American motion picture business. If we didn't have the prejudice toward the horror genre it would be on every critics list of greatest achievements in film. It is one of the few movies that deserves the all too often thrown around title of masterpiece. You can't praise James Whales' Bride of Frankenstein enough.Bride of Frankenstein is a movie where everything connects together perfectly. The cast, the direction, and the set design are perfect.If there is one film that rises Karloff above your typical bogeyman and cements him as one of the all time greats it would be Bride of Frankenstein. His monster is one of the most tragic characters in cinema. Karloff objected to giving the monster dialogue but his objections were ill founded, his performance here is Academy Award worthy. The Monsters dialogue gives insight into a dark and desperately lonely soul. He isn't very articulate in his speech but it's more effective that he isn't. His simple speech offers glimpses into a variety of human emotions and how they can effect anyone. The monster make-up works very well with Karloff's face and his facial expressions are outstanding as well. The scene where tears sprout from the Monster's scarred face is heartbreaking. This creature is anything but a monster, he is someone who longs to be understood and loved.Ernest Thesiger is a show stealer as the villainous Pretorius. He lacks any morality whatsoever and is the personification of the devious side of ambition. Thesiger's Pretorius is the most effective deliver of the movie's dark humor. He delivers the lines in a very dry way unlike the vocal Una O Conor and EE Clive. You can't help but let out a devilish smirk with Pretorius as he gives the iconic line To a new world of Gods and Monsters Colin Clive is sad to watch in this film. You can tell he is in pain both physically and mentally. He doesn't seem to be as alert in the delivery of his lines and his face shows signs of his alcoholism. That being said his performance is all the more admirable considering his hardships.Elsa Lanchester gives a brief but iconic performance as the Bride. Jack Pierce deserves credit for another job well done, she looks nothing like her attractive counterpart Mary Shelley in the film's introduction.Bride of Frankenstein has been called the essential film to look at when you want to see a director's personality. Well if this is true James Whale would have been someone I would have liked to have had a chat with. The movie is so bizarre and so different from the other pictures of the 30's. I wasn't a huge fan of the Ian McKellan bio Gods and Monsters simply because I felt it did Whale a great injustice by trying to over simplify Whale by saying he was a non-conformist homosexual in a conservative society. Whale was much more than that, he was clever, witty and one of the greatest directors of all time. "},{"Title":"Gothic horror at it's best","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The sequel to 'Frankenstein' is an absolute must for any horror fan.It is a very well made with a terrific atmosphere and fabulous sets.Boris Karloff stars once again as the creature and gives a fabulous performance.He captures the suffering of this poor,unfortunate wretch and there is nobody that could have done it better.Colin Clive is impressive as the tortured and tormented scientist and it is a performance that seems to go hand in hand with the problems he had in his private life.Ernest Thesiger is wonderfully camp and creepy and has a ball.So is it better than the first film?It is definitely more entertaining with a lot more going on.There seems to be a more expensive feel to the whole movie as well.I think that James Whale does a better job this time around with his direction with scenes tighter and not as much drippy dialogue.There are many great scenes here.The miniature humans grown from seed,the fabulous creation of the bride,brilliantly played by Elsa Lanchester.Also very moving are the scenes with the creature and the blind hermit.I do feel that the first film was scarier though,with nowhere near the same comedic elements that are in Bride.Another slight doubt I have is whether the creature should have spoken or not and I know That Boris Karloff definitely thought that he should have remained silent.I tend to agree although the creature could actually speak in the original novel.Whenever I compile my top ten movies of all time,I always cop out and list 'Frankenstein' and 'Bride of Frankenstein' together.i do the same with the first two 'Godfather' films.Well,as Boris says at the end of the film We belong Dead.I happen to think that these two fantastic horror films belong side by side.One other thing,the music is terrific as well. "},{"Title":"Quality sequel is visually even more stunning than Frankenstein...","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even better than the original.Add to the quality of FRANKENSTEIN some even better visuals (German expressionism again in the sets), the grander look and concept of the whole story with the monster humanized in a believable way, and the music of Franz Waxman which highlights all of the most dramatic moments, especially the creation of The Bride--and you have a film even more satisfying than the original.COLIN CLIVE is implored by ERNEST THESIGER to help him make a mate for the monster. Eventually, a memorable scene with the Bride being unveiled (it turns out to be ELSA LANCHESTER who can scream with the best of them), has her seeing her mate for the first time and gazing at him with wide-eyed fright as she lets out a piercing scream. It's just one of many comical and whimsical moments in the whole film.VALERIE HOBSON is Clive's frightened sweetheart, and UNA O'CONNOR (another screamer), DWIGHT FRYE and JOHN CARRADINE round out the supporting cast with style.BORIS KARLOFF repeats his famous role, even more engaging this time as he seems significantly brighter in the range of things he's given to do, such as the famous woodland scene interacting with a blind man in a cottage, both of them enjoying a new friendship. This scene, especially, will remind you of Mel Brooks' YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN, but it's played here more as a tender interlude rather than comedy.Totally absorbing with great looking sets and atmosphere, heightened by a Franz Waxman score worth listening to. Fans of the original should love this one. "},{"Title":"Frankenstein II The Saga Continues","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN (Universal, 1935), directed by James Whale, improves over the original 1931 shocker starring Colin Clive and Boris Karloff. This time, KARLOFF, as he is billed, gets to have his surname over Clive, making this the only time in the history of the FRANKENSTEIN series to have the actor playing monster with his name coming out on top in casting credits. This time, Karloff's Monster is the central character while Clive's Frankenstein comes off in the supporting category, but is in no way a secondary character.For this sequel, the story opens with a prologue with Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley (Elsa Lanchester) discussing her latest novel, FRANKENSTEIN, with Lord George Gordon Byron (Gavin Gordon) and Percy Shelley (Douglas Walton), including flashback scenes from the 1931 movie leading to the Monster's demise in the burning windmill. She then informs her listeners that there is more to the story, which soon fades to the windmill scene where the earlier movie left off, showing a crowd of villagers watching the windmill where the Monster was trapped, burning to ashes. Among the villagers is Hans (Reginald Barlow), the father of Little Maria whom the Monster had drowned. Hans insists on going down to see the Monster's burned body so he can sleep at night, but after he falls through a trap door, Hans is encountered by the living Monster (Karloff) who has survived the fire in the water beneath the mill, thus killing him while a sleepy-eyed owl watches, and later doing away with Han's wife (Mary Gordon). The body of Henry Frankenstein (Colin Clive) is returned to his fiancé Elizabeth (Valerie Hobson), but it is discovered that Frankenstein is very much alive. Aside from the Monster roaming the countryside once again, and Frankenstein going through the guilt for what he has done, and planning on leaving the German village with Elizabeth, there is Doctor Septimus Pretorious (Ernest Thesigner), one of Frankenstein's old teachers, arriving in the middle of the night (how appropriate). He hopes to get together with Frankenstein in not only showing him his own creations, such as miniature figures of people he grew from seed, but to present him with the idea of creating a woman/bride for his Monster. At first Frankenstein refuses, but finds he has no other choice when Elizabeth is kidnapped and will not be returned until the bride is created, as well as given much more persuasion by his creation, now assisting Pretorious. Then there is that memorable climax after the creation of the monster's mate (?)...Aside from Thesigner's scene stealing performance as the ultra weird former professor of philosophy who finds drinking wine to be his only weakness, there is also Una O'Connor, a bird-faced character actress who seems to have more scenes than the principal players. Occasionally amusing, sometimes annoying, O'Connor's role is no different from her scream-fest performance in James Whale's earlier masterpiece, THE INVISIBLE MAN (1933). One particular memorable moment in this production that should not go unnoticed is the Monster's encounter with a lonely blind hermit (O.P. Heggie), who not only takes the Monster into his little cottage and making him his friend, but teaches him some table manners and how to talk. With the Monster in the initial film being played as a cold-hearted beast, this time, Karloff succeeds in presenting his Monster character as a simple-minded creature who is not a cold-blooded killer, but really looking for a friend, and unable to find one because of his hideous and misunderstood appearance. While this scene between the Monster and the blind man might have been laughable, both actors succeed in making it quite moving mainly because of its sincerity, even with Franz Schubert's Ave Maria underscoring, and the Monster being moved to tears as the blind man prays to God for bringing him a friend, everything about this tender scene works. Look fast for John Carradine as one of the hunters who comes to the cottage asking for directions, and for Dwight Frye, who played Fritz in FRANKENSTEIN, as another freaky character, this time as body snatcher named Karl. In spite of some faults with the continuity, possibly due to script changes during production, THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN plays more like a fantasy than a fright fest. It also includes some Hollywood in-jokes, religious overtones, as well as great underscoring, compliments of Franz Waxman. Originally completed and ready for distribution at 92 minutes, the movie was presented in theaters at 74 minutes. According to Bob Dorian, former host of American Movie Classics, where THE BRIDE once played from 1991 to 2002, and later on Turner Classic Movies (TCM premiere October 6, 1998), the deleted 16 minutes of footage is believed to be lost. At 75 minutes, this lavish production is atmospheric, plays fast, and well acted. And there is Colin Clive (1898-1937) in the role that made his short-lived movie career immortal to future generations of horror fans. One debit, however, is a scene in the early portion of the story where Valerie Hobson's Elizabeth overacts in fright when she imagines seeing ghosts approaching her and Henry. It's not too convincing. Otherwise, next chapter, THE SON OF FRANKENSTEIN (1939). (***) "},{"Title":"Both Cruel and Clever","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of Frankenstein, like Hitchcock's Psycho, is one of the most important horror films ever. Like Psycho, it has also been fully deconstructed over the years. Film scholars have overturned every rock in the film looking for queer subtext. Dr. Pretorius lures Henry Frankenstein out of the sanctity of his pure, Christian wedding bed with the promise of creating unnatural life. The way he gives Colin Clive small shoulder touches and, eventually blackmails him into his plot, make him come off like a bitter ex-lover. Some writers interrupt the scenes of the Monster and the Hermit as having a queer subtext, something I'm not sure I buy.On his audio commentary, Scott MacQueen talks a lot about the religious undertones in the film. While there are some unusual Christian images throughout, most notably the slow fadeout on the crucifix during the cabin scene, I think perhaps Mr. MacQueen is reading too much into it.While watching the film this time, I picked up on some nercophilic tendencies. Dr. Pretorius dismisses the grave robbers from the tomb, to spend some private time with the girl's corpse, an exchange that can be reinterpreted gleefully. Not long after that, the Monster crouches over the open casket of a recently deceased woman, pausing over the face. Of course, the undead Bride herself is presented glamorously, the first time the grotesque and the beautiful were combined in film history, a gorgeous face freshly sewn on to a dead skull. Perhaps I'm reading too much into it but the loving dead seems to be right there in the film's DNA.Textbook readings of the film aside, Bride of Frankenstein is undoubtedly an effective film, a brilliantly constructed piece of work. Franz Waxman's original score is elegant. During the construction of the Bride, the beating heart provides a military drum beat, driving the action. The Bride and Elizabeth share a motif, a dreamy harp melody. When Elsa Lanchester is revealed in full costume at the end, wedding bells ring out. Though not free of the bombastic clanging typical of the era, it's a gracefully constructed score.The set design of the film is far more elaborate. We fully see both the exteriors and the interiors of the castle. When we return to the first film's laboratory tower, we get a loving pan up the stairs, beams looming over head. My favorite set in the film is the desolate graveyard the Monster marches across in search of safe haven. Or even his briefly glimpsed dungeon prison. The chair he's held down in comes across as a macabre king's throne.The movie is well shot. Particularly the moment when the Bride is resurrected with lightening. I love the dutch angles on the doctors' faces, the electric apparatuses buzzing and glowing around them. By 1935, the moving camera was in full use.Boris Karloff gives what might be his best performance. There's such a subtle melancholy to his face, his body language. The early scene of the Monster seeing his reflection in the lake for the first time, enraged by it, characterized the rage that drives him. This is the creature in full rampage mode, crushing all who reject and fear him under foot. But the scenes with the Blind Hermit establish his motives. Like in the first film, he yearns only for nonjudgmental companionship. The grace of Karloff and O.P. Heggie's performances makes the scene touching. It still gets me misty eyed after countless viewings. The search for a friend is what powers the Monster's entire arc. By the time he finds Pretorius in the tomb, gazing down on a skull, his search for love has taken on a deadly determination. No wonder, when faced with rejection at the finale, he decides to destroy nearly the whole cast in a fiery explosion.The rest of the cast is game. Ernest Thesiger as Pretorius casts a long shadow. It's hard to find a better villain in horror history. No doubt, he is the film's primary antagonist, driving all the threats in the movie. He delivers the clever dialogue with an effortless gleam in his eyes, both mischievous and sinister. When joking around with his homunculi, the film's highest moment of camp humor, his idea is obviously jokey. That same tone is deftly subverted into something threatening when whispering to the Monster Now, while closing the door, or telling Karl to go out and murder.Between Thesiger and Karloff, it's easy to loose sight of the rest of the cast. Colin Clive's Henry Frankenstein, once lured into the plan, is surprisingly permissive. He doesn't seem to question just where Dwight Fry's Carl got that fresh heart. He comes off as an amoral character, perhaps unintentionally. Our new Elizabeth, Valerie Hobson, isn't given much to do, sadly. Elsa Lanchester, though her contribution doesn't amount to much screen time, is no doubt influential. Her twitchy body language and goose-like hissing suggests a fully conceived character.The movie is both cruel and clever. The dialogue is frequently amusing, such as Karl and the other grave robber's exchange. (This is no life for a murderer.) Meanwhile, the movie has no problem clipping through its cast. After murdering the daughter in the first film, one of the sequel's first courses of actions is to kill her parents! That two sided sensibility, so obviously Whale-ian, would characterize countless horror/comedies to come. Every time I watch Bride of Frankenstein, I'm fully reminded of its genius. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest horror films of all time.","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film opens with the superb prologue of a thunderstorm raging outside the house of the poet Percy Shelley (Douglas Walton), his 19-year old bride Mary Shelley (Elsa Lanchester) and Lord Byron (Gavin Gordon). This sets the scene with the young Mary Shelley relating the sequel to her original Frankenstein story to her husband and Lord Byron. At the end of the first film the creature (Boris Karloff) was believed killed when the old windmill was burnt down by angry villagers, but in reality it survived as a result of falling into an underground stream and it begins terrorising the countryside again. Meanwhile, Henry Frankenstein (Colin Clive) has recovered from the fall from the windmill and plans to marry his fiancée Elizabeth (Valerie Hobson), but he is blackmailed by Dr Pretorious (Ernest Thiesger) into creating a mate for the monster. When the bride (also played by Elsa Lanchester) is created from dead cadavers it rejects the monster like everyone else did.FRANKENSTEIN (1931 see my review) is a movie milestone in it's primitive way, but Universal and James Whale's follow up has the rare distinction of being a sequel that is streets ahead of the original. The film is one of the greatest horror films of all time with Whale's fantasy world fully realized through expressionist camera-work and whereas Karloff had very little to do in the first film except growl and strangle people, here he is given the opportunity to demonstrate his dramatic range making the creature a sympathetic character, a creature who wasn't purely evil but was forced to attack people because they would of destroyed him. There is a scene that has without doubt become one of the most moving moments in the history of the horror genre where the monster is befriended by a blind man who can't see that he is a monster, but tragically the monster is discovered by the villagers who destroy his new found friendship while trying to kill him.In summary THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN is a wonderful example of a gentler age of screen horrors, not just errant bloodshed like Friday THE 13TH, but wonderful storytelling, human emotions and it's depiction of man and it's ignorance which is horrifying believable. Karloff was probably by now a made man because the studio was billing him only by his last name. "},{"Title":"The Perfect Sequel","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The biggest drawback to Son of Frankenstein and Ghost of Frankenstein is the fact that the Bride came first. And interestingly, one doesn't realize the grace of James Whale's eye until viewing non-classics of the same era--the following Sequels, and even the average film of today.Take for example the scene where Dr Pretorios (Ernest Thesinger) discusses his proposition and experiments with Dr Frankenstein (Collin Clive). Look at how the dramatic lighting intentionally puts Ernest Thesinger's face in shadows. Watch his gestures and listen to the venomous inflections in his voice as he talks down about the common people how he and egotistically elevates himself and Frankenstein above the commoners because they're in a position to play God.Or more obviously, the ever loud and ever obnoxious Una O'Connor who can shriek like no other woman.This is distinctly James Whale, and Whale at his very best no less.I like Bride of Frankenstein over its predecessor simply for the addition of the delightfully sinister Doctor Pretorios as a compliment to the good-hearted, but mislead, Doctor Frankenstein. I enjoyed the scenes where Pretorios convinces Frankenstein to resume his experiments. I liked the micro-freak show Pretorios brings along, also I loved when he meets up with the monster in the crypt and doesn't raise an eyebrow &#150; just offers Karlof a drink, Sit, let's talk. In addition, the monster's new ability to speak further develops his character, giving the film's plot an additional layer of complexity in his fleeting existential remarks towards the end of the film upon the realization We belong dead. The Frankenstein monster is an enduring creation not because he's a monster, rather because he's a character. Even before he could speak, he could express emotion upon his scarred and deformed face &#150; fears, joy, and longing.Inside the heart of the beast beats the heart of a human.And I found it intriguing how throughout these first two Frankenstein films, the monster searches for acceptance only to receive rejection even by his mate created specifically for him. Watch Karlof's reaction as the bride screams upon seeing him, like a human (almost like a child) with a broken heart, he steps back and is physically shaken, almost stuttering as he states, She hates me. It's in the spirit of the classical tragedy when the monster utters his final words, and we believe him when he declares, We belong dead. To return to the ashes from whence he and his mate came.The following films are less powerful due to their lack of a reason to exist. The human conflict within him as reached its climax in Bride, and none of the other films really want to go back and explore the Frankenstein monster on the same level as Bride.Bride of Frankenstein transcends time with the brilliance of its craft and the underlying heart. Horror may operate on a different level today than it did 70 years ago, this film may not have enough impact to scare today's audience, but its story still resonates with the same power it did in 1935.The film drew me in instantly with its story and old fashion charms in all their black and white glory. From the creative introduction of the film featuring Elsa Lanchester as Mary Shelley, to the introduction of the new villain Dr. Pretorios, to the monster's speech, to the delayed unveiling of the monster's mate, Bride of Frankenstein was one of the few films that fully lived up to its reputation.In closing frequently when I'm sick, I'll turn the TV on or pop in a DVD and fall asleep. I've discovered the subject matter, the flash, the shocks/screams, and the distraction level is irrelevant &#150; I can fall asleep to it. One film I've never been able to fall asleep to is Bride of Frankenstein. I always find myself saying, Oh, I love the lighting coming up! The next set is so cool to look at! Oh, and here comes the part where&#151; and I can never fall asleep. Bride of Frankenstein is a film that delivers an experience where every frame, every bit of dialogue, and every music cue plays into the cinematic masterpiece. To miss a moment, is to miss magic. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  James Whale's Bride of Frankenstein is surely one of the best horror movies ever made.The film contains some extremely funny moments and some horrifying ones.Again as in the original Frankenstein(1931)the performances are excellent-Colin Clive is really memorable as a Dr.Frankenstein,Ernest Thesiger is amazing as an evil Dr.Praetorius!The sequence when The Monster(Boris Karloff)encounters a blind old man is so funny and touching!Give this one a look-you won't be disappointed.A classic! "},{"Title":"The Return Of Frankenstein","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When this writer saw Boris Karloff play Frankenstein's Monster,I felt like I was seeing this great movie monster truly live. This classic stars the great Boris Karloff as Frankenstein's Monster with this star getting top billing as Karloff.With Colin Clive continuing to portray Baron Henry Frankenstein,Valerie Hobson now taking over in some inspired casting as his love Elizabeth,the witty Ernest Thesiger portraying the maddest of all scientistsDr.Pretorius and Elsa Lanchester as both Mary Shelley (in a prologue)and later as the monster's mate who is christened as the Bride Of Frankenstein by a gleeful Dr.Pretorius.The film does have it's humorous moments chiefly supplied by Thesiger's Pretorius. Humor is also added by Una O'Connor as Castle Frankenstein's busybody servant named Minnie, Dwight Frye returns as a grave robber/murderer named Karl who works for Pretorius and E.E. Clive as the pompous Burgomeister who sports a moustache that would seem to be at home in a Hal Roach or Mack Sennett comedy. In the beginning of the film after the mill has been burned to the ground,it is E.E. Clive's Burgomeister who declares to villagers, you may thank your lucky stars that they sent for me to safeguard life and property! Hoots the boisterous and sarcastic Minnie,why didn't you safeguard those what lies drowned and murdered?!!Karloff's Monster appears first in the underground cistern(Karloff was in great pain during the making of this film because he had injured his hip during the scenes in the cisternthat is below the now smoldering remnants that was once a functioning windmill.He escapes the cistern by killing both parents of the little Maria (who he'd accidentally drowned because he thought she'd float like the flowers she was throwing in the lake in Frankenstein(1931)).The burned Monster escapes to the countryside.For dramatic effect,it appears that Colin Clive's Henry Frankenstein is dead(he helped the villagers try to destroy his Monster but received for his courage a fall from the top of the burning mill by his own monster)but after he is returned to his family's castle and everyone is mourning over the young monster maker's remains the formerly 'dead' Baron Frankenstein now stirs and Valerie Hobson's tearful Elizabeth embraces her now living ,but very injured love.Near the end of Frankenstein's recovery, he is visited one late evening by Ernest Thesiger's Dr. Pretorius who as Henry tells his fiancée that Pretorius was,... my teacher.But was... Interrupts a sneering Pretorius,...but was booted out.Booted my dear Baron for knowing too much.He convinces the reluctant Henry Frankenstein to come with him to his residence and see his success...says Pretorius,for I too, have created life.Henry Frankenstein is now too curious to pass up this opportunity to see his former teacher's success at creating life.Later, Frankenstein sees Dr. Pretorius' work which consists of one of the most famous scenes in movie history;a variety of glass jars with a tiny person living in each one...it's a scene straight out of an alchemist's dreams of success. Says Clive's Frankenstein about these tiny creations,but this isn't science!It's more like black magic! Announces an angry Pretorius with words that have long ago become a cliché for the mad scientist,you think I'm mad! But this mad scientist's purpose for bringing the young Frankenstein to his home and showing him his work is too get the mostly healed monster maker to collaborate with him on making ...a woman.Now that would be really interesting!However,Henry refuses.Boris Karloff's monster has been made more humane in this film and he is taught to speak.Later the Monster makes his way to a cemetery where he hides from some villagers by escaping into the bowels of an underground tomb. The mad Pretorius who,after stealing a woman's skull and bones from a coffin,dines on top of it with a meal of cold chicken and wine. The Monster approaches Pretorius( not unnerved in the least)and they become friends. At Castle Frankenstein, Henry continues to refuse to help so firstly,Pretorius reintroduces Frankenstein to his now verbally demanding Monster.The scene begins as a recreation of that famous scene in Frankenstein(1931) when the new Monster is ordered by Henry Frankenstein to,...sit down.Except in this scene it is the Monster ordering his creator to,...sit down! The Monster and Pretorius both try to browbeat Frankenstein into creating a female mate for his Creature but the scientist continues to refuse.Pretorius orders the Monster to leave as Henry Frankenstein continues to refuse the pairs' demands.However,Pretorius finally persuades the monster maker to help him when for a finale to his visit,he has the Monster kidnap Elizabeth(now Henry's new bride). When Henry Frankenstein calls his servants together to form search parties;the domineering Dr.Pretorius throws a gigantic vase to the castle floor to get everyone's attention.He succeeds.Shouts the now humorless Pretorius,I charge you!As you value your mistresses' life to do nothing and say nothing! Frankenstein and Pretorius along with two assistants(one is Dwight Frye's Karl)return to the old watchtower where Frankenstein first made his Monster. They work day and night now on what will be The Bride Of Frankenstein with Pretorius having grown her a brain organically.In scenes that are classic motion picture history,Colin Clive with his usual enthusiasm shouts,she's alive!Alive! Elsa Lanchester's performance as the Bride is legendary.She moves her head like a bird,makes choking sounds ,hisses and when the Monster finally sees her she screams at him.Once again he tries to get her to like him but she screams wildly at this final attempt. Declares Karloff's heartbroken Monster,she hate me...like others!This Monster discovers an enormous lever that will blowup the laboratory and when he's warned by Dr.Pretorius,don't touch that lever!You'll blow us all to atoms Suddenly Elizabeth appears outside the closed laboratory door desperately pulling at the handle and screaming for Henry.The Monster allows his maker and his maker's wife to leave while Pretorius and the Monster's disapproving Bride remain behind as the watchtower blows up around them.Henry and Elizabeth are now outside as he embraces his shaken wife. "}{"Title":"Highly overrated","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This review contains potential spoilers.It has often been said that Bride of Frankenstein broke the golden rule of Hollywood that says sequels are never better than the original.I'm afraid I have to disagree -- the first Frankenstein film was head and shoulders above this sequel that turns the Frankenstein Monster from a frightening, yet oddly sympathetic creature, into a joke.Part of the problem was the decision to make the Monster talk with a Me Tarzan, you Jane vocabulary. Boris Karloff was reportedly against the idea, and rightfully so. It renders scenes that could be seen a true pathos into jokes - no less than Saturday Night Live would lampoon Bride of Frankenstein thanks to the late Phil Hartman's Fire bad! parody of the talking Monster.There are also elements of this film that have no business being in there -- the idea of Dr. Frankenstein becoming a patsy to the Faust-like Dr. Pretorius, for example. The previous film gave us this trailblazing if misguided scientist bringing life to the dead ... only to find out Pretorius got there first, and in miniature. The scene with the miniature people in bottles is amusing, and for 1935 a marvel of special effects, but it took me right out of the film.The script is just awful for much of the film. It's as if someone mainlined Shakespeare and tried to regurgitate it back as a Frankenstein movie. Although Colin Clive's Dr. Frankenstein actually comes off quite well, as does the Blind Man, everyone else comes off sounding like idiots. And speaking of idiots - James Whale might have been a great director and an icon, but he should have been shot for allowing the shrill, cackling character of Minnie to exist in this movie. More than once I was tempted to turn the DVD off because I couldn't take her caterwauling. If The Monster had killed her at some point it might not have been so bad, but to let her live is cruel and inhuman punishment for the viewer.The performances range from excellent to campy. Karloff, as usual, does a terrific job, and his charisma lessens the blow of the silly dialogue he is forced to utter. Elsa Lanchester, in a dual role as Mary Shelley and The Bride, is magical to watch, but it is to film lovers' eternal regret that she didn't get more screen time as The Bride. Valerie Hobson is gorgeous as Elizabeth, but betrays her acting inexperience in a few scenes (it's hard to believe she was only 17 at the time). Colin Clive, despite being given more theatrical, less realistic dialogue than in the first film, does his usual good job. Ernest Thesinger is embarrasing as the mad Dr. Pretorius. I'm told he was James Whale's drama instructor or something like that -- it shows. It's always hard to direct your teachers.And Una O'Connor's performance as Minnie is worthy of the worst Ed Wood film, and not much else.There is also sloppy continuity with the first film. Aside from changes of actors -- which is fair enough -- there are errors that should have been caught, such as giving a different name to the character whose daughter was killed by The Monster in the first film. Despite my criticisms, Bride of Frankenstein isn't a terrible film on its own merits. Karloff steals the show, as usual, and Elsa Lanchester is electrifying (pun intended). But to this Frankenstein fan, it utterly pales in comparison with the first film. "},{"Title":"Awesome in every respect","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the glorious start all the way down to the frenzied climax, James Whale's sequel to his huge hit 'Frankenstein' delivers the goods and more than deserves the status it's earned as one of the greatest films ever made. In classic sequel style, Whale has taken everything that made the first film a success and added to it. The introduction to the film is the prime example of this, with Frankenstein writer Mary Shelly and two friends discussing her work. This scene sets the perfect atmosphere for the film, while also determining that what you're about to see isn't going to be exactly serious. This sequel is much more tongue-in-cheek than the first film, and the audacious idea of having the storywriter herself in the film aptly shows this. The scene also appears to be surprised to the fact that such a macabre tale could be written by a woman - but who wrote it isn't important. The story is fabulous, and Bride of Frankenstein has the advantage of telling the side of the story that not everyone knows. We pick up immediately after the events of the first film, with Frankenstein and his monster in the burning barn. Both escape unharmed, but it's not the end for Dr Frankenstein - even madder scientist, Dr Pretorius, has other ideas for the rest of his career...The story of Frankenstein is very macabre - what with grave robbing and bringing the dead back to life, and James Whale is always keen to capitalise on this. The whole film looks dark and sinister, and the locations that Whale films in reflects this brilliantly. The themes in the story mostly concern the ills of man playing god, and this is very well done as the themes are always prevalent - even the monster itself knows it shouldn't exist! Boris Karloff steps back effortlessly into the role that made him famous, and once again delivers a first rate exhibition of acting. Karloff has proved time and time again that he can handle all sorts of different roles, and this is definitely one of his very best. In fact, the whole cast excels in their own way; but the actress I'd like to give a special mention to Una O'Connor. She was great in The Invisible Man, and Whale obviously knows that judging by his re-casting here. The special effects are great considering that this was made in 1935, and the ending shows that best. The way that Whale creates the illusion that the characters really are atop of a castle is awesome. As is Elsa Lanchester's short and sweet performance as the title character! Overall, this is without doubt one of the best films Universal ever produced - and one of the great horror classics of all time. "},{"Title":"Here She Comes, There She Goes","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"18 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a pretty solid movie, one of the few old-time horror films that still stands up to today's standards. The cinematography is excellent with many fascinating shadow-like shots, particularly with facial closeups.A surprise is that the actual bride of Frankenstein is only created and then seen in the final minutes of the film. The title can be misleading as we expect most of the story to be about her. Instead, most of the movie is simply a sequel to the original Frankenstein, picking up where that film left off with the monster somehow surviving his fiery doom.I would like to have seen more of the bride, who was fascinating to view. Elsa Lanchester, who played that character, also played Mary Shelley in the beginning of the film. The most interesting character, I thought, was the devil-like Dr. Praetorious, played by Ernest Thesiger. Now this guy had a true face of a mad scientist!Most films need to be trimmed 10-15 minutes but here is an exception. This movie needed another 10 to 15 minutes tacked on, so we could see more of the bride. It's still considered one of the best horror films of all time and, at just 74 minutes, would certainly be worth your time to check it out if you've seen it. "},{"Title":"80 years and still awesome!","Date":"15 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I heard about and read about. I finally saw it on SVENGOOLIE and I knew that it was one of those sequels that were better than the first film! Scenes from this movie were based on other elements from the Mary Shelly story, which also got spoofed in the Mel Brooks film, YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN (1974). My favorite character was Dr. Petoreus he is interesting and downright evil. He showed him his previous experiments which were shrunken people. That scene was contrasting because it was too comical. (In 1933, Universal was going to make an adaptation of GULLIVER'S TRAVELS, but it didn't get made, so this scene answers the question on what if the story got adapted.) This movie also has background music that was perhaps, an attempt to cash-in on the success of the original KING KONG. Before KONG got made, there were a lot of horror films that did not rely on background music and just silence. As the expression goes Silence is Golden, but sometimes it can be unsettling and disturbing to build terror. It worked with two Universal horror films like Dracula and FRANKENSTEIN, and Paramount's ISLAND OF LOST SOULS. The Bride is as iconic as her male counter-part, her Hammer iteration from FRANKENSTEIN CREATED WOMAN, lacked the charm and it looked too attractive and less scary. So kudos to this movie, although it is a success, causing UNIVERSAL to make DRACULA'S DAUGHTER, this movie got a bad case of sequelitis causing them to make more sequels like SON OF FRANKENSTEIN, GHOST OF FRANKENSTEIN and FRANKENSTEIN MEETS THE WOLFMAN (which caused them to crossover with Dracula). I highly recommend it so give it a watch. Not rated, but it is best off for children ages 7 and up to watch it with their parents. "},{"Title":"Superior in almost every way","Date":"9 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of Frankenstein is the sequel to the 1931 classic monster movie, Frankenstein. The original Frankenstein is an excellent movie, which had one or two flaws, but still a great film. Bride of Frankenstein faces us with the same philosophical questions that made the original so good and takes them even further.Let's start off by saying Boris Karloff owns the role of Frankenstein. He is so good in Bride, you can almost believe that he is Frankenstein's Monster in real life. This story lets him really show off his talents, as he experiences way more emotion and has actual dialog in this sequel.I found one thing that I didn't like as much as I wanted to in this movie and that is the fact that it's not as dark as the first film. That being said it is still a pretty obscure movie with a very nice Gothic feel. There was one thing I hated about the original Frankenstein and it was the ending. It just felt too abrupt and had no real closure. Bride gets it just right.Bride of Frankenstein is that rare example of a sequel clearly surpassing the original. It is a masterpiece of horror cinema. "},{"Title":"A classic horror master piece.","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the best horror movies ever made. It is very scary. It is one of the scariest movies ever made. If you wanted see a really scary movie. See this movie. It as great acting. Great story line. Great special effects. This a great movie. See it. It is very intents. I need more lines and I am running out of thing to say. This a great movie. Great movie great movie great movie great movie. This is the second part to the universal Frankenstein series. It is very scary. Very scary very scary. A true master piece. One of the greatest horror movies of all time. Based on one of the best horror books of all time. This one is so scary that it does not feel old. This movie is a must see. "},{"Title":"A Good Sequel, and Strong Enough as its Own","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A fantastic sequel! I was impressed by the voice-over narration and the scenes from the original being included. Really good way to start out a sequel. It had a strong story! Although I do find the title to be a little misleading, but that doesn't really matter, I guess. One thing that I, and every other horror film viewer, know is that horror movies are notorious for having characters who, in their terrorized state, make the worst decisions possible- and this film is no exception. There were so many characters who were constantly making stupid mistakes and causing unnecessary harm to others/themselves. And they never learn. New information? Bad outcome? Who cares! Let's do the same thing over again! That was a little frustrating, but what can ya do? *shrugging emoji* Fascinating characters, new and old. Great character development with the monster. Amazing effects!! AMAZING, can't believe what they managed to do in 1935. Really impressed by their creativity and innovation in story-telling techniques. Great angles, a wide variety, including some very Beautiful, elaborate sets, and impressive props. A great score complementing the film, wow.Super creepy, thrilling, and very entertaining. Gotta suspend your disbelief many times regarding the mortality of the characters. I'm sure it was just due to a more modest audience's standards, but to a viewer in 2015, the violence is silly. Any deliberate killing was done with minimal effort and in a way that obviously wouldn't actually kill anyone, but when serious injuries occur they heal rapidly, miraculously.Definitely a good watch. I recommend it. Don't know if I'll ever watch it again and or own it, but it's a fun one! 8/10 Bye love you "},{"Title":"A very good film, but not as good as the original","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Henry Frankenstein and the Monster have managed to escape the fire from the end of the first movie. More vulnerable than ever, Henry is coerced into making a mate for the Monster by the maniacal Dr. Pretorious. For many years, I preferred this to the original. I recently watched this again, but my feelings have changed. I now think the original is better. It's really bizarre, even for 1935. This movie is more daring, very ambitious, creative, but it's a bit too creaky at times. It moves a tad too slow, and I don't think it has the same emotional impact. It has some beautiful scenes in it. A great one involves the Monster trying to help a little girl who has fallen in the water. I also loved the relationship between the Monster and the blind man, which is sadly short-lived. You won't find many things more beautiful than that relationship. The Monster wanting simple things in life, like smoke, booze, and a friend. It makes the monster that more effective. The Monster really began to show a human side to him. He's somewhat sympathetic, and I felt for him. Boris Karloff is incredible as the Monster. You won't find many better performances than his performances as the Monster. He talks in this one and I had mixed feelings about it. I didn't think it was all that necessary. Colin Clive is excellent again as Henry. He does a great job of combining madness and regret. You can see the toll this is beginning to take on him. Valerie Hobson is horrible as Elizabeth. You expect some plastic acting back then, but she is seriously terrible. Why they casted her is beyond me. Elsa Lanchester is barely in the movie! She shows up at the beginning and the end. The Bride is promoted heavily, but that doesn't come into play until the end. It's definitely tragic and heartbreaking when she shows up though. Wait until you see the sadness from the Monster. Ernest Thesiger is great as the kooky Dr. Pretorious. Special mention to Una O'Connor for stealing the show with her antics. I like this movie a lot, but I no longer put it on the original's level. That being said, It's a great movie. Horror fans have to watch it at least once7.8/10 "},{"Title":"An improvement on the original but...","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Bride of Frankenstein' opens with Mary Shelley talking with Shelley and Byron about her yet-to-be-published novel 'Frankenstein'. I'm sure that in real life her fellow writers didn't beg her to continue the story with a tedious rehash of the original instalment, and if they did she probably didn't begin the story from the ending of a film made over a hundred years into the future rather than the ending of her own book, but that's what happens here. And so begins one of the most overrated sequels in the history of sequels.After this questionable prologue the movie picks up where we left off in 1931, with Frankenstein's mill burning down, and we discover that his creation (Boris Karloff) lives on to further terrorise the countryside. Poor old Frankenstein (Colin Clive) is then approached by fellow scientist Pretorius (Ernest Thesiger), who's been conducting his own experiments into reviving the dead and forces Frankenstein to assist him in stitching together a new monster... a bride for his inhuman creation!The eponymous bride doesn't turn up until near the end of the film, and that leaves us with an hour or so of reheated material. Most of the ingredients from the original film are here &#x96; the monster stumbling through the mountains, village mobs with torches, the grave robbing scenes, Pretorius' desire to bring life to dead flesh &#x96; and what's new is either material from the novel that didn't make it into the first film or misfiring camp comedy.James Whale's mix of spooky horror and over-the-top comedy works in some films ('The Invisible Man') and fails in others ('The Old Dark House'). Here it doesn't work, treating us to Frankenstein's monster smoking a cigar and learning to talk (an idea Karloff wasn't too happy about), which is certainly closer to the book than the silent creature of the '31 movie but hobbles what little atmosphere there is by having him occasionally growl 'Food... good...!' Admittedly this leads to some touching moments, like the blind man befriending the monster (a scene from the novel) and making him a little bit more human, or the bride's rejection of the creature. But then there are ideas like Pretorius's little people in jars, an idea which doesn't really click and seems more like a screwy gimmick than any part of the narrative.Whale brings in good old Una O'Connor to reprise her wailing and screeching from 'The Invisible Man', which is by far the most enjoyable aspect of the movie, and while the dialogue has its moments ('This is no life for murderers,' moans one of Pretorius' grave robbing assistants), on the whole the movie treats the premise with a lack of respect that strips it of any power the bride is introduced (finally) with a bizarrely romanticised theme tune and the sound of church bells. 'Bride of Frankenstein' is routinely praised for its blend of black comedy and Gothic horror, but it's rarely funny and never scary. "},{"Title":"Its Still Alive, Its Still Alive","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride Of Frankenstein is the follow-up to James Whales Frankenstein and carries on exactly where the original left off. The monster is back, a new doctor is trying to create his own monster and Frankenstein is still haunted by the effect his work has had on the town.Bride Of Frankenstein may actually outdo its predecessor. Its musical score gives every scene its own dramatic weight - the original had no musical score. The monster is a much more sympathetic and three - dimensional character this time around - he wasn't explored this much in the original. Its also just as memorable as the original, Whale again crafts every scene with the same love and care he gave the original four years prior. Karloff really shows off his chops here. Showing uncontrollable rage, a raging sadness and ultimate realization with not a flaw in sight. His cold dead eyes are the eyes to a monster who was a failed experiment, an unwanted child. Whale explores those themes of abandonment in depth here, showing the monster do be a lost soul, abandoned before he could speak. The blind old man he meets acts much like an adoptive father, taking him in and caring for him, the monster also being much needed company for the old man. Ernest Thesiger is Dr. Pretorius, and he is such an over the top character its brilliant. Its as if Whale knew evil bad guy tropes before there were any. The accent, the body language, the kidnapping of the protagonist wife to blackmail him into doing his bidding, its all there and oh boy is it fun to watch. A scene where Pretorius encounters the monster is hilarious, he turns and sees the monster and simply says 'oh, I thought I was alone', really!, just a fantastic character.My man Colin Clive is back and sadly isn't in the film as much as I would like, but when he's in it he rocks. We even get to see, at the end of the film, a little of the mad, obsessive Dr. Frankenstein from the first film. Its a testament to how memorable Clive was and still is and I find it a crime he was taken so young, he had so much more to give.Overall, Bride Of Frankenstein is a marvelous sequel. Everything they could have done better was done and anything they could have included was included. This is how you do a sequel and at only 75 minutes (only a few minutes longer than the first, and thats only because it spends 4 minutes recapping the previous film), You can easily watch both films back to back and have a wonderful time doing so. "}{"Title":"Poignant and beautifully shot","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ever since it has become common to name Bride of Frankenstein (1935) as superior to its predecessor, it has become more frequent for fans to denounce it as being an overrated camp-fest. It is true that it is less of a horror film than the original while it has spooky atmosphere, Bride is more of a dark fairy tale about loneliness and the need for love and companionship. As has been said before, Karloff is phenomenal as the monster in search of a friend, Ernest Thesinger nearly steals the movie as the wicked Pretorious, and Elsa Lanchester makes for a beautiful but uncanny undead bride.If there is one thing Bride has over its predecessor, then it's the cinematography. This movie is just gorgeous. The creation of the bride alone is a masterpiece and more visually exciting than the original's iconic scene, all canted angles, rich black-and-white, and frantic editing. Unlike Frankenstein (1931), this film has a musical score by the wonderful Franz Waxman, evoking mystery and eeriness while still keeping that Grimm fairy tale feel.A possible drawback would be Una O'Connor as the house maid, Minnie. While I can tolerate her and even get a laugh or two from her antics, some might find her too shrill for their tastes. While Valerie Hobson is warmer than Mae Clarke as Frankenstein's wife Elizabeth, she can go over-the-top as well (the scene where she freaks out over the shadow of death approaching Henry is the only part of Bride that makes me cringe).In the end, I would say this film and the original are on par, just very different in tone. Both are work checking out. "},{"Title":"A Great Universal Horror Sequel That Tops the Original","Date":"20 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Doctor Frankenstein survives his fall from the windmill, and the monster escapes from burning inside. What is next? Thanks to a meeting between the monster and yet another mad scientist, the answer could be more monsters...I thought the Lord Byron (Gavin Gordon) prologue is a nice touch, though Mike Mayo calls the introduction a particular embarrassment. It really tied the film to the first one nicely, I felt, as it seems pretty clear that everyone died. This tied to keep the continuity clear.I like to call this one the broken leg movie, because COlin Clive was filming with a broken leg, and Boris Karloff broke his leg during filming. These guys need to drink more milk! The bottle scene in the lab of Dr. Pretorius (Ernest Thesiger) is bizarre and confusing, though a great use of technology for the 1930s. That, and several other famous scenes have made it to pop culture, including the blind hermit scene (made even more famous thanks to Mel Brooks) and even just the emergence of the Bride herself, considered a Universal monster in her own right.Howard Maxford calls this sequel an excellent blend of black humour and thrills. Many have called this sequel superior to the original (though Mike Mayo dissents and calls it uneven), and I agree. I felt the picture was tighter, looked sharper, and had a very good plot with some interesting moral angles. This truly was a new world of gods and monsters.I would love to have seen the film as planned, with the additional murders and subplots. Apparently, there was even a planned shot of the Monster rushing through a graveyard to a figure of a crucified Jesus and attempting to 'rescue' the figure from the cross. The Monster's strapping to a pole was kept, as well as Pretorius' subtle homosexuality.And lastly, as much as Karloff did not want the monster to talk, I think they made the right decision, as his limited speech makes him more human and therefore a character we can feel some sympathy for. "},{"Title":"Gothic and campy!","Date":"28 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have never seen a Frankenstein film before this, and I was excited. It was a very good film for it's time.The film is very campy and comedic in the sense that the audience is able to enjoy it more. The film is quite short, but gets its point made. Honestly, I thought the film took a bit too long for the appearance of the Monster's bride. However, when she finally appears it was worth it, yet the climax I thought happened too soon. However, it was an engaging film for audiences to enjoy, and one can only imagine the impact that this monster had in the 30's. Overall, I quite enjoyed it, but it does not seem as relevant as a classic should be. "},{"Title":"Successful arrangement","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Everything expands. Following a pretty terrible prologue involving the Shelley's and Lord Byron during a storm as an excuse to In Our Previous Episode the movie, James Whale returns to the expressionistic sound stages of his iconic Frankenstein universe, where true to sequel form the main players manage to escape the death defined for them in the previous installment, the body count rises, and the world is opened up to more possibilities. Herein is the blind violinist so expertly parodied in Young Frankenstein, the Bride so iconic that despite her maybe two minutes of screen-time manages to seer herself into the viewers mind, and Dr. Pretorius, the guy who, less Dr. Frankenstein's previous salvation be a tad sentimental to the audience, enjoys being pure evil incarnate. The production values go up, too, as in general acting, editing, and sound improve against an already striking set.Technically, this movie is somewhat closer to Shelley's book than the first film. The monster learns language, and the arranged marriage works as well as any modern arranged marriage would (i.e., it doesn't). This is not really a significant factor in the movie, however, since the Universal Monster's Frankenstein Monster Universe is far removed from Shelley's original prose, so this sequel of course operates better as a further fleshing out of Whale's created world as opposed to a mimic of Shelley's. Pretorius and his two Igors instead of one is a strange demon to appear on Frankenstein's shoulder, but it does lead to some fantastic set-ups, including a chilling and out-of-nowhere reveal of doll-sized people grown from Pretorius'...*Ahem*....seed.Definitely a kooky and campy outing, I can see why people tend to like this better than the original. Certainly the macabre humor hits a lot of high notes.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Once Again, Karloff Is The Key","Date":"31 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just as in the original movie, this sequel to Frankenstein revolves around the performance of Boris Karloff as the Monster. Again, he provides a portrayal of the Monster as a sympathetic, lonely and misunderstood creature driven to violence not out of nature but as a natural and inevitable response to his circumstances, being rejected by virtually all who encounter him. Karloff is given the added feature of a voice in this film, which ironically may have made his performance less impressive than his voiceless portrayal of the Monster in the first film, which was especially brilliant because of that limitation. Still, Karloff is superb in the role. The scenes in which the Monster encounters and befriends the blind hermit are moving, because they do establish the Monster's basic gentleness, as are the scenes in which the monster anxiously approaches his newly created bride and then deals with the pain of rejection when she is horrified by him.The title aside, the actual bride appears only in the last few minutes of the film, played well by Elsa Lanchester. Lanchester appeared earlier in the movie, though, as Mary Shelley, who of course penned the original novel on which both movies are based. The opening few minutes portray a conversation between Shelley, her husband and Lord Byron as they discuss Shelley's work, and then Shelley begins to construct this story in her mind. I didn't care for that opening. As much as we know the story is based on Shelley's work, that right off the top gave this movie a clear sense of unreality - it's clearly happening in Shelley's mind as she constructs the story. I also didn't care for the too overt attempts to introduce an almost comic subplot at times. There are a variety of examples of this, notably the little creatures created by Dr. Pretorius as well as Una O'Connor's rather silly portrayal of the housekeeper Minnie. The title of this movie points to the evolution of the Monster in popular culture. In the original Frankenstein was clearly Dr. Frankenstein, around whose scientific experiments that movie revolved. By the time of this sequel only 4 years later, Frankenstein is clearly being used to refer to the Monster itself.Many seem to regard this as superior to the original. How anyone could come to that conclusion I'm not sure. It's not as good as Frankenstein. It's solid and has some good content, but also more than a few weaknesses. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Very good sequel.","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sequel to the original picks up moments after that film ends, with Frankenstein not really dead & whom meets another scientist who be-friends & teaches him how to talk, thereon they pursue the monsters creator Victor to create a bride for the monster, however once the bride is resurrected from the grave, things don't go as planned for the monster, or the brides creator. Sequel to the original film is thought to have been better than that movie, I personally disagree with that, since I felt this was a tad less scary than the original, I never liked the idea of the monster learning how to talk, he often times spoke & you knew what was on his mind, where in the original you were never really sure, nonetheless this is still a powerful piece of art, that's just as good & as memorable as the earlier movie, the direction & acting as well as some suspenseful moments & a great script, not to mention another powerful performance by Karloff make this a winner in every way. Remade in 1985 as THE BRIDE & spoofed in several other films throughout the years (Much like the first) followed by SON OF FRANKENSTEIN.**** stars "},{"Title":"In which the big man gets stood up at the altar","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Any film by James Whale is visually epicurean, but BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN stands out and above the rest. BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN is replete with his mischievous style, and every frame is filled with purpose. The gallery of talent to be found here, from the virtually irreplaceable Boris Karloff down to the last extra, is vintage James Whale, with his quirky casting wherein everyone got a chance to shine. Elsa Lanchester is here in two roles, that of Mary Shelley and the Bride. Ernest Thesiger, as the abominable Dr. Praetorius, chews up every scene he's in and comes very close to elbowing the monster out of the frame on more than one occasion. Una O'Conner is equally irrepressible, and it's amazing that the 17 year old Valerie Hobson was able to hold her own in a company of such incurable hams, but she did. Dwight Frye comes out and works it for the few minutes he appears here, and John Carradine has a walk on as a woodsman at about halfway point in the film. E.E. Clive stalks across the set for some memorable moments as a hopelessly pompous and semi-competent town bureaucrat. Here, also, is Colin Clive, in one of his last performances, and O.P. Heggie in the classic blind man sequence with the monster that was lampooned by Mel Brooks in YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN. When all these great character actors are added together, the sum total is James Whale's great absurdist comedy about death. All the bittersweet clowning carries this picture, and makes it worthy of a permanent place in the home collection. And of course, for the Karloff fanatic, no one should miss the classic moment in which the big man gets stood up at the altar. This film's a keeper for the horror film addict. You stay. We belong dead. "},{"Title":"Someone Get That Woman a Comb!","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One senses that James Whale's 1931 Frankenstein became a classic almost by accident. Its poignancy and artistry have lasted despite its attempts at being a throw-away monster movie. Bride of Frankenstein, however, feels like a movie setting out to become a high-camp classic, and it's to Whale's credit that it succeeds.If you don't live under a rock, the image of Elsa Lanchester, with her tower of black hair sticking straight up off of her head with a white lightning bolt zig-zagging down the sides, has to be familiar to you, even if you've never seen the movie. Her appearance in this was destined to be cloned by millions of Halloween costume-party goers for years afterwards. The hilarious romance between her and the monster takes center stage in this film, and Lanchester is a hoot as a hot-tempered woman impatient with her primitive male. It's the most unusual role Lanchester ever had. She normally played in supporting roles, usually as a demure maid or housekeeper. Here she vamps it up and manages to be surprisingly sexy for a woman newly created from dead people's body parts.If you're in the mood for a double feature, let Frankenstein make you sad and then let Bride of Frankenstein put a smile back on your face.Grade A- "},{"Title":"The Bride of Frankenstein","Date":"11 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Bride of Frankenstein (5/10) would definitely be on my list as one of the more over-hyped horror movies' that is widely agreed and ranked as one of the top horror films by critics. Bride of Frankenstein scratched many of its unsettling themes used in the original by making a more comical mood. I thought placing Una O'Connor's character as a major role, as eccentric caretaker Minnie, was a big mistake. Her cheesy lines, along with many others lines, were way too cornball. The writing and storyline had flaws as well, disconnecting the viewer from the flow of the movie. When the film does introduce The Bride, fantastically played by Elsa Lanchester, the film finally displayed some redeeming qualities. Boris Karloff and Colin Clive also saved a potential disaster by successfully returning their role as The Monster and Dr. Frankenstein. It may sound like I hated The Bride; the case is I thoroughly enjoyed it as part of the Frankenstein series but believe it is definitely overrated. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece of Grotesque Humor and Traditional Gothic Horror","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Legendary director James 'The Invisible Man' Whale has constructed another fantasy masterpiece working from a brilliant script by William Hurlbut and John Balderston. The troubled actor Colin Clive recreates his role of Henry Frankenstein in one of his last films. He would die from alcoholism in 1937. Along for the ride is another lavender actor of the era; Ernest Thesiger as Dorctor Pretorius. The glinty eyed Pretorius delights in creating miniature people when he's not forcing Frankenstein to create a mate for the monster. Boris Karloff expands on his famous creation adding layers of black humor and pathos and despair while Elsa Lancaster (in a duo role) is unforgettable as The Bride of Frankenstein. "}{"Title":"We Belong Dead....","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The greatest sequel of all-time (imo) and the only movie where the actor playing the Monster gets top billing--not much of a surprise as Karloff turns in a stellar performance, almost matched by the tour de force of Ernest Thesiger as Dr. Pretorius, who has so many great lines, especially when he's trying to convince the troubled Henry Frankenstein to leave the charnel house and follow the lead of nature or of God if you like your bible stories.Getting back to Karloff for a moment--I know the idea of a talking Monster is one that has divided some fans for many years, but I think having the monster speak only added much needed dimension to his character & made him even more empathetic throughout the movie. Who doesn't feel for the poor monster during that scene in the cabin with the blind man when the hunters break in & the place goes up in flames as the poor Monster comes out of the blaze, arms extended, crying friend.And of course, there is the scene where the Monster comes calling on Dr. Frankenstein. What do you want? You know. The monster demands a mate--but much to his shock & disappointment, the Bride recoils at his touch & the well placed self destruct lever in the castle comes in handy for the poor, tormented Monster. We Belong Dead!The score for the film adds tremendously to the proceedings and every actor in this film is on top of their game. And, there are the usual comedic touches one comes to expect with a James Whale film--the best being E.E. Clive as the uppity burgomaster (Monster indeed, I'll show him).Basically, if you love the classics, then this film is required viewing. 10 stars "},{"Title":"Really follow up from the first","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of Frankenstein (1935)I actually think , i enjoyed this sequel more then the first movie , or I say about the same really . I liked how they recapped what happened in the first movie, while this story was being told to someone.I liked how the movie did not take long to get going and as we found out , the two people you we thought were dead, we're actually alive .I liked some parts of the movie were funny, with the old lady , screaming , it was silly , funny and a bit annoying at the same time.I really enjoyed the blind man scenes . We're Franky learns how to speak.I was little disappointed that the movie ended, far to soon after the bride was made , that the only bad thing I can say about this movie .I am giving this movie 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A Fascinating Movie","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a very interesting and entertaining, if perhaps not very enjoyable film. Granted I am not much of a Frankenstein guy (I thought Shelly's book was OK, though it is definitely interesting and pertinent as a philosophical discussion). It is interesting especially as film history, as to my knowledge this was the first good sequel Hollywood produced. I liked how the filmmakers quickly summarized the events of the first film and provided a justification for it, since I imagine they had not planned on making a sequel. Also, you can observe the rapid advancement in special effects and recording technology that must have occurred in the 4 years between the two films (e.g. the sequel has a soundtrack where the original does not). However, I was still frustrated by the acting, mainly by the supporting cast, which seems very dated and amateurish, though this is no doubt due to the movie being such an early 'talkie'. "},{"Title":"Whale's funhouse","Date":"31 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of Frankenstein seems to be yet another example of a film that was destined for disaster. The film went significantly overbudget, past its original shooting deadline, had to work with the industries of Colin Clive and Boris Karloff, its two main actors, and the risk of having content issues with the censors.However, the film got back on its feet with going overbudget and past its date, dealt with Clive's broken leg by seating him in most of his scenes, dealt with Karloff's hip injury by casting a stunt double, and were fortunate to have the layers of the film dealing with homosexuality and necrophilia go over the heads of the censors (albeit some select lines of dialog). As it stands, Bride of Frankenstein is a witty work of monster art and an intelligently crafted sequel made up of satire and meticulous art direction.The film picks up where the original Frankenstein left off. Dr. Henry Frankenstein (Colin Clive) has given up on the idea of trying to play God, until his wife his kidnapped by his very own creation. To try and reason with the monster, and with the help of Doctor Pretorius (Ernest Thesiger), he creates the bride of Frankenstein, a lover for his original creation. The bride (also known as Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley) is played by Elsa Lanchester (this time she's credited as ?) in a performance of haunting beauty. The first image of her is the most revealing, with her unique hair and bulging eyes that seem to have direct access to your soul. The effect is achieved through the complex, strenuous aesthetic process of getting Lanchester to tape her eyes open.The film is a rare case where the sequel is often regarded as better than the original, but I'm not too sure. The film is definitely great fun, in its self-referential, often obnoxious glory, but it falls significantly short of its predecessor, in my opinion, because of the lack of real jolts or suspense in the premise. However, its significance as a monster movie makes sense seeing as it deals with not one but two monsters, regardless of what direction it chooses to take.I can appreciate, above all, the art direction and cinematography of Bride of Frankenstein, which stands the test of time for one of the best-lit films of the black and white era. It's a rarity for a black and white film to feature such precise and explicit lighting as this film, making everything clear and visible to the audience. Such lighting is necessary when you have art direction as detailed and as meticulous as this.One trait that seems to follow through with every single monster film from Universal, at this point, is the meticulous directorial style each director took. Whale, yet again, directs with a sense to include everything and exclude nothing. All the detail and decor of the macro-sets are captured and the immensity of everything is captured delightfully on screen thanks to Whale's all-inclusive directing tactics.Bride of Frankenstein is another film that is made even more significant, aside from being a great monster movie, because it should've been a complete disaster considering the problems it faced during production. However, it overcame such challenges and became a strong, memorable film thanks to its detailed sets, inclusive direction, great character acting, and a wonderful plot one can sink into. Films like these, even if I find myself not loving them as much as the masses, almost never lose their appeal.Starring Boris Karloff, Colin Clive, Ernest Thesiger, and Elsa Lanchester. Directed by James Whale. "},{"Title":"Superior Sequel.","Date":"23 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Whale returned to direct this masterful sequel, beginning with a clever prologue with Author Mary Shelley(played by Elsa Lanchester) relating the events of the first film, but then insisting that the story isn't yet over, going on to describe the plot of Part II, picking up moments after the end of Part I, with the injured Henry Frankenstein(played again by Colin Clive) being brought to his(now late) father's castle, where he has assumed the Baron title. He is visited by Dr. Pretoreus,(played by Ernest Thesinger) who is a disgraced former teacher of his, who wants Henry to help him create a new monster, who will become his bride(also played by Elsa Lanchester) The monster(again played superbly by Boris Karloff) has survived the fire, and after being chased by villagers(and a heartfelt interlude with a blind hermit) is befriended by Pretorious, who uses him to kidnap Elizabeth(now played by Valerie Hobson) to force Henry to help him, leading to a memorable and explosive finale.Brilliant sequel is even better, with a wonderful sense of humor balancing the horror, with inspired direction, writing, and performances from the whole cast. Unforgettable film filled with iconic imagery. Not to be missed, and a perfect double feature with the first. "},{"Title":"How to follow a classic film? Well, just make an even better one.","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Along with Tod Browning's 'Dracula' released the same year, the critical and commercial success of James Whale's 'Frankenstein' (1931) was responsible for the horror boom of the Thirties which gave us so many lasting classics like 'The Mummy' (1932) and 'The Black Cat' (1934) as well as Whale's own 'The Old Dark House' (1932) and the astonishing 'The Invisible Man' (1933). Yet, despite this success, Whale's artistic sensibilities meant that he was hesitant to make a sequel and was only lured into the director's chair when granted complete creative control. So, with Colin Clive and Boris Karloff who both reprising their respective roles as Dr. Frankenstein and the Monster, the resulting movie is a quite startling mixture of the kind of hysterical Gothic derangement and commentary on the human condition that characterised the original but which pushes further in playing with religious iconography as well as presenting an overt campness due (in no small part) to the scene-stealing performance of Ernest Thesiger as Dr. Pretorius.Like its illustrious predecessor, the movie explores the injustice enacted on the monster after having been given life by a God-playing mad scientist. As before, Karloff puts in a tremendous performance; however, where he articulated the Monster's loneliness and existential uncertainty through movement in the first movie due to the Monster's muteness, in 'Bride of Frankenstein' the Monster has acquired a basic speech capacity which even permits him to form a nascent friendship with a blind old man in one of the movie's many touching scenes. However, the friendship is short-lived and the Monster decides the only way to alleviate his loneliness is for his creator to create a mate, a bride, for him. Fortunately (or not) Dr. Frankenstein has been lured back to his studies by the flamboyant and sexually ambiguous Dr. Pretorius and the Monster's bride (as much a master-stroke of character design and make-up as the Monster himself) is duly brought to life in an animation scene easily the equal of that in 'Frankenstein'. However, a happy ending is not to be.Along with the magnificent performances, the film reprises the German expressionist influenced aesthetic in the sets and cinematography, which effortlessly recreate the sombre and macabre atmosphere which characterised the original. However, a major point of difference is that where the original film had no music, 'Bride of Frankenstein' completes its masterful display of what a horror film should be with a fitting and affecting score.As a result of all this, the film manages to do the impossible that is, surpass the iconic power of the original and be better than a movie which, in itself, is near perfect. Naturally, 'Frankenstein' will get most of the praise on a pop-culture level as it was remarkable in its originality and the freshness of its depth as well as introducing Boris Karloff to the world. However, those who have dug a little deeper recognize that 'Bride of Frankenstein' is easily the equal to the original and stands as one of the best from the Golden Age of horror movies. "},{"Title":"Love at First Fright","Date":"21 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" On a dark and stormy night, original Frankenstein (1918) author Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley (here impersonated by Elsa Lanchester) discusses her astonishing morality tale with elegant poets Percy Bysshe Shelley and Lord Byron. There is a part of her story where the monster appears to have expired, but he manages to survive for more eventful-filled chapters. The movie Frankenstein (1931) handled the death and resurrection differently, but will also continue, promises Ms. Shelley. And so, Universal and Carl Laemmle Jr. present her Bride of Frankenstein...Lightning strikes twice. This visually stunning motion picture is rightfully regarded as one of the best sequels ever created. They adapted the work exceptionally well - and, most importantly, hired James Whale to return as director. He makes William Hurlbut's screenplay a tapestry of horror weaved with humor. This results in subtext and shadows that continues to breathe new life into an old gem...There is great work from photographer John J. Mescall and art director Charles D. Hall. Franz Waxman's musical score is classic and soundman Gilbert Kurland received an Oscar nomination. As their bride, Ms. Lanchester is frightfully ravishing. If there were Best Supporting Actor awards in 1935, spectacularly demented mad scientist Ernest Thesiger (as Septimus Pretorius) gives everything you need for some consideration. There are so many levels from which you can enjoy watching, you're guaranteed to enjoy the Bride of Frankenstein on one of them.********** Bride of Frankenstein (4/22/35) James Whale ~ Boris Karloff, Ernest Thesiger, Colin Clive, Elsa Lanchester "},{"Title":"funny, dramatic, endearing, frightening, atmospheric, romantic, and even existential!","Date":"24 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of the Frankenstein has got it all, seemingly, in a tight 75 minutes. It is even, dare I say it (and I will), superior to Whale's original 1931 film, possibly because he didn't have his usual producer, Carl Laemmle, breathing down his neck. He could do whatever he wanted, and here he decided to start the film with what is, at least to me, almost something post-modern (and this before modernism, or during it!) where the Shellys, Percy and Mary, talk with Lord Byron about the Frankenstein story, ruminating on what happens in the original story (accompanied by film clips, and while this takes place technically 90 years after the Shellys/Byron lived, pay it no mind), and then Mary takes a bit of a leap what comes after, and more specifically, what about if that Monster lived and didn't die in that windmill fire? Eh, eh? This film also carries the distinction of being funnier and fresher than the original film, in part because Whale had to realize some of this stuff was silly, and even surreal; when the other, much-more-mad-thank- Frankenstein doctor Pretorius (the unforgettable Ernest Thesiger playing this role with full-tile scene-chewery in the best way) shows off his 'creations' as little people he has grown like plants in little jars, you know that this won't be really much like the first film. And yet, it is in some ways still a movie about a big Monster going about without control... and yet learning a bit more control, but unfortunately at the lead of a mad Doc like Pretorius, who promises the big galut something much more tangible and, frankly, emotional than what he's had in his limited time as the un-dead a woman 'friend', a Bride all his own. Hey, if forced marriage worked for thousands of years before, why not with Good-Bad man?The script is full of some good zingers, like Sometimes I have wondered whether life wouldn't be much more amusing if we were all devils, no nonsense about angels and being good. And there are moments where real pathos does come in, and the idea of the Monster being humanized is brought even more to the forefront than in the (great) scene of the Monster and the girl by the lake in the first film; when the Monster stumbles upon a cabin in the woods where a blind man plays violin and draws him in because of it (and because he can't see) we get one of the most poignant, simple couple of scenes in any horror film. There's some humor, but it's mostly about what can happen when one isn't immediately AAAH! in front of the Monster, which only goes to agitate and get the Monster to attack more, and there is an attempt at civility, respect, and knowledge, even about something like bread as food and smoking (also Good and look at Karloff's face, what a happy camper).The atmosphere, especially in the climactic tower scenes, is rich with the dark and gloom, but it's surprising how much light the film is, a lot of it in the day, and even a scene where the Monster breaks out of jail isn't quite as scary because of it. Whale does know that some of this is blatantly silly, and that's more than fine. In a way his direction, as well as Karloff's performance and other things like Una O'Connor as the (also) unforgettable housekeeper who comes into a room and with only a line or two steals the rug out from all the other actors, is ahead of its time. I think even something like the evil doctor's plan and the collaboration with Frankenstein to make this Bride is so clever as to have its own logic outside of horror. Bride of Frankenstein will work as something to chill and entertain the kids, or the adults, but there's other layers to it that I hope to return to in years ahead.We belong DEAD! "},{"Title":"Above and beyond the average 1930s horror flick","Date":"31 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Bride of Frankenstein picks up from where the first Frankenstein movie left off (as told by author Mary Shelley). The monster survives the wood mill fire and once again goes on a rampage against the small town. Meanwhile, the mysterious Dr. Pretorious seeks to recruit Dr. Frankenstein for another unorthodox experiment&#x97;to make a bride for the monster. This all sounds of the likings of a typical, 1930s horror film. However, The Bride of Frankenstein is much more than just a horror flick.While the prequel focuses on a crazed scientist and the terror the monster unleashes, this film sheds a whole new light on the monster. The Frankenstein monster is depicted as a child rather than a relentless murderer. When people scream at him, he does not know how to react. As a result, many of the people he kills are either by accident or in self-defense. The monster is also misunderstood. In one scene, he jumps into a pond with the intent of saving a young woman from drowning. As soon as she screams, nearby bystanders see him as attacking her rather than saving her. From this misinterpretation of the townspeople, the monster becomes a hapless victim. The only person he finds any solace in is an old blind hermit that lives in the forest. Not being able to see what the monster looks like, he takes him in with open arms. This really defines irony. Though the hermit cannot literally see the monster, he sees what is beneath the disfigured bulk, a lost, tormented soul that seeks friendship. Their first encounter is a very moving scene; in particular as the hermit professes to God in that he has brought two of thy lonely children together. Both shed tears, revealing their unconditional joy of finding a friend one another. Additional power that relies in this moment is an orchestrated version of Ave Maria. It is subtle; yet present enough to build more emotion in such a pivotal part of the film. The scene that follows is touching. The hermit teaches the monster how to talk, smoke cigars, drink wine, and even identify what is good or bad. I will note that it is humorous to watch as the monster speaks, for his words are rudimentary and slowly delivered like the alien in Spielberg's E.T. Even so, this is a newly changed monster. He is more human than creature.It is interesting that this movie is titled The Bride of Frankenstein. The bride does not appear until the last ten minutes of the movie. When the monster does receive his bride, she shrieks at him, terrified. His bride proves that love and friendship cannot be created in a lab. Friendships are made by individuals who can accept you for who you are, not what you look like. That is an essential theme to this movie. There is always a friend out there for every person and often times, the people you friend is not necessarily someone you would imagine. These hidden messages are the reasons why I enjoy this movie. Beneath all of the makeup, Boris Karloff does a phenomenal job with delivering emotion. He makes the appropriate gestures and expressions to prove the monster as a sympathetic individual. The visual effects are simply astounding, especially when Dr. Pretorious presents Dr. Frankenstein with miniature persons in lab jars. The fact that the filmmakers could splice two scenes of film together into one without looking blurry or fake is incredible. The cinematography has a lot of German Expressionism, which is perfectly suited for this film. This is noteworthy in the sequence where the bride of Frankenstein is brought to life. The deep shadows, tilted camera angles, chiaroscuro lighting, and montage provide a haunting yet memorable sequence that still bores into my mind. In my concluding opinion, The Bride of Frankenstein is more than just an average 1930s horror flick. With a great performance by Karloff, sublime production, and a witty story full of messages, this movie goes down as a classic! "},{"Title":"Fairy tale...","Date":"15 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Director James Whale opens BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN with a prologue that really amounts to a disclaimer of sorts. His intention, apparently, is to forewarn us that this one isn't to be taken too seriously. Certainly, HE doesn't take it too seriously the fourth wall is even breached at one point (when Ernest Thesiger, as the prissy Dr. Praetorius, actually winks at the camera). The whole notion behind the movie- necrophilia is suggested- may have been beneath the cultured tastes of director Whale. BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN is ALL technique- form, without a shred of substance beautiful at times to look at, but ultimately empty and vacuous, often as cold as a Kubrick exercise in photography and film-making technique. Cinematic tricks of the trade harking all the way back to Georges Melies are trotted out- but to what end? (And, speaking of ends, BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN lacks an EPILOGUE this omission has confounded critics and horror historians alike; even William K. Everson, in his otherwise excellent overview, CLASSICS OF THE HORROR FILM, expresses confusion over why the bride of the monster doesn't survive the climax to appear alongside the monster in SON OF FRANKENSTEIN. The reason is made obvious by the prologue BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN- which SHOULD'VE been titled BRIDE OF THE MONSTER- is a mere fairy tale told by Mary and doesn't really fit into the Universal continuity it's a fairy tale, as it were, within a fairy tale.) "}{"Title":"A sequel that actually improves on it's predecessor","Date":"25 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The element that, for me, is most interesting and impressive about James Whale's Bride of Frankenstein is it's humour. Whale also directed the original, and here he seems to be in more of a tongue-in-cheek mood, amping up the campy weirdness at every turn. The addition n of Henry Thesiger as mad scientist Dr Pretorious is one of the film's huge pluses, with the actor stealing every scene he is in. Colin Clive returns as Frankenstein, and he even gets to do his It's alive! scene again when the Bride is created, but a lot of other things have changed for him. For one, his wife is still Elizabeth but she is now played by brunette English actress Valerie Hobson instead of the blonde, American Mae Clarke. The set used for Frankenstein's house is completely different. Yet Whale never bats an eye at the strangeness, taking the tale up another notch by having Mary Shelley (Elsa Lanchester) frame the tale with her imaginings of what came next for her characters. It's great fun, has a great script and is a heck of an entertaining ride, but is also very poignant. Why? One word. Karloff.Karloff again reprises his role as the Monster, and even if the great actor thought speech would mar his indelible film creation, he was wrong. The Monster only speaks a few words, but they are well-chosen. Once again the misunderstood Prometheus searches for kinship, and he finds a friend in a blind man, a fellow outcast (Alone...bad. Friend...good!). However, his companionship is short-lived and he seeks a mate from Frankenstein who is just as botched as him. Enter The Bride (Lanchester again).... "},{"Title":"This Sequel Triumphs","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not even the most fastidious of contemporary filmgoers can refute the eternal brilliance of BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN, one of the silver screen's all-time classics and rightful possessor of a Top 200 place at IMDb.This sharp 1935 triumph is first and foremost a visual treat, with wonderfully inspired makeup and sets vividly beaming across our screens in glorious black and white; in fact, it is difficult to invoke another film where these two aspects have contributed so much. The use of more sets also gives the movie less of the stationary feel the original had. The sights create a decidedly creepy yet fun atmosphere as only old horror films can.But the makeup artists and set designers aren't alone in earning praise. Everyone involved with BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN did the unthinkable, particularly by 1930s standards, by improving upon what came before. This starts with star Boris Karloff (whose name actually appears in the credits, unlike the original, where he was secretively identified with a string of question marks.) As the monster stitched together from human remains in the original, Karloff conveyed as much raw emotion as possible from behind heavy rubber makeup. Here he's every bit as good, and the addition of limited dialog makes him even more of a pleasure to watch. The supporting cast, including Colin Clive (Dr. Frankenstein) and Ernest Thesiger (Dr. Pretorious), don't miss a beat, and clearly had the right feel for the type of entertainment being created.And what can be said about legendary director James Whale? Universal's removing of his artistic shackles probably made the film what it is. In keeping with the more polished effort of this sequel compared to its predecessor, Whale outdid himself. His guidance ensured the finished product was smart and smooth, making the most out of the considerable talent surrounding him. He knew where the picture should go and exactly how it would get there.If there's one quibble some fans might have with BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN, it is that the title character is barely present. Indeed Elsa Lanchester's skunk-striped monster does not appear until about the final two minutes, dashing hopes of a lengthy interaction between she and her male counterpart. But like many great directors before and (mainly) after him, Whale knew that the fun was in the build-up, not the execution. It would have been interesting, to say the least, to see more of the two together, but this by no means diminishes the film.It's been said before, but it deserves to be said again. BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN is quite possibly the most stark example of a sequel outshining the original. It is a truly remarkable effort. "},{"Title":"Best Movie Sequel","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Director Jame Whale produced a short but extremely effective sequel to the original Frankenstein which was also his. It picks up at the wind mill after the fire which is where the original picture left off.It has all the creepiness of the first film & then adds the bride (Elsa Lanchester) very effectively. It is in every sense of the word a true sequel as it was made with in a short time of the original, used most of the original cast & sets, & achieved the same effect.It was this one which kept the Frankenstein franchise going. When accounting for inflation, this series made Universal a tone of money from the 1930's all the way through to today. The thing to remember is that the quality of the original & this great sequel are so good, that they still hold up today, over 70 years later & get new fans. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the greatest sequel of all time","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of Frankenstein is quite possibly the greatest sequel of all time. It not only manages to equal the original, but surpass it in many ways. The first Frankenstein film was quite terrifying in its time, but may seem a bit dated to viewers today. It still remains a great film however. Bride of Frankenstein ups the shock value of the first film and adds a campy sense of humor, something which was very ahead of its time. Many films that attempt to combine humor with horror manage to be neither funny nor scary (just look at the recent Scream series for an example). James Whales for some reason got the idea right with both this and The Invisible Man. The humor simply catches the viewer off guard. Also, this is one of the most humane horror films ever made. The Monster is both terrifying yet sympathetic all the same, even more so than in the first film. The scene of him and the blind man is still one of the most touching and heartbreaking sequences ever in a film. Also, unlike Dracula, this film never creeks and is rapidly paced and always entertaining.The performance of Boris Karloff is one of the greatest in cinema history. As I said above, Karloff manages to be both intimidating and sympathetic and does so with very little dialog (a great feat for any actor). Ernest Thesiger is memorable as the evil Dr. Pretorius, a witty scientist with a few weaknesses. This remains my favorite mad doctor portrayal. In her two brief roles as the bride and Mary Shelly in the campy prologue, Elsa Lanchester creates an impression. Colin Clive and Valerie Hobson are passable as the Frankensteins, but their co-stars are so great you can hardly complain. Look for brief roles by cult favorites Una O'Connor (The Invisible Man), Dwight Frye (Renfield in Dracula), and even a young John Carradine. The direction by Whales is always superb. He manages to combine the strange set design and camera angles of the German expressionists yet adds an unique flavor all the same. If you consider yourself a fan of horror cinema, you really owe it to yourself to check this out. If you've already seen it, see it again! (9/10) "},{"Title":"James Whale classic fantasy both hilarious and heartbreaking","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Many people have complained that the mix of comedy and tragedy in this movie makes it too uneven to succeed completely. I almost agree, but it's possible that a more traditionally serious, straightforward movie, like the first Whale Frankenstein, might not have had as much impact without the contrast between the intentionally farcical, whimsical scenes, and the overwhelmingly sad scenes. This movie is unlike anything else to come out of old time Hollywood. It seems to be on the verge of becoming a spoof many times, only to stun the viewer with scenes of unbearably moving pathos. The art direction, cinematography, special effects, and of course, music, add up to nothing short of a masterpiece, all skillfully directed through the eccentric vision of James Whale. There is so much to praise in this movie that I will have to mention only a few great moments. SPOILERS AHEADWhen the gossipy, thrill-seeking Frankenstein family maid Minnie (Una O'Connor) turns around to see the hulking, mud-caked, burned Monster staring down at her by the burning ruins of the mill, and she lets out a series of little squeaks and yawps before running away shrieking, as the Monster (Karloff) stares curiously after her. This is followed by one of the funniest moments in all classic films, when the old lady tries to convince a cynical butler at the Frankenstein castle that the Monster is still alive, and he dismisses her as making up stories. Una O'Connor turns and stares directly into the camera ,and says to the audience,  Nobody'll believe me! Well, I wash me hands of it! They can all be murdered in their beds, for all of me! The most famous sequence, gently parodied in Mel Brooks' Young Frankenstein, has the Monster, wounded, terrified and exhausted, finding shelter at the forest cottage of a kindly blind hermit (O.P. Heggie). The scene is delicately balanced between comedy and pathos, as the clumsy, animalistic Monster is contrasted with the quiet, gracious old hermit. The sheer raw emotion of that scene is staggering, from the moment when the hermit and the Monster begin to communicate, and one feels the Monster's desperate, stifled need to reach out and be understood by someone. There is an indescribable beauty in the simple gesture of the hermit tenderly clasping the Monster's hand ,and humbly thanking God for  bringing two of thy lonely children together. The astonishing poignancy of the scene's ending, with the Monster awkwardly, but gently, patting the old hermit on the back ,as the old man breaks down and weeps for joy, is overwhelming. A single tear runs down the Monster's scarred cheek ,and the scene fades out. I have seen this movie with modern audiences more than once, and have never heard anyone laugh at that scene. The audience sat in awed silence, except for a hushed, Wow! from one viewer. The grave robbing scene with Praetorius and his reluctant assistants, his midnight picnic in the tomb, and casual offering of a cocktail to the Monster, the creation of the Bride herself and her unveiling, are all Whale at his best. The last word on this film I leave to Dwight Frye, the original hunchbacked assistant in Frankenstein, and Renfield, Dracula's fly-eating slave. When the coffin is opened, and the three body snatchers look at the skeleton of the young woman to be used in constructing the Bride, there is a pause, and then Frye remarks, in a weaselly rasp,  Pretty little thing in her way, wasn't she? An absolute must for any devotee of classic Thirties horror movies, and possibly James Whale's finest hour. "},{"Title":"What we need is a female victim of sudden death, can you do it?","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Four years after creating the iconic screen image of the Frankenstein Monster, Boris Karloff reprises his role in the James Whale directed sequel, Bride of Frankenstein. Today's viewing was my first, and I was surprised with how little actual screen time the 'Bride' was actually present. But in those few moments, Elsa Lanchester is utterly incredible as the monster's 'mate', though the story never comes close to taking it that far.Colin Clive is even more maniacally inspired here than in the original Frankenstein, perhaps buttressed by self confidence and complemented by the even more insane Dr. Pretorius (Ernest Thesiger). Dr. Henry's resolve to ... have no more of this hell spawn is met with equal passion by Pretorius - To a new world of gods and monsters. Admitting to the demonic nature of their enterprise, both men find themselves on a collision course with scientific destiny. I was particularly enthralled by Pretorius' first appearance on screen, oddly portending Max Von Sydow's guise as Father Merrin in 1973's The Exorcist.Karloff's creature has matured over the four year time span, he's a lot faster and more nimble of foot, and he manages to speak intelligible words when prompted by the forest hermit (O.P. Heggie). I was delightfully amazed to learn how close Gene Hackman's portrayal in Young Frankenstein was based on Heggie's character.Even more inspired gadgetry is brought to bear on the original laboratory set, punctuated by the addition of the lightning rod kites. It all adds to the deranged scientific sensibility of the story, the reanimation of human life from the remains of the dead. It would of course be done time and again in film, but never as creatively or with such frenzied fervor.I probably owe it to myself to watch this one a few more times, as reading other reviews of the movie on this forum has been educational to say the least. Going in, I wouldn't have considered it to have a stronger reputation than the original Frankenstein, with a higher placement in the IMDb rankings at the time of this posting. One thing is certain though, I could watch Elsa Lanchester's brief but mesmerizing portrayal of the 'Bride' over and over again. "},{"Title":"Artificial Science","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I went on a binge, watching all four of the first Universal Frankenstein movies. I know that many believe Metropolis to be the first mad scientist movie. But that wasn't about science or scientists, but about repressive society. The science there was actually technology and had as much to do with things as the devices in 1984. This, this, I think is the first movie series where the whole point was that science was inerrently evil in its tendencies. Its different than a Faust story, where powers were conveyed for selfish ends; here the ends are discovery. Its no mistake that there's the heavy hand of religion in the village context that surrounds the man and his work.So when I watch these, I pay attention to two things. One is how science is portrayed. Its radically different in all four. And the second is how the cinematic grammar is used to present that notion. Its a sort of hobby of mine to compare sequels and remakes.+++In this second one, the nature of science has changed radically. A different writer, but the same filmmaker. Its no longer a quest for discovery; now the experiment has taken priority. We've added a new scientist, one clearly and visibly deranged. He's interested not in the discovery of the principles of the cosmos as they touch on life, but on the creation of artificial beings. Its completely different. The brain in this case isn't stolen at all, its created from scratch. The mad scientist creates the brain and the good one supplies the heart, still human. Its a heavy metaphor, but hey, this is billboard city. One wonders at the odd subtext of sex between two artificial creatures, and what their offspring would be natural?The cinematography has changed as well. Now we have dark buildings with what has (erroneously I think) been termed Gothic. Well, at least there are Gothic arches. But the sets have greater sweep, and are greyer. There are fewer devices and decorations, less texture all around. The score has more frantic violins.Its more cinematically obvious, drawing from Russians and not Germans as usually reported.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"It all starts and ends with Karloff.","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am not thrilled with the continuation of the cult horror. My expectations were not high. The director is an average story tried to upgrade originality, controversy and some form of horror. I certainly welcome the idea and I think it is in large part succeeded. If you watch the film as a kind of fun, it's more than good. I would describe the story as a kind of game where things are a bit turned upside down. This is not so bad, but must admit that at times acts illogical and boring. I would like to praise the diversity of access roles. Karloffs monster acts realistic, emotional and subtle. But acting, compared to the previous film, not better. Thesiger as Dr. Pretorious is the biggest villain, but in some sequences and its role can not be interpreted so. Elsa Lanchester is interesting because she plays two characters. Director covers this fact with a mystical scarf. Clive and Hobson fit well and their agony was only extended. Una O'Connor exhilarating with specific speech, expression and screaming.I think that the director and the writers were aware of the success of the original. The effort is inevitable, but passing the idea is obvious.The film is strangely exciting, effects are great and the scenery is very good. Dealing with constant forms of censorship contributed to an atmosphere in which little attention was given to the actual values. The film is controversial, but only that it is acceptable.Sequel of the cult horror film well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"More than a horror film","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For me, Bride of Frankenstein excels as a film in general because it is more than a horror film. The humor is abundant, and we see real humanity in Boris Karloff's portrayal of the monster.And Elsa Lanchester is just simply great in her dual role as the Bride and in her other role as well. In the latter, you see how really beautiful she was.I was struck by how old looking Ernest Thesiger was in this film. He was only 56 years old, yet looked older than old. I remember him from his last role, 1961's The Roman Spring of Mrs. Stone, which he must have filmed either at the end of 1960 or very beginning of 1961. His role as the villain was a really good call!Add to that amazing special effects, and you have not so much as a horror story, but a film tragedy that has a lot of heart&#x97;and humor&#x97; to it. "},{"Title":"Awesome Film","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although I think the original Frankenstein film was very well done, this film is a close second with many similar aspects. Much like in the 1931 film, the lighting truly made the movie. The production staff used different lighting effects to draw attention to the aspects of the film that they thought the viewers should pay attention to and it made the film have a greater effect on those watching. The set was also constructed very well and complemented the mood that was being set and served as an enhancement to the film. As in the original Frankenstein, Boris Karloff did a terrific job as the monster although I cannot help but believe his performance was better in the original Frankenstein. None the less, he was still very effective and added that extra horror element that the audience was looking for. "}{"Title":"Bride of Frankentstein","Date":"15 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of Frankenstein is a fantastic continuation to the classic Frankenstein. It was interesting to see how the characters have grown over the course of the two films, especially Frankenstein and his monster. This film still manages to deliver the dramatic lighting and Gothic aesthetic of its predecessor. This sequel gives us more insight into the character of the monster as we watch how he struggles with life, death, and what it means to be human. Boris Karloff's performance was just as exceptional in this film as the original. Although we did not see much of the bride throughout the film, her role was essential to bring Karloff's character to his realization. Bride of Frankenstein takes the questions posed by the original and attempts to answer old questions and pose new ones concerning humanity and morality. "},{"Title":"HVCC Student Yuchen Bai Review","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A sequel to the film Frankenstein this film from director James Whale does a much more adequate job of showing the plight of the monster. In this film, i think The Bride of Frankenstein is great, however, I felt like I wanted more of the bride than what was delivered. From the content that we can see Boris Karloff actually improves on his acting from the first and makes you feel for him in every moment throughout this film, and I will say that is the one aspect that was done better, emotion. The character of Frankenstein's Monster has much more to do here, but nobody else seems to be as motivated as he does for finding his mate. In a word, for me, i think this is a great classic film, and the content bring us not only the sensory stimulation, but also there are many reasons of people's life to follow. "},{"Title":"Bride of Frankenstein","Date":"9 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the Bride of Frankenstein, we quickly discover that the monster created in the first movie was never killed off. As reviewers watch the movie, we see that the townspeople freak out after discovering that the monster is still alive. I just can't help but feel bad for the monster because he just wants a friend and wants people to treat him nicely. The monster does get his way though because there is someone who is willing to create another monster. It was an intense movie and interesting to see the townspeople try to destroy one monster while another one was being created. The only thing that turned me off from this movie was the acting. There was just something weird and bad about it. I guess that's what makes a good horror movie in the 1930's? "},{"Title":"Bride of Frankenstein (1935)","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While it is the sequel of the original 1931 Frankenstein, it doesn't really even feel like the original movie ends, this movie continues it perfectly. It has the same feel, most of the same cast with some nice new editions, the lighting is that same intense contrasted lighting of the first film, and the cinematography is just as good too. I loved the first film and I think the second film is just as good. The even better thing about this film is that we really get to understand the monster more, see the transformation in him, and learn more about what it really means to be human. James Whale did an excellent job of directing this film as well as the first and Karloff and Clive returned just as strong. "},{"Title":"Top-notch sequel is one of the most influential horrors ever","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Whale's sequel to the 1931 classic FRANKENSTEIN is considered by many to be superior to the original film, and some people think of it as the best horror film ever made. This is something that I don't agree with, for reasons I will come to. However although there are a handful of faults with the film, it is still a worthy sequel and one of the finest Universal classics.These include the various monster rampages - as good as ever - and of course the creation scene, which is even bigger and better than the original creation. Kites fly, electricity crackles, sparks rain down, and the Bride is raised up into the sky on rickety metal poles. It is certainly a spectacular moment in an exciting, action-packed film. However the most heartfelt and moving scene of the film is when the Monster visits and befriends a blind hermit. The hermit's kindness even causes the Monster to shed a tear, and the scenes where he learns speech are genuinely warming, but in the back of the mind we always know that this is going to come to an end, and soon it does, when hunter John Carradine (in an early bit part) comes in and starts shooting.The actors are great once more, and the cast list can hardly be bettered, with Colin Clive, back from the original FRANKENSTEIN, once more playing the tormented scientist, and gin-sipping Ernest Theisiger (THE OLD DARK HOUSE) as the truly evil creator this time around, his haggard features and slightly insane hair perfect for the role of the weird scientist. Valerie Hobson is a beautiful Elizabeth, and the one character who is totally good in the film. Dwight Frye is again on hand as a monstrous assistant who this time gets thrown off the battlements for his troubles after taunting the Monster with a burning torch (you thought he would have learnt from his previous encounter). Elsa Lanchester is effective in her dual role as Mary Shelley and the Bride itself, and the latter performance, although brief, is excellent. Boris Karloff plays the monster once again, and in some scenes (such as the aforementioned blind hermit one) he conveys pathos brilliantly. However this time around he has been taught to speak and this invariably lessons some of the horrific impact he had the first time around, but being a sequel this was to be expected anyway.The only bad acting in the film comes from an old woman who acts as a comic interpreter, and this is the film's main weakness the reliance on comedy instead of horror for entertainment. If I wanted to watch comedy, I would pop on a Laurel and Hardy film, but instead Whale includes lots of humorous narrative and events, mainly at the beginning of the film, and once again this really lessons what should have been an atmospheric build-up to the horror. However, in a film that has miniature people in jars, a singed Monster roaming woods and graveyards and an electrically-charged ending, you can't really go too far wrong. THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN, Whale's last horror film, is yet another Universal classic and a worthy sequel which develops nicely upon the original concept and remains hugely entertaining, even to this day&#x85; We belong dead!. "},{"Title":"A more action-oriented monster classic!","Date":"22 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the sequel to the original film version of Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, who is revealed in this movie to be alive and is at odds with the townspeople again. Meanwhile, mad scientist Dr. Pretorius (Ernest Thesiger) urges Dr. Henry Frankenstein (Colin Clive) to work with him into creating another monster. What results is a more action-paced and suspense-filled movie than the original Frankenstein.You get to see more of the creature and him wrecking havoc to the countryside and scaring its residents away are noteworthy of any classic monster movie. However, we get to see a different side to the Monster when he stumbles upon the home of a reclusive blind man, drawn to him by his violin playing. The two form a friendship that is brief, but touching. It gives a heartwarming feeling of humanity and kindness seen rarely in monster films in my opinion.Boris Karloff gave another creepy and frighten portrayal of the Frankenstein Monster. Colin Clive gave a dramatic performance of Dr. Frankenstein, an improvement from the previous movie in my opinion; Ernest Thesiger gave a mysterious and sinister portrayal of Dr. Pretorius; Dwight Frye, who played Fritz in Frankenstein and Mr. Renfield in Dracula, returns as Carl, Pretorius' assistant. And, Elsa Lanchester gave a brief but memorable role of the title character.Much of the acting was great and brought on more emotion and drama, helped my the inclusion of an effective music score. I wished the title character had more screen time and wished some parts of the movie weren't so rushed, but, it's another classic monster movie that holds up well through time.Grade B "},{"Title":"To a New World of God's and Monsters!","Date":"4 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Whilst James Whale did not originally appear interested in returning to horror with a sequel to Frankenstein, as it took almost 4 years of convincing by Universal before he agreed to make the sequel, it is clear that it making this film was a great decision. By returning to the directors chair he was able to create a great continuation of the original film, bringing more iconic Gothic visuals along with a further look in to the humanity of the monster. Whale starts the film right where his original left it. We're at the burning windmill as the mob brings back Dr. Frankenstein (Colin Clive) who barely survived the encounter to the village, whilst leaving behind what they think is the burning corpse of the monster (Boris Karloff). However we discover that the monster is not dead and begins to once again wreak havoc on the countryside. In the meantime, Dr. Frankenstein is contacted by his old colleague Dr Pretorius (Ernest Thesiger) who wants to recreate Frankenstein's experiment and create a woman, the be the companion of the monster. Clive's return as Dr. Frankenstein is a great one, that should not have been cast any other way. He brings the same hysterical quality that made him the image of a mad scientist in the original Frankenstein, whilst also showing a great change to his character by resisting the requests to recreate his experiment. This means that whilst he's still fascinated in the concept of creating life, he's seen what it can do and approaches it with a new found fear of its consequences. But obviously the most important character is the monster himself, with Karloff returning to the iconic role. It's a different continuation of the role, as this time the monster learns to talk over the course of the film thus giving Karloff an even greater range to get over the conflict and turmoil of the monster. But the character is still the same icon he was in the forest, with Whale continues to explore the monsters humanity along with how society forces aggression upon the monster and causes him to rampage. Even when the monster attempts to do good, such as one scene in which he saves a drowning woman, the moment they see the beast they immediately judge him and chase him with pitchforks and torches. Through this Whale explores how things are not always as one sided as how it may at first appear. What might at first appear evil can be good. And the path that the many follow can actually be the true evil.In the film's greatest scene, we see him meet a kind blind man in the woods. When he goes in then for once there is somebody who cannot see him and does not instantly brand him as a monster. Instead he actually treats him with kindness, inviting him in as a friend, feeding him and even teaching him to speak. These are certainly the film's most heartfelt scenes as we see the monster for the first time experience true joy due to finding the comradery that he was lacking and not feeling isolated in the world. It's not until the mob tracks him down once more that his hopes of a peaceful life is dashed and he once again must continue his rampage in the woods. After this the monster begins to long for a mate and working with Dr. Pretorious, kidnaps Dr. Frankenstein's bride to force him to recreate his experiment with a women. It's dark motives and actions like these which ensure that the monster is never one sided, but instead Whale creates a very conflicted character being pushed into violence by a society that hates him and a mind of a murderer giving way to his natural instincts. There are parts of this film that I don't think work very well. For example there's some unwanted comedic relief from a maid call Minnie and a very bizarre scene where Dr. Petorious is revealed to have created miniature people that leads to a ridiculous green screen. Comedy like this just felt so out of place when also juggling with themes such as the monsters humanity or the concept of a human playing god and probably would have been better suited for a parody film like Young Frankenstein. But nonetheless this is still a great film. Whale succeeds in further exploring the complexity of one of the most iconic characters in cinema and is fitting as his finale venture in to horror. "},{"Title":"Bride Not As Good As the Groom.","Date":"9 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of Frankenstein (1935) Dir James Whale / Cast Boris Karloff, Colin Clive, Valerie Hobson, Ernest Thesiger, Elsa Lanchester Sequel to the triumphant Frankenstein monster film directed by James Whale. This one begins at the conclusion of that film with the mob watching Frankenstein burn, accept that he still lives. Boris Karloff plays off the massive decayed Frankenstein who is clearly misunderstood due to his stature. Even when he saves a woman from drowning he is trussed up and locked away, until he escapes again. He slowly learns to speak and communicate but his fate is obvious when he realizes where he ultimately belongs. Colin Clive returns as Henry Frankenstein who created the monster in the first film. Now married, he desires to settle down until he is forced into creating a female counterpart to his monster. Ernest Thesiger plays antagonist Doctor Pretorius who desires to continue Frankenstein's quest to conquer death. Valerie Hobson plays Henry's bride Elizabeth who is abducted and used as bait to force Henry to create the monster's bride. Elsa Lanchester steals scenes briefly as the Bride whose response to Frankenstein is the same as everyone else. Title is flawed within its brief footage of the Bride who is barely part of the film. While it lacks the shock of the first film due to its corniness, it is a worthy followup, bride's hair style and all. Score 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"second half is nothing less than horror icon","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mary Shelley tells Lord Byron that there is more to the story of Frankenstein's monster. Both Henry Frankenstein and his monster survive the fire of the original movie. Frankenstein disowns his research and his creation. His former mentor Doctor Septimus Pretorius returns to show him his living miniature creations. Meanwhile the Monster is hounded by hunters as he encounters various people. He befriends an old blind lonely man. He escapes from the hunters and run into Pretorius who has made a brain for the monster's companion. Frankenstein refuses to cooperate so Pretorius has his wife Elizabeth kidnapped. He reluctantly agrees to build a Bride for the Monster.The first half is nothing special and is mostly rebuilding this Frankenstein world. The living miniature are campy and cool. The first half is a B-movie. The acting is bad. Boris Karloff is good and he gets to say a few words in the last act. The second half is nothing less than a horror classic. For me, it starts with the old blind man. He gives the movie its heart. His relationship with the monster is absolutely touching. Then there is the climatic lab scene. There is no more iconic lines than She's Alive! Pardon the pun but that scene is electric. The look of the Bride is iconic. It goes down in history as one of the horror greats of all time. "},{"Title":"Better than its predecessor","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It doesn't happen often that I think a sequel is better than its predecessor but this movie certainly is. Of course this movie couldn't be as good without the Frankenstein movie that came out 2 years earlier. I really liked how they started the movie with author of the novel Mary Shelley saying the story didn't end with the people burning the mill attempting to kill the monster. So the sage continues with the monster further creating havoc. They capture him but he escapes. He eventually meets a blind man who teaches him to speak and for the first time we see emotions in the creature. These are some of the finest scenes in the movies. Here the characters really show depth which they were lacking in the predecessor. Nice that both Boris Karloff and Colin Clive reprised their roles as the monster and Henry Frankenstein. Very nice was also the scene with the little people. The bride of Frankenstein is played by same actress who plays Mary Shelley in the beginning (Elsa Lanchester), excellent choice which I think is symbolic. She looks excellent, a pity she didn't have that much screen time. "}{"Title":"Tragic and Thrilling","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" We belong dead!Bride of Frankenstein outdoes its predecessor in terms of thrills and style, and certainly delves deeper into the psyche of the monster - one of cinema's most tragic figures.The film is expertly directed by horror-maestro James Whale, featuring richly atmospheric cinematography, bold camera movements, wonderfully Gothic art direction, and fantastic use of miniatures. Again, in terms of style the film is simply a feast for the eyes.Karloff's acting, while less subtle than the previous film, is yet another powerful example of making a monster with minimal dialog something you feel for and even shed a tear over. You get a sense that the monster is more frustrated, more self-loathing than we was before, making his encounter with the bride all the more gut-wrenching, because like everyone else she rejects him because of what he is on the outside, something all humans can relate to. Karloff's best scene is with the blind man in the woods - a bittersweet moment because we know his happiness is misguided and will not last for long.Of course, I couldn't write a review of Bride of Frankenstein without mentioning the bride herself, a horror movie icon despite only being on screen for about five minutes. Elsa Lanchester makes quite an impression in her brief screen time, creating the franchise's most unnerving character, with her twitching movements, screams, and hisses (I find her far more frightening than the monster, who is very sympathetic).The film also adds more humor and camp, which, in my opinion, doesn't quite work as well, but it really doesn't hurt the film as a whole. Overall, it is a fantastic sequel that raises the stakes and succeeds most when it is not trying to thrill or frighten us, but simply wants our humanity. "},{"Title":"Classic Monster Flick See it with a Chick","Date":"27 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yup it's true I am reviewing another Universal Monster picture. I just can't seem to get enough of these early monster pictures. Let's blame it on growing up watching Creature Double Feature on CH 56 in Boston on Saturday mornings. At least it's getting close to Halloween so you can use these recommendations to the fullest. So bust out some candy corn, popcorn balls and a cup of hot apple cider and check out this spooky review.The Bride of Frankenstein released in 1935 is the sequel to the Frankenstein (1931). The film features the same Director (Whale) as the original. He was able to wrest a significant amount of artistic control and freedom from the studio following hits with The Invisible Man and the first Frankenstein films. The director kept the same cinematographer for this picture as the original and he continues his use of German expressionist inspired camera-work and unusual angle shots.The majority of the original cast returns for this picture. Reprising the main roles, Colin Clive returned as Dr. Frankenstein and Boris Karloff is back as the Frankenstein monster. A significant addition to this picture is Ernest Thesiger as the sexually ambiguous mad scientist Dr. Septimus Pretorious. The set design on this picture is something to behold. Although, you can see the sets are heavily influenced by stage performance the director makes tremendous use of the limited space provided. In particular the design of the hermits cabin and the Lab where the monster is created stand out for their atmospheric elements.The plot of the film involves the discovery that both Dr. Frankenstein and the Monster are still alive despite their suspected deaths in the original. Dr. Frankenstein has plans to marry Elizabeth (Valerie Hobson) and he renounces his creation. However, he is soon visited by former mentor Dr. Septimus Pretorious and asked to assist him in recreating life. Dr. Frankenstein is reluctant as Dr. Pretorious raises a toast to their venture to a world of gods and monsters.Meanwhile we see that the Frankenstein monster is still alive as well. He lurks around the countryside doing what he does best. While almost drowning a young girl and then trying to smother her cries the monster is shot by 2 hunters and an angry mob is soon on his trail. In some iconic scenes the monster is befriended by a blind hermit (O.P. Heggie) who feeds him and teaches him some rudimentary language. The monsters brief respite from torment ends when he is discovered by hunters and burns down the hermit's cottage. While on the run the monster encounters Dr. Pretrorious in a crypt grave robbing and is enticed to assist him in creating a mate/friend for the monster. To this end the monster captures Elizabeth to force Dr. Frankenstein to create another creature with Dr. Pretorious. The creation sequence in the Lab is absolutely amazing. This often copied and satirized scene is a staple of American cinema and its worth watching this film just for that scene alone. Things go from bad to worse once Dr. Frankenstein shouts she's alive. Alive!!! This is the best of the monster movies that I have reviewed so far and is well worth watching. I probably had not seen this movie in 25 years and was surprised by the amount of influence on popular culture and cinema that's contained in the film. If anything this has inspired me to see more of these monster movies. I also feel a need to revisit Young Frankenstein (1974) as I would probably more readily identify with its themes. In summation this film is an exciting, scary, fun filled satirical romp and well worth your time. This film is currently available on Netflix for instant streaming. "},{"Title":"Bride of Frankenstein( 1935)","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a definite horror classic. The acting is so dramatic. It makes a lot of scenes actually comical. I personally thought that it may have been better than the original. I thought it was really cool how they gave the monsters more human like characteristics, for example talking more. The monster was longing to be accepted. His appearance and growls frightened people. Because of what he was people were constantly afraid of him. There was a theme in this being that people should not be judged by their appearance. The music was almost comical in how dramatic it was. The music helped foreshadow many events. The lighting was very dim and dark which I thought helped create the mood perfectly. To think that this film was made in 1935 seems so impressive. It really had some great special effects. Classic horror films like this cannot be compared to any of the modern day. "},{"Title":"Thr Bride of Frankenstein (1935)","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 88/100. Brilliant classic horror picture, visually incredible, and the special effects are still awesome, even by today's standards. The imagination used throughout very much lifts this film out of the ordinary. Excellent performances all around, especially Elsa Lanchester, Boris Karloff and Una O'Connor. Magnificent art direction, and Franz Waxman's score very effectively adds tension and excitement. The cinematography is remarkable. Very memorable and it's not the kind of film you stop thinking about after it ends. James Whale's best movie, he so skillfully crafted the film to last through the ages. Undoubtedly the best Frankenstein movie ever made. "},{"Title":"Bride of Frankenstein","Date":"20 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Bride of Frankenstein was a much better film than Frankenstein. The character of the monster was much more developed and you begin to see him as a real person who is sort of lonely. One of the more fascinating scenes was when the crazier evil Doctor shows Dr. Frankenstein how he has created miniature humans that he keeps under a glass. That was pretty well done. I liked the way the movie started with Mary Shelley telling the rest of the story. Best of all was the birth of the Bride-I loved her and wish I could have seen more of her. She was so eerie and something about that scream and the way she jerked her head! I thought the entire movie was well done with the lighting and shadows. "},{"Title":"Great follow-up to a classic","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Bride of Frankenstein is one of the best films of all time, and a spectacular sequel as well.**SPOILERS**Following the destruction of the windmill where Henry Frankenstein, (Colin Clive) and the Monster, (Boris Karloff) were supposedly burned, both end up surviving the blaze. Frankenstein, back in the arms of Elizabeth, (Valerie Hobson) tries to recuperate from his wounds when Dr. Pretorius, (Ernst Thesiger) arrives saying that he has also created life from the dead. After taking control of the Monster, Dr. Pretorius blackmails Frankenstein to make a mate for the Creature. When the finished mate, (Elsa Lanchester) is presented to the Monster, the results are not what anyone could've predicted.The Good News A perfect example of a high quality sequel, this one manages to do what few actually do. This one is able to be a fantastically entertaining film while also being true to what it's first one set-up. The Monster this time around is around for much more time, allowing for some more interaction and a general feeling for the monster. Every amount of forest scenes look great, full of action and whimsy that very few have. The chases are also made fun to watch with a unique twist, which can't be spoiled but is indeed a great one at that. The rampages this time around also much more prominent in the earlier section, and give good reason why the forest scenes hold up the way they do. The best section is again the spectacular conclusion, which must've been an all-out extravaganza back then and still manages to get some great thrills out of it. The spectacle of it is what's really amazing, making it a full-on ride to the very end, and indeed the film rarely has any low points in the action. The film has a very upbeat pace during it's runtime, keeping things light and loose and then being blown away with it's spectacular finale. The very fact that it was one of the very few sequels around that picked things up immediately after the first one is a major plus, and is a marvelous addition. Very, very few things wrong with this one.The Bad News There's really only a very small complaint about the film. Despite the care it takes to continue right off where the first one started, there's still a couple of small little inconsistencies with the two. The fact that the monster can understand complex direction is the biggest one. It was shown in the first one that he could only understand a few basic commands, while in this one he's clearly shown several times to understand and follow relatively more complex situations. As the time period between the two is not that great, it's a weird example to see that. The only other part that really sticks out is the opening flashback sequence. It's a really out of place part that doesn't have too much to add to the film other than giving it a pointless part. These are exceedingly minor grievances and aren't at all that distracting.The Final Verdict With only the most minor of grievances, this is a really entertaining film that manages to beat out it's predecessor and move into the realms of the all-time genre classics. Very highly recommenced to any and everyone, especially those who enjoyed the original so mightily.Today's Rating-PG Violence "},{"Title":"Jehovahstein","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of Frankenstein tries to accomplish a lot, and half the time I was unsure what these things were, or at least which general tone was intended. I enjoyed this and Whale's Franken-predecessor, but they both suffer from these nearly identical topsy-turvy moods. Horror, rue, and gut-busters all dwell under the same runtime, and admittedly, my cinematic bread & butter is the kind of movie that can fuse genre and mood and still be of a piece, but a lot of these movies don't quite hang together. I will say that I'm crushing super hard on Elsa Lanchester, who burns on the screen like a no-frills, spectral version of Rose McGowan or something. One of my favorite scenes is when the monster growls his way into a hermitage. That monk isn't just kind or blind, I get the sense that he'd be that stupid (or perhaps much more kind-hearted than me) if his eyes worked. "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"1 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched both Frankenstein and its sequel Bride of Frankenstein today. Both films look fabulous in their new bu-ray editions. Karloff's performance is wonderful in both films, but in Bride, his character as the monster is humanized to a point that we all can relate to for wanting to be accepted for who we are. All the monster wanted was to be accepted for what he was. He wanted a friend. Only director James Whale could get that across in the 30s as a gay man who was likely trying to be accepted also. The last 20 minutes of this film exhibits some of the best photography in any film when the bride is revealed. For a horror film, they never made them better. I would rank this is as one the best films ever produced by Universal Pictures, director James Whale, actor Boris Karloff and the supporting cast. Una O'Connor and Ernest Thesiger gave terrific performances. Love this one! "},{"Title":"Fun, Campy, and Self-aware","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Bride of Frankenstein is an interesting sequel to say the least. It starts off by breaking the forth wall essentially and having an actress (Elsa Lanchester) play the author of the Frankenstein novel which leads to her saying she has more of a story to tell. We then get a few scenes from the original Frankenstein film which sums up some aspects of the film and then we are led right into the events immediately after. The Monster has lived as well as Henry Frankenstein. Does it feel a bit cheap? Yeah, I guess so but I've always given the horror genre the benefit of the doubt with sequels. And it doesn't matter because this film works really well for the most part. It is filled with fun, campy, over the top performances that keep the film highly entertaining. In general, the film seems to be self-aware and is somewhat a self-parody of the previous Universal horror flicks. Most of the film is really The Monster running into other people and having strange, awkward, and comical encounters with them. From The Monster eventually learning to talk to accidentally killing people in rage, this film remains extremely fun. Why is the film called The Bride of Frankenstein then? Honestly, I can't entirely figure it out myself. The Bride doesn't come until the tail end of the film which was a bit of an issue for me. I would have loved to see some fun, silly, self-aware scenes with The Monster and his Bride but sadly, we don't really get that. Regardless, the film is still a really fun time and might just be better than it's sequel which has only been done a handful of times and really almost never is done in the horror genre. "},{"Title":"wow","Date":"12 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Story Line When I was starting to watch the film I was thinking eh this frank overrated thing I was so so wrong. This film is actually beautiful in it's own way. The story line was amazing 8/10Cast/Acting Not a problem with any cast or acting I thought they were all good. Scares 2/10 I actually fount this more of a family film then a horror. I even got sad at some points of the film.Location 7/10 The village that everyone lived in was beautiful and vintage as well as the castle looking really Gothic. Best Bit - Frankenstein's monster learning to speak with his friend aw that was so cute. Worst bit - No one giving frank's monster a chance. It annoyed me. He only wanted a friend. "}{"Title":"Get beck!  Get BECK!","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's easy to see why this sequel to Frankenstein, in which the monster learns to talk and suffers an unrequited love, has been so often parodied. The story is weird without being especially creepy, the acting outrageously hammy, and the special effects thoroughly dated in a way that's amusing.In order to coerce Victor Frankenstein into building him a bride, the monster crashes into the bedroom of Frankenstein's own fiancée and kidnaps her. I forget the comic strip in which the monster, instead of throwing her over his shoulder and running, begins to do her hair, combing and spraying it.But the original story is most thoroughly skewered in Mel Brooks' Young Frankenstein, in which all the iconic moments are reduced to slapstick, with the exception of Ernest Thesiger's mad scientist who wears a yarmulke and reduces a horny king and his haughty queen to the size of tin toys.Thesiger turns in the best performance. There are times when he seems to realize he's in what would soon be treated as a source of comedy. Colin Clive, as Frankenstein, doesn't know it so he's all the more effective, shouting classic lines like, It's alive! Oh, it's ALIVE! Lionel Atwood is wooden -- all over. Elsa Lanchester has a chance to hiss and twitch and show off her spectacular make up as the bride who, lamentably, finds the monster as ugly as he believes himself to be. Movie buffs can amuse themselves by looking for Walter Brennan and Helen Walker in bit parts.I've sort of made fun of the movie but it's become, not a classic, but a totem, part of our vernacular culture. If you haven't seen it, it's certainly worth watching. "},{"Title":"Here comes the Bride","Date":"15 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It turns out that the Monster wasn't killed in the windmill fire at the end of the first movie. As a matter of fact he's roaming the country looking for friends and shelter while the usual torch and pitchfork brigade are after him. Meanwhile the Doctor and his wife would like to just move away and forget about it all, but another mad scientist, Doctor Pretorius, blackmails him into making a mate for the monster.The early scenes with Pretorius are ridiculous, and his 'miniature people' collection almost turns the movie into a spoof. It's saved by yet another moving performance by Boris Karloff (no longer credited as '?') who brings real empathy and emotion to the tragic monster. Another curious element is the metafictional edge created by the appearance of Mary Shelley and Lord Byron in the prologue. An interesting idea sadly rendered redundant after Universal cut 12 minutes from the film.A worthy sequel, but it needs a little and a little more to make it truly great. "},{"Title":"Great Black and White Monster Movie","Date":"13 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I usually prefer my monster movies in glorious color, so I can enjoy the splatter, but The Bride of Frankenstein really defied my expectations.First of all, Frankenstein is really a monster to be reckoned with. He might be a little sluggish, but he's got some major steroid action going on.Second, the film is laced with some effective humor. I wouldn't call this a true horror movie because it's not really scary. There are large chunks of it that are played for comedy.The only reason I demoted it a star was because of the opening sequence, which comes across as dated. If you can stick with it, you will not only be rewarded. You'll thank yourself for the treat. "},{"Title":"A new age of gods and monsters","Date":"4 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sequels have long been one of the most embarrassing products of cinema, because they tend towards repetitiveness and faddish cash-in value rather than originality and integrity. At its inception Bride of Frankenstein seems to have represented all that is worst about sequels. It reopens the story of a perfectly structured picture that needed no further elaboration, indeed rewriting the end of that picture in order to make the new story fit. As if this audacity was not enough, we open with no less an authority than Lord Byron recapping the plot of the 1931 movie, even though that was only loosely based on his contemporary Mary Shelley's novel. This whole set-up has a feel of it's probably been a few years since you saw the original, so won't notice you're essentially being shown a substandard knock-off, only with bigger sets and better makeup which is essentially all Bride of Frankenstein is, in outline at least.Somewhere along the line however, the picture was apparently hijacked and turned into a farcical and self-deprecating comedy. Original screenwriter William Hurlbut was no funny man, but the script would go through several other hands, including those of the very talented R.C. Sheriff who was the primary writer on The Invisible Man. This was probably all under the auspices of the somewhat ribald and rebellious director James Whale. In fact, much of the comedy material has the look of having been improvised, especially that with the wildly over-the-top Una O'Connor, so is probably that of the team on set more than any writer. Bride of Frankenstein takes the silliness of horror-comedy The Invisible Man and takes it one step further, from jolly counterpoint into absolute parody. It's hard to know where the overt melodrama ends and the hysterical daftness begins &#x96; all in all a good thing, because if this were just melodramatic horror cliché it would be a far poorer film.At pre-production however the original aim seems to have been to increase the sinister and creepy atmosphere of the original. The sets, not only larger, are far more baroque and expressionist. Even the Frankenstein family home, a fairly regular mansion in 1931, is now a cavernous Gothic castle. The result is tonal overkill. Whale, rather than trying to restrain this inflated production, simply indulges. His trademark tracking shots are at their most effective here, foreground props all over the place and wheeling manoeuvres that give real resonance to those interiors. Other than this however Whale's direction is for the most part a little more relaxed than usual, as if what is before his camera is bizarre enough.So, all this overstatement, the cheerfully dismissive manner in which characters are bumped off, the screeching of Una O'Connor (not very funny, but I do love the way she says just because he's a burgomaster, sounding wonderfully out-of-place with a cockney accent) was clearly done for a purpose &#x96; sending up the strains of pompous melodrama, fighting fire with fire. But does the exaggerated approach rescue Bride of Frankenstein from typical sequel trashiness? Not quite. The tone here is not so much one of triumphal reworking as one of flippancy. It seems that Whale and whoever else was on his side were simply reacting against the commercial lowness of the picture as the studio intended it. It's quite clear Bride of Frankenstein is a product of conflict more than collaboration and when compared to its predecessor is a rather middling affair. "},{"Title":"Tall, well built M, rugged looks, GSOH, enjoys wine, cigars and music seeks attractive, wild-haired F for friendship and romance.","Date":"8 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This distinctive work from visionary director James Whale boldly combines chilling scenes of the macabre with crazy black humour, outrageous scientific cods-wallop, and even a few wry swipes at religion&#x97;quite an achievement for a film hailing from a major studio during an era when censorship was rife; but even though it has many admirable points&#x97;its unique style, impressive lighting, excellent acting, stunning production design, iconic creature make-up, and a memorable score&#x97;I just can't find myself in complete agreement with the majority of critics, who consider it to not only be one of the best sequels in the history of cinema, but also one of the finest examples of the horror genre ever. It's good, but it's not THAT good!As far as I am concerned, Whale's darkly comedic approach to the film is often detrimental to the film's overall power, serving to weaken the horror (whilst also grating on my nerves quite a bit); the oft-mentioned 'hermit scene' fails to tug at my heartstrings as intended, being way too heavy handed (warning on no account watch Young Frankenstein beforehand), and the bride herself only makes an appearance towards the close of the film, shortly before disappearing in a pile of rubble in a very silly and rushed ending (the pull of a single lever triggers the destruction of the watchtower; hadn't the Baron considered having the damn thing disconnected?).Other factors that I feel prevent the film from being the epitome of horror perfection are the tiny people in jars, who are just too fantastical for the genre (they'd be better suited to a fairytale than a classic monster movie), and Una O'Connor's supposedly funny but cringe-inducing performance as Minnie the house-maid. On the more positive side, the rest of the cast are wonderful Karloff once again puts in a strong, emotive performance as the monster, Elsa Lanchester is beguiling as both Mary Shelley and the Bride, Valerie Hobson is stunning as Elizabeth, and creepy Ernest Thesiger is great as the real villain of the piece, the Mephistopheles-like Doctor Pretorius.Perhaps, with repeat viewings, I may become accustomed to Bride of Frankenstein's oddball approach, and learn to love it more, but watching it so soon after the brilliant original, the change in style was just too much for me to take in. I'll rate it a 7/10&#x97;a visually impressive, daring, but flawed movie. "},{"Title":"A magnificent, but not better, addendum to the original","Date":"29 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While most people argue that Bride Of Frankenstein is superior to its predecessor, I'm inclined to disagree with that assessment. Yes, this is a fantastic film, and most assuredly a must-see for film scholars and casual fans alike. But, as with any sequel, the sense of familiarity makes the most gripping moments of Bride Of Frankenstein slightly less spectacular than they were when we saw them the first time out, and while the film succeeds as both a logical continuation of the original and as a high-water mark in Universal's already stellar classic horror canon, Bride simply doesn't capture the near-perfection of our first visit with Frankenstein.Many also consider this film a more faithful adaptation of Mary Shelley's source novel, but that's not quite true either. Actually, Bride Of Frankenstein's main purpose is to bring to life the substantial bits of Shelley's novel that were omitted from the original film. Putting the two movies together gives a fairly inclusive, if chronologically skewed, overview of the salient elements of Shelley's classic text. Those who have never read the book will undoubtedly find the events in Bride a marvelous augmentation of the original Frankenstein, but for those already well-acquainted with the novel, this film simply fills in the blanks.Some may find the idea of the monster speaking to be a silly twist, but it's important to note that this was a major plot point in Shelley's original tale. The way it's handled here is actually an excellent representation of the source material, and the monster's time with the blind hermit in the woods is well-lifted straight from the text. While the ability to speak strips Karloff's lumbering giant of a bit of his menace, his verbalization of his need for companionship substantially furthers the exploration of the isolation and loneliness of the monster's existence that is so key to the story.The movie's preface is a bit over the top, and although it is a rather neat idea to allow Shelley herself to tell the rest of her tale, the foppish portrayals of Lord Byron and Percy Shelley have aged less gracefully than the rest of the film. While this works as a great device to set up a sequel, the factual inaccuracy of this segue may miff those who are approaching the film from a historical standpoint.In most respects, Bride functions as a straight-forward Part II, utilizing an approach that has been used in sequels since the dawn of cinema namely, amplifying the most successful elements from the original film to substitute for the lack of surprises. In the case of Bride Of Frankenstein, this means more of Boris Karloff's legendary monster and more humor. Neither of these is a bad thing, and thanks to the strength of Una O'Connor's spirited performance, the funniest moments of Bride have held up admirably well. Ditto with Karloff's indelible creature, who remains an unforgettable and imposing screen presence. Karloff did magnificent things without saying a word in the original Frankenstein, but allowed the chance to add language to his portrayal, he's able to more ably summon the complexities and inner turmoil of the monster that are such a focal point in the text.Ernest Thesiger's Dr. Pretorius nearly steals the film on his own, even if our first glimpse of his experiments is bound to look clunky and dated to modern audiences. Though these effects aren't quite spectacular, the strength of Thesiger's performance is undeniable, and his shared obsession with Colin Clive's Dr. Frankenstein leads to some delightful interplay between the two.Of course, we can't fail to mention the Bride herself, Elsa Lanchester, whose stunning reveal nearly rivals the impact of Karloff's entrance in the original. Surely, the film-makers were reaching for a presence as iconic as Karloff's monster, and they definitely hit those lofty heights with Lanchester's unforgettable and all-too-brief turn as the monster's unwilling object of desire.The finale here is not only the climax of the film, but of the creature's entire quest for acceptance, and the tragedy of the monster's disturbed life is never more explicit than when he discovers that even the being built specifically to be his companion can not accept his monstrous existence. When our doomed lothario and his dismissive mate are seemingly destroyed, it is an epic, almost Shakespeare-ian last reel, and the monster's final words, we belong dead, end the saga with a violent emotional punch that perfectly punctuates the sense of primal despondency Karloff's creature has carried throughout both films.Yet, none of this quite edges Bride ahead of the classic it follows. The repetition of powerful images from the previous film, including the monster throwing a hapless soul off the roof just as he did to Frankenstein in the original, ensures that Bride simply can't shock our senses as acutely as before. Even though Dr. Frankenstein's ecstatic She's alive! is a welcome and delightful twist on the precursor's most famous moment, it doesn't have the same lunatic zeal that shone so brightly the first time through. This is most assuredly a masterfully constructed piece, but it simply doesn't match the heady standard set for it.I honestly don't know why that matters, though. Anyone interested in either film should undoubtedly see both, as they are symbiotic extensions of each other. There really isn't any reason to argue, because once you watch Frankenstein and Bride Of Frankenstein, you win either way. "},{"Title":"The Monster wants a bride","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Boris Karloff has proved time and again how good he is after playing the Monster in the 'Frankenstein' and the film was a massive hit.He delivers yet again in 'Bride of Frankenstein' playing the Monster and well supported by the cast of the film.I haven't seen 'Frankenstein' but I know Karloff must have excelled in it too.The film-making and story-telling is perhaps of the highest quality you'll ever see.Very rarely you get an opportunity to see such outstanding cinema. James Whale would definitely like to work with Boris Karloff in the future after having enormous profits during their two-film collaboration.A true masterpiece knowing the period in which it was made. "},{"Title":"Frankenstein meets his mate","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Percy Bysshe Shelley and Lord Byron praise Mary Shelley for her story of Frankenstein and his monster on a stormy night.Then we see how the monster survives the fire and wants a friend.And he gets a woman, a shrieking woman.James Whale's Bride of Frankenstein (1935) is a sequel to Frankenstein (1931).Also in this movie the monster isn't really a monster.Often you feel sorry for the monster.One of my favorite moments of the movie is when he meets the blind man in his cottage.He can't see the appearance of Frankenstein.He can only hear his pain over the fact how the world treats him.Boris Karloff, who has more lines in this one, is incredible again.Elsa Lanchaster is wonderful as Monster's Bride.If you liked the original movie, you're going to like this also. "},{"Title":"A sequel equal to the original","Date":"14 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The story of Frankenstein doesn't end as thought with the Monster and its creator being consumed by the flames. In this sequel to Frankenstein, Mary Shelley tells us that both Dr. Frankenstein and his Monster survived the ending of the last film. As Dr. Frankenstein lies recovering from his wounds, the sinister Dr. Pretorius pays him a visit and suggests that they work together to create a mate for the Monster and create a race of man-made men. When Henry Frankenstein refuses, the evil Pretorius aided by the Monster, kidnaps Elizabeth in order to coerce Frankenstein's assistance.This is one sequel that is equal to the original and that is a rare thing. Whale has managed to keep the horror in this movie and continues to create a wonderfully dark and bleak atmosphere in his Gothic setting. But while the original is a purely serious film, Bride of Frankenstein also introduces some humor into the mix.Boris Karloff continues to do admirably as the Monster, who we now see to be more vengeful and evil, but we see that this has developed from his rejection by mankind, so we still have some sympathy for it. Ernest Thesiger is a wonderful actor, who plays the cunning and foul Dr. Pretorius convincingly and Clive Owen does equally well as Dr. Frankenstein.The action moves along well and the story never gets boring. Definitely a must-see movie for those who enjoyed the original. "},{"Title":"If you loved Frankenstein, you'll be crazy about his bride.","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The quintessential Gothic horror movie sequel, Universal Studios' 1935 hit, the Bride of Frankenstein adds grotesque gallows humor to the macabre and spine-chilling formula that made the original Frankenstein movie the biggest box-office hit of 1931, featuring the most talked about monster in horror movie history. Taking up where Frankenstein left off, Bride of Frankenstein is the terrifying tale of how the murderous monster first escaped doom to find a mate &#150; a bride &#150; made like himself from the parts rifled off the bodies of the recently dead. The Hollywood King of Horror, Boris Karloff, reprises his most famous role in a top-notch performance remarkable as much for its camp irony as for its shocking ghoulishness. This time, Karloff outdid himself! Although its bloodcurdling effects are closely patterned on the first Frankenstein, Bride is much more than a sequel. It is a hilarious send-up of the original, featuring priceless scenes of ham acting by a cast of wonderfully colorful character actors, among the most talented ever to appear in a horror movie. Genius director James Whale has created the most expressionistic and frightening of Gothic films, made up of spellbinding effects which are a distillation of all that is best in horror movie technique dark shadows and blinding flashes of light, hideous suspense and a gut wrenchingly scary monster.All of the distinguished cast had very solid backgrounds before being cast in Bride. Karloff had already appeared in over 80 movies, including Universal Studios' hit The Mummy and The Mask of Fu Manchu, while scene stealer Ernest Thesiger, who appears as the exquisitely decadent Dr. Pretorius in Bride, also appeared alongside Karloff in another James Whale directed chiller, The Old Dark House. Classically trained Una O'Connor, Dr. Frankenstein's bug-eyed hysterical maid, began her acting career with Dublin's renowned Abbey Theater company, but was early typecast by Hollywood in oddball character roles, usually as a serving woman in such hit movies as The Invisible Man. Mainly a character actor, Elsa Lanchester's acting almost always featured a great deal of graceful poise and charm, perhaps because she studied with dance legend Isadora Duncan -- making her a natural for the dual role of Bride and Mary Shelley. "}{"Title":"A Masterpiece Of Old Hollywood Horror","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Bride of Frankenstein (1935) Boris Karloff, Elsa Lanchester, Colin Clive, Valerie Hobson, Ernest Thesinger, Gavin Gordon, Dwight Frye, Douglas Walton, Una O'Connor, E.E. Clive, O.P. Heggie, Lucien Prival, Reginald Barlow, Mary Gordon, Ted Billings, Anne Darling, Jack Curtis, Robert Adair, Helen Parrish, Norman Ainsley, Walter Brennan, John Carradine, Kansas DeForrest, Neil Fitzgerald, Helen Gibson, Josephine McKim, Rollo Lloyd, Mary Steweart, Frank Terry, Joan Woodbury...Director James Whale..Screenplay William Hurlbut, John L. Balderston, Josef Berne, Lawrence G. Blochman, Tom Reed, R.C. Sheriff.Audiences adored Frankenstein, Universal's successful horror film based on Mary Shelley's classic tale of horror. Boris Karloff won instant Hollywood fame as the Frankenstein monster and this would become his signature role despite taking on many other horror roles. Because the first Frankenstein film was such a hit, it soon became clear to Universal Studios that they should make a franchise and series of horror films with recurring characters and monsters. These would go on to include Dracula (portrayed by both Bela Lugosi and Lon Cheney) Frankenstein, The Wolf Man, The Mummy and The Invisible Man. This is an unauthorized sequel since Mary Shelley had nothing to do with writing it and it's purely the work of Hollywood writers. Dr. Frankenstein (Colin Clive) turns out not to have died in the mill the angry mob set fire to. They believe they destroyed the Monster but it becomes gradually apparent that the monster is alive and well. He runs a muck and begins his killings in the German forests, scaring off his first victim (Una O'Connor in a hilarious role) who warns others that she has seen the monster with her own eyes come back from the dead. In one early scene, he spies a beautiful shepherdess (Anne Darling) and he attacks her in what is almost visually a near-rape-scene. The monster is soon out of control but only the violin music of a blind man and hermit (O.P. Heggie) has the power to soothe the monster and puts him on a hypnotic and tranquil state. Dr. Frankenstein abandons his wife and citizen's duty once again, enamored with his power to create life. He discovers that another scientist has created miniature life through a combination of strong magic and science. The mad scientist has his work cut out for him again. This time, discovering that all Frankenstein really wants is a mate, he sets out to create a Bride for him. She is made up of dead body parts like Frankenstein with a human female brain. She is beautiful but strange and upon seeing Frankenstein she is repulsed by him. Frankenstein, feeling his first heartbreak, decides to end his life and hers. This would have been a strongly romantic and tragic story if the horror/mystery element wasn't so heavy and in the audience's faces. In 1935, the Hays Code did not permit too much violence, not even in horror films and looking at these types of movies, they were nothing more than heavy Gothic melodrama with more mystery than horror. Audiences scared more easily. This sequel to Frankenstein has been considered the best in the Frankenstein series but I thought it was too slow-moving and lacked enough suspense and thrills and chills to make it a good horror film. The best in the series is the original Frankenstein and the last Frankenstein film -Ghost of Frankenstein. Bride has its moments and what most people remember is Elsa Lanchester's memorable get-up as the Bride, with that high-piled hairdo and her bloodcurdling scream. But really Elsa Lanchester is not doing any real acting as she appears only two times, first as Mary Shelley the Victorian novelist entertaining guests with her stories and then as the Bride who cannot speak but can sure scream her head off. Frankenstein is able to talk (Boris Karloff's voice) and he appears to be very human and intelligent. Apparently, this did not catch on and in the other movies he's back to being just a growling and stupid killing machine. Colin Clive hams it up again as the ambitious mad scientist. Another wonderful aspect of the movie is the music by veteran Hollywood film composer Franz Waxman (he would do the music to Sunset Boulevard among his many film scores). Waxman creates an atmosphere of eerie mystery and Gothic beauty and even romance. It's too bad the movie moves too slowly and has very little to offer save for visual grandeur. But this is a favorite of many horror film fans and a definite classic. "},{"Title":"James Whale's best film","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Whale's Bride of Frankenstein is one of the most remarkable achievements in the history of horror film. Whale took the bones of his resurrection-man classic Frankenstein and expanded upon pretty much everything, losing a little of the horror (which was probably inevitable, since the monster's appearance no longer shocks) but adding greatly to the humor and characterization Most of the original characters are here, including Dr. Frankenstein (Colin Clive), and most are played by the original players with the notable improvement of Valerie Hobson (Clive's co-star in Mad Love, if I'm not mistaken) as his fiancé Elizabeth. Karloff has returned, and despite reservations about giving the monster dialog, he surpasses his work in the original film in terms of bringing pathos to the character and actually manages to keep him somewhat fearsome despite the amount of time he's on the screen. Even Dwight Frye returns in a slightly different role despite being disposed of in the first film. Frankenstein's father has been killed somehow (his death is mentioned but no details give) so now he is Baron Frankenstein. There are 3 notable additions to the cast however. Una O'Connor brings her own particular brand of over-the-top lower-class humor to the film, screeching and squawking with the best of them. She's one of the most divisive elements in the film for fans, but I personally don't feel she ultimately adds or detracts much from the film. Elsa Lanchester makes an unforgettable impression as the Bride, securing cult stature for decades. Her movements have always reminded me of a crazed bird so I wasn't surprised to read that she had modeled the hiss on actual swans she had observed in London parks. She also appears in a cheesy but charming prologue as the author Mary Shelley. The introduction lets us know right away that this film will not be as serious as the first film, and also sets up an interesting parallelism between Shelly and the female monster by having the same actress perform both parts. For these reasons alone its inclusion should not cause the controversy it seems to cause.As much as Lanchester adds to this second film, however, even her contribution isn't as memorable as Ernest Thesiger's inspired Dr. Pretorius, the mad doctor who blackmails Frankenstein into resuming his experiments. Probably my single favorite moment from this classic film is Pretorius midnight snack in the catacombs, where he meets Frankenstein's monster. Like the monster, Pretorius belongs among the dead and feels more comfortable among them than with his living accomplices. That's an interesting idea, but it's the humor of the scene that really carries it. Unlike the sometimes intrusive humor of O'Connor and the burgomeister, the humor here and in other scenes with Pretorius is of an appropriately macabre variety for horror film. It's dark humor of the type associated with the Grand Guignol school of theater from the late 1800s which continued through EC Comics and films of people like George Romero up through the present day. To suggest (as some have done) that it's out of place in a horror film is to display a rather limited understanding of the appeal and depth of the genre, I think. This is actually the type of thing that smart storytellers have always done in tales of whimsy and fantasy to entertain both the young and impressionable and the older and more cynical.In fact on the whole Bride of Frankenstein deserves praise for being so multi-faceted, for offering up so many different kinds of entertainment that surely everyone in the theater could find something to enjoy &#150; and yet at the same time it's a celebration of abnormality and it revels in its own weirdness. There is very little inconsistency in its tone because the source of much of its humor is the same as the source of much of its romantic power &#150; irony. Few can resist the allure of sympathizing for the creature, rejected by its creator and now returned to become the catalyst for creation himself &#150; he even tells Frankenstein to sit down exactly as Frankenstein told him in the first film. The cruelest irony is the fact that the monster is perhaps the kindest and most innocent character in the story, and must be tortured and rejected by society because he is different. And I think here we have a key to Whale's understanding of the story and the deeper significance of some of its Christian and homo-erotic symbolism, as simple as it may sound. I think Whale very efficiently communicates the concept that we should be careful about how quickly we judge good and evil, like the monster who fears fire and smoke because of his history and doesn't realize how much good fire can do &#150; let's not forget we're talking about an adaption of a novel subtitled The Modern Prometheus. The message is not subtle but it is powerful and convincing.I simply can't talk about all the exceptional aspects of this film in the space allowed. Franz Waxman's score is one of the all-time best horror/fantasy scores and has been re-used and imitated in hundreds of other films but none quite so excellently as here. Photographer John Mescall and Whale are a perfect combination &#150; how else could you produce so much wicked humor from expressionist designs. I particularly love the creation scene, which surpasses that in the original both in scope and detail through a brilliant montage.Speaking as a fan of Universal horror films from the 1930s, this one surpasses them all to my tastes &#150; dark humor, ruminations on mortality and physical determinism, homo-erotic Christ imagery used for ironic effect&#133;.. this movie does so many things that have never been done before or since. "},{"Title":"A bride by any other name","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Many people regard Bride of Frankenstein as the best horror film ever made. I wouldn't go that far. I much prefer Frankenstein. Despite a lot of wonderful set pieces, the original film has more. The pacing of the 1931 movie is faster too. And I like the crotchety baron's comic relief. On the other hand, this entry has several demerits, including Una O'Connor and Gavin Gordon. In fact, Bride is burdened with an appallingly bad opening scene all around. Chief problem is the hammy Gavin Gordon who gives a such a florid impression of Lord Byron, he soon has many viewers squirming in agony. Elsa Lanchester and Douglas Walton are also infected by this ripest of hams, but once this atrocious Prologue is over and the movie itself starts, we are handed over to the real stars Karloff in his prime and Ernest Thesiger in his green years. Colin Clive, playing straight man to Thesiger, is more subdued than in the original, while Valerie Hobson (replacing Mae Clarke) has hardly any footage at all and is continuously upstaged by that grand dame of a screaming nuisance, Una O'Connor. I can't stand her at the best of times and in this movie she seems almost constantly underfoot.Karloff, however, is superb. Hampered, disguised and disfigured by his lumbering make-up, he manages to make his Monster both repulsive yet sympathetic, impossibly nightmarish yet totally believable. Providing him with a few bits of dialogue was a masterly touch. And of course the scene he shares with O.P. Heggie provides one of the greatest moments in cinema history.Whale's stylishly atmospheric direction makes the most of both the luxuriously ornate and the expressionistically grotesque sets. The cinematic wizardry of the special effects never fails to draw gasps of astonishment even from the more blasé and sophisticated viewers of 2007.And title notwithstanding, the role of the bride is actually quite small. Nonetheless, all the lead up action provides a great treat for fans of the macabre and the wittily grotesque. "},{"Title":"Superb, In Every Way.","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the ultimate Universal horror show. It also has the greatest line of almost any film I can think of, We Belong Dead!. When Boris Karloff uttered those three words the world changed for the better. That was so powerful and meaningful to what the monster stood for, which was a disconfigiration or diverge from God's supposed plan for the world. It shows that people who can not be accepted by society feel so divulged of humanity that they feel the need for the release of suicide. This film tries to show us that if something looks bad, maybe it still has heart and is good natured. While the Monster did do bad things, it was because he was treated no different. This goes into the fact that people are made into what they become, and not born that way. If Baron Frankenstien had showed live and compassion for his creation then the monster would have conveyed those same emotions in turn. Watch this movie for it's greatness and the fact that it has never really been equaled. "},{"Title":"The Monster Demands A Mate!","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of my favorite films of all time,i love all the universal monster/horror films.as a sequel to;Frankenstein(1931)this is the only one where the monster speaks.as sequels go this ones awesome.Boris Karloff was the undisputed king of horror and played a good sympathetic monster.the title is a little misleading,its really the bride of frank ensteins monster.the casting is great,Colin Clive returns as Dr.Frankenstein.Valerie hobson(werewolf of London)as Elisabeth taking over from Mae Clarke.Ernest thesinger as the other mad Dr;pretorious. look for a young john carridine as one of the villagers that walk into the blind hermits house.the sets are fantastic,the music is great,it was used again in the flash Gordon serial.the best in the series. belongs right up there with;gone with the wind,king Kong,the godfather, and citizen Kane.an excellent well made movie from the late great James whale who also did the first one,also the invisible man and the old dark house.10 out of 10.a must see for anyone who loves great movies. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece.","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Frankenstein is a classic as well, but Bride betters it's parent by adding a haunting soundtrack, better supporting characters, and odd shots of humor, the same formula that James Cameron used when he made sequels to Terminator and Alien. The defining addition is the Franz Waxman soundtrack. This is a prototype for Danny Elfman type soundtracks and the biggest reason why Bride of Frankenstein is placed above it's predecessor by many. James Whale wisely up the humor with the lisping Ernest Thesiger, Frankenstein's goofy maid(her silly reaction to the creation's appearance is beaten only by the Brides sneering), and the fetching Elsa Lanchester, whose theme is one of the many highlights of the soundtrack. Boris Karloff's humane portrayal of Frankenstein's creation returns to cast his large shadow that no one has ever stepped out of as does Colin Clive as the weary Dr. Frankenstein. One of the greatest achievements of this film is the scene in the hut with the blind man, which goes from scary to touching to funny to sad in the space of a few minutes.P.S. The strangest thing about both films is their popularity, given that they are immensely unfaithful to Mary Shelley's text, but both films are have so much going for them that they have become a separate entity.*The Creation Frankenstein made me from dead. I love the dead, hate living.* "},{"Title":"It seems that most people either love this work, or hate it.","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is, further into the movie, a strong sequel. Karloff is more comfortable in his role as the misunderstood creation of a mad man. Some might think this would make an actor sloppy with the representation, but it did no such thing. Karloff was astounding! This is also the second chapter of the Frankenstein saga parodied by Mel Brooks in Young Frankenstein. If you are of the generation who venerates Brooks, there are doubtless countless scenes in which you will find familiarity.The movie begins on an odd note. Mary Shelley insists that her work was unappreciated as a tale of morality and considered a work of fantasy alone. She then regales us with part two of the tale. Doctor Henry Frankenstein has been convinced by all around him that his genius was a sickness of both the mind and the spirit, and therefore, he must be cured of his intellect.Tormented in his current state of confusion and conflicted desires, Henry is ripe for the coercion of an even more troubled scientist who has grown his race of man from seed only to discover they are four inches tall. He needs Henry's insights and knowledge in order to make his race a reality by resurrecting a mate for his earlier creation.The monster, meanwhile, has survived the burning windmill and is in search of his own humanity.Karloff's performance is nothing short of brilliance and even Clive seems more involved in his portrayal.In some ways, this production surpasses the original In others, it is inferior. As surprising as that is, these inconsistencies in no way make for an uneven work. This production feels almost schizophrenic in its quiet urgency one moment and its in your face delivery the next. It is quite compelling work.The performances are not nearly as cryptic or over the top as one might expect from a 1935 production. The few bits which were over the top were required for the moment. I actually enjoy this installment quite a bit. It picks up where the last chapter left off, and it continues with a quality which is comparable to the first. That was quite a feat.The finished product presented by the Universal Legacy Collection features a fully restored soundtrack and digital transfer from the best source Universal could locate. Unfortunately, these are only available in Full Screen format.All in all, even with the I Love Lucy- era music peppered here and there, this is a wonderful installment and still a classic, no matter how dated this work becomes.It rates a 9/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Male and Female Created He Them","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The judgement as to whether or not a movie is good or bad must, in some ways, be rather subjective. True, there may be some technical areas where skill can accurately be judged; but ultimately, the effectiveness of a film as a means of entertainment should figure highly in its reputation.All of which is my rather pompous way to introduce the fact that The Bride of Frankenstein is my favourite film of all time. I once read that the great critic Leslie Halliwell felt the same way. Thank God it's not just me, then.I do not know much about the art of cinema the lighting; writing; casting; editing; and so on. But the fact remains, I have been watching films for forty years and The Bride of Frankenstein is still my favourite.Although it is said that director James Whale preferred e.g. Showboat, most modern critics regard TBOF as his magnum opus. And what a work it was.The sets look fantastic, the cast are wonderfully chosen (apart, perhaps, from the screeching Una O'Connor), and the plot keeps the viewer interested.Karloff's portrayal of the monster has won universal acclaim ever since the film was released, and rightly so. Wiser people than me have waxed lyrical on this remarkable performance and I would refer you to them. Colin Clive, as Frankenstein, produces an oddly stagey performance but one, when viewed against the background of the actor's problems with alcohol, seems exactly right. Frankenstein himself was, as we know, seriously off the rails, and Clive's performance rings true.But best of all is the greatest camp villain the silver screen has ever known Doctor Septimus Pretorius. Veteran British character actor Ernest Thesiger (a friend of Whale's and brother to the celebrated explorer Wilfred Thesiger) camps it up to the hilt. He obviously relishes regaling us with lines such as, I created them from seed, and, Life - like love - has her little surprises. Watch the film and form your own opinion. Do not be afraid to laugh, but most of all enjoy a real masterpiece. "},{"Title":"good silver screen era classic","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" we can say a lot about this movie and in comparison with other (later) movies...yet this was among the few ones setting the pace for decades to come...when special effects (from Coppola's Dracula, to Vamp, to near dark etc ) and gore were not necessarily the winning edge when it'd come to a good film. This film tries to convey a clear & cut message probing the secrets of life & death is bad & comes with adequate retribution; human beings cannot be judged according to mistakes they did not make; violence causes more violence (eg the monster is rather innocuous by himself & becomes understandably violent only when confronted with violence & hate ), etc. There is the attempt to understand what goes on diagonally, rather than horizontally. Overall a good crafted movie with good acting moments (EG doctor Pretorius) and bad acting moments ( eg that Una O'Connor & her hysterical, cardboard roles. I mean, see her once, you've seen her for all ). All in all, the story, which looked so weird and outright sorcery only at that time, is today's reality with organ transplants and recent grotesque limb transplants... More so, most would find dr. F's obsession quite repulsive only back then, while it is today one of the celebrated frontiers of medicine (irrespective of the fact that in both cases, mid-long term success rates are negligible ). Of course Shelley ignored everything about genetics, rejection etc, but she wasn't writing a physiology book, either the message fits perfectly today. I watched & enjoyed this movie as i would drinking a good cup of iced tea in the summer. "},{"Title":"frankenstein needs a mate!","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Director James Whale, Script William Hurlburt, John L. Balderston, Cast Boris Karloff (The Monster), Ernest Thesiger (Dr. Pretorius), Colin Clive (Henry Frankenstein), Valerie Hobson (Elizabeth Frankenstein), Elsa Lanchester (The Bride/Mary Shelley), Una O'Connor (minnie), O.P. Heggie (Blind Hermet).This is a true sequel to the first Frankenstein film as it picks up exactly where the previous left off with the burning of the monster in the mill. The film opens with Mary Shelley telling the story of what happened to Frankenstein's monster leading us into the movie. As it turns out, the monster survived the burning of the mill and is discovered by the twisted-eccentric Dr. Pretorius played wonderfully by Ernest Thesiger. Like Dr. Frankenstein, Pretorius had also experimented with creating life but he has only been able to make little human figures(very bizarre!). For some reason he wants to create a mate for the monster and needs Frankenstein's help doing so. However, Frankenstein wants nothing more to do with his cursed creation so Pretorius has the monster abduct Frankenstein's precious Elizabeth to get Dr. Frankenstein to comply.Many people consider this to be the best in the Frankenstein series and the best of all the universal horrors. I actually have a slight preference for the first but by all means, this is a great film. It has been said that this film is a very close representation of James Whale's personality. Due to the enormous success of the first film, he was given much more control this time around and it does appear that he had more fun making it. While the first film was a straight sci-fi- horror this one has many humorous moments. It is a rather bizarre film.Boris Karloff and Colin Clive returned for this installment. Mae Clarke did not so she was replaced with Valerie Hobson as Frankenstein's fiancée. Colin Clive's performance is equal to the first film. Karloff is able to do more than grunt for he now can talk. He comes across a blind hermit(O.P. Heggie who was also in Anne of Green Gables the year before) who takes him in and befriends him. In doing so, he teaches him how to talk. For obvious reasons, the monster is afraid of smoke and fire and freaks out when the hermit lights a cigar but he gets the monster to try the cigar and wins him over. This very funny scene parallels Whale's love for cigars. James Whale had used Una O'Connor in many of his films. She helps add to add some of the humour in her sometimes over the top performance as the Frankenstein's maid. Jack Pierce's make-up work for the bride is superb. Elsa Lanchester is the ultimate goth chick! I think she's Hot!!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"Universal Monster Movie Classics Bride of Frankenstein.","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of Frankenstein (1935) takes place (and was produced) a few years after the events of the first film. James Whale returns as the director and Boris Karloff reprises his role as The Monster. This was a great time for Universal, their monster movies made the studio a lot of money and the films wern't that expensive to produced.Doctor Frankenstein is with his old lady living in peace. But the good doctor gets that itch again to start defying nature. This time he decides to create a bride for his monster. Some questions that need to be answered. How did Frankenstein's Monster return from his previous fate? Why does the good doctor get back into the re-animation game? Will Boris Karloff get the recognition that he finally deserves? How will the bride accept it's role. To find out you'll have to watch BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN!!!A great sequel. This one is even better than the original. If you enjoyed the first film then you'll want to watch this one!! "},{"Title":"Best. Movie. Ever!","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" You really need to see the great original Frankenstein (1931) to appreciate to the max the Bride of Frankenstein. Frankie was GREAT, Bride was GREATER!Bride has it ALL -- humor, pathos, camp, subtle social commentary. I never tire of watching this movie. In fact, each time I watch it, I fall in love with it even more. My only complaint Not enough Elsa Lanchester!The movie opens with a prologue that I just love! Mary Shelly, her husband, and Lord Byron are talking about Mary's book. This serves to summarize the plot of the original movie and set up the sequel. Mary is amazing, because she's played by the awesome Elsa. Lord Byron is a raging, flaming hoot and a half!Boris Karloff should've gotten an Oscar for his performance. Even though the monster murders a few people in cold blood, you hardly notice or blame him, as he's so sympathetic throughout this movie. James Whale (director) was a genius to give him speech (Bride is the only movie the monster speaks in).The mad Dr. Pretorius is the greatest mad campy scientist ever. And his little people (you have to see the film) are amazing special effects for 1935!The bride herself. I wish I had more than 1000 words to write just about her. Elsa was magnificent as the bride, especially when she was hissing and spitting at her hideous-looking mate. Boris broke my heart with the look in his eyes as it changed from hope to despair when he realized his bride reviled him. This momentary scene where Boris said so much with only his eyes has got to be one of the finest pieces of acting I've ever seen.This is a wonderful tale of love and longing and wanting to belong, of being an outsider. I've heard, too, that it may be a subtle metaphor of the then-unaccepted lifestyle of homosexuality (James Whale was a homosexual, and I think he identified with the monster who only wanted love but was shunned by everyone he came in contact with). That alone would have made the film sympathetic but also perhaps somewhat maudlin. However, Whale brilliantly infused the film with the wicked campy humor of Dr. Pretorius. Words cannot do this character justice. You have to see him to believe him! (Una O'Connor's character was supposed to also be humorous, but I mainly found her annoying. She gets less annoying on subsequent viewings, but some people find her quite hilarious.)In summary Hiss! Spit! YOU HAVE TO SEE THIS MOVIE! And, now that I've written this review, I feel the urge to go watch it again, for the 27th or so time! "},{"Title":"A Great Sequel!","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Continuing right after the classic to which it follows, BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN is without a doubt one of the best sequels I have ever seen. It takes place right after where the first film left off, where we find out that the monster is still alive!In this film, we get to know our monster a little bit better, as he runs through the town like a small child trying to hide out from the people that fear him. He then meets up with a blind man in the woods who teaches him how to talk! And now that the monster is smarter, he wants more then a friend, he wants&#133; A WIFE! And he knows that there is only one man who can make him a wife&#133; Victor Frankenstein!I love this movie very much. I like the sequels like this, where it takes place right after the first film, rather then years later. Also, it is one of those sequels that stays true to the original, and does not try to flip the story around or anything else like that.The old universal FRANKENSTEIN series is definitely one of the best series ever made. Please check my reviews for the rest of the Frankenstein films.  "},{"Title":"A rare treat - sequel better than classic original","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw James Whale's original 1931 FRANKENSTEIN movie I was totally blown away by it & over the years I have re-watched it countless times.  But suprisingly it was only recently I watched Whale's 1935 sequel BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN which I avoided for a long time as I thought it would never equal the original & I didn't think that making Boris Karloff's creature talk would work - how very wrong I was!Very rarely do we see a sequel to a classic movie which actually surpasses it (the only other I can think of is THE GODFATHER PART II).  The characters in BRIDE are much more involving & I absolutly adored the scene with the creature and the blind man - so much was said about the two characters with so few words.Whale also injects some welcome humour into the story which doesnt detract from the film at all.  Elsa Lanchester as 'The Bride' (she also played Mary Shelley in the films opening scene) is a truly tragic & iconic figure - just like Karloff's creature.James Whale created not just two of the best horror films ever - but two of the greatest movies ever made in any genre.  Truly classic stuff! "},{"Title":"I'd say better than the original","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If Frankenstein was movie history, then surely Bride of Frankenstein is just that. Both Frankenstein and the monster survived part one, and are back in this sequel. But this time around, there's another scientist who has plans for waking up the dead as well... a girl, this time.Grim tale, excellent acting and a superb story make for a must-see movie. The decors are great, the tension rises, it has Frankenstein shouting Alive! Alive! again... what more could you ask for.One of the greatest sequels ever (after The Godfather, that is), a movie that you can watch over and over again and both enjoy as well as admire it.8/10. "},{"Title":"The monster is back again","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN B&W-75min ****(1935)DJames Whale. Boris Karloff, Colin Clive, Valerie Hobson, Ernest Thesiger, Elsa Lanchester, Una O'Connor, E.E. Clive, Gavin Gordon, Douglas Walton, O.P. Heggie, Dwight Frye, John Carradine. Audacious sequel to FRANKENSTEIN is even better as weird doctor Thesiger convinces the good doctor Clive to create a bride for his creation, as the original creation returns and does very unusual things. Sly wit and humor in John L. Baderston- William Hurlburt script is very extraordinarily rich, creation scene of the bride and scene with the monster and the blind hermit and unforgettable highlights of this amazing movie. A true American classic. That's Lanchester as author Mary Shelley in brief beginning prolouge. Film is brilliantly enhanced by the marvelous Franz Waxman score. Then followed by Son of Frankenstein in 1935 and then many others. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is usually regarded by most monster fans as being better than the first Frankenstein film. I think it's just as good, but not better.I think that while this film was incredible with showing the emotional side of the monster, the first movie was more scary than this one. I think the choice of music could've been more eerie. But the story and characters are probably better in this one.My favorite moments are where the monster finds his first friend (the blind man), and when he kills himself in the end. Both times, he sheds a tear. That was powerful.The bride is credited with a question mark in both the beginning and end, but she's Elsa Lanchester - the same person who plays Mary Shelley in the beginning of the film. She, along with Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi, created one of the most iconic images in horror film history.10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"The Peak","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As with many other people, I feel that this is one of the few cases where the sequel is even better than the original.  One thing that I think helps is the fact that this film is helped by the eerie background music, unlike the original which didn't have any music.  Also, the monster is shown in this film to be more than just a mindless killing machine and that he definitely does have emotions.  But perhaps the thing that makes this film the classic that it is played more like a black comedy with several humorous moments thrown in.  This will always be one of the greatest horror films ever made. "},{"Title":"The Movie That Defined That Some Sequels Are Better Than The Original.","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Bride Of Frankenstein (1935)James Whale again created a wonderful film full of character and story. This movie is one of the greatest horror films ever made. Elsa Lanchester leads the film with two roles including the Bride Of Frankenstien and Mary Shelley's role. This movie is completely brilliant, and is still today considered the best horror movie ever made. Hurray for James Whale! "},{"Title":"FRANKENSTEIN LEARNS TO SPEAK!","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"                 Authoress Mary Shelley(Elsa Lanchester)wife of Charles Laughton the actor) is persuaded by Lord Byron (Gavin Gordon) to continue her story of Frankenstein's creation( Boris Karloff) after his previous death in a burning mill. After the parents of the drowned girl discover the Monster had escaped the fire, they are both killed by the Monster. The Monster is then befriended by a blind hermit (O.P. Heggie) who teaches him to speak. A bride is created(Elsa Lanchester) to give him companionship which becomes a horrible relationship from the first look at his face!  Remember reading in the newspaper that Karloff injured his left side during the shooting of the flooded cellar scene and received a special infrared ray treatment.  This film has a cast of all time greats, Director James Whale and Cameraman John Mescall along with makeup artist, Jack Pierce. Franz Waxman, who created the musical score use   to be employed by Adolf Hitler before WWII. Waxman escaped to America and became a great asset to the movie industry.  Karloff did a great job of scaring the children and frightening the women in many movie houses during the mid 1930'.  Karloff's acting and long career in the movies made it possible for the US Government to place him on a Postal Stamp to honor him as the KING OF HORROR!  This film should be among all horror film fans libraries. "}{"Title":"even better than the original","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Even better than the original,Whale invests the follow up with some terrific black humour and a strong eventful script.The opening prologue featuring Mary Shelley (Elsa Lanchester,who also plays the bride)is delicious and it just gets better and better.Karloff is given more to do as the monster,and we get a new mad scientist character,Dr Praetorius (Ernest Thesigner) who teams up with the recovering Baron Frankenstein.There are so many memorable scenes.The monsters re-birth from the mill,his capture and almost immediate escape,meeting the blind man at the cabin (a very touching scene),and the final creation of the bride.Beautifully made,this is Karloffs film.He is quite simply magnificent.The film also boasts some incredible baroque sets and a great score by Franz Waxman. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Continuation!","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first sound film that defies the fate of the sequel. It's been said over and over...and I agree, they did better the second time.If you took out the opening 'Mary Shelly' prologue; spliced the end of 'Frankenstein' (moving the 'Old Baron's' to the House of Frankenstein toast; to after Henry's return home in 'Bride of...', many viewers wouldn't realize they are watching two separate movies (at least, not right away, until you realize that Elizabeth and the Burgomaster are portrayed by different actors).That's how well this film works. It's less horror and more fairy tale! But the horror is still there. And so is the humor! And so is the depth of the most famous misunderstood Monster! Impossibly, Karloff expanded on the role of 'Frankenstein's Monster' to such a new height, that it's never been equaled in any of the sequels; or in any of the remakes. It's his performance and James Whale's direction that makes this one of the best horror movies ever made (definitely the best 'Frankenstein' movie ever made). But it's impossible to have the same level of enjoyment for 'Bride of...' without first having seen the original. It is that very high quality that makes both movies inseparable. There are so many scenes that have achieved classic status. Many are lifted from the novel; many are rehashed from the original film. No need to list them here; just sit back and enjoy! I've seen reactions from people who have never seen this movie before. And after 65 years, people are still affected by Karloff's moving performance (especially the scene with the blind hermit). And 65 years FROM now, people will STILL be affected by it.This could have been the last 'Frankenstein' movie. And even though the remaining sequels were unnecessary (and were not in the same high quality...'Son of Frankenstein' was the next best in film making structure, if not evoking the same sympathetic reaction towards the Monster as the first two entries), the sequels are still tons of fun to watch. And besides...if they weren't made, we would have missed out on Abbott and Costello's hilarious encounter.In the meantime, 'Bride of...' has stood the test of time!9 out of 10 ! A Classic Gem! "},{"Title":"A Notch Below the Original","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is still a great sequel to Frankenstein (1931), but there are problems. The monster actually becomes more violent here, killing an elderly couple, a child, and Dr. Pretorious's assistant (Dwight Frye) without true provocation. In the original, he was driven to murder, or innocently, by accident. He also learns to talk, lessening the fear factor, not lost to Boris Karloff, who, in interviews, disagreed with the decision to make him verbal. He was right. All of the Universal sequels (except briefly The Ghost of Frankenstein - 1942), had the monster mute. The title could refer to Dr. Frankenstein's (Colin Clive) bride-to-be (now played by Valerie Hobson) or the new creation (Elsa Lanchester) for the monster. Clive's role this time is basically a pawn to fulfill a fellow Dr. Pretorious's (Ernest Thesiger) mad schemes. Thesiger is excellent and steals the film from Clive. Two set pieces are superb the poignant blind hermit (E.E. Clive) sequence and the breathtaking finale featuring iconic Lanchester (who also plays author Mary Shelley in the film's prologue). The Frank Waxman score is fine, but I don't recall it being re-used in the sequels (contrary to what the DVD production notes say). The subsequent Frank Skinner-Hans J. Salter scores were re-used constantly. "},{"Title":"A sequel that surpasses the original","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is, in my opinion, much better then the original.  Bride of Frankenstein is much funnier and enthralling then the first.  The plot is filled with more religious and humorous inneundo and moves at a much faster and entertaining speed then Frankenstein.  Elsa Lancaster is wonderful in her double role, certainly stealing the show at the finale of the film. Boris Karloff is much less frightening in this film then in the first; he still contains the monster quality but fills the viewer with sorrow, pity, and sometimes laughter rather then fear.  I strongly recommend this film for all viewers, reguardless of rather or not he/she is a classic horror movie fan.   "},{"Title":"BEST HORROR EVER !","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You don't get any better than this. Superb acting by Boris Karloff and Ernest Thesiger including superb directing by James Whale. Where everybody thought that the monster was dead, it comes back with a vengeance. Karloff plays the role of the monster with brilliance and makes it really scary, especially for that time (1935!). The monster even talks which gives the monster even more human aspects. Of course it can't live on, but that's not really of importance, because at that point I already saw a brilliant movie in many ways. The make-up is great en the setting is dark and creapy. An absolute classic !!  "},{"Title":"Good, but The Invisible Man is better","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is still great entertainment, but The Invisible Man remains the best of Universal's 30's horror movies. The end climax to this movie is excellent, and the sets are amazing, and Colin Clive was great, and Boris Karloff is excellent as usual, and the touches of humour were just right. 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"A scary follow up to the greatest horror film of all time","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The film opens with Mary Shelley the real creator of the frankenstein monster.Telling to her friends what happened next.Karloff the monsters escapes from his living death.And runs away.And a doctor comes and talks Dr.Frankenstein to do what he feared never to do again.Then the monster meets this doctor.And they force Frankenstein to build a women creature or his wife will die.They build the creature it comes to life and hates the monster.Heartbroken he destroys the castle they where working in.And the film ends.It was a very good movie almost as good as the first one that made the AFI movie list.  "},{"Title":"The Bride of Frankenstein","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superb follow up to original Frankenstein film with Lancaster in striking dual roles as the mate of Karloff's monster and Mary Shelley. Director James Whale has once again sculpted genius in  the horror genre. His expertise carries us throughout  the film. Many feel it superior to the original film. I tend to agree. "},{"Title":"Universal's best horror from the 1930s","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of my fondest memories as a boy was watching this film with my brothers and cousins on a rainy Saturday night on WOR. I think this movie deserves all the praise it has achieved over the years. Karloff was absolutely tremendous, Thesiger and Lanchester created the roles of their lives, and James Whale's direction was flawless. Franz Waxman created THE best Universal music score of the 1930s for this bonafide classic. So I guess I like this movie. "},{"Title":"The very best Frankenstein movie","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a kid, I could not wait to see this film run on television. There was always something new to enjoy with each viewing. Recently had a chance to screen these Universal horror classics for some children (ages 5 to 9 years old). This was their favorite! Marvelous photography, exquisite performances (especially Karloff and Thesiger), and top-notch direction by the now very famous James Whale. Add to this one of the most revered musical scores ever committed to a film by the maestro Franz Waxman. It is truly a film classic! "}{"Title":"History, horror, and humor","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A short historical scene opens the film. We find Mary  Shelley, her husband Percy, and Lord Byron gathered  together discussing Mary's novel. The novel was written as  a result of discussions like this which caused Mary to  have a nightmare that sparked the idea for the novel.It is an interesting touch to have Elsa Lanchester playing  both Mary and the bride of the monster. It could be a bit  Freudian indicating that perhaps she desired to be the  monster's bride. In any event, the film is not only  genuinely frightening, but it also has some sly humor to  offset the horror.It is a Universal horror film in grand style -- one of the  best in the Universal series. "},{"Title":"Good one","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay this is a very old time horror film. that means there is no blood and gore like today's horror flicks. Yes, there is death and destruction but done in a very understated manner. Una O'Conner is her usual very irritating self, mainly through her voice but that face doesn't help. Elsa Lancaster ends up as the bride but you never see her get killed by the weirdo. All she seems able to do is hiss at poor ole Frankie when she is reanimated. Boris Karloff is the monster and does a superb job as the actually misunderstood and ignorant monster. It is obvious in some scenes that he is just looking for understanding and sustenance. It is only when his needs are not met that he turns violent (not that I would give a being that looked liked that and couldn't talk an even chance). Young Frankenstein mirrors the blind monk so well and the poor monk is a victim of circumstance rather than a real victim. Don't get me wrong, in real life it needs to die. When the Bride rejects the monster and he just goes into a rage and they die it is what can be called poetic justice. "},{"Title":"The Best Universal Frankenstein Film!","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite only appearing in the film for a very short time, the bride of Frankenstein's monster is one of the most recognizable monsters in cinematic history. With her frizzy, hi lighted hair, ear piercing scream, and dramatic death, she is not likely to be forgotten any time soon. The film focuses on the monster as he stumbles around the countryside, wreaking havoc and terrifying villagers(because saving lives and being friendly to old blind people would terrify ANY villager.) The subplot involves an evil genius trying to find a mate for The Monster so he can breed them and create a world of monsters. This is a great movie. The Monster even learns to talk here, an ability he would lose in subsequent films. The scene where The Monster and the old hermit are crying almost made ME cry. There's also nutty Una O'Conner for some comedy relief. In fact, the whole movie has an underlying sense of humor to it, another reason this is a great film. See it! It's waited 74 years for you to! "},{"Title":"Bride of Frankenstein... Save the Whales","Date":"16 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of Frankenstein 8 out of 10 Bill Condon's Gods and Monsters certainly has made a viewing of the Bride of Frankenstein de-rigueur in certain intellectual (read gay) circles.While there is undoubtly some homosexual subtext in Bride, and one definitely is hard pressed to find a campier villain than Ernest Thesige's Dr. Pretorius, the reality is this is simply one of the best films of the 1930's even without the revisionist, gay old time slant.James Whale has created a tight, must see movie that cemented Boris Karloff's well deserved stardom. It also introduced special effects that are shocking for the early thirties and are still impressive today, Dr. Pretorius's Homunculi in particular.The picture is quite theatrical with great indoor sets used to great effect. I can see the influence on everything from Dark City to the Matrix.As must see for film fans and amateur historians alike, The Bride of Frankenstein comes highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Simply Put - One Of The Greatest Movies Ever Made!","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Whale's Frankenstein of 1931 was perfection, and after i had first seen it I was sure that it was not possible to improve its greatness. It's successor Bride Of Frankenstein of 1935, also directed by Whale and also starring the great Boris Karloff, however, even outshines the brilliance of the original! Karloff is once again brilliant in his role. No other would have fit in the role of Frankenstein's monster as perfectly as Karloff, no other actor could have played the role of this lonely, misunderstood creature with such brilliance. Karloff does not play the Monster, he becomes the Monster, and this unique talent makes him one of the greatest actors who ever lived. Period. Elsa Lanchaster also delivers an outstanding performance in her unforgettable role (she actually plays a double role in this). Colin Clive's performance as Dr. Frankenstein is once again excellent, and Ernst Thesinger is absolutely ingenious as the insane Dr. Pretorius. Bride Of Frankenstein is brilliantly written and directed and the cinematography is perfection, every second of this movie is splendidly photographed. This movie's atmosphere is one of a kind, and the great score even intensifies both the suspense and the beauty of this unique masterpiece.Bride Of Frankenstein is one of the most essential classics in the history of motion pictures and an absolute must-see for everybody! I don't have enough words to express my admiration, love and fascination for this more than perfect movie. This is not only one of the best horror movies ever made. It is without doubt one of the best movies ever made! An essential Classic of the Horror genre and a sad, beautiful drama at the same time, Bride Of Frankenstein is pure fascination and perfection and one of the most brilliant masterpieces ever in cinema! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Great achievement by an exceptional director","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of Frankenstein is an unusual film because it was one of the first sequels to match the original. James Whale, who directed the first, directs this one as well and allows himself to be more open about his sexuality then he was in the first.Yes James Whale was gay, and with this film he allows himself to not be as restrained as he was with the first film. The gay overtones are there, (expecially with the scenes involving the creature and the blind hermit that he befriends) but that doesn't at all make this film any less than a masterpiece. The visual look of the film was great, and the atmosphere was very befitting of such an old ageless monster film. It was more exciting then the original Frankenstein, but that was expected since the original was more of an origin story and only the first part of Mary Shelleys Frankenstein, the novel it was based upon. Bride is actually the second half of that novel brought to the screen, and it was a wonderful film for its time.The acting, once again, was top notch. In this film Karloff once again gives a great performance, making him the best actor in any of the roles involving the big three, which include The Wolf Man and Dracula. He is also given some lines to speak, and this only adds to the emotional quality of his performance. Colin Clive also returns as Henry Frankenstein, and he to is just as good as he was in the first. We have a few additional characters in the film which include Ernest Thesiger who plays Dr. Pretorious, O.P Heggie who plays the hermit, and of course Elsa Lanchester who plays the bride of the monster and also has a dual role at the beginning as Mary Shelley who tells the story. All of their performances were convincing and exceptionally well done.This films is one of the greatest art films ever made. It appears in the top lists of films by most critics and belongs there. Of all the monster movies and horror flicks, both Frankenstein and Bride Of Frankenstein will always end up at the top of most of those lists. Great achievements by a great director in his own right who used his real feelings to make one of the best cinematic masterpieces of all time. "},{"Title":"It's great. Best of the Frankie series.....","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wow. This was very very well done. And FUNNY---some of these lines by Thesinger and O'Connor struck me as being Pythonish--esp the line about the 'slimy stairs'--that had me laughing rather hard. You just Don't expect that in a 1935 Monster movie.Karloff was at his best here. Colin Clive is too stagey and you do notice how Rookie-ish both Lanchester and Hobson are at times. But they're certainly fine on the eyes and make it worth seeing more so. I liked the Monster's doings-shambling round the woods, meeting the blind man, the Gypsies, etc. etc.-Frankenstein is given 10 times the amount of screen time here as in later entries in the run; it's a pity they didn't do this more often.The rest of the raves you read here about this movie--about the makeup, acting, dialog, etc-well I pretty much agree w/. Check this out you won't be sorry. Oh and those F/X showing everyone in the jars--That was very good and ahead of it's time.**** "},{"Title":"The darkest and funniest of all black comedies","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The greatest comedy about death ever made; perhaps the greatest film, too. James Whale's original Frankenstein is still outstanding over seven decades later, but this is his masterpiece. Direction, design, music and actors are all superb, the plot is sharp, the lines are quotable, and unlike most comedy horror movies, Bride of Frankenstein still manages both to disturb and to make you laugh, particularly in Ernest Thesiger's amoral Pretorius, a contender for the most toweringly camp performance you'll ever see (he's my only weakness).No wonder there's something to offend so many people, all the way from those who think it blasphemous to laugh about life and death to straight-faced horror buffs who think it doesn't take itself seriously enough. Yes, Shivers Magazine, using that stuffy excuse to omit it from your list of the greatest horror films, that means you. The film's target is precisely those who hold themselves too seriously to question anything, and who persecute anyone who makes them question themselves. Just look at the emotional heart to the picture, where the innocent, corrupted Monster is the only really sympathetic character.Much-imitated and borrowed from in everything from Flash Gordon's Trip to Mars &#150; which understandably plunders possibly the greatest score in movie history &#150; to The League of Gentlemen, whose two most famous characters appear to meet their end in a way that more than echoes the Monster here... And if Karloff's Monster is still the most recognisable of all make-ups, there must be hundreds of other places you've seen the Bride's zigzag electric hairdo on screen. It'll be a treat for you to see the original, too. "},{"Title":"A vintage masterpiece","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" More accomplished, effective and entertaining than the original, The Bride of Frankenstein stands as nothing less than a vintage movie masterpiece - a marvellous melody of black humour and archaic horror. Colin Clive reprises his role as the tormented Henry Frankenstein who is lured back to his old experiments by the sinister Dr. Pretorious whilst the Monster (Boris Karloff back and even better) he created still roams free. As a film, it works in every department with acting, set design, photography, music and script all in peak condition. James Whale takes the boundaries re-established by his previous film even more further with a bravura expressionist style and the movie as a whole is executed with such imagination, energy and panache that still remains breathtaking. "},{"Title":"To a new world of gods and monsters!","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Picking up where James Whale's 1931 horror classic, Frankenstein, left off, we are presented a very intriguing sequel. This film takes the ideas of Mary Shelley's Frankenstein and embellishes upon them quite a bit. Although I believe that James Whale's sense of humor and camp quality take away from the picture, I believe that the thoughts that are brought to the story make up the difference. I am not going to debate whether The Bride of Frankenstein is superior to the original, or not. It is as futile as a battle of the sexes. While The Bride of Frankenstein uses the same characters, and same story as a base, they are quite different, which is why I feel that comparing the two is utterly pointless. While Frankenstein brought up moral issues about man playing God, this film focuses more on the after-effects, human nature, relationships, and, in some very odd ways, family mechanics (no pun intended. Boris Karloff's second incarnation of the monster is much more human, more sensitive, and more developed. In the first film, he merely smashed through things, strangled townspeople, and expressed very basic emotions (fear, anger, etc.). Here, we see that the monster now understands how alone he is. He has developed a longing for acceptance and even love. His true nature is also revealed, I believe, in a few scenes in particular. The most poignant of which is the scene in the blind hermit's cabin. Much credit is due to O. P. Heggie for his emotional performance as the kind, lonely, blind man, who is unable to see the physical deformities of the monster, but still sees the the basic humanity within him. Being able to see, the rest of the villagers fear the monster, and attack it on sight. This scene is very important because it shows how we, as human beings, judge others so harshly on appearances. Colin Clive returns as Dr. Frankenstein, no longer bent on the creation of life from the dead. That is, until he is provided with a new scientific venture through the flamboyant former philosophy professor, Dr. Pretorius (Ernest Thesiger). His proposition is to create a new monster, a mate for Frankenstein's monster, so as to develop a race of creatures. At first, Frankenstein is against the notion, but soon, his ambition gets the better of him once again. Their collaboration reaches a climax with the unveiling of their new creature, The Bride of Frankenstein (Elsa Lanchester). There are many iconic scenes in this film, particularly, the birth of the bride. This is an interesting movie, owing much to early German expressionism, and while I don't know if it is superior to Frankenstein, I will say that it is definitely worth seeing, especially for fans of classic horror films. "}{"Title":"An outstanding classic!","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a very special combination of humor, horror and pathos. It entertains, thrills and touches us in so many ways. The Monster in this film remains one of cinema's unique creations. Karloff has never been more effective and James Whale never more original and inventive. It is too bad that younger viewers are not more familiar with this film. It would surprise them with its subtleness and wit---as well as its sheer entertainment value. Definitely a 10 out of 10! The screenplay is a masterpiece of engaging dialog, effective pacing and clever situations. Is there a more remarkable scene in all of horror film than the visit of the Monster to the hermit in the woods?  "},{"Title":"Still The Class Act","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Possible spoiler alert ...Having the characters introduced by the author, Mary Shelley was an interesting idea, but, in this case it didn't work. Elsa Lanchester (also the Bride) comes off well (if a little pretentious) as Mary Shelley but the other two don't. Douglas Walton as the poet, Shelley, is almost a non presence. As Lord Byron, Gavin Gordon, speaking lines one would have to stay awake writing and memorizing for the next day comes across as the most pompous, pretentious and annoying ass in history. The setting for this recap looks to predate the events of the original film by about a hundred years, and, even with footage from the original film it doesn't pick up the thread exactly the way it had left off.The word for this part of the film is lame.That said, don't let this five minute bit of stupidity detract from the enjoyment offered by an otherwise excellent film. Bride of Frankenstein has long been regarded as possibly the best of it's kind and that praise is well deserved. Boris Karloff gave the role of the savage but tragic creation depth of character and humanity that no other actor playing the part in the remainder of Universal's outings ever achieved. Karloff was the rare sort of actor with the gift for being able to speak volumes with a small gesture or a shift of expression. His monster is unpredictably menacing and indescribably lonely all at the same time. Ultimately, his portrayal of the creature is still the most charismatic of any of the attempts to bring the Frankenstein legend to the screen. Ernest Thesiger played the eccentric and charming but utterly ruthless Pretorius with a full measure of glee and it shows. Through their scenes together his presence matches Karloff's step for step. Any of the scenes he plays opposite the other players he just out and out steals. One of the films greatest touches is offered through O.P. Heggie as the blind hermit who reveals the monster's humanity. The first scene between him and the monster remains one of the more moving ever filmed.My reactions to the work from the rest of the cast are little more mixed. Colin Clive returned as the driven but creator and still turned in a decent performance, but this time with slightly less zest. Clive was only two years from death when the film was shot, already suffering from acute alcoholism and probably afflicted with tuberculosis as well. (That was listed as part of the cause of his death). Whatever the reason, his energy level is less consistent than in the first film and it shows. Una O' Connor as the Frankenstein's maid gives the film it's balance with hilarious moments of comic relief; you can't watch her and not laugh, which is what (Director James) Whale intended. Valerie Hobson fares slightly less well. She's a radiantly beautiful Elizabeth but, like Mae Clark in the original film, struggles with some of her dialogue (though in her defense any rational reasoning human being would have struggled with those lines). Her character is one dimensional and ends up being little more than a babbling foil for the film's much stronger male characters. As well, her personality and presence is distinctly English where Clark was so obviously American. These factors, as much as the alterations in the prelude, hurt both the film and the continuity between the two films.When taken against the film as whole however, those complaints are minor ones. This film succeeds because of the depth of it's story line and the multi-faceted nature of it's principal characters. There is Frankenstein, a man torn between revulsion for their deeds and his drive to seek truth, Pretorius, the brilliant loner with his self-effacing humour and fascination with death which borders on necromancy and the blind hermit, the one man who accepts the monster simply because he feels but can't see and as a result becomes the only one able to really see the creature. Then, there's the creature, savage and misunderstood, angry but tender, a being as human as any but rejected by even the one created to be with him. Under Laemmle and Whale writer William Hurlbut allowed the monster to evolve, to grow as a character. In this film his movements are less stiff, his thinking more sophisticated and he gains the power to speak and articulate his thoughts, feelings and desires. It was a masterstroke, and sadly, the last time that would be allowed in the series. Visually, like the first one, this film is a treat. The lighting, brilliantly conceived is moody, atmospheric, subtle where needed and and enhances characters, scenes and action. As always, with Whale's films cinematography is superb. Whale had a touch for composing the way scenes were staged and how they would flow. One example is the how Valerie Hobson's dress trails behind her as she walks during the scene where her character is first introduced. Whale has it set so as to flow into the character behind her, something which visually enhances the feel of motion within the scene. It was a device he used in the first film and one he uses again here. Another remarkable moment is the moment where the creature rampages through the graveyard just prior to his first encounter with Pretorius. This is a masterpiece of lighting and composition and one which was imitated countless times in the decades that followed; it has only seldom been equalled. The score, by Franz Waxman, underscores, enhances, and at times, drives, the content of the film beautifully. His work was connected with many noteworthy films through his life. A few familiar ones are Mr. Roberts, Rear Window, Objective Burma and The Philadelphia Story. With this film producer Carl Laemmle, director James Whale and the rest of the ensemble set the standard which, almost seventy years later, is not just the text book on how it's done, but also, how to do it with style and flair.four of five stars "},{"Title":"Elsa's electric hair","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Boris Karloff's monster survives the fire in the film 'Frankenstein', and his creator Dr Frankenstein (Colin Clive), alongside the creepy and camp Dr Pretorius (Ernest Thesiger) decide that what the monster needs is a bride.Meanwhile, the monster finds his only friend, a blind man who cannot see him to be frightened or prejudiced.  The scenes between them are touching and effective, and the monster becomes a true character, over and beyond the hints we had seen in the earlier film.Dr Pretorius has tiny people imprisoned in jars - a creepy aside - while Clive is still agonising over his marriage to the dull Elizabeth (Valerie Hobson).  The final scene-stealing performance goes to Elsa Lanchester, who also plays Mary Shelley, writer of Frankenstein, in the film's prologue.  With her scary hair and screeching vocals, she is a truly chilling creation.  James Whale's direction remains excellent, as it did in the original Frankenstein film.  I think that 'Bride' is slightly better but both can be highly recommended as the cream of Universal's early talkie horror flicks. "},{"Title":"A classic--but not scary","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Henry Frankenstein (Colin Clive) and mad Dr. Petorious (Ernest Thesiger) team up to make a mate for the monster.That's all you need to know really.  This sequel to the 1931 Frankenstein is even better than the original!  This one has a bigger budget (check out the enormous sets), some VERY elaborate costumes (check out what Valerie Hobson is wearing in her first appearance), a script that moves like lightning and every cast member giving their all.Karloff appears again as the monster and he's fantastic--you can see he isn't evil at all, just misunderstood.  His attempts to make contact with people--and the violence he's greeted with--are heartbreaking.  And there's a mock crucifiction sequence which must have been hell for Karloff.  Clive is just OK as Frankenstein.  Hobson is gorgeous and very good as his bride Elizabeth--she only has a few scenes but she makes them count. Thesiger is WAY over the top (and just great) as Petorious--he has some REALLY strange lines but he pulls them off.  Una O'Connor as Minnie (the maid) is shrill--but funny.  And Elsa Lanchester is unforgettable as Mary Shelley and the bride.  Her appearance has been copied and parodied endlessly--and she's just great.  The script has one classic line after another and many sequences have become folklore--like the monsters meeting with the blind hermit (parodied hysterically in Young Frankenstein), the creation sequence and the closing. Great direction by James Whale and a beautiful music score.  My only real complaint--would any scientist, however mad, have a lever that would blow apart his whole castle?Now--it is NOT scary.  In 1935 this was strong stuff but it's VERY tame today.  Still, this is a fast-moving, very entertaining movie--definetely a prime example of the Universal monster movies of the 1930s.  It works more as a comedy today than anything else.  A perfect example of the kind of film they don't make anymore.Look for John Carradine in a very small unbilled role as a hunter.   "},{"Title":"Always fun to watch","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just read a review by a newbie that slams this film. According to said newbie, this is a bad film that is not scary like other horror films. I'm guessing that the film is not scary enough for the newbie because it shows no graphic details of someone's head being chopped off, eyeballs gouged out, or total dismemberment. Sadly, that's what the film industry shovels out to the short attention span generation that pays tremendously inflated prices to sit in a crowded, noisy theater and watch what passes for a Horror film today.I make it a point to watch Bride Of Frankenstein, every time it's on TCM. One mark of a really great movie is that, even with repeated showings, the viewer can find something new and interesting each time they watch the film. Bride definitely achieves this characteristic.Of course, like most others, I have some favorite scenes that I eagerly await each time I view this classic. Foe me, one of the true highlights is the scene with the Monster and the blind hermit. Both of the actors in this scene are absolutely masterful. When the volume of the music (Ave Maria) is increased and we see the tear running down the face of the monster, we are witnessing (IMHO) one of the greatest scenes in movie history. Boris Karloff was a wonderful actor and his abilities are well showcased in this superb film. "},{"Title":"It hasn't gotten better than this in the almost 70 years since...","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the nearly 70 years since this film was made, there hasn't been anything that can beat it for thrills, chills and yes, laughs. There are all sorts of readings for this film - with either a Christ or gay subtext, and if that's what you're looking for, then you'll find plenty to suit. But if you want a film that comes closer to the Shelley novel than its predecessor, that's here also. Great is the film that can please so many at once.Need we get into the performances? The monster, now with the power of speech, is an incredible portrait by Karloff. Who isn't sympathetic when he is being crucified, or when the Bride rejects him. Ernest Thesiger steals whatever scenes he has, using his they are my only weakness line from The Old Dark House. Colin Clive is his usual high-strung self, maybe he is a bit disturbed that his home and his own bride have changed so much since the first film.Other than King Kong it is hard to think of such an early film with such a stirring score. Franz Waxman made his mark in Hollywood with this one, and bits of it would be used in Universal serials (especially Flash Gordon) for years to come. The Kenneth Strickfaden electric gadgets are just as lively and more plentiful than in the first film. The John J. Mescall cinematography makes his soon-to-come descent into B films all the sadder, the angular and overhead shots were well ahead of their time.My favorite scene? The scene with the hermit played by O.P. Heggie still stands supreme, despite the on-target spoofing in Young Frankenstein it still packs a wallop when the monster, burned out of his new home, comes crying friend? "},{"Title":"One of the greatest sequels of the movie history","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  James Whale's brilliant Frankenstein of 1931 is quite likely the ultimate monster classic simply because it initially gave birth (It's alive! It's alive!) to the most beloved, well-known and legendary movie monster of them all and of course Boris Karloff the role of a lifetime. That's just as true as the fact that Bride of Frankenstein easily surpasses the original. (I know this statement may be a bit conflicting but what can you do...)Bride of Frankenstein starts exactly where Frankenstein ended but it turns out to be something more than just another silly yet necessary sequel to a highly popular motion picture. Frankenstein was a great film but movie history knows very little examples of a sequels that are this much better than the original. Although during the decades Bride of Frankenstein has probably lost most of its effect as a terrifying and frightening horror flick, its magical enchantment is still all there.I've never seen such a wild mixture of excellent score, breathtaking story, terrific characters and magnificent acting...and that startling camera work that gives the whole movie and extremely impressive touch, well...don't get me started! I mean was still film really made in 1935? The whole atmosphere is so ingeniously built it's hard to believe someone could come up with something as marvelous as this so long ago. Almost 70 years later this is still one of the greatest horror movies of all times and it will be, always. Unbelievable experience. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is the best of the Frankenstein movies by far.  I had the opportunity to watch this on a giant screen with a huge sound system. Since then watching it on TV has never been the same.  I have so much more respect for this film.  I saw why people became scared of it.The monster appears close to the beginning and the action starts From there. The movies following this one barely live up to this one and the original. Colin Clive returning as Dr. F and the addition of Ernest Thesiger as Dr. P make this movie creepy and suspenseful.  Karloff brings feeling to the monster and makes you feel sorry that he is alone.  Elsa Lanchester as Mary Shelly and the monster's mate, brings that little extra class to the movie. SEE THIS MOVIE. "},{"Title":"There's Over the Top, Then There's WAAAAAY Over the Top","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  `Bride of Frankenstein' represents the Universal horror machine at the absolute peak of its powers.  Everything in this movie meshes together perfectly script, acting, sets, music.  The film zooms from horror to comedy to melodrama and never misses a step.Where to begin?Boris Karloff returns as the Monster, still misunderstood, still searching for friendship and love.  I don't think I'm spoiling any surprises when I say that the Monster learns to speak here; not the eloquent Monster of Mary Shelley's novel, but Karloff's wonderfully lonely voice.  It opens up untold dimensions in the Monster, making him even more sympathetic than before.On the polar opposite is Ernest Thiesiger as the flamboyant Doctor Pretorious. Whereas the Monster becomes more sympathetic throughout the film, Pretorious grows more and more outrageous, reaching epic heights of camp excellence.  It's obvious Thiesiger is having the time of his life, and we can't help but have fun watching him.`Bride of Frankenstein' ends up as one of the most operatic horror movies ever.  It's a classic in every sense of the word, and worthy of being watched over and over again. "},{"Title":"A must-see for classic horror fans.","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is truly a film that all fans of classic horror films, and horror movies in general, must see.  Since most of the plot details have already been summarized here, I'll just give what I think are the high and low points of BrideHigh  Dr. Pretorius.  What an amazing character...Do you like gin?  It        is my only weakness.Low   That opening scene w/ Lord Byron and the Shelleys.  I just don't        think it was necessary.  Plus, how many people do you know that        sit around and introduce themselves when they're the only persons        in the room? "}{"Title":"An All Time Classic!","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the most enjoyable, free moving horror films of all time! A superior follow up to Universal's ground breaking Frankenstein. Great sets, incredible atmopshere, superb acting and direction and wonderful dark humor! This film moves along so crisply and has so many memorable characters you simply will never forget it. An absolute must for your horror video collection! Hey Shotsy, you and me seem to be big WOR-TV fans! Long live Fright night! "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This classic is quite simply a masterpiece. Everything is perfect, from the blackly comical script, the bizarre camera angles, the memorable score, the fabulous performances, great characters and the flawless direction. I never get tired of this true American original. "},{"Title":"The Sequel That Broke The Rules","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bride is one of the ten best films of all time, innovative in every aspect of its storytelling from script to direction to cinematography. Proving that a sequel can not only build on, but be better than, the original, this is the film that shows the power director James Whale could summon when given a free hand and a script full of both mordant humor and understated pathos. Karloff is superb, fresh ideas (from Praetorius's homunculi to the Monster actually speaking) abound, and the ending, while abrupt, is appropriate to the flow of the film. Timeless, witty, truly artistic, The Bride is a fine example of how good a horror film can be. "},{"Title":"Universal Horror at its Finest","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"   This film is even better than the original.The performances are more developed and the plot more intricate. Karloff does well in his role but the two standout portrayals are Colin Clive as the mentally tortured Victor frankenstien and Ernest Thesiger as Pretorious. these two fine actor establish a chemistry that is seen rarely in classic horror films . Its a shame that Clive drank himself to death, who knows to what heights his career would have climbed. Also not to be missed is Elsa Lancester's dual role as Mary Shelly and the monster's mate.  Classic horror does not get better than this. "},{"Title":"Watch horror history!","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"   From the very beginning when we are introduced to three people on a stormy night to the very end with the castle exploding into oblivion, The Bride of Frankenstein is a masterpiece.  James Whale injects frights, humour, and a good dose of self-reflection into this better-than-original sequel.  Boris Karloff is not just wonderful but breathtaking as the monster.  He gives this creature created from miscellaneous pieces of dead tissue more humanity and compassion than any of the main characters with his portrayal of the noble savage.  Karloff speaks in this film and really brings the audience to understand his pain and frustration with dialogue like I love dead....hate living.  As good as Karloff is....he is not the star of this film.   Ernest Thesiger, playing the wicked, effeminate Dr. Preatorious shines.  Every word is a gem and he has some of the greatest lines from the film such as Have a cigar, it's my only weakness His wonderful scene in the crypt toying with the monster is the epitome of black humour.  I recommend this film for so many reasons  Karloff's performance, Whale's direction, Jack Pierce's make-up, Elsa Lanchester's female monster, and Max Steiner's music.  Above all, however, is the performance of Thesiger in one of the greatest comedy/horror characterizations ever to be filmed. "},{"Title":"The great hermit sequence","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Everything in this horror film (actually a black fairy tale) is elaborately done. The hermit sequence (especially part 2) is perhaps the best that I have ever seen.It's a pleasure to watch Boris Karloff in his world-famous monster make-up how he eats bread and drinks wine. From here on Karloff masterfully shows very different kind of emotions within a short time. First there is enjoyment resulting from good eating and drinking. Then the hermit lights a match - even this tiny flame frightens Karloff a lot (he's terribly scared of fire). He finally takes the offered cigar and puffs with great pleasure. A few moments later he is very serious and gulps (an expression of pain because the smoke has got into his lung). That's not only a subtle gag (a normal person who inhales for the first time would have a coughing fit), but also a perfect transition. The hermit says It is bad to be alone. Karloff responds Alone bad (he's reminded what the world has to offer for him rejection) - friend good. Now he smiles because he finally has found a friend (the twist is only this blind old man is able to see his inner goodness).At the end of this great sequence the hermit plays a happy tune on the violin. Karloff is relaxed, smokes and makes rhythmic movements to the music. Since one knows that he is also scared of dogs, director Whale informs the viewer acoustically that danger is approaching a short howl of a dog is to hear. Then, a few seconds later, two hunters enter the hut (no dog is with them) and immediately the scene ends in terror. "},{"Title":"Better when seen again","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I wasn't much impressed when I saw this film 7 years ago, but in 1998, viewed as a high camp spoof, it's excellent.The crowning bit is the castle's self-destruct device. (Why?)Dr. Frankenstein The lever! Not the lever!The Monster Dead. -- GOOOD!CRASH!! "},{"Title":"He's a nightmare in the daylight he is. Great film.","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of Frankenstein starts as author Mary Shelley (Elsa Lanchester) that informs her guests that mad scientist Dr. Henry Frankenstein (Colin Clive) & his man made monster (Boris Karloff) in fact survive the angry villagers at the end of her last novel... However she goes on to tell the story of the sequel & how the monster roams around the countryside looking for acceptance & murdering a few people while Frankenstein is contacted by one of his old university teachers Dr. Pretorious (Ernest Thesiger) who says that he can 'grow' a brain & needs Dr. Frankenstein's help to build a body to put it in & re animate it, at first Dr. Frankenstein refuses to have anything to do with it but when Pretorius uses his original creation to kidnap his wife Elizabeth (Valerie Hobson) Frankenstein has no choice but to go along with Pretorious's plans...Directed by James Whale & a direct sequel to his original Frankenstein (1935) Bride of Frankenstein is a great film by anyones standards & is still extremely watchable & effective even today over 70 years since it was made. The script by William Hurlbut (although there are a further 7 writers credited on the IMDb with the 'adaptaion') moves along at a nice pace & is never boring or dull & it has a good story that both entertains & engages. The film works on many levels, as a dark comedy, as a tragic love story, as a horror, as a sci-fi & drama. The film manages to get the audience to sympathise with the monster one moment while just as quickly it can turn the monster back into the villain, I was never quite sure what to feel about him. The film is populated by character's that are likable & you more often than not end up caring about them which is a hard thing to achieve in a film such as this.Director Whale does a terrific job & the film simply oozes atmosphere, the stone castle, the almost art-deco style old fashioned lab equipment, the quaint European village setting, the imposing prison cell with the huge chair & steel chains, a spooky graveyard complete with cobweb strewn underground tombs & the simple but effective woodland sets. The black and white cinematography (don't touch the colourised version) is simple yet very effective. Frankenstein's monster is the stereotypical huge flat headed man with a bolt through his neck but Karloff had the role down to a tee & him in Jack Pierce's make-up is a truly classic & iconic image from horror cinema. The Bride's appearance is also a classic image & is more or less perfect. Apparently the film originally ran nearer 90 minutes but the producers cut 15 or so minutes out & the footage is now thought to be lost, I wonder if it would have made the film any better & to be honest I don't think it would have as it might have slowed things down a bit.Apparently shot in 46 days for little under $400,000 on the back-lot at Universal studios Bride of Frankenstein is a well made film, it has great production values, impressive (for the time) special effects & good acting.Bride of Frankenstein is a classic of the genre & just a great piece of film-making, it's as simple & straight forward as that. A must for horror fans & I'm sure many would find much here to enjoy, a definite recommendation. "},{"Title":"All I have to say to the Bride Picky much?","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sorry, I just cried so much for the creature. It's not like the Bride has much of a choice of men, and she wasn't all that. Take what you can get, right? OK, ok. I know it's a movie. But I just had to get that out.The Bride of Frankenstein is a remarkable and timeless movie. I thought it was even better than the first Frankenstein. The movie shows human emotions and what can get the best of us. The acting is fantastic and the sets are amazing. As far as classics go, I would always give this movie a chance. The ending is a huge cry fest to let you know. So, be careful if you are a hopeless romantic. This is a great movie to watch with your boyfriend or girlfriend. You'll realize how lucky you guys are to have each other. D9/10 "},{"Title":"A Horror Classic, & Much More","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Long known as a great horror masterpiece, Bride of Frankenstein also has the depth and craftsmanship to be considered a classic by any definition.  Besides the fascinating story itself, there is plenty of wit, characterization, and technical skill, along with many subtle and provocative themes to consider.Director James Whale and star Boris Karloff surpass the already high standard they set in the original Frankenstein.  Both pictures are distinguished from the average horror movie by masterful direction worthy of any classic, and by Karloff's multi-faceted portrayal of the Monster.  Whale was a brilliant and distinctive director who had a particularly good feel for material like the Frankenstein movies and The Invisible Man.  Among many other strengths, he was decades ahead of his time in creating and using special effects (watch for the scene when Dr. Pretorius shows the results of his experiments to Dr. Frankenstein).  Karloff made the Monster memorable in the first film even without any dialogue, with his ability to portray so many emotions and thoughts without words.  Giving the Monster a few speaking lines in Bride of Frankenstein enables him to give an even more memorable performance.In this sequel, Dr. Frankenstein (again played by Colin Clive) is joined by an even madder scientist, Dr. Pretorius (portrayed with zest by Ernest Thesiger), who has a scheme to create a mate for Frankenstein's monster.  Meanwhile, the original Monster goes through a series of experiences that evoke every kind of emotion from the audience.  He is frightening and destructive, but also an object of great pity and sympathy.  The brilliant final sequence ties both together in a memorable finish.  There is also a wonderful performance by Elsa Lanchester in the second part of her dual role.Not only is the plot action-packed, the action and characters raise some pretty deep questions about human relationships, identity, and creative power.  After watching it once to follow the exciting story, it is worth seeing again to catch all of these subtleties. "}{"Title":"Monsterpiece!","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Whale's sequel to his Frankenstein is probably the perfection of his work in horror films. Everything he had been mastering since Frankenstein (1931) and in The Invisible Man (1933) collides here to create his masterpiece of the genre.With almost the same cast including Colin Clive as Henry Frankenstein and Boris Karloff as the creature, Whale takes us to a mythical world where gods and monsters are alive and temptation can be deadly.Loosely based in the rest of the novel by Mary Shelley, the movie is a perfect mixture of the Gothic horror of the source story, as well as the cynic dark humor of James Whale. It is a perfect balance between horrid images and campy dark cynicism.Starting with an introductory scene with the Shelleys and Lord Byron as Mary continues her story, the movie takes us to where the first one ended, and we realize that the Monster is very alive and on the loose, in his search for understanding.Enter Dr. Pretorious, as an admirer of Frankenstein's work, he is decided to create his very own creature for his evil purposes; but first he must convince Henry to work with him. The creation will be a female version of the monster, since Pretorious has convinced the creature that all he needs is a partner.The acting is superb, with the addition of Elsa Lanchaster in a double role as Mary Shelley herself, and Pretorious' creation; Ernest Thesinger as Dr. Pretorious clearly steals the show as the mad scientist who tries to change the world. His performance makes us to be both horrified and attracted to him. He is the Mephisto of Frankenstein, a seducing tempter whose only concern is his own good.Whale's Direction is outstanding and the expressionist influence is notable through the film, giving it a very special look that sets the mood for the story.A masterpiece in its own right, this movie is a MUST see. There is nothing much I could add, except that this one is in my TOP 5 movies of all time. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Horror with depth.","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is absolutely beautiful! The story is highly original (especially considering that this is a sequel) and extremely well executed. I'm not sure if its fair to call it better than its predecessor Frankenstein, since the both are hard to compare in my opinion. They are different of each other in quite some ways but both of them are brilliant in their own way.Karloff most definitely seems more at ease in his role this time and he's not overacting anymore. He plays the monster with some real passion and eye for detail. His make-up also looks better than ever. Still I think it's a bit of a shame that so many actors from the original Frankenstein didn't reprise their role in this movie. Lot's of the characters are played by different actors this time. But I'm surely glad that Colin Clive returned as Dr. Henry Frankenstein. I already really loved him in Frankenstein and I enjoyed him once more in this movie. An underrated actor that died too young.The emotions are once more very real and extremely powerful. The scene were the monster makes friendship with the blind man is unforgettable and truly a powerful sequence. The movie is really more than just a mere horror movie, it's a powerful cinematic masterpiece with some real depth.A beautiful and powerful movie.10/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The Best Horror Film of All Time","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Goaded by an evil former professor, Henry Frankenstein makes a mate for his monster in this magnificent sequel to the 1931 version of 'Frankenstein.' There have thousands of horror movies since the birth of cinema. Many vie for the title of the best. This film, directed with terrific style by James Whale, gets my vote as the best horror film of all time. Despite its age, this film has lost none of its ability to entertain. It is a vast improvement over the original, if only for the delicious sense of humor, which infuses the entire film. If the original was a dour cautionary tale about dangers of playing God, this film, through the character of Dr. Pretorius, seems to revel in its blasphemies. As Dr. Pretorius, Ernest Thesiger gives one of the most memorable performances in the annals of horror cinema. However, as was the case in the original, this film belongs ultimately belongs to Boris Karloff as the monster. The decision to let the monster speak, though apparently opposed by both Karloff and Whale, was brilliant. The tortured humanity of the monster simply pours out of him. It is a great performance, whose brilliance is further underscored by the fact that none of the actors who followed Karloff into the role were able to make you care about the monster. Before long, the Frankenstein monster would be little more than a prop. There is so much to praise about this film, from the atmospheric sets, the cinematography, the makeup (Elsa Lancaster's Bride also became an immediate cinematic icon) and stalwart work of the supporting actors. This is James Whale's masterpiece. My only complaint is the totally unnecessary introduction. It takes a great film to overcome such a boring, stilted opening sequence. Fortunately, this is a great film. "},{"Title":"the best of the Frankenstein films","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While I really liked FRANKENSTEIN (1931), I loved THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN. That's because in addition to all the wonderful cinematography and scientific gadgetry that gave the film so much eye candy, this film features an even better script and the monster was able to grow a lot as a character--even learning to speak. Plus, in addition to the kooky Dr. Frankenstein, the even more psychotic and humorous Dr. Pretorius is along for the ride as well. Pretorius is played so well by Ernest Thesiger that's a shame he wasn't seen in more films--he played the best crazed doctor in film history.The film begins with the apparent death of the monster. The camera pans into the foundation of the windmill that was burned (along with the monster) in the first film. An old gent goes down to explore--only to be killed by the understandably angry monster (who now looks a pretty singed thanks to the fire). Unfortunately, this leads to the WORST part of the film and that is the wife of this poor murder victim. Una O'Conner, the world's most annoying screaming character actress, begins bellowing so loudly and with so much excess emotion that I wanted to kill her myself. Man was she annoying--too bad the monster left her alone--a double-murder here would have been greatly appreciated! He wanders about--hungry, scared and in need of shelter but hated by all. This leads to the best, but saddest part of the film, when he meets an old blind man. The blind guy doesn't see that it's a monster and welcomes the creature into his home. He teaches him to talk a little and everything looks like it's heading for a happy ending--they seem to be fast friends. But, then some idiots come barging in an insist the monster must die--further solidifying the monster's hatred and distrust for mankind.The monster eventually stumbles into a cemetery and meets the really sick and twisted necrophile, Dr. Pretorius. The doctor is looking for body parts himself, as he likes the idea of creating more of the animated dead. He befriends the monster and convinces him that they must kidnap Dr. Frankenstein to get him to build a bride for the creature. Well, coincidentally, Dr. Frankenstein was just married when the monster and Pretorius show up and they force him to help in their mad scheme--because Mrs. Dr. Frankenstein will die if he doesn't cooperate.Well, at this point, you have the usual equipment and monster-making scenes. When the lady creature is completed, she rejects the monster and the monster pulls a lever that causes the equipment to blow all of them to a millions pieces. Well, that WAS the original ending. However, Carl Laemmle, the head of the studio, didn't like this downbeat ending (I sure would have) and ordered the film re-cut so that the monster decided to let Dr. and Mrs. Dr. Frankenstein go before blowing up himself, Pretorius and the angry bride. NOTE if you look VERY CAREFULLY, when the castle blows up, you can see Dr. Frankenstein inside the castle even after he was shown leaving with his wife! Someone goofed and forgot to completely excise the original ending.This movie has it all--great acting, great script, wonderful direction, campy fun and excellent camera work. Despite the few minor flaws mentioned above, about as good as it gets when it comes to classic horror. "},{"Title":"To a New World of Gods and Monsters!","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Whales' belated sequel to his 1931 classic opens on a typically dark and stormy night, but the creepy castle we see upon a hill houses the precocious talents of Lord Byron, Percy Shelley and his wife Mary rather than any tormented monsters. It's a measure of the twisted genius of this film that it uses three of literature's greatest figures to supply the audience with a whirlwind summary of the previous film&#133;The sequel begins at the conclusion of the first movie, with the torch-bearing villagers celebrating the death of Frankenstein's monster (Boris Karloff). Unknown to them, the monster didn't perish in the fire that concluded the previous film, but has fallen into an underground lake where he swiftly dispatches the luckless parents of the little girl Maria that he accidentally drowned earlier. The first appearance of the monster is wonderfully atmospheric, with the reflection of the lake rippling over his face, and his murder of the parents is carried out under the drowsy gaze of a disinterested owl.Henry Frankenstein (Colin Clive) has also miraculously survived and is carried to his castle, where we catch our first glimpse of some of the stupendous sets designed by Charles D. Hall, all vaulted ceilings and huge corridors. Apparently cured of his desire to play God, Frankenstein determines to put his life-creating ways behind him, but finds himself forced to create a mate for his monster under the influence of the insane Dr. Pretorius (Ernest Thesiger).Bride of Frankenstein is a sometimes hysterically camp tongue-in-cheek sequel to Universal's original success that is touched by genius throughout. Like the Wolf Man, Frankenstein's monster is a wholly sympathetic character as opposed to the movie monsters of today, and it's this that adds the soul to Bride of Frankenstein that is completely missing from today's mass-produced teen fodder. The monster is seeking the same things as everyone else, but is prevented from obtaining it by the hysterical prejudice of those around him. Ernest Thesiger is an inspired addition to the cast, providing a fey but sinister aspect to the story, and enjoys some wonderfully bizarre scenes as the film rushes towards its inevitable climax. The sets grow more cluttered and claustrophobic as the creation of the bride draws nearer, the smooth bold tracking shots employed in the early scenes replaced by crazily tilted angles and broody under-lighting that emphasises the madness of both Pretorius and Frankenstein.From the moment of the Bride's creation &#150; an extreme close-up of eyes opening between a veil of bandages &#150; the film comes as close as any horror movie has to a work of cinematic genius. Elsa Lanchester steals her scenes as a voluptuous, shock-haired monster with robotic movements and wild, uncomprehending eyes, and there is something about her instinctive attachment to Baron Frankenstein as she seeks refuge from her intended groom that is as heartbreaking as all the injustices suffered by Karloff's monster.Franz Waxman's wonderfully atmospheric soundtrack adds the final ingredient to what is an indisputable classic, not only of the horror genre, but also of cinema history in general. "},{"Title":"Dumb...campy dumb","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I guess I'm in trouble here. I'm not a fan of this film. It has its moments; for example, the scenes with the monster and the hermit are quite touching. But many parts of the film are simply too campy. I'm not a fan of mixing genres unless it is clear which genre the film is supposed to be. For example, Scared Stiff with Martin & Lewis is clearly comedy. The Abbott & Costello films where they meet horror characters are clearly comedy. But it seems that this film can't decide if it is a horror drama or a horror comedy.The only performance that stands out in my mind is the hermit -- O.P. Heggie. Even Elsa Lanchester's performance is more campy than a serious acting performance.The place for this film to be stored would be in a freak show out in the Arizona desert along old route 66. "},{"Title":"A Pretty Good Classic Horror Film","Date":"27 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After a brief sidelight involving an actress (Elsa Lanchester) performing as the original author (Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley) and two other guests, our story essentially starts off where the first film ends with the monster (played by Boris Karloff) surviving the fire by escaping into a well underneath the windmill. As he wanders around the countryside hungry and wounded, he stumbles upon a small cottage occupied by a blind hermit who, not knowing who he is, happily takes care of him. It's at this point that the monster begins to learn rudimentary speech. Meanwhile, a new character by the name of Dr. Pretorius (Ernest Thesiger) is introduced who seeks out Dr. Frankenstein (Colin Clive) to implore him to continue his research with the thought of introducing some improvements in order to create a mate for the monster. At any rate, rather than detailing the entire story I will just add that this film is thought by many critics to be even better than the original. And in some ways it is as it has more humor and better characters. Additionally, the film quality was better than the previous grainy version used in the first movie as well. In short, regardless of whether a person prefers this or the original movie it's still a pretty good classic horror film. "},{"Title":"A sequel to the 1931 horror classic, Frankenstein,  where The Monster is looking for love, so Dr. Frankenstein and his insane colleague create his bride.","Date":"2 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the best monster movie of all-time. I saw the original and this movie in theaters as a Halloween special by Turner movie classic channel. It was awesome, seeing them both on the big screen. Frankenstein and Bride of Frankenstein are the best of the legendary movie series. I think what makes those two movies such classics is that they were the first real movies based on Mary Shelly's novel and were more closer to the Shelly's book then the sequels. I always felt that the original and this sequel were kind of part of one story, the real sequel was the third film Son of Frankenstein. This is a direct continuation of the last film with the same director James Whale and Boris Karloff returning as the iconic monster. In fact this film is based on a subplot in Mary Shelly's original novel, where Dr. Frankenstein considers creating a mate for his creature. James Whale did a great job directing this film, the pacing is good and the look of the film is great. Unlike the original film this one has a musical sound track that works great in the film. The reason why most people say this is the best of the Frankenstein films is because this has a lot of meat too it, there's more stuff going on here then in the more straight forward, simplistic original. These classic monster movies from Universal in the 30's and 40's are not really scary but still has a creepy quality too it that work wells. The idea of putting dead bodies together and bringing it to life is kind of creepy and makes you question someone's sanity who attempts that. Like in the original film this film begins with a cold opening of sorts, which is one of the best parts of the film. Elsa Lancaster, who plays the bride plays Frankenstein author Mary Shelly who's in a mansion with George Gordon lord Baron, England's greatest signer and Percy Byshe Shelly, England's greatest poet and she begins to tell them the story of the movie. I love how Lord Baron roles his Rs when he talks, it's so appealing. It's a great intro to the movie and I like the idea of having Lancaster play Mary Shelley, there's something cool about seeing her as the woman who wrote the story, Mary Shelley and then later see her as the monster's bride. The film begins where the last one left off but some people didn't come back, Fred Kerr as Dr.Frankenstein's father does not appear here, neither the actor or character return after being a major character in the last one and no explanation of his where about. Valerie Hobson replaces Mae Clark as Dr.Frankenstein's wife and she does a good job. I love Colin Clive as Dr.Henry Frankenstein, he's the best and is sometimes underrated in his pitch perfect portrayal of a conflicted scientist who's not bad but is tempted by desire to play god. I love Ernest Thesiger as Dr. Pretorius, he's a great edition to the story, a scientist crazier then Dr. Frankenstein. He has a good mixture of crazy, humor and a little flamboyant which caused a lot of people to question if he's gay, maybe he is. He has a creepy looking face too. There's a lot of humor here too, like Minnie as Dr. Frankenstein's loud mouth maid, she was not in the original but inexplicably appears here. Although there's a scene that I thought was too surreal, when Dr. Pretorius shows Dr. Frankenstein his 2 inch people that he grew, I thought that felt out of place. I love Boris Karloff as the monster, I thought it was great hearing him talk, unlike in the first film where he was silent. Although I thought it was a bit of a stretch that he went from not being able to talk to within two days mastering the English language. But I like his friendship with a blind hermit, that was well done, showing that he's not a total monster he just needs a friend. The best part of the movie however is towards the end where we get to see the much anticipated bride. The whole scene is awesome! Dr. Frankenstein says his iconic She's alive and I love the way he says it. Elsa Lancaster is terrific in her role, she's only on the screen for five minutes or so but she makes every minute count. It's great silent acting by her, she has the perfect look of a confused, horrified woman who just awoke from the dead. The church bells were great when she was introduced. I love her movements, she just really sells the idea that she just came back from the dead. I love her look as well, she looks kind of sexy in a creepy kind of way and of course her trademark electrified hair was a great idea. I love when she hisses at the monster in her last scene, the way she does it is really creepy. I feel sorry for her because like the monster in the first film, she wasn't given a chance to adjust to life after being brought back from the dead, this is definitely a tragic love story. I wish the bride would've been brought back for a sequel, I would of liked to see how she'd act in the outside world, would she kill people like the monster did? This is one of my favorite films from Universal classic Monster movies. An all-time classic. "},{"Title":"An old but enduring classic !","Date":"20 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are some movies, especially newer ones, that once you see them you don't have any interest in seeing them again, but this is one of those classic movies that even though you may remember much of the scenes and dialogue, it is still interesting to see it again occasionally, perhaps picking out some details you didn't notice before.The film being in black and white adds an eerie atmosphere that color film would have diminished.I don't want to say more before the spoiler alert, because it would give away specific aspects of the movie itself.********************spoiler alert********************NOTE this next part could be considered as a ****spoiler***** *******do not read further if you don't want to read any spoilers******* In this sequel, the Frankenstein monster actually talks, and while it would have been interesting to have had him talk in all the other sequels after this one, I think he talked in only one other sequel if I remember right.Also, an interesting point is that in the various sequels (as well as the original) it seems that no matter how the monster is (seemingly) destroyed, he is portrayed as indestructible and manages to survive to be found and revived in the next sequel - but then how come the bride of Frankenstein was never brought back in any sequels, surely she was as indestructible as she was made thru the same scientific methods as the Frankenstein monster. (of course we know Hollywood takes it's artistic liberties and can simply ignore such things, but it is an interesting point to consider anyhow -) The entire Frankenstein series is very interesting, they probably could have kept it going for more sequels, but Karloff was the best actor by far for portraying the part of the Frankenstein monster, he gave the monster a personality even in the original where he didn't talk yet. "},{"Title":"We belong dead!","Date":"18 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sardonic coupling of Dark Humor and Horror. An incredible Work by a Cinema Master, Director James Whale. Much to admire here, not the least of which is a beautiful Musical Score by Frank Waxman and Karloff's touching, Sympathetic Portrayal. Adding to the bizarre emphasis to this great Film is Elsa Lanchester's Bride with Iconic Makeup and Wedding Dress, Ernest Thesiger as Dr. Pretorius, and Dwight Fry as Fritz.This the best of the Universal Studio's 15 years of Horror Monster Movies. Ideally should be viewed as a Double Feature with...Frankenstein (1931)... that establishes the Characters, Setting, and Style, that gave birth to the Mythological Template that would endure to this Day.Note...A very interesting Biographical Movie about James Whale, the Director, was made in 1998 titled...Gods and Monsters...Ian Mclellan won a Best Actor Oscar for his touching and poignant portrayal. "}{"Title":"One of the Best Sequels!!!","Date":"6 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Frankenstein director James Whale made one of the first BEST sequels ever with Bride of Frankenstein. Would that Universal had been wise with their Dracula franchise. The studio produced this follow-up film three years after the original, unlike the five year hiatus between Dracula and Dracula's Daughter. Bride of Frankenstein picks up where Frankenstein concluded after a brief prologue that emphasizes that a woman penned one of the most violence novels ever. Mary Wollstonecraft Shelly wrote Frankenstein the novel back in 1816. During the prologue, she continues the saga. The Frankenstein monster (Boris Karloff) survives the fire as does Dr. Henry Frankenstein. Henry reunites with his wife and vows to not continue his research until Dr. Pretorius (Ernest Thesiger)appears with tiny human figures encased in jars. He suggests that Dr. Frankenstein make his monster a mate.After the monster survives the burning windmill, it kills Han and his wife as he escapes from the ruins. Ironically, the monster saves a peasant girl from drowning and she screams. Townfolks fall out in droves with dogs and clubs to capture the monster. "},{"Title":"Lacks Horror and Humor","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In this sequel to Frankenstein, the beloved monster finds love. As with the earlier film, this one is visually impressive, with Whale expertly using lights and shadows to create an eerie atmosphere. The plot is quite silly, with Karloff's monster learning to speak English on Tarzan's level in about 15 minutes. Lanchester assumes the title role as well as author Shelley in a superfluous prologue. Thesiger is fun to watch as the fiendish scientist who creates the bride. The acting is over-the-top across the board. It is apparently meant to be taken more as a comedy than a horror movie, although it is neither funny nor scary. "},{"Title":"Bride of Frankenstein","Date":"10 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of Frankenstein is the return of our classic friend Frankenstein, who may be an evil creation, shows us how big his heart is in this movie. on the run from angry villagers Frankenstein comes across his very first companion a blind man who can not see how monstrous he is and therefore is not scared of Frankenstein. for the short while these two get to be companions Frankenstein learns to do some basic things, such as speak, not much but enough to tell you what he wants and when is old man friend is taken from him he makes it clear he wants a friend. with a little help from a couple mad scientists Frankenstein is granted a lady friend who alas wants not much to do with him. Throughout this classic black and white horror we see just what a compassionate monster Frankenstein really is. "},{"Title":"Certainly not the original...","Date":"5 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't know. That's probably a poor way to start a review but it's the feeling I left this film with. I think the acting was just as great as the original but I didn't really like the film due to it's plot, unrelated events and cheesy secondary characters (the blind man). I feel like this was a cheap shot to cash in on the success of the original. I've seen many reviews contrary to this belief but the original had much more feeling to it and I was much more sympathetic toward The Monster. He brutally murders Dr. Pretorious for no apparent reason as the viewer is the only one who knows of Dr. Pretorious' behind the scenes motives. Unfortunately I feel like this film brings nothing additional to the table when following the original and quite frankly I'm tired of this being considered one of the best sequels ever made. I don't mean to offend any fans of the film but in what way does this stand up to the work of The Godfather II which can be argued as better than the original (which ranks in practically every top films list known to man). Maybe it's just me but I don't see this film as a classic of the horror genre as I'd much rather watch the original Frankenstein or Dracula before I took this one in again. It gets a 5 just because it's well shot and contains good acting. "},{"Title":"A sequel as excellent as it's famous predecessor","Date":"9 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Bride of Frankenstein / 1935 / Directed by James Whale / Written by William HurlbutThe Bride of Frankenstein certainly ranks as one of the greatest horror films ever made and is that very rare kind of film, as excellent as it's highly successful and acclaimed predecessor. The film continues the unfinished story of the first film, where Dr. Frankenstein is persuaded to create a mate for his monster. Director Whale decided to use the sequel to complete the telling of the original novel of 1818.One difference, compared to it's predecessor, is the film has a music soundtrack. Frank Waxman's music score is majestic, dark and convincing. Sound quality is impressive for it's time and was nominated for an Oscar. Legendary makeup artist Frank Pierce delivers the same excellent style and technique with the monster, now with some added details. The monster speaks for the first time in this film. The monster's mate, or bride, is classically inspired by the Egyptian queen Nefertiti. The bride of the monster, masterfully created by Frank Pierce, has become as iconic as the monster and Boris Karloff's performance is again compassionate and sensitive, a portrayal of a man misunderstood and feared. The prologue of the film is masterfully done. Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley, her husband and friend are together inside an elegant mansion at night while a thunderstorm rages outside. It's believed that Shelley, along with some literary friends, brainstormed the idea of Frankenstein during a thunderstorm one night. This circumstance and a dream resulted in the creation of one of the most famous and respected horror novels of all time.Of special note are three acting performances. 19 year old Valerie Hobson, replacing the original actress portraying Dr. Baron Frankenstein's finance' gives a surprisingly mature performance. Ernest Thesinger and Uma O'Connor give impressive, memorable dark and comic performances, respectively.The creation sequence of the monster's mate recreates the same majesty and power of the original 1931 film, this time with the help of Waxman's excellent music score. Though on screen for only about five minutes, the appearance of the monster's mate, as the bride of Frankenstein, near the end of the film, is especially powerful and memorable, becoming iconic over the years since the film's release. Along with the creation sequence, it adds up to roughly ten minutes of great cinema.Besides the music score, what set's this film apart from it's predecessor is it's use of humor, effectively blended with horror. A difficult combination indeed, but Whale pulls it off masterfully here. Reluctant to direct a sequel, Whale approached making the film as a lark and created one of the best ever sequels in film history and in some ways, superior to it's excellent predecessor.Whale did not return to direct the third film in the Frankenstein series. By the late 30's, the magic of the early 30's horror films had faded. "},{"Title":"A tale of the joy of companionship, and the pain of rejection.","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoiler Alert!!This instant classic was released in 1935 as a sequel to the famed horror film based on the novel by Mary Shelly. This story of the importance of companionship and the anguish of rejection is stellar in its era of production. In the film the character of Dr. Frankenstein is reprised by Colin Clive. His monster is, once again, played by the immortal Boris Karloff. Dr. Frankenstein's Fiancé is played by Ms. Valarie Hobson, and we are also introduced to a new major player, Dr. Pretorius, played by Ernest Thesinger.The film is a continuation of the original story, which ended rather abruptly. We rejoin a mob of angry town's people just after the burning of the mill. As the remnants of the building continue to smolder, the town's people, assuming that the monster has perished in the fire, collect the body of Dr. Frankenstein, and carry him back to the castle, fearing he is dead. Unknown to all but the last few stragglers, however, we discover that the monster has indeed survived the fire, and still in a rage. He kills those who are left at the mill, leaving only Dr. Frankenstein's housekeeper to witness his resurgence. As he remains on the run, he encounters, by chance, a blind man who takes him in and teaches him a few basic words, along with the meaning of companionship.It is then that we return to the castle, and learn that Dr. Frankenstein is alive, and is reunited with his love, Elizabeth. As he recuperates, however, he receives an ominous visit from a past mentor, Dr. Pretorius. We discover that the doctor has come to plead with him to join in continuing the work that he now realizes was foolish and wrong. Dr. Pretorius convinces him to continue for the sake of science. As Dr. Pretorius gathers bodies, however, he has a chance encounter with the monster, who has been hiding from the town's people in the crypt where he is now scavenging. This meeting leads to the monster aligning himself with Pretorius in the goal of creating a companion for him.When Dr. Pretorius returns to the castle to collaborate with Frankenstein, he finds that he has had second thoughts, and orders the monster to take Elizabeth hostage until their work is complete. After many long hours of work, they succeed in creating a female companion for the Monster, and she is grandiosely announced as The Bride of Frankenstein. The monster, who has begun to grow impatient with the doctor in creating his companion, confronts his bride expecting an immediate kinship, but is twice rejected by her. It is then that he decides he can no longer live. He allows Elizabeth and Dr. Frankenstein to flee as he throws a switch and brings the whole laboratory down on the heads of not only himself, but his bride, and the evil Dr. Pretorius.The story focuses primarily on, as was mentioned at the outset, the importance of companionship in our lives. The Monster, shunned by all whom he came across was in desperate need of kinship. In the kind old blind man, he first found it, and had it taken away. His chance meeting with Pretorius, however, promised to return it to him, and more. When he was rejected by his bride, he could no longer live. While it is not quite so dramatically demonstrated within, the theme of the film is somewhat mirrored in that of Forrest Gump. The main character spends the entire film in pursuit of one companion and suffers rejection several times before eventually winning Jenny, only to have her taken from him yet again.The use of both lighting and camera angles in the film play a pivotal role in establishing a connection with the main character of Frankenstein's Monster. Lighting of the face is often used to convey his mood, and dramatic swings in demeanor, as well as liberal use of close up shots to give the audience a good look at the expert conveyance of emotion without spoken word by the master himself, Boris Karloff.In the end, Frankenstein's monster was not united with his bride in new life, but in a second death. When he could no longer bear the thought of living in a world with no one but himself and the frightened screams of the town's people, he chose to end his own suffering, and vindicated himself, in some way, by taking the evil doctor, and his second creation with him. While his understanding that there was no greater gift than companionship was dramatically illustrated, the pain of rejection ultimately won the day and sent him to a horrific end. "},{"Title":"The Bride of Frankenstein!","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even though I prefer Frankenstein, to most people, Bride of Frankenstein is a perfect example as a sequel of a great film, and make it even better. I love this film. The story begins with Mary Shelly (the author of Frankenstein, played by Elsa Lachester) telling her husband and Lord Byron that her story has not ended yet. The windmill has burned down and Henry Frankenstein (Colin Clive) had been taken home to his future wife, Elizabeth (Valerie Hobson, Mae Clarke was sick at the time but i feel they are equally beautiful and great as Elizabeth). The monster (Beautifully portrayed by Boris Karloff) is still alive and roams about the country side. Then we meet perhaps the most eccentric, gayest scientist the silver screen has to offer Dr. Pretorious played by Ernest Thesgier. He tells Frankenstein that he himself had created life, but differently than Frankenstein's method, and lures Frankenstein back into creating a mate for the monster. The monster then is capture, but easily escapes and on the way, he meets a blind hermit. This is one of the most emotional scenes in the history of movies. They both have a disadvantage and both help each other reach a common goal finding a friend. Soon after, two hunters walk in and accidentally burn the house of the hermit down. The monster is then chased by villagers through a graveyard and walks into crypt, thus meets Dr. Pretorious who promises him a bride. The monster then captures Elizabeth and then Frankenstein and Pretorious start creating the bride. The ending is fantastic for the movie, so I won't ruin the surprise. The acting is superb in this film and exceeded my expectations as a sequel. On its own, its a great movie for the horror genre and for all times. The Bride of Frankenstein is a brilliant piece of art. "},{"Title":"Sequel is better than the original","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am of the opinion this is one of the great horror films. It's scary, it's fun, it's thoroughly entertaining.Nothing against the original Frankenstein. It's a shame that they had censored that film. The cutting of the scene with the little girl at the pond makes The Monster seem atrocious in its censored version, compared to the restored version, which plays much better, the monster simply wanting to see a lovely thing float.Even as a child, I found the jolt in the continuity disturbing. as the camera shows the villager cradling the now-dead girl. What did the monster DO to her???For all of Frankenstein's merits, it simply is dull compared to Bride of Frankenstein. We have the wonder Ernest Thesiger as Doctor Pretorius. What a face! (He really makes Whale's earlier The Old Dark House work.)One simply forgets how beautiful Elsa Lanchester was when she was young. This is of course her classic role, both as the 'Bride' and as Mary Shelley. The histrionic Una O'Connor is always a plus (she was also excellent in The Invisible Man).The scenes of the monster with the blind man are both funny and sad. (Seems to me Hitchcock must have taken a cue from Whale when he made Saboteur.)Of course, it all culminates with the stylish ending....the great music of Franz Waxman, and finally the image of Elsa Lanchester as The Bride. I assume Hollywood tries to do this these days (as in Tim Burton's silly Edward Scissorhands), but for horror, style and humor, I'll take this Whale film (along with his marvelous The Old Dark House) anytime.Recalling Elsa, she was gorgeous as Anne of Cleves in The Private Life of Henry VIII, too.It's rare when a sequel is actually better than the original, but it applies with this movie.Two thumbs up, holding a cigar....mmmmm......smoke good! "},{"Title":"Movie you fall in love with...stands the test of time...","Date":"7 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched Bride of Frankenstein courtesy of IMDb top charts and it opened a portal to classic movies and now i own 200+ classics..Bride of Frankenstein expresses and presents its dark message and humor so easily (that today's ventures after which there are debates and counter debates just to understand the complexity of movie make you think can't it be done the way it was done in B.O.F with words of Shelley and Byron) The direction is ace as is camera work but the real worth praise aspect is KARLOFF.After this movie,he appeared just once as Monster in less praised 1939 'Son of Frankenstein' but in this movie, he is at his best.To portray emotional aspects of a monster is not an easy task and he is one of few monsters who make you cry.This movie easily mops off the questions left by 1931's FRANKENSTEIN such as  Was he really a monster or Fritz torture made him one?  ,  Did he have feelings? ,  Could he be taught into a nicer person than he was?  All this done in 70 so minutes is remarkable.Today an average movie is 100-110 Min's or even more and still the message is not conveyed.I simply love this movie and recommend everyone to own it as it is something that even after 74 years seems a fresh type of movie. "},{"Title":"Bride of Karloff","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Boris Karloff does it again,, this time it speaks,, yes the monster actually speaks,, and surprisingly it's pretty good,, friend,, smoke, drink,, love that monotone of his,, this is possibly even better than the first,, if not it's oh so close,, this time an even madder scientist is in cahoots with the Baron Frankenstein , this scientist get's a female brain/ body,, and they do the same kinda recreation and when the female bridge finally does meet Frankenstein,, well i can't say,, cause it would ruin the ending.. but it's good. Colin Clive returns as the Baron Frankenstein in this one,, Its so hard to make a good sequel these days,, but i think that this one is equal to or better than the original.. great movie,, anyone who loves classic horror should go see this. "}{"Title":"Probably the Greatest Sequel of All Time","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After revisiting 1931's Frankenstein, I thought it was only right to come back to the follow up to that film. Bride of Frankenstein is just as good as the original film, and maybe even a bit better. I do not hesitate in saying that it the best sequel ever made. I would recommend seeing the original film first, but you will have to see this one once you do.Colin Clive is the greatest actor that has ever played Dr. Frankenstein and Boris Karloff is the greatest actor that has ever played Frankenstein's monster so the cast is pure gold. I like the story of the first film better but this one is great too. The production is and everything else is also amazing. James Whale was a great director and one of my favorites of all time. Watch this movie.To wrap up, I want everyone to know that this piece of cinema history is amazing and they should all see it immediately. I wouldn't lie about a thing like this. "},{"Title":"Two Mad Scientists Team Up To Make A Mate For A Monster","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Frankenstein - a scientist who has created a monstrous man from cadavers - survives a terrible fire and is approached by the demented Dr Pretorius, who has been working on similar research. Pretorius convinces a reluctant Frankenstein to create a woman, a mate for the Monster, who also survived the fire and is terrorising the countryside.Universal's smash-hit sequel to the granddaddy of all horror movies is one of the most famous, entertaining, influential films of the thirties, filled with memorable scenes - the grandiose opening with Byron and the Shelleys, the Monster's touching friendship with the blind hermit (which is beautifully pastiched in Young Frankenstein), Pretorius' mad dinner-party in the crypt and Lanchester's unforgettable appearance as the hissing Bride. Many consider it the rare example of a superior sequel, although personally I prefer the original; the Monster is less sympathetic and more conventionally brutish in this film, and the decision to make him speak (something Karloff disagreed with) detracts from both his mystery and his pathos. It's still fantastic fun though, and the cast are great - Whale is a little too enamoured of Thesiger's camping (he seems to act purely with his prodigious nose) and O'Connor's shrieking, but Karloff and Lanchester are both outstanding and Hobson (who was only seventeen), Frye and Heggie are all excellent. The iconography of this film, a combination of Whale's stylish direction, Charles Hall's art direction, Jack Pierce's famous makeup and John Fulton's special effects, is unforgettable, from the Monster's first appearance in the flooded basement of the windmill to the hermit dolefully playing Ave Maria on his violin to the crazy tilted angles on Frankenstein and Pretorius during the lightning storm to the silver streaks in the Bride's Marge Simpson hairdo. Deftly scripted by William Hurlbut, with lots of cool lines and a clever ambiguity to the film's title - literally it's Hobson character but figuratively it's Lanchester's. I don't believe direct sequels are ever better than their predecessors (especially The Godfather Part II) but this one almost is, and remains one of the very best of the classic Universal monster movies of the thirties. Sort of remade (with mixed results) as The Bride in 1985. "},{"Title":"A Sequel worth doing!","Date":"5 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I began to watch this movie and was lost from the first second of dialogue. I eventually caught on to the fact that it was a sequel of James Whale's first movie Frankenstein made in 1931. I highly recommend that any viewer see the first movie before watching this one. Just like all other sequels you could be lost. The flashbacks are a great help to remind people of the original story line. Flashbacks were a very crucial part of numerous old black and white films. They are, to this day, also very important to a sequel or trilogy that is made several years after the previous movie. Also, most black and white films made in the 30's and 40's have trouble with the lighting. When a director wants to make something look like it is appearing at night, the darkness can ruin the object in the shot. Whale gave the nightly appearance very well when shooting at buildings. He kept the right amount of light in the background not to get in the way of it being to light. I felt that the angles the director took to place the characters in specific lighting added to the drama, horror, and sci-fi genre this movie is placed in. The lit candles used in older versions of movies add to the horror of a movie. With every scary horror movies comes great scary characters. The actors played a wonderful part in this. Boris Karloff, The Monster, and Ernest Thesiger, Dr. Pretorius, gave a remarkable dark and scary performance as a monster and mad scientist. The music, to today's' generations, does not hinder the story or make it cheesy by any means. It is the classic, old, scary organ like music that gives hope, despair, and fear to every shot. Music has always defined a critical point a scene for movies. That is also the reason why soundtracks are made after movies are released because we relate a specific song with a specific movie. This is one reason why this particular movies music nominated it for an Oscar in 1936, only a year after its release date. James Whale is a native of the English country side. In the Bride of Frankenstein, he does a great job of using English dialogue and clothing to help accent the age of the movie. He uses the English royalty line to show power and what happens when it is abused and misused. Despite the good shots that were taken, some of the close ups were numerous in their appearances. I had trouble telling where the climax of the movie was, but caught back up with the movie. There are small subtle moments in the movie that are outdated for the twenty first century to hold in a movie. You could tell when Whale was using certain things that were obviously fake in their entirety. For being a movie that plays for an hour and thirty minutes, the story builds up fast and has some holes in the plot. There are pieces that could have been used better in the overall film, as well. Overall the performances were strong and the shots flowed well. I would love to discuss it further in detail but can not because I do not want to spoil anything. The opening of Bride of Frankenstein finds the similarity between the ending and another part of the movie with romance. This movie shows a great love story hidden behind the parallels of an emotionless and friendless monster and his want not to be alone. Hence, one of the reasons why this movie has been classified as a drama, romance, and sci-fi. This movie also speaks another motif of life and death. Most people, in their explanation of any Frankenstein movie, would say that it is about giving life and eventually ending in death. You do not know whose life while come to end or even when it will occur or how. However, James Whale with the first and second Frankenstein movies has contributed to another power that we can show to have a small portion of control over. The sad fact of the matter is that Whale lost the control of his life and committed suicide only twenty two years later after this movie was made. I give this movie an eight out of ten because I am sure that it frightened most people upon its release in the 1930's. Also, because it has miniature twists and turns around every bricked corner. Every shot helps the next to give the story line strength and fill the hour and thirty minutes that it was asked of. I definitely recommend this movie for any viewers that wish to see an old black and white film that keeps to the traditional scary, yet somehow lovable monster and quirky scientists. For the twenty first century viewers, it would appear to be a movie filled with some laughter and wonderment. "},{"Title":"Great film, but so-so horror","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's okay to have a few lighter moments in a horror film--even desirable because it enhances the horror. But Bride of Frankenstein had many funny scenes where scary scenes were few and far between (though it opened with one, where the woman pulls the monster from the water, thinking it's her husband.) I would call it a good movie, but not a good horror flick. Of the first three Frankenstein films I think Frankenstein was very scary, but son of Frankenstein was the scariest.Also, the monster's ability to talk diminished his mystique and horrifying characteristics. As a mute monster, Karloff does a superb acting job in projecting the monster's emotions with gestures, facial expressions, and actions. "},{"Title":"Monster's development makes sequel better","Date":"22 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you want to see perhaps the best movie scene of all time, you should watch Bride of Frankenstein.The scene I am referring to is a demonstration of why Bride of Frankenstein is a better movie than Frankenstein. In the scene, The Monster walks into the tiny home of a blind, lonely and elderly man. Unaware of The Monster's looks, the old man reaches out to make the stranger his friend. As the friendship grows, the old man teaches his new friend how to talk.The 7- to 8-minute scene is simple and sentimental yet profound and instructive. It also shows what could have been achieved in the second half of Frankenstein if the plot hadn't inexplicably pivoted from a great science fiction movie centered on the development of The Monster into a weak horror story centered on the town's outrage.Boris Karloff reportedly objected to The Monster speaking in Bride. He was wrong. The Monster's character development makes the sequel the superior movie. I found it enjoyable that The Monster learned, developed emotional feelings, yearned for friends and women, and enjoyed life. Grunting doesn't make a monster scarier. Intellectual growth does.But there are true horror scenes in this movie &#150; at least intellectually. The scene with the little people created from seeds by Dr. Pretorius is humorous and scary to think about. Bride also benefits from the addition of a truly evil character although Dr. Pretorius is sometimes cartoonishly evil and the significantly less time that was spent on Dr. Frankenstein's boring love life.The creation scene in Frankenstein was one of that movie's highlights, but the creation scene of the bride in this movie is actually better. Less innovative perhaps, but more complex and interesting.Unfortunately, the ending of the movie was just plain awful. I wanted to see the character of the bride develop or at least begin to develop the way The Monster developed. I'm not sure whether I wanted to see a relationship between Dr. Frankenstein's two creations, but I certainly did not want to see the movie end minutes after they met.The movie should have been significantly longer. The ending was too rushed, too absurd, too contrived, and too preachy as suddenly The Monster became a moral arbiter of who is good and who is bad.The ending was so bad that I was tempted to cut my rating from 9 or 10 to 7, but I gave Frankenstein a 7 and Bride was definitely better. I gave it an 8.ZWrite "},{"Title":"The greatest of all monster movies","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The greatest of all monster movies and a classic of its kind, this hoary old melodrama, a superior sequel to Frankenstien, has become something of a legend not least for the performances of Karloff, (billed without the 'Boris'), magnificent as the monster, Elsa Lanchester in the dual role of his 'bride' and in the prologue as Mary Shelley and Ernest Thesiger going completely over the top as the mad, bad and dangerous to know, Dr. Pretorius, offering the monster a cigar, 'It's my only weakness'.Despite being often preposterous it completely transcends camp and is visually extraordinary. It also had a great script by William Hurlbut and John L Balderston that is far more complex than anything else in the genre. Mel Brooks may have lampooned it perfectly in Young Frankenstien but this James Whale movie is the real McCoy. Gods and monsters, indeed. "},{"Title":"To a new world of Gods and Monsters","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The classic sequel to Frankenstein with Mr. Boris Karloff as the Monster and Colin Clive as Henry Frankenstein reprising their roles from the original James Whale film. The movie starts off with Mary Shelly and her husband talking to Lord Byron then the film begins where the last movie left off. The monster never dies and goes searching for a friend. Through the process, the monster learns how to talk and learns that Frankenstein is the man who created him. Frankenstein is visited by the evil Dr. Pretorius to help in creating a mate for the monster and is best said when they toast to partnership, To a new world of Gods and Monsters. In the end, James Whale did a magnificent job and not skipping a beat from the last movie. It was good to see Karloff and Clive return for this movie where it would be Whale's last movie. Karloff returns once more as the Frankenstein Monster along with Bela Lugosi in Son of Frankenstein. Aside from the original, this is one of those instances where the sequel is equal or better than the original movie. Hard to find movie, but if you find it, see it and you will be amazed. "},{"Title":"In my opinion, the best of the Universal classic monster films","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN (1935)directed by James Whalestarring Boris Karloff, Colin Clive, Valerie Hobson, and Ernest Thesigerplot Mary Shelley (Elsa Lanchester) reveals to her friends that The Monster (Boris Karloff) and Dr. Frankenstein (Colin Clive) survived the fire, and continues on with the story. As the Monster learns to speak and begins another murder spree, Dr. Frankenstein, with the help of an even more ambitious scientist (Ernest Thesiger), creates a Bride (also Elsa Lanchester) for his creation, which puts his wife Elizabeth (Valerie Hobson) in danger.thoughts This is my favorite of the Universal classic monster films. This has a great cast of characters, moody and chilling directing from James Whale, beautiful music and a great finale that will leave you in tears. "},{"Title":"The monster gets a heart and a voice after escaping from The Wizard of Odd.","Date":"31 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's a lot more comedy in this sequel to Frankenstein thanks to the madness of the wacky mad scientist played by Ernest Thesiger here. Somehow the monster escapes from the burning windmill laboratory, scaring the daylights out of the shrill Una O'Connor here. Nowhere in sight at the finale of Frankenstein, O'Connor (wearing a head piece that looks like it came off of Dr. Frankenstein's wedding cake) dominates much of the film (as does Thesiger), and for once, a change of mood makes the follow-up even better than the original. For The Bride of Frankenstein is delightfully campy, utilizing many elements that Mel Brooks couldn't resist overplaying when he wrote his own comic version of the tale Young Frankenstein 40 years later.It all starts off with an enjoyable prologue where Elsa Lanchaster, as the real Mary Shelley, tells her pals Wait, there's more!. The return of the monster brings out the wacky Dr. Pretorious, his collection of tiny creatures (a plot devise stolen for The Devil Doll the following year), and the monster's meeting with the blind man. Having seen Young Frankenstein more times than this, I couldn't help but quote lines from that (Wait! I was going to make espresso!) during that sequence, and when Elsa Lanchaster comes back for the final moments as the bride, it not only brought back memories of Madeline Kahn in the Mel Brooks classic but her repeat of the character on Saturday Night Live singing I Feel Pretty.John Carradine, who would go on to horror movie fame in his prime, has a brief appearance here as the hunter who discovers the monster along with the blind man, and Sherlock Holmes housekeeper Mary Gordon has a brief walk-on as one of the monster's earlier victims whose demise is almost comical in retrospect. As for Karloff's bringing speech into the monster's life, it is fine for one entry, especially comical for many of the scenes. Artistically, the film is breathtaking to look at, also returning Colin Clive as the doctor, with Valarie Hobson taking over the role of Elizabeth, previously played by Mae Clarke. She gives the character more strength here, standing up to her husband for what she believes his works to be those of Satan. "},{"Title":"Stylish Horror","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wow, Frankenstein's not nearly as scary as some of the nightmare architecture. Universal's art department went all out in coming up with castle interiors that look like they came from heck &#x97;the soaring vaults, the corkscrew staircases&#x97;all bathed in semi-darkness like the movie itself. In fact, the whole production's a trip through a visual nightmare. And get a load of that wooden platform rising into the violent heavens like a barge into stormy seas. A great effect.Frankenstein, himself, is more like a backward child than a monster. He'd like to do right but has never been taught how. So he stumbles around looking for a friend, but lacks the necessary social graces, to say the least. Then too, it doesn't help that his so-called bride (Lanchester), who's not exactly a pin-up herself, takes to him like a vegetarian does to a slab of meat. So, the monster is more like somebody you feel sorry for rather than a scary demon, that is, when he's not tossing people off cliffs or into pits.There's a detectable undercurrent of dark humor throughout, courtesy a crotchety O'Connor and an arch Thesiger. I can see why Universal gave director Whale total charge of the production. He manages a a stylish coherence to both the visual and spoken narrative that indicates a master is in charge. And was it he or maybe Lanchester who came up with those birdlike head jerks that define the monster's so- called bride. In many years of movie viewing, I've seen nothing quite like these weird spasms.No doubt about it&#x97;the film's a delicious bite out of the horror sandwich and really deserving of cult status. "}{"Title":"The wildest and most audacious of James Whale's 1930s horror films.","Date":"2 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride Of Frankenstein is an extraordinary film, with sharp humour, macabre extravagance, and a narrative that proceeds at a fast, efficient pace. Baron Frankenstein is blackmailed by Doctor Septimus Pretorius (Ernest Thesiger) into reviving his monster (Boris Karloff) and building a mate (Elsa Lanchester) for it.Frankenstein (1931) was startlingly good in a primitive way; this sequel is the screen's sophisticated masterpiece of black comedy, with all the talents working deftly to one end. Every scene has its own delights, and they are woven together into a superb if wilful cinematic narrative which, of its gentle mocking kind, has never been surpassed. "},{"Title":"Here Comes the Bride","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"   Bride of Frankenstein is considered by many to be the best of the Frankenstein films. Although I personally prefer the first installment for its originality, this one is nevertheless a close second. The movie opens with a prologue featuring poets Lord Byron (Gavin Gordon), Percy Shelley (Douglas Walton) and Shelley's wife Mary (Elsa Lancaster) who wrote the Frankenstein novel. The trio discusses the novel and we are treated to a brief flashback of the 1931 film. Mary then says that there was more to the story and begins to tell the rest of it and this is where our film begins. The story begins where the first film ended at the site of the flaming windmill. All of the villagers are satisfied that the monster (Boris Karloff) has perished in the flames. Henry Frankenstein (Colin Clive) has been injured and is taken to his home to recover with his fiance Elizabeth (Valerie Hobson) at his side. The father of the little girl murdered in the original is however skeptical and goes searching through the ruins for proof. He falls through an opening into an underground stream where, you guessed it, the monster appears. The monster kills the parents of the little girl and goes about terrorizing the countryside. The villagers under the burgermeister (E.E. Clive) soon capture the monster and insure everyone that all is safe. Meanwhile the mysterious Dr. Pretorious (Ernest Theisger) visits Henry and proposes that they work together. He coerces Henry to accompany him to his home where he shows him that he too has created life in the form of a series of little bottled figures (which really seems out of place). In the meantime the monster escapes and comes upon the hut of a blind hermit (O.P. Heggie) playing his violin. The music soothes the savage beast and the hermit gains the monster's confidence. They become friends and the hermit teaches the monster about life and how to talk. Unfortunately two lost hunters (John Carradine, John Curtis) come to the hut for directions and discover the monster, The monster escapes and finds the entrance to a mausoleum where he finds Dr. Pretorious and his two criminal assistants, Karl (Dwight Frye) and Ludwig (Ted Billings) at their evil doings. Pretorious befriends the monster and uses him to force Henry into helping him to create a mate for the monster. The monster abducts Elizabeth and holds her hostage to ensure Henry's cooperation. Finally Henry and Pretorious are successful and a female monster (again Elsa Lancaster) is presented to the monster. Friend? But will they live happily ever after?  Director James Whale gives us the more of the creepy atmospheric settings as in the first film. The laboratory settings are now legendary. Karloff (now being billed only by his surname) again gives a standout performance as the monster. The scenes at the Hermit's hut are quite moving. Colin Clive is way over the top again and Valerie Hobson is fetching as Elizabeth. There are a few inconsistencies with the first film. When Henry is being taken home, someone is sent to inform his father the old Baron. When Henry arrives, there is no Baron and he has a new fiance in the person of Hobson. There is also a new burgermeister. Dwight Frye in effect has two roles in this film. He is seen as Fritz the hunchback in the flashback scenes and as Karl, Pretorious' assistant in the main story. Oddly enough, this was the only one of the Frankenstein films in which the monster speaks. In the next sequel Son of Frankenstein (1939) he is again speechless. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is usually regarded by most monster fans as being better than the first Frankenstein film. I think it's just as good, but not better.I think that while this film was incredible with showing the emotional side of the monster, the first movie was more scary than this one. I think the choice of music could've been more eerie. But the story and characters are probably better in this one.My favorite moments are where the monster finds his first friend (the blind man), and when he kills himself in the end. Both times, he sheds a tear. That was powerful.The bride is credited with a question mark in both the beginning and end, but she's Elsa Lanchester - the same person who plays Mary Shelley in the beginning of the film. She, along with Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi, created one of the most iconic images in horror film history.10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"All things considered - a really fine movie","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  By some people's horror standards, including my own, this movie doesn't deliver horror....exactly. I wasn't horrified in any scene. I really wasn't scared at any point, in fact. It is hard for me to see this in the 'HORROR' category. It's more of a SF/Romance/Drama/something - and a very nicely executed one at that. I guess the important thing is that at the end you could decide if you were entertained. That is a definite YES. This is another of what I call 'wise' movies. As a sequel to the original Karloff 'Frankenstein', it doesn't try to repeat the original. It builds upon the original and expands the story in some very interesting ways. Also, the special effects department did some pretty amazing things here as well considering the age of this movie.Karloff is exquisite as the so-called monster. He humanizes the character but doesn't take it into the maudlin. You could almost like this guy. The inflection in the few words the monster picks-up along the way - memorably delivered nearly every time! He is just a confused child, folks. I marvel at Karloff's acting here every time.All of the other characters handle their parts with the usual professionalism of that era. For some reason bringing back Frye in a different role strikes me as a 'good luck' move. Nobody spins 'on the edge' like Frye.The story is well-written and holds your interest, the pacing is good, the situation is plausible like good SF should be - you can suspend disbelief comfortably and have fun.The music is competent and not imposing. Elsa's female creature is hardly in the movie at all but when she takes the stage - wow. The impact is still there. The hesitancy and expectation. It gets kind of creepy and then very sad. A great climax for everyone (except Boris and Elsa - pun partially intended)As old as this movie is it is still 'put together' well. It has got to be one of the finest B&W films of all time in my book. It frequently tends toward the theatrical but that was the acting style then. These two things (B&W / the acting) tend to date the film. Duh! The lack of any CGI effects can make it unvisual enuff for many of today's spoiled generation. The effects are there and are great, but you see them all the time now. There is nothing really new here. It was new at the time but now....? Don't expect anything in this movie except a really good solid story. Karloff shines! I miss him. For the era, this is definitely a 10, but today? Between 8 and 9.    "},{"Title":"Arguably the best of the Frankenstein sequels! That Boris Karloff-he make-a-me-cry!","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN (1935) **** Boris Karloff, Colin Clive, Elsa Lanchester, Ernest Thesiger, Valerie Hobson, Dwight Frye, Una O' Connor. James Whale's classic (and arguably) best sequel to the horror classic takes up where the original left with The Monster emerging from the torched remains of the windmill who, after befriending Dr. Frankenstein's ole collaborator Dr. Pretorious, demands a mate be made!  Great fun for all with an incredibly memorable creation of The Bride with her beehive frosting coif!!  Karloff gives his finest performance showing the gentle side of The Creature when he is taken in by a blind, kind hermit (O.P. Heggie) in one of the most poignant moments of cinema the monster crying! "},{"Title":"The Disenchantment of Waking Up in the Wrong World","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Frankenstein, who everyone regards as a bloodthirsty monster killing at random and devoid of any kind of human feelings, is nevertheless a poor, oppressed creature that should be deplored instead of abhorred. Nobody realizes that in reality he is craving for love and friendship, apart from a hermit, who temporarily takes him in until the mob of hunters appears in order to seize him. But this man is unable to discern the creature's face for he is blind. Frankenstein then hopes that a test-tube woman designed by his creators could finally fulfill the yearnings of his heart. But as soon as she opens her eyes and perceives the monster and his desire, she is overcome by a gush of terror and escapes from the extended arms of the would-be bridegroom, leaving him to the disheartening insight that in the world into which he was cast by the whims of some irresponsible scientists not a single being can be found that is willing to care for him and give him the love that he needs as much as anyone else. The consequence of this sudden knowledge is terrifying It culminates in complete self-destruction.This clearly represents the most powerful version of the Frankenstein myth, superior even to the recent Kenneth-Branagh-adaptation. We are made palpable the desperation of a being who has found out that he just isn't in the right place. And this should make us think. For the suffering that develops in front of our eyes doesn't merely belong to a remote past or to the queer imagination of some scriptwriter. You can find the horror in the headlines of today's newspapers as well. Genetic engineering is about to cause the same disgraceful scenario that we have just experienced on the screen. Or even worse. "},{"Title":"A classic that transcends genre","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN (1935) Starring Boris Karloff, Ernest Thesiger, Elsa Lanchester, Coli Clive, Valerie Hobson, Dwight Frye Directed by James WhaleIt's rare that a sequel, especially a horror sequel, surpasses the original.  And when the original is the 1931 classic FRANKENSTEIN, it's an even greater accomplishment, but that's exactly what director James Whale did.  He created a film that is not only considered one of the best horror films of all time, but also one of the best pictures, of any genre, in Hollywood's history.After a brief prologue, THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN begins right where its predecessor left off.  The Monster (Karloff) has survived the burning windmill and is once again in search of acceptance.  He eventually meets up with the wonderfully evil Dr. Pretorius (Thesiger) who decides to make a female monster, a mate for Dr. Frankenstein's creation.  Of course Frankenstein (Clive) refuses to be involved but is then forced to assist Pretorius when the villain has the Monster kidnap his wife (Hobson).THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN is a joy to watch.  Whale obviously relished the freedom he was given after his successes with FRANKENSTEIN and THE INVISIBLE MAN, and the cast seems to be enjoying themselves, as well.  Whale did not, however, have a blank check.  This is evidenced by the large amount of cuts the censors required him to make, mostly for being too blatantly, (homo)sexually symbolic.  Despite this, the film retains a great deal of symbolism that makes for a more interesting viewing experience than one gets from the average horror film.Boris Karloff argued against the Monster gaining the power of speech in this film.  Many have said in retrospect that he was wrong.  I disagree...partially.  Karloff is right in that this would have been disastrous in the hands of any other actor.  Karloff's gift for generating sympathy with the audience enabled him to pull it off flawlessly.Ernest Thesiger is a delight as the evil (and slightly prissy) Dr. Pretorius.  Again, this role could easily have been an overacted nightmare, but in Thesiger's care the character shines with tasteful camp rather than flamboyant buffoonery.  Colin Clive returns as Dr. Frankenstein and the very beautiful Valerie Hobson replaces Mae Clark in the role of Elizabeth Frankenstein.  Elsa Lanchester has a dual part, appearing first as Mary Shelley in the prologue, and later as the Bride.  She does a great job as the female monster, bringing the mute character to surprising life, given the short amount of screen time she had.  Many viewers will remember that Dwight Frye, the all too underrated character actor,  played Frankenstein's assistant Fritz in the original film.  He is back in a similar role here, this time called Karl (Fritz was killed in the original).Once again, the makeup is amazing.  Jack Pierce refined the Monster's features a bit and created another truly wonderful makeup for the Bride.  She is both grotesque and oddly attractive...another of the dualistic symbols which permeate this landmark film. "},{"Title":"A movie of Grrave importance!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers ahead!The Bride of Frankenstein is the best horror movie I have ever seen. It fascinated me from the word go with the opening titles that start with KARLOFF,not Boris Karloff.It is probably one of the few sequels that is actually better than the first(Frankenstein,1931).This is unique in horror,because sequels in horror are often very bad.The story starts where Frankenstein ended,at the burned mill. In this scene we find out that the Monster is not dead,but still very much alive and very p***ed off. This is not where the movie starts,because the movie starts with an intro in a castle with Mary Shelley(Elsa Lanchester who also plays the Monsters Mate!),Shelley and Lord Byron discussing Mary's famous book.The acting in this scene is like a stage play and looks kind of campy.We see scenes of the 1931 movie and then delicately slide into The Bride.Each scene in the film has got a lot to offer and a lot to talk about.The actors are absolutely brilliant and well-casted. Unlike the first movie in the Bride the main character is the Monster(Karloff) and not Frankenstein(Colin Clive).Funny thing is that after the opening at the burned mill we don't see the Monster for about half an hour.Meanwhile we get to meet Frankenstein Wife,Elizabeth played by beautiful Valerie Hobson. The Bed-scene is quite hilarious because we see Elizabeth talking about her husbands work and get really wild,like she's on some sort of drug. The next scene is the entrance of Doctor Pretorius(Ernest Thesiger) who wants to create a mate for the Monster together with Frankenstein.By blackmailing Frankenstein(Pretorius kidnaps his wife) they decide to make this mate.An important part of the movie,which was not in the fist one,is the fact that the Monster starts to speak(You make man like me?).He gets lessons from a lonely blind hermit,his only friend. The scenes with the hermit are pretty emotional and sincere and we get to see the good side of the Monster.Although Karloff portraits the Monster ingeniously,for me the best performance comes from Ernest Thesiger as the evil Pretorius.The witt and body language of Thesiger is so much better than Edward van Sloan in Frankenstein. Only the performances of these two actors make the Bride an unforgettable picture. Other memorable appearances are from Una O'Connor(screaming as ever),Dwight Frye(who got killed in Frankenstein)as Karl and E.E. Clive as the burgermeister(Monster Indeed,tush tush).Another big improvement to Frankenstein is the soundtrack by Franz Waxman,there wasn't any music in the 1931 movie! Each character has it's own theme.My favorite is the Pretorius Theme and of course the opening title which is really bombastic.Important to mention are also the great special effects. We already saw in the Invisible Man(1933) that James Whale could do unbelievable things. Look at the scene in Pretorius' house with his creations!James Whale has made with the Bride of Frankenstein his best piece of work and he changed the way of horror films by adding to the usual terror humour and witt.How important that was we can see now in the modern horror movies.A milestone in cinema! 10/10  "},{"Title":"Watch it twice","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie I found it only mildly entertaining.  Then I watched the making of the film clip at the end of the DVD and learned what the censors forced out of the film and all that was snuck in under their noses. So I watched it a second time and  I came to appreciate all the symbolism in the film.  I now believe this is the most meaningful horror film of all time.  But dont see it as just a horror movie but a film that is making social commentary about religion.   "},{"Title":"The Ultimate All-Time Classic","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the greatest horror film of all time.But it's not just a horror film.It's,strictly speaking,a comedy about death.It's a comment on human relationships.It's a thinly veiled attack on racism.It's an emotional roller coaster.It is,quite simply,an unforgettable movie.Everyone knows about it,but nevertheless...Spoiler alert!I am going to tell you what goes on in the film.The Frankenstein Monster(the great Boris Karloff) didn't perish at the end of the first film(he can't be destroyed).The monster wanders around,trying to find some company.But because of his appearance,no matter where he goes or what he does,everyone is scared of him.He rescues a drowning girl,only to find himself shot and incarcerated by the villagers.The angry villagers resemble society,which must hunt down and destroy anything that doesn't fit in because of it's individuality.The monster is seen as our repressed emotions and thoughts which can't be contained.So,the monster explodes into an incredible burst of homicidal rage,destroying everything and everyone that gets in his way.His fruitless quest for friendship resembles our incompetence of finding true friends.Finally,we come to the scene with the blind man.There is no attempt of trying to ridicule these two characters.This is a very sincere moment.The blind man can't see the deformed monster.It's very symbolic.Their mutual search was over.This scene means a whole lot of different things,depending on who's watching.The director(James Whale) was a homosexual.For Jimmy,it meant that he couldn't find someone like him.For us,it probably means other things.Ugly people can't find any REAL friends.Eccentric people drive their friends mad.I,personally just lost my friends.It's a social comment.Nobody can stand loneliness.Not even the all-powerful Monster.There are many other things going on and all of the other characters make some statements about modern day life.However,I'll take you to the most interesting part of the filmIt's finale.The Monster meets his bride.But,even though she is a monster,she rejects him.Still,the Monster tries to show her that he's the right thing for her.She shrieks in terror.The Monster then decides to end it all.When my girlfriend left me without any explanation,I felt that Whale's last comment was truePeople hate as they love.Unreasonably.The film gets a perfect ten(10/10).  "}{"Title":"A true classic","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A better film by far than the directors original Frankenstein James Whale returned with a more accomplished and less staid example of the genre.It is obvious that Whale had a reasonably free hand with this production and was not thwarted at every turn by the studios guardians of taste, in the original Whale had to cut scenes and lines of dialogue, after the Dr said its alive he originally went on to say now I know what it feels like to be god, this was swifty cut by the studio and to date has not been returned to its rightful place, the original was also toned green in scenes to give the monster a more cadaverous look. It seems that everybody had much more fun making this sequal, Whale himself plays with camera techniques and fly away scenery, the story is even further from the original novel, but at the end of the day who cares, you dont watch any of the cycle of 1930's studio horrors to get an accurate adaptation of the original.Karloff is back in the role of the monster and the voluptious Elsa Lancaster as the Bride, other Whale regulars turn up and you will be sure to know many but put a name to the few. Sadly Universal have just re-released old prints in new boxes, they proudly state that they are digitally restored this only means that the 1 inch masters have just been copied to a digital format, they have not gone back to the original negatives and done a proper job. That said thou this is still a fine film and one day it may get the restoration work that it deserves.  "},{"Title":"Art Masquerading as Camp!","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Bride of Frankenstein has less in common with films like Frankenstein and Dracula than it does with those made by von Sternberg and Dietrich (a la The Scarlet Empress) in relatively the same era. Both Bride and these use their genre along with an excessive amount of bizzare, campy aesthetics to strangely both mask and accentuate a series of profoundly artful, but socialy unacceptable ideas. Like Murnau with his horror masterpiece Nosferatu before him, it is often speculated that director Whale used Bride as a way of expressing his otherwise suppressed boudoir ambiguity. Through this the film gains a very uneasy atmosphere, which can certainly not be attributed to a scary monster. Someone (the name escapes) once said that the greatest enemy of art is the absence of limitations. The Bride of Frankenstein slyly proves this. "},{"Title":"A fun romp","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Bride of Frankenstein is a pull out all stops sequel to end all sequels.  It's a roller coaster ride of effects, great music, fun sets, and great, if overdone, acting.  The Bride of Frankenstein borders on camp at times and is pulled together by a fantastically ominous and angry performance by Karloff.  He exudes frustration and rage while continuing to be misunderstood and while waiting for a bride, what he feels is his reward.  Ernest Thesiger gives a legendary performance as Dr. Pretorious, as campy and ridiculous a part as you'll see in horror.  He's brilliantly ghoulish and entertaining.  Colin Clive returns as Dr. Frankenstein and isn't given much to do other then overact in self-induced torment.  The rest of the cast also overacts shamelessly in campy fashion and is loaded with great character actors and actresses such as Una O'Connor, E.E. Clive and Dwight Frye.  Elsa Lanchester makes a good, creepy, yet oddly attractive she-monster and is also nice as Mary Shelley in the opening.  The Bride has great moments like Pretorious and Dr. Frankenstein in Pretorious's lair, the monster with the hermit and the meeting of the monster and Pretorious in the crypt.  The Bride of Frankenstein is great entertainment and impressively gothic.  Purists will dislike the camp but it's a must see in the genre with fantastic performances by Karloff and Thesiger.7.9/10 "},{"Title":"Woman... friend... wife...","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WARNING REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERSBride of Frankenstein is perhaps the centrepiece of any argument between whether a sequel can equal or better it's original. The two James Whale Frankenstein movies are often drawn open to debate, with large numbers of critics citing the second work. Occasionally a dissenting voice, such as Barry Norman, may be heard, who prefer the 1931 vehicle, but generally Bride is favoured.I have to agree wholeheartedly. When Bride opens with a tracking long shot, which then fades to a midshot, it's clear how vastly improved Whale's direction had become, how much more confident and assured. The climax, starting from the stark black and white of the bride herself, is first-class in execution. The original Frankenstein (6) has been justly praised as the most important horror film ever made, a movie without which the genre would never have reached widespread popularity. That's undeniably true, but taken on it's own terms as a film, it's perhaps somewhat lacking. Where the wonderful operatic sets and shadows have a splendidly European feel, the flatness of the direction means it always seems two-dimensional. The outdoor scenes recreated in a studio are so fake that you can see the stretch marks on the painted backdrop, and the cuts between shots are so poorly initiated that the monster's hands can be up, beckoning, one second, or face down the next. Look out too for Maria's teleporting cat, which manages to leap a foot in a split second. These aren't jumps in the film, just poor continuity. More Ed Wood than James Whale, the film concludes with a credit that reads A good cast is worth repeating... Though as that cast includes the wooden Mae Clarke and stiff John Boles, wouldn't it have been funny if it had continued ...But this isn't a good cast, so we won't bother? Frankenstein also cries out for a musical score, something it's successor had in abundance.Yet it's not just in presentation that Bride betters it's former, but in literary merit, (a prologue acknowledges Byron and Shelley, while the dialogue is infinitely more intricate) and satire. It's also hysterically funny, something which might be lost on a first-time audience expecting pure horror. Could only a flamboyant homosexual have directed Bride? Certainly the unintentional campness of the first is here converted into self-parody, way ahead of its time. Ernest Thesiger plays Dr. Pretorius, described as a very queer-looking old gentleman, with mincing relish. Valerie Hobson is just as wooden as Clarke in taking on the role of Elizabeth, but then maybe this time around that's the whole point.Whereas the original glossed over the science of it's monster in favour of $10,000 in flashing lights, Bride gives a more graphic depiction. With scenes devoted to the beating of a disembodied heart, only the humour present can glean past such potentially gory subtexts. The monster is placed into a Christ analogy, while 38 minutes in he's allowed to cry. A minute later and he's shown to be talking, taught basic words by a blind man. Only these two characters are allowed poignancy in the film. The joy they share in each other's company &#150; I shall look after you, and you shall comfort me &#150; is seen, along with the bride's rejection, as another of Whale's assaults on heterosexual values. It's a reasonable argument, though as the only survivors are Frankenstein and Elizabeth, in each other's arms, it's perhaps stretching the point a little... 8/10. "},{"Title":"May be the best horror film of all; a classic","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  **** out of ****Here is a sequel that surpasses the original; a classic that may be the best horror film of them all. Director James Whale produces pure magic with a fairy tale type of story featuring the return of Boris Karloff's misunderstood monster and his quest for a mate.Where does one begin his praise? James Whale - one of the finest directors of all time, and certainly so in the horror field. This is the best horror film not in the sense of getting scared or seeing repulsive things on the screen; rather, it's a perfectly crafted and poetic tale like something out of a child's storybook. Whale is at his best with this one, as he decorates the proceedings with tongue-in-cheek lightness fully balanced by grim atmosphere and elements of death and the macabre.Boris Karloff gives his best Frankenstein monster performance, child-like and helpless by nature, yet enraged and savage when provoked. We pity him and feel for him as he searches for a bride, ultimately meeting up with Ernest Thesiger.Thesiger's crazed doctor is one of the greatest madmen of all time. He is eccentric and prissy, but not gay as some fans think. This is demonstrated in a line of dialogue when he tells Dr. Frankenstein about the next type of being he intends to create A WOMAN!, he grins, that should be REALLY interesting!!!  Thesiger is perhaps the greatest asset to the film, next to Karloff.The one minor flaw in the movie (which doesn't change its four-star rating) is the casting of Valerie Hobson as Elizabeth. Some of her early scenes border on the absurd, such as when she overacts hysterically in a bedroom sequence with Colin Clive.It's always difficult to say anything different about a great classic which has been so often written about, such as it is here on this website. Let's conclude by saying that BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN remains an untarnished gem; a movie that can appeal to all types of viewers, not only horror fans. "},{"Title":"My favorite Picture!","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This one is very special to me.When I first saw this one I was 16 and it change my life forever.I became in love with cinema.All the scenes,the acting,the story is unique.I saw this movie at least 100 times and it's better each times.Dark humor mix with horror with a great director.It's a hundred times better than the original.For the first and ONLY times in cinema history, the sequel is not only better but is a unique masterpiece that NO OTHER director or anyone can recreate!10/10The Greatest movie of all-time! "},{"Title":"Anarchy rules supreme","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Anarchy rules supreme in this glorious gothic fantasy. Based loosely, very loosely, on characters from Mary Shelly's gothic romance the film gleefully assaults sacred institutions; religion, marriage etc. I first saw Bride of Frankenstein as a child and was hooked. It really isn't a horror in the accepted sense of the word. The physical horror is overshadowed by the obvious delight Whale and his cast take in parody and satire. Only as an adult did I realise that this is a gay classic. Whale and his cast are all gay; Elsa Lanchester was married to Charles Laughton. Bride of Frankenstein exudes a finely honed camp sensitivity. It's one of the great 'horror' films of it's era and well worth a visit; or a re-visit. "},{"Title":"It's better the second time around...","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The above refers to both the fact that this is a sequal to Whale's original Frankenstein and the fact that this movie grows on you with each new viewing. The opening sequence is something I consider unintentionally funny. Though it was Mary Shelley who wrote the original novel, she certainly did NOT write what wound up on the screen the first time around nor this (though it must be said that the idea for this movie was inspired by a little plot point in the novel as well as Fritz Lang's Metropolis). Una O'Connor as Minnie the Maid (and the nosy landlady of The Invisible Man) has to be one of the most annoying characters ever captured on film. I desperately wanted someone to shut her up (preferably the monster), but, oh well. She does fit in well with the blackly humorous tone of the film.Thesinger's Dr Praetorius seems to owe at least his hairstyle, if not his entire performance, to Metropolis madman, Rotwang. Thesinger camps it up for all it's worth, making the word slime leap to the top of my adjectives to describe this guy. And, of course, no review of this movie would be complete with some comment on Karloff and Lancaster. Had the fifty word vocabulary been given to anyone else, this whole movie could have become a bad joke. As it is, Karloff is able to make such simple phrases as Friend good...alone bad. into incredibly powerful statements on the monster's loneliness. The heart of this film is, without a doubt, the scenes at the hermit's cabin. When the hermit lays the monster down to sleep and says a prayer for them both, I choke up every time. Who can't identify with the acceptance of another after so much misery?Lancaster makes less of an impression on me, but there is no denying that her scenes as Mary Shelley and the Bride are unforgettable. Those quick, precise movements of her head (said to have been inspired by Briggette Helm's performance as the android in Metropolis), the unforgettable hairdo (which was taken from portraits of Egyptian Queen Nefreti), and the deafening scream she utters at seeing the poor, hopeful Monster who has gone to such pains to make this come about stay in the mind quite well. The final conclusion of this film, to me, is the end of the Universal story of Frankenstein. All that came from Universal after this one are merely imitators. Watch this one and see if you don't agree. "},{"Title":"Perhaps The Original Dark Comedy","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  James Whale's film touches all the bases of pathos humor in the form of Minnie, the kooky house mistress; fear, in the monster's gruesome appearance (over 10 hours of makeup was required for some scenes); sadness, in the monster's dying wish, and even happiness, when the monster meets the blind hermit.The movie is often flamboyant, but is easily brought back to earth with the low-key lighting and Expressionist sets.And who can forget Elsa Lanchester's 5 minute claim to fame? The frizzled hair, the blackened eyes, the loose robes - what a dame!10 out of 10 is the tiniest compliment I can pay this gem of a motion picture. "},{"Title":"My favourite horror film, and here's why","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Bride now belongs among the immortals in horror history, and deservedly so. In place of the starkness of its equally good original, we have a camped-up style which would be excessive and indulgent in another context, but works a treat here. Art direction and cinematography are glowing and spectacular (especially the trick photography with the miniature people at the beginning), and Waxman's score is justly famous, but it is in the performances that the greatest treasures lie.Ernest Thesiger should be canonised, if only for his appearances here and in The Old Dark House. His eccentric portrayal barely conceals how much he's enjoying himself. Karloff builds on the sensitivity he brought across in the first film, and Lanchester's brief appearances are vivid and memorable. A shame we have to tolerate the woodenness of Clive and Hobson, and suffer Hurlbut's rather worthy script - but these are factors of their time, and easily forgiveable.Where the film scores most highly is in its self-parody, its occasional radicalism, and its off-beat humour (Praetorius? There's no such name!). Early Monty Python, one might say, yet somehow superior and more timeless. This is the zenith of comic horror - and, if it's never actually frightening, who cares? "}{"Title":"Greatest sequel ever made","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is undoubtedly the greatest sequel ever made.  What many people remember as great scenes in Frankenstein are in fact from this film (especially the sequence with the blind hermit that was so memorably parodied by Mel Brooks).  In Dr. Pretorius we have the screen's number one mad scientist of all time (great peformance by one Ernest Thesiger) and in the Bride we have THE hairdo.  The film is memorable for its expressionistic sets, lighting, and camera angles, as well as a terrific score by Franz Waxman (dig those blaring trumpets in the opening).  The film is not particularly scary -- more gothic than horror, and unexpectedly moving, especially in the performance of Karloff.  Who will ever forget the scene where the monster first confronts his maker with the chilling growl of Fraaaankenstein.  This is one of Hollywood's great masterpieces and secures James Whales's place in the pantheon of great directors. "},{"Title":"The monster lives! And he wants a companion.","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Universal strikes gain. Dr. Frankenstein and his monster survive their presumed demise. The doctor is urged to provide his lonely monster with a mate.Cast members Boris Karloff, Colin Clive, Ernest Thesiger, Valerie Hobson and Una O'Connor are joined by Elsa Lancaster, the unforgettable bride of the monster.Witty and improved script with slivers of humor pace this sequel. Belongs along side the original and SON OF FRANKENSTEIN in importance to the horror genre. "},{"Title":"A clear-cut case of spouse abuse!!","Date":"17 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN (1935) is one of the most misogynistic movies of all time! First of all, what kind of a movie is it in which the title character doesn't show up until there is less than five minutes to go? Yet the pale echo of the 1931 classic, in this case, She's alive, she's alive! does not occur until one hour, nine and one half minutes into a sequel that lasts just 74 minutes, 42.17 seconds! When the she-monster finally does make her appearance, she comes off as some dumb blonde bimbo, dismissing her designated mate with one glance with prejudicial looksism which denies that handsomeness is only skin deep. Evidentally, she has her cap set for the already-married Dr. Henry Frankenstein, who is obviously the intellectual inferior to the character played so loquaciously by Boris Karloff. But Karloff's monster comes off as a Ted Bundy type, setting a time bomb in motion with these stultifying words to his new bride You stay......we belong dead. Since when is murder-suicide romantic? "},{"Title":"A Fairly Good Sequel, But Does Not Surpass the Original","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The majority of film critics are of the opinion that Bride of Frankenstein is the rare sequel that surpasses the original, in this case the majority is wrong.Bride of Frankenstein is a fairly entertaining movie that surpasses the original on technical merits only. It is very obvious, when comparing the two, that Bride was produced with a much larger budget than the original. The beautiful cinematography, and lavish, well designed sets make wonderful eye candy.The actors playing the main characters all do a fantastic job. Elsa Lanchester, playing dual roles as Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley and the Monster's mate, is stunningly beautiful -- both with and without her Bride makeup.This production also has some very glaring problems that keep it from greatness.First, there are continuity problems when compared with the original film. Why, for instance, were the names of reoccurring characters changed? There appears to be no good reason except for sloppiness. How did Dr. Frankenstein get to be the Baron? What happened to his father? This is never explained. Admittedly these are minor problems, but it wouldn't have been all that difficult to tie up loose ends. Sloppy.While we're on the topic of changed character names, why did the Monster murder the parents of the little girl that he accidentally killed in the first movie? In the first movie it is clear that the Monster drowns the little girl by accident. After he kills the child, he is horrified by his own actions and shows shock and remorse. The murder of the girl's parents, in the the second film, are done out of pure malice. What is the point? The little people scene with Dr. Pretorius(Ernest Thesiger) takes the movie from the realm of science fiction into that of fantasy. It is totally out of place in this film, even the character of Dr. Frankenstein comments on this by saying, This is more black magic than science. This one scene very badly damages what is otherwise a fine performance by Ernest Thesiger as Dr. Pretorius. BTW, Ernest Thesiger's character of Dr. Pretorius is the very definition of mad scientist.The comic character of Minnie, played by Una O'Connor, is beyond stupid and annoying. The only people who will be entertained by the cackling, screaming Minnie character are mouth-breathing, knuckle-draggers that make the Monster look like Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz by comparison.Finally, the biggest problem with this film is the limited amount of time given to the Bride. The Bride is revealed. The Monster is rejected. The Monster blows up the lab with everyone in it. End of story. All this in the last 10 minutes.The story really should have started after the Bride was animated. It would have been much more interesting to watch the characters of the Bride and the Monster develop and interact and eventually lead to some tragic ending. Instead we get a comic book hack ending with the Monster pulling the self destruct lever.Bride of Frankenstein Missed opportunity. "},{"Title":"sequel...good...pompous remakes...bad","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of Frankenstein is one of those rarities a sequel that actually ends up being worth something. It portrays that Dr. Frankenstein (Colin Clive) and The Monster (Boris Karloff) are still alive and still doing their stuff. The Monster continues unintentionally scaring people, while the doctor wants to marry hubby Elizabeth (Valerie Hobson), but quirky Dr. Pretorius (Ernest Thesiger) gets him to create a mate for The Monster. In a career-defining role, Elsa Lanchester plays the title character (assuming that we refer to The Monster as Frankenstein).Admittedly, Universal's horror flicks from the '30s weren't really horror flicks; they were kinda silly. But, this one did actually go so far as to humanize The Monster they let him speak while he was with the blind man. Oh, and in case any of us were wondering whence the James Whale biopic Gods and Monsters got its name, we learn. "},{"Title":"(Prominently cheesy) But my favorite!!","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was the successful sequel to the first mainstream Frankenstein movie. Bride Of is my favorite for a couple of interesting reasons. I loved the scenery (especially in black and white), the plot twists and the Bride's hair-do! All of these elements made for a great movie. At times the acting is less than adequate and the monotomous let's-chase-the-monster-with-burning-torches!! attitude from the villagers got to be much. But all this stuff only makes it classic! I suggest renting this movie, for a good laugh or two, or just to be entertained by some good, old fashioned monster moments. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fast forward through the horrid opening scene with Mary Shelley. That scene alone deducted 2 points from my rating of the film. It has nothing to do with the story anyway.  After that, it's a pretty good movie, especially for one from the 1930s. I remember reading the book Frankenstein, Victor decided against making a mate for his creation because he was afraid she might not like him, and that it would make the monster even more angry. I liked that they went with that. "},{"Title":"All Time Great","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of Frankenstein (1935) **** (out of 4) First sequel in Universal's Frankenstein series has the monster (Boris Karloff) back and looking for a mate. Not only is this the greatest horror film ever made it's also one of the greatest films period. Every single aspect of this movie is better than the original and that's saying quite a lot. What really works here is the terrific story, which in many ways is a morality tale from director James Whale. The messages throughout the film are all quite touching as the monster sets out to find friends and love but only to discover that humans can be quite monstrous in their attitudes and their dishonesty towards one another. One classic scene after another with the standout being the incredibly moving scene with the hermit. A wonderful music score mixes the various genres in this film. Once again Karloff does wonders in one of the greatest performances ever captured on film. It's truly something to behold watching him bring life to the monster. "},{"Title":"Recluse Holy Man Hermit, Voice Lessons and meeting a Nice Girl to settle down with! Well, Frank gets an E for effort!","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is no secret hat most any sequel or sequels, if you will, just don't measure up to the original. Hence forget about JAWS 2, DEATH WISH II, FRENCH CONNECTION II and AIRPLANE II, THE SEQUEL.* For the most part, these titles are brought up quickly from dubious origins on short-length drawing boards. These are made, for the most part, for only the reason of the bottom line; namely more money! There are many exceptions, of course. We seemed happy to get enjoy learning about the colorful life of ROCKY, and we had the sequels of ROCKY II, III, IV, V and ROCKY BALBOA to prove it. Of course, Mr. Stallone did manage to expand the legend, broaden the storyline and keep the audience interested by evolving the character development and tweaking of the plot line in having the Protagonist having to deal with the sudden loss of friends, family and other loved ones. So, we can agree that some sequels are just fine, serving as extensions of the original story and enabling a more intricate and full development of the characters. ** We kind of feel that THE GODFATHER, Part II (1973) is possibly the finest example of a sequel equaling, even topping the original. The success of FRANKENSTEIN (Universal, 1931) gave rise to another good and obvious candidate here in James Whale's BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN (Universal, 1935).Following up what was arguably THE horror film, the grand-daddy of so many others and a sure trend setter was certainly a shaky premise, sitting out on a sure-fire precarious perch, just waiting to be knocked off. But the result came out far better than one would expect.In BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN, Director Whale took all that was seen as unique and well-received from FRANKENSTEIN and not only included it in BRIDE, but elaborated it and added other useful elements. Hence, what we see is a much more open spaced, yet no less atmospheric and moody. The creative use of the fine Black & White photography continues, but there is a little noticeable movement of the shots and angles used.It is quite obvious that the success of JamesWhale's FRANKENSTEIN and his THE INVISIBLE MAN (1933) caused a sharp rise in his stock with a corresponding increase in his ability to get things done his way, additional funds and an overall autonomy in his work that was unknown before.*** One obvious luxury in BRIDE was the opening sequence, the Prologue.Oh, how I used to hate that part of an otherwise great piece of Horror. Just think of yourself as being about 11 or 12 and having to sit through this mushy stuff with Elsa Lanchaster as Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley, Gavin Gordon as George Gordon Lord Byron (complete with the Sifty Leg) and Douglas Walton as Percy Bysche Shelley. Yeah hated it is the best description for those feelings of so long ago; but time heals all and it also tends to mellow us on a lot of attitudes-at least outwardly, showing acceptance, if not inwardly feeling so. (Besides, it's a handy and sneaky, method of providing exposition for the overall multi-film continued story, a neat bridge to Storyline Past. Kinda sounds like Dickens, no; or do I flatter myself?) OUR STORY&#133;&#133;..On a stormy evening in what would be a rugged Swiss Mountain Chalet (Ms. Mary Wollenstone craft Shelley's native land) , the Authoress herself tells Lord Byron and Percy Shelley of how her story of FRANKENSTEIN The Novel had not ended, but would continue beyond the scene of the Monster's being trapped in the old, burning Windmill. The Young Baron Frankenstein (Colin Clive) had survived the fall from the Windmill's propeller and soon became the Baron, his old man having checked out. He is soon joined by one of his old Professors from the University (GO STATE!), the now banished Dr. Pretorius (Ernest Thesinger) who compels Young Frankenstein (get it?) to collaborate with him on the creation of a Female Monster.There are so, so many excellent scenes and developments to get mentions for all. But a few are the Monster's way of escaping the burning Windmill, the kindly Holy Man Hermit's meeting with the Monster, how Fritz (Dwight Frey) uses his own methodology in procuring fresh body parts, Dr. Pretorius' little folks and the Female Monster (Elsa Lanchester) having been all decked out in White, like a Bridal Gown, and her quick and thorough rejection of the Frankenstein Monster with such unearthly screams. (Don't feel bad, Frank, old boy; I used to get that treatment from girls a lot!) NOTE * This business with sequels got so bad that when I asked a guy at work if he'd seen APOLLO 13, he answered, &#133; hell no! I haven't even seen APOLLO 1 to 12 yet! NOTE ** Certain developmental occurrences proved to be very advantageous and enjoyable. For example, in BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN, Karloff as the Monster, learned how to talk, though very primitively. It was really a great, though short lived plot and story device; as the Monster quickly became the strong, silent type by completely forgetting his speech prowess in another sequel, SON OF FRANKENSTEIN (Universal, 1939).NOTE *** We cannot in good conscience close without mention of the change in the sound track. In FRANKENSTEIN and the other early Universal Pictures Horror offerings, the sound track only had music as an opening and closing. With the release of Films like KING KONG (RKO, 1933) a had phenomenally successful Max Steiner Score and Mr. Whale's own THE INVISIBLE MAN (Universal, 1933) with mostly stock music by W. Franke Harling. But in BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN we are treated to an original Franz Waxman score (Overture and Incidental themes) that has gained immortality and is as familiar as any work by the Old Masters. "},{"Title":"Not the Original","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The original Frankenstein is not only a masterpiece but is also possibly the best horror film ever. Frankenstein is still now over seventy years later rather scary while The Bride of Frankenstein is not scary at all. It is sometimes funny but only occasionally on purpose. Another thing you think while watching it is why the heck did they even make this, it was better before. The story could have helped that but it is not very good at all and is way to similar to the originals. The screenplay is similarly weak with bad dialogue and no character development. And who decided that Frankenstein was going to talk because I feel like hurting him. The performances are also bad and the direction is nothing special, but the visual effects save the day. They are amazing even for today. You really wonder how they did them. All in all its not a bad film but not a masterpiece, and is worth waiting for sure. "}{"Title":"Contrived cash-in sequel","Date":"8 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having quite enjoyed the original early 1930s film Frankenstein, when I saw its sequel was even more feted and dubbed the best monster film ever, I made sure to rent it.Well, certainly its more technologically advanced, with a bigger budget and music on the soundtrack (although the almost audible silence on the original, so characteristic of early 1930s films, I found quite eerie). But I didn't really rate it. Like the Bond film Quantum of Solace to Casino Royale, it starts only 15 minutes after the last film ends. Problem is, they wrapped it up nicely at the end of the last film, so the sequel has to contrivedly and unconvincingly unpick all the loose ends to start the story up again. It's not a long film, and half an hour in we're back to the Monster rampaging through the woods all over again. Only this time it's a mite comical, less Frankenstein than Frank Spencer, as he well-meaningly gatecrashes women in the woods and they run off scared and screaming.A wily old mentor, who we've never seen before, arrives to coerce the scientist into having another bash at his experiments. (This is a common problem with sequels in which the 'hero' has learned his lesson the first time, or is too cowardly to go through it again - they have to be coerced by someone but it loses its dramatic edge imo.) To show he's a dab hand himself, this mentor reveals his own experiments, but they're so far-fetched and far ahead of the scientist's cut and paste job, it defies belief. What's more, the director presents it as if it's funny when it could be plain horrible. There is a strange relevance to the story, what with the controversy over stem cell experimentation. In some respects the difference is between the Bond villain Jaws in The Spy Who Loved Me and Moonraker. In one he's a nasty, scary horror, in the other it's done more for laughs and he's almost quite amiable.The bride is certainly quite alien and disturbing when she appears, but that's only in the last five minutes of the film! "},{"Title":"I'm lonely, are you lonely too? Let's be friends! This movie is LAME!!!!","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" That isn't an actual quote from the movie, but the quotes ran very similar to it. I think it sums up much of the morality and preachiness in the movie. The film starts out pretty well with Mary Shelley and two of her colleagues in a large room with a terrible thunderstorm outside. I actually found this part of the movie kind of interesting, unlike a lot of the rest of it. Some of the scenes are really good, the actors are great for what what have to work with. Ernest Thesiger plays a BRILLIANT mad scientist and is really convincing in it and enjoyable to watch. Colin Clive also plays a great role as Henry Frankenstein (the monster's creator in this movie), and I liked all of the actors EXCEPT for Karloff, who does nothing but grunt and act like an uninspired ape. I'm not blaming the actor, but it's hard to play a good inanimate object. But the main three performers (Elizabeth, Henry, Dr. Pretorius) are all very good melodramatic actors. Frankenstein is more Sci-Fi/Dystopian rather than horror. It has always been about feelings, the perils of playing with science, and nobody who knows the story will expect to be scared by the monster himself (even though he does nonchalantly kill in the film). But I just didn't feel anything in this film, it was far too simple. I 100% didn't buy into any of it at all, I thought it was absurd. The imagery in the film is fine, the visuals that you can see for example in the action sequences are of a very high standard at times. The opening scene images are great. They're not mindblowing or anything though. Too much time in the movie is dedicated to cutting edge film technology, such as driving up the machine near the end and even that of the little people (which is an okay clip but has no real meaning at all for the film, it's as though they just threw it in). I'm sorry but the cutting edge of film effects of 1935 aren't likely to impress people in 2010, we've seen it all before and if they last too long the clips become very tiresome. A big lever and a few lights may have been enough to impress the audiences back then but not today!!! But overall I'm generally positive about the imagery, it's the plot, dialogue and pacing that destroy it for me. At one point in the film Frankenstein goes to a blind man and the blind man tells him he is so lonely and he wants him to be his friend. I don't mind the idea of it, but this scene went on and on and on for about 15 minutes! (or at least what seemed that length of time). Frankenstein is afraid of fire, and the man keeps telling him no, no, it's okay, fire can be good. Blind or not, what kind of an old man just accepts a stranger into his home like that and treats him like an old friend? It would scarcely be believable if the guy was normal and explained his story to him, but as it is, with him having to explain to him that fire is okay, I just cannot believe it. Frankenstein speaks tarzan English, it is like listening to someone talking to someone who cannot speak English or a man from an indigenous tribe. Imagine the frustration involved in trying to speak with that person and you'll get some idea of the ludicrousness of his dialogue. The plot doesn't go anywhere! The whole point of the movie revolves around them making a bride for Frankenstein. Then no sooner is she made she rejects him and the movie ends. Frankenstein VERY unrealistically blames Dr. Pretorius and cruelly kills him in the end saying We belong dead.. This is ridiculous because Frankenstein had only been helped by Pretorius, even though he appeared evil to us, not to Frankenstein. At the very start of the film they think Henry is dead and are mourning him, but he suddenly wakes up for no apparent reason and there's no mention of it ever again. What the hell was the point of that?! This movie had a lot of potential with great acting and even some great scenes. They could have kept a lot of it, scrapped Frankenstein talking, scrapped the vast majority of the blind man scene and had the rest of the movie with Frankenstein and his Bride having sex and being caught by one of the villages who thought it was an act against God. Then them being cruelly chased with Henry Frankenstein trying to stop them but to no avail. The end could have them eloping together on a ship for new lands or something, with the evil Dr. Pretorius involved nefariously some way in that. "},{"Title":"Warning this is an irreverent comment.","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Right from the extremely hokey prologue, I knew that I was going to be disappointed with this film. I was right. This film has lost much of its edge over the years. You can still appreciate it intellectually, of course, for its historical importance (the prototype for horror sequels), you can admire its great sets, and watch some memorable, famous sequences. But it is never scary in the slightest, and none of the characters is developed enough. Elsa Lanchester has only a couple of minutes as the Bride, but she upstages the rest of the cast with her heartbreaking performance - she plays it straight. Perhaps the rest of the movie would have benefited from a similar approach.    (**) "},{"Title":"Bride of Frankenstein","Date":"13 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Director James Whale returned four years later with this follow up to the adaptation of the famous Mary Shelley story. Basically, Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley (Elsa Lanchester) reveals to Percy Shelley (Douglas Walton) and Lord Byron (Gavin Gordon) the events of the previous film. The Doctor, now Baron Henry Von Frankenstein (Colin Clive), nor his Monster (Boris Karloff) died, Henry survived the fall from the windmill, and the Monster went into the water beneath. Henry wants nothing more than to relax with new wife Elizabeth (Valerie Hobson), but former mentor, sinister Dr. Pretorius (Ernest Thesiger) shows up wanting him to help create life again, he even shows him some miniature people he created to convince him, but Henry refuses. His Monster meanwhile saves a girl from drowning, and is captured momentarily, being placed in the pose of Jesus Christ in put in a dungeon, but he manages to escape again. Then he forms a friendship with a blind Hermit (O.P. Heggie) who looks after him, feeds him, and teaches him to talk, before hunters chase him away. Then the Monster shows up to see Pretorius, and he thinks that Frankenstein's creation can be very useful to help him with his plan. The Monster kidnaps Elizabeth, and Pretorius blackmails Henry to help him build a friend/mate, i.e. a woman, a female creature, or a bride. So the same methods to bring the creation to life are used, electrodes and a storm (lightning), but with a recently removed heart and artificially made brain. The experiment is successful, and the Monster's Mate (Lancaster again) looks around in wonder, and then Frankenstein's Monster enters excitedly and reaches to touch her, but she screams in terror and rejection, he knows she hates him. Elizabeth has got away to get Henry, the Monster tells them to go and live, while he tells Pretorious they belong dead and pulls the lever to destroy the laboratory and tower. Karloff is still very engaging as the Monster, especially after learning to speak, Thesiger gives an ingenious portrayal of the perverse Professor, and the image of Monster's Mate, with that bizarre electric hairdo, is just as iconic as Karloff. The original is a fantastic, creepy influential horror classic, this sequel in my opinion is much more brilliant, with a more effective story, and more dark and poignant moments to enjoy. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Sound. It was number 97 on The 100 Greatest Films. Outstanding! "},{"Title":"I can't see what everyone is raving about this was a bad pic","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I regret to report that I did not find this movie enjoyable. In fact, I had a very difficult time staying awake during the screening even after a full nights rest. I haven't felt that way about a movie since being forced to watch science flicks in grade school. What turned me off was the confused genre. Was it a horror story or was it a Gothic romance? It wasn't much of either. It was fun to watch Boris Karloff clamber around like a silly over-sized idiot in undersized clothes (which also reminds me of myself in grade school) but that was about all that it offered me. I know I risk offending fans of this picture but I must be honest. There was nothing frightening about either monster character. Frankenstein was on screen so much that one would assume that the audience was expected to identify with him rather than fear him. If we were to identify with him then the story line and dialogue needed drastic overhauling to pull it off. I did like the scene with the old man. His being blind presented a message of beauty only being skin deep. The cigars and wine were ridiculous and I was again dozing off. I really enjoyed Elsa Lanchester as the bride (not as Shelley) and Whale only gave her a few brief moments. She jerked her head about and wildly looked about as if terrified by all of her surroundings. This was intriguing. Her head-splitting shriek also served the purpose of jarring me awake from the previous hours of mind numbing pseudo-acting.It appeared that Whale's use of shadow and light was good (old man's house and catacombs). Pretorius' little people in the jars also seemed to be a good attempt at special effect. Despite these attempts at quality there is nothing (outside of sound) that would distinguish this movie from films made 10 years earlier(the '20s) and there is nothing I would consider to be historic or amazing about this film except the fact that the viewing public has raved about it. This, I believe, says something about the viewing public. "},{"Title":"Portions of it are surprisingly stilted...","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dr. Frankenstein's monster (Boris Karloff), thought dead at the end of 1931's Frankenstein, rises from the ashes and creates more havoc in a tiny hamlet; meanwhile, the shady doctor prepares to supply the gentle giant with a mate. Handsome, but extremely somber film won't please anyone looking for a good old-fashioned screamer. Karloff certainly shouldn't be missed in this signature role but, while film buffs rave about the picture's Gothic look and campy finale, they frequently overlook the flimsy script and director James Whale's uncertain handling. Elsa Lanchester appears as both the bride and as author Mary Shelley in the movie's achingly wooden prologue. ** from **** "},{"Title":"I think I've rated this film too highly?","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Has everyone taken crazy pills?This was the one film where I generally thought my GOD what the hells going on, what a pointless storyline, I know I have to take into consideration the time in which it was made but come on this film really is dreadful.The only thing I could think about when watching this film was how uncomfortable the seat was.In my conspiracy theory I believe the film was made with one intention, and that was to expose as many people as possible to this subliminal infested flick. I came to this conclusion knowing that when the film was made subliminal messaging was not deemed illegal. I'm yet to find out what hidden messages are in this movie, i'm sure when I do the government will erase me from existence.The best thing about this film was that it ended. (Which by the way couldn't come quick enough). I hated every miserable moment of this film which will inevitably haunt me for the rest of my life. "},{"Title":"Nostalgia runs wild","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie is nothing to be proud of! The premise sucks, the plot is just plain cheesy and it's not very entertaining. I didn't like the monster as a character because he simply wasn't scary, and surely didn't look all too real...Unfortunately, this movie will be praised by old-timers forever, even though it can't hold a candle to most horror flicks. "}]