[{"Title":"The Quintessential Hitchcock","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"85 out of 92 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Trust and betrayal have been a recurrent theme in several of Alfred Hitchcock's works. The 39 Steps, made in 1935, has the all the classic elements of the master filmmaker that set the standard for later Hitchcock films. The 39 Steps has the classic Hitchcockian theme of an average, innocent man caught up in extraordinary events which are quite beyond his control. The sexually frustrating institution of marriage is another major motif present in the film. The strained and loveless relationship between the crofter and his wife, the placid relationship of the innkeeper and his wife, the (physical) bond between Hannay and Pamela can be examined in terms of degrees of trust between the couples. In fact, the short 'acquaintance' between Hannay and Smith and Hannay and the crofter's wife are also built completely upon trust. It is these couples, and the chemistry between them (or the lack thereof) that drive the entire film.Over a span of four days, the smart and unflappable protagonist, Richard Hannay (Robert Donat) is involved in a circular journey to prove his innocence and expose the hive of intrigue.  He is involved in chases and romantic interludes that take him from London to the Scottish Highlands and back again and he assumes numerous identities on the way - a milkman, an auto mechanic, a honeymooner, a political speaker among others.The opening of the film, the first three shorts do not show him above his neck. With his back to the camera, he is followed down the aisle to his seat. He is then assumed to be lost in the crowd. This gives the audience the feeling that he could be anybody. Later when he takes in the identities of a milkman, a mechanic, a politician one realizes that he is Hitchcock's archetypal 'everyman' who unwittingly finds himself in incredible dilemmas.In one of the brilliantly managed sequences on the train, Richard Hannay throws himself at a lone girl and forces a kiss just as a detective and two policemen pass by their compartment. It reveals his desperation to remain free until he can prove his innocence. In the scene after Annabella staggers into his room with a kitchen knife in her back, Hannay sees her ghostly image (which is superimposed) talking to him, `What you are laughing at right now is true. These men will stop at nothing.' The double exposure achieves a result which is a tad chilling and sad. The hallmark of Hitchcock's style is his ability to completely shock his audience by deliberately playing against how they would be thinking. In such episodes as the murder of the woman in Hannay's apartment or when the vicious professor with the missing finger casually shoots Hannay, the action progresses almost nonchalantly leaving the viewers stunned.A great story, interesting and likeable characters, slyly incongruous wit, classic Hitchcockian motifs and a great MacGuffin are just a few things that make the The 39 Steps the quintessential Hitchcock. "},{"Title":"Great Combo of Suspense and Humor","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"82 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Most people associate Hitchcock with suspense but he was also a master of dark comedy. The 39 Steps illustrates his ability to blend the two genres into a movie that works well on both levels. If he had turned up the comedy a tiny bit it would be just as hilarious as the best 1930's screwball comedies like Bringing Up Baby and The Awful Truth. Imagine Katherine Hepburn handcuffed to Robert Donat as they wander the Scottish moors. But the chemistry between Madeleine Carroll and Donat is too good to replace her. Hitchcock cast a great ensemble for The 39 Steps. Lucie Mannheim, Godfrey Teale and John Laurie are outstanding. The supporting cast are all excellent. Yet in the midst of all this it is Peggy Ashcroft who absolutely shines.Donat's misadventures while on-the-run from the law are the original series of unfortunate events. It seems that he just can't go anywhere without being identified and chased. Hitchcock's technique is to lull you into thinking it will be an ordinary scene and then to casually throw something menacing into the scene, so the viewer can never relax. These are like getting a slap in the face before you have a chance to set yourself up for the blow. By comparison with the sinister delicacy and urbane understatement of The Thirty-nine Steps, modern melodramas are obvious and crude. There are many cool things to watch for CAMEO-As Donat and Mannheim board a bus early in the film, director Hitchcock makes his customary cameo appearance as a passer-by who tosses litter onto the sidewalk.MATCH CUT-One of the most revolutionary edits in cinema history is in here; after the maid finds Lucie's body her scream dissolves into the hissing of a train whistle. MISE EN SCENE-If you ever wandered what this was (putting-in-the-scene is a single shot sequence without cuts to another camera or transition to another scene), Hitchcock's closing shot is probably the all-time best example. As Donat, Carroll, and the police gather backstage around the dying Mr. Memory, on-stage behind them (visible from the wings) and performing for the Palladium audience is a chorus-line of girls high-kicking to the tune of Tinkle, Tinkle, Tinkle from the film Evergreen (1934). After Mr. Memory confirms the espionage plot, the camera angle changes slightly and Donat and Carroll fill the frame facing away from the camera. Donat still has the handcuffs dangling from his wrist. They spontaneously join hands - this time of their own free will.. The film fades to black. "},{"Title":"Don't be put off by its age - this one is worth seeing.","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"76 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If what you want from a thriller is in-yer-face mugging, special effects, noise, a booming soundtrack, gore, nudity and flashy editing, this one is not for you.However if you are a more discerning moviegoer who values a great script, exquisite understated acting, wit, humour and intelligence, and you are willing to overlook the technically rough bits (come on, this was 1935, you cannot measure it by 2005 standards !!) - then enjoy, because you are in for a treat.Robert Donat is one of the most charming heroes that ever graced the screen, and but for his frail health and loathing of the Hollywood pzazz (he later refused some great movie parts offered to him, which eventually went to the likes of Erroll Flynn and Douglas Fairbanks Jr) he might have become one of the greatest. Watch the dinner scene with the crofters, in which he manages to convey his plight to the wife entirely without words. Great acting. Also the wickedly funny bravura piece at the political rally.Madeleine Carroll must be among the coolest and feistiest of Hitchcock's favoured blondes, not as insipid or irrelevant as many of the others were. She is a veritable icicle and it takes a long time for her to thaw, but then watch the sparks fly.I feel a little sad for the people who cannot be bothered to check out this movie because of the tinny sound or the b&w photography. Forget about those superficialities and concentrate on the real values - the script, the acting, the lighting, photography and camera work -, just allow yourself to get carried away with the fast paced action, and you'll love it. "},{"Title":"The film which launched Alfred Hitchcock's career","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"65 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Film history was made in 1935 when Alfred Hitchcock, who was at the time an active but little known and somewhat run of the mill film director, received a contract to create a low budget potboiler type spy thriller, and used the opportunity to provide his studio with a masterpiece which has never been forgotten. In addition he established his reputation as the master of suspense, something which remained unchallenged throughout the remainder of his career. In style this film is quintessimal Hitchcock, and those who know his films can pick out sequences in any of his later ones which were based on, or inspired by, his work in this early thriller. Similarly, sequences from this film have also been imitated by many other directors - for example Richard Pearce, in the thriller No Mercy (1986), included sequences that imitated a famous sequence in Hitchcock's film where Robert Donat and Madeleine Carroll were handcuffed together and on the run , by showing Richard Gere and Kim Basinger fleeing pursuers whilst handcuffed together. Because of this The 39 Steps has become a must see classic that most movie buffs still regard as an essential element in their personal film collection.There are two criticisms commonly made of this film. The first is that there are logical imperfections in the story. This is true of almost all Hitchcock films (as well as those of most other directors). The point is that Hitchcock had an unsurpassed ability to maintain a flow in the unfolding of his story on the screen which totally distracts his audience from the type of mental agility required to even be aware of them. Only when dissecting the story on a sequence by sequence basis will such imperfections become significant. The second criticism is that this film, whilst based on John Buchan's novel of the same name, departs very considerably from the story in the book. I am not a purist about this, books and films are totally different media and must be judged independently. In some cases it must be recognised that a book is structured so that it is almost impossible for a film to remain true to the original book. What I do believe is important is that the film-goer should be entitled to know how true a film is to a previously read and perhaps long loved book. If a film is described as the film of the best selling novel........, then it should be as accurate a dramatic presentation of the story in the book as possible. (Where the original is a play, not a book, the dramatic medium is already much closer to the movie form, and I believe such a description should only be used when most of the original dialogue from the play is accurately reproduced in the movie.) By contrast, if a film is described as based on............ then the filmmaker should have considerably more freedom; and if the phrase used is inspired by........ then a largely independent dramatic presentation should be expected. In the case of The 39 Steps, Hichcock's film comes into the latter category, but a later (and in my opinion generally inferior) 1978 film of the same name can legitimately claim to be much more closely based on the book. In this instance I personally do not regard the original book as sufficiently important to be sacrosanct, but those who differ from me about this may feel they have an adequate reason for preferring the 1978 film.Today The 39 Steps is seldom shown in movie theaters and, when a home video rather than the actual film is under consideration, attention needs to be given to the medium and technology with which it has been reproduced. The catch phrase digitally remastered is often used to reassure a purchaser that he is buying the best possible product, but this may be totally irrelevant. The nuances of shade in a good black and white photograph can often be artistically more significant than those of colour in a colour print, and the same is true for many early movies. But home video versions of black and white films are usually disappointing as these nuances are seldom reproduced accurately, if at all. It is regrettable that, largely because of this, many young people today have no appreciation of the artistic appeal a really good black and white movie film can have. Home video versions of The 39 Steps as both DVD's and videotapes have been released by a number of different distributors and these vary in quality enormously. In general DVD's are capable of better rendering of these subtle shade differences than videotapes, but either can be satisfactory. The first requirement is that the distributor has used a high quality master for the material copied, not an old tape that has already been played numerous times. The next is that proper equipment designed for copying from black and white masters is used. Too often copies of old black and white films are made with equipment that is designed only for copying colour films. In such cases the nuances of the multitude of grey shades present in the master are likely to be totally lost. Many of the copies of Hitchcock's film still being sold are particularly bad in this respect, with highlight areas that are totally burnt out instead of containing a mass of detail. The best advice is to consult a website such as that of Amazon.com, where the various versions available are listed and priced, with user comments that indicate how satisfactory the final product has been found by the purchaser concerned. My advice is DO NOT LET YOURSELF BE HAD - THIS WILL ONLY ENCOURAGE THE MARKETING OF SUB-STANDARD MATERIAL. "},{"Title":"A wonderfully entertaining thriller that has influenced dozens of subsequent movies since.","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"38 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While I personally prefer Hitchcock's darker, more troubling movies, especially 'Vertigo' and 'Psycho', as far as his straightforward thrillers go 'The 39 Steps' is still one of his most entertaining. The man on the run because of false accusations or knowing too much  motif may or may not have been invented here, but it certainly influenced dozens of subsequent thrillers, all the way up until contemporary movies like 'Enemy Of The State' and 'Minority Report'. Robert Donat makes a great hero, and Madeleine Carroll is charming and funny as his reluctant partner. The chemistry and repartee between the two is something that has been copied countless times since. Some people seem to regard 'The 39 Steps' as a practice run for Hitch's later 'North By Northwest', but I prefer the earlier movie. It may not be complex and deep, but it's great fun, and full of old fashioned movie magic. A classic thriller that is still wonderfully entertaining, and should prove to be enjoyable to almost everyone who watches it. Recommended. "},{"Title":"One of the finest films ever released.","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"47 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Thirty Nine Steps is extraordinary in every conceivabe way. Anyone who doesn't mind slightly old, black-and-white movies will be enraptured by this Hitchcock classic, which was one of the first films to present sophisticated and witty banter between two ill-matched characters. What makes it even more extraordinary is that it virtually totally alters the source material (John Buchan's novel), yet still comes across as a work of ingenuity.The story concerns Richard Hannay (Robert Donat) a handsome young man who owns a London flat. A mysterious woman comes to him for help, claiming that she is being hunted by some spies. Hannay helps her, but when she is murdered in his home it look like he is to blame, and he has to go on the run from the police (who obviously want him for the crime) and the spies (who want him to find out how much he actually knows). En route, he has many adventures as he flees across the South Scotland landscapes, including being handcuffed to a woman (Madeline Carroll) who happens to think he is guilty of the murder.This is splendid from the word go. It has enough memorable set pieces for a dozen films, its pace is invigorating, the plot is constantly turning up new surprises, and the performances are just about perfect. Hitchcock spent his career narrating tale of innocent men on the run (indeed, many consider it to be his favourite theme) and this is one of the very finest examples of that. Anyone interested in Hitchcock or cinema of the '30s simply must, must, must see this film. "},{"Title":"One of Hitchcock's most enjoyable films","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"41 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One of the most enjoyable Hitchcock thrillers.Still as good after repeated viewing.Robert Donat stars as the innocent man with a murder charge on his head and accidently mixed up in a spy story.Trying to expose a spy-ring and clear his name he flees to Scotland and encounters a lot of people who help and hinder him.Robert Donat gives one of his best performances of his career as the protagonist.The chemistry between him and Madeleine Carroll,and especially a young Peggy Ashcroft (A brilliant performance)is wonderful to behold.John Laurie must also be mentioned,as the sinister farmer. One of the best chase-movies ever.       Rating ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Sowing the Seeds of Suspense","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"31 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Nearly every era in Hitchcock's directing career has incredible strengths. When we view a later film like North by Northwest we are tempted to say that The 39 Steps is simply a training film for the bigger budget, star studded film that came later. This is not true. This movie stands on its own. With wonderful actors like Robert Donat and Madeline Carrol, we are led on an intense ride, culminating in a crowded theater. There are amazing shots of the characters weaving their way through crowds, close ups used strictly for the purpose of moving the plot. With Hitchcock there is no excess. He is a poet with a camera. As the tension mounts and Donat's character becomes swept away in its arms, we are taken with it. His wisecracking character is out of words and must act, just as Cary Grant did in the aforementioned film. There is something lurking and we have to find out who it is and why does he need to know what he knows? I've seen this many times and will see it again. "},{"Title":"Espionage at the Music Hall","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock followed up his first international success, The Man Who Knew Too Much with an even better film, The Thirty Nine Steps. Hitchcock must have had a particular fondness for this film because I see elements of it North By Northwest, Saboteur, and Torn Curtain.There is no director in the history of the cinema who liked a good chase film better than Alfred Hitchcock. This one's a beauty with a wrongly accused of murder Robert Donat, running from London to Scotland and back again to find some spies to clear his name. Along the way Donat picks up a lovely and first unwilling traveling companion in Madeleine Carroll who is arguably the first of his blonde heroines.Donat and Ronald Colman rivaled for roles somewhat, they seem always to be cast as the same type of characters. Of course Donat worked primarily in the UK and on stage while Colman was strictly a movie actor since the silent days. Colman is the only other guy who could have done this and other Donat parts. It's a pity there are none like either of these guys around today.When Geoffrey Tearle thinks he's disposed of Donat by shooting him, Donat's life got saved by a hymn book in his breast pocket. Whether that was a device in the original novel by John Buchan or something Alfred Hitchcock improvised the inspiration for it was definitely taken from the attempted assassination of former President Theodore Roosevelt in 1912. While running for president on the Progressive ticket that year, Roosevelt was shot in the chest in Milwaukee. What saved his life was a copy of his speech and an eyeglass case in his breast pocket.The whole thing here is how the espionage is being carried out and I won't reveal it. But if you've seen Torn Curtain remember why Paul Newman was the only guy they could send on that espionage mission.This is probably Hitchcock's best film from his pre-Hollywood period and shouldn't be missed. "},{"Title":"The Mother Of All Popcorn Thrillers","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Movies are not like fine wines. Most of them, even most very good movies, do not improve with age. Some screen classics are barely watchable today. The Women and Stage Door are maudlin weepfests, Birth Of A Nation and Gone With The Wind enjoy their greatest popularity with the white-sheet crowd. Chaplin's not all that funny. Musicals are nearly all insipid. Movies are an instant form of entertainment, and what works for crowds in one era won't often do as well decades on.So when a film like 39 Steps comes around, you really feel a burning need to say something positive. Not because it's a brilliant film, a shining example of early Hitchcock, etc. It's because The 39 Steps hasn't lost a step since it was made 70 years ago. When does that ever happen? Even most great novels from the 1930s, or paintings or music, falter down the stretch.We have all the elements of movie thrillers in times to come, to the point of parody. Lone innocent man on the run from something he doesn't understand. Strange woman appears at his doorstep and whispers vague warnings of a deadly plot. Strange woman turns up the next morning with knife protruding from the exact center of her back. Man on the run from the law finds himself bumping into a woman who may be able to help him, if she can get herself to trust him first.It's all very cliché, and even though The 39 Steps gets credit since this was much more original when it was released, we the jaded viewers of today would still find it a tired exercise to watch a film loaded with clichés, whether or not they were novel at the time. But The 39 Steps takes these elements and does strange things to them, playing with audience expectations and throwing a curve. Just when you think something is going to happen, it doesn't.In one funny scene, Robert Donat confronts a milkman while trying to escape his apartment building under the baleful eye of two sinister men. He tells the milkman he needs help, a woman has been murdered in his apartment and now they are after him. The milkman shakes his head. Donat realizes he needs a change of tack. He explains he is a bachelor who has been spending the night with a married lady friend, and one of the two men outside is her husband.Well, why didn't you say so in the first place, the milkman says with a conspiratorial grin, pulling off his white coat so Donat can put it on and get away unnoticed. I only wanted to be told.These curves grow only more clever and outrageous as the show rolls along. And roll it does, with very little stopping for breath. There's one poignant pause, at a crofter's cottage in rural Scotland where the tenant is a nasty, sanctimonious cheat with a sad young wife, a woman of soulful beauty played hauntingly by Peggy Ashcroft, not yet a Dame. Things happen between the Scotsman and Donat, in the usual not-as-you-expect-way, but just as things are looking their bleakest, the woman steps in and saves him, risking apparent cruelty from her husband down the road.Do all the women in London paint their toenails? the Scotsman's wife asks, and Donat's Richard Hanney seems like he'd be one to know. He speaks in a singularly tweedy and under-the-breath way that suggests a sleazy schoolmaster trying to seduce a teenager while her parents sleep in the next room. All this Jack-The-Lad stuff's out the window when the fuzz arrives, and he finds himself up against suspicious sheriffs, an FDR lookalike with a missing digit, and a nagging tune he can't get out of his head. Finally, there's Madeleine Carroll, a woman who gets handcuffed to him and finds herself believing his shaggy dog story against her better judgment.There's so many great scenes in this movie, and a lot of them verge into spoiler country. Best advice here is to see the film for yourself, and see what I mean. But my favorite moment is Hanney's improv stump speech for candidate McCrocodile. It's a classic moment because while Hanney is an impostor, everything he says in his speech is true. When was the last time you saw a politician do that? No wonder they lead him from the stage in handcuffs... "}{"Title":"Superb","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is proof - if ever it were really needed - that age doesn't really affect a film's quality. If anyone needs to see some of Hitchcock's finest moments, this should be among them.Playing fast and loose somewhat with John Buchan's (1916) novel, Hitchcock nevertheless directs a fast-moving, riveting story of political intrigue and paranoia with some truly hair-raising scenes (the Forth rail bridge scene springs to mind).Hitchcock makes his usual cameo appearances. Apart from the one noted here, he's also in one of the early scenes after Arabella Smith fires the pistol. The music hall audience panics and make for the egress, 'Hitch' being one of the crowd. He's also one of the detectives seeking Hannay after he leaves the train on the Forth bridge.There are some really sparkling lines of dialogue cold, hungry and tired after tramping across the moors in (what I suppose is Fife), Hannay encounters a crofter (played by John Laurie, later famous as Fraser in Dad's Army) Crofter (to Hannay who has asked him for a bed for the night) Can you sleep in a box bed? Hannay I can try Crofter Can you eat the herring? Hannay I could eat half a dozen right now.Once inside, the crofter's (much younger) wife asks Hannay the following, after hearing that he lives in London Is it true that the women in London are beautiful? Hannay Some of them are but they wouldn't be if they stood next to you. My word, what a charmer! In case you were wondering, the thirty-nine steps in the original book referred to the steps down to the sea at a secluded bay, the spy involved arranging to be extracted by a submarine when the tide had covered up to the thirty-ninth step from the top. This is not alluded to in the 1935 film version, other than to give a name to the network of spies involved. Hannay was a mining engineer and Arabella Smith in the book is a man! It's a short-ish film too, coming in at about an hour and a quarter. It's occasionally on British terrestrial telly and never fails to please. Why they tried to remake this (in 1953 and 1978) is anyone's guess as you can't improve on perfection. "},{"Title":"Vintage Hitchcock comedy thriller with innocent man on the run theme","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The 39 Steps was one of Hitchcock's very early film successes (1934) before he left for Hollywood where he achieved even greater fame and cult status. Written by John Buchan The 39 Steps contained all the elements of Hitchcock's favourite theme of the innocent man on the run which he returned to time and time again - notably in Saboteur (1942) and North by Northwest (1959).Richard Hannay (Robert Donat) is in the audience of a London theatre enjoying the performance of Mr Memory (Wylie Watson) - Am I right sir?, when he meets the mysterious Annabella Smith, a young woman in trouble (Lucie Mannheim). He takes her back to his flat where she gives him some important information about a gang of spies who are trying to kill her. During the night she is murdered and Hannay is of course the chief suspect. On the run from the police he heads for Scotland which is where Annabella has told him the spies are located. During the train journey he meets Pamela (Madeleine Carroll) who turns him in to the police. Upon arrival in Scotland Hannay manages to find the ringleader of the spies, Professor Jordan (Godfrey Tearle), which places him in even more danger but he escapes only to fall into the hands of the police. He gets away from them and is reunited with Pamela who reluctantly teams up with him (she doesn't have much choice as she has been handcuffed to him). However, she eventually begins to believe his story and realises he is innocent after all so helps to clear his name. Pamela and Hannay return to London where they see Mr Memory who is once again performing in a theatre. Professor Jordan is also there but Hannay spots him and the film is brought to a dramatic but satisfying conclusion.Some favourite lines from the filmRobert Donat (to Lucie Mannheim) It sounds like a spy story. Mannheim That's exactly what it is.Mannheim (to Donat) I had to get away from the theatre quickly. There were two men there who wanted to kill me.Godfrey Tearle (to Donat) Well Mr Hannay, I'm afraid I've been guilty of leading you down the garden path - or should it be up - I never can remember.Donat (to Madeleine Carroll) There are 20 million women on this island and I've got to be chained to you.Donat (to Carroll) May I ask what earthquake caused your brain to work at last?.Donat (to Wylie Watson) What are the 39 steps?.The film was remade in 1959 with Kenneth More and again in 1978 with Robert Powell but neither of these remakes can compare with the original Hitchcock version. For anyone looking out for Hitchcock's regular cameo appearance this comes as Hannay and Annabella board a bus to go back to his flat. (Hitchcock is seen as a passer-by throwing some litter into the street).  10/10.  Clive Roberts.  "},{"Title":"Flawless Masterpiece !","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I wondered how would I enjoy an age old film when I rented the DVD of this Magneficient Movie. I am a hardcore Hitchcock fan and started watching oldies when I almost got deprived of good plots from modern-day flicks and started craving for more original plots.Thus, began my visual journey of great movies starting from Hitchcock's later Movies of 60s and then 50s and then 40s ..... and then 30s ! Although personally, I had a halt there on watching Movies of the 30s as I could hardly enjoy some of the movies made during that decade.But, this Movie struck me so hard that it left a great impact on my Mind. Undoubtedly, The 39 Steps(1935) remains as the greatest movie ever made till date. Its still a step ahead then other great classics such as Vertigo & North by Northwest.Amongst the many reasons why this Movie is great, are its almost flawless & moving script, precise editing & great dialogs. And finally, the impact which it creates on us through medium of various emotions of all the characters.Its a story about a Charming Young Man 'Mr. Richard hannay' played by Robert Dannat, who gets entangled in a spy chase when he tries to shelter a counter-espionage agent in his house. When the Agent is killed by the Spies, he is on his run from the Police and the killers from London all the way to Scotland country side. Almost after the second half, he gets handcuffed to the lead lady 'Pamela' played by Madelline Carol who also thinks that he is the murderer. In his aggression to claim his innocence, together both the leads continue the journey further, resolving the clues which they get, and finally arriving to the memorable end with dramatic twist.The detailed thought which was put in while drafting the screenplay of this Movie is surely remarkable. Like how Hannay directs Pamela to fill the registration book of the Hotel as he cannot write since his right hand was handcuffed to her, And Like how good Hannay delivers a great speech in a political gathering, telling only the truth, being misunderstood as a political addresser, And like the perfect handling of the conversation between Hanny and the Unhappy Housewife during their very short acquaintance, And many many more.The Beauty of the Movie is that it creates a strong bond with the viewers. We get involved into the Movie and enjoy the charm, erotism, fear & curiosity, throughout. This is the Magic of Alfred Hitchcock.Watch it on priority. Relish this magnum opus of perfect 10/10 thriller ever made in the history of cinema ! "},{"Title":"Spy Ring in Britain","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock directed this film in 1935. It's one of his greatest successes. The film is based on a novel by John Buchan, also known as Lord Tweedsmuir. The story has a Canadian mining engineer, Richard Hannay, unwillingly drawn into a spy chase when a woman unknown to him latches onto him as he's leaving a London theatre. She tells him she's a spy and that she needs his help. He's skeptical of her story, but he goes back to his London flat with her. Hannay is brilliantly played by actor Robert Donat. He turns out to be quite an interesting character, and a resourceful one at that. When the woman he returned home with turns up dead in his flat, Hannay flees London for Scotland, hoping to find a man he believes can clear him. The newspapers accuse Hannay of murder, so he knows he's a wanted man. During a chase through Scotland, Hannay finds he's not only pursued by the police for the murder he didn't commit, but by members of the spy ring the woman warned him about. Watch how he manages to deal with police, spies and a beautiful young woman played by Madeleine Carroll. "},{"Title":"Mr Memory Inspiration for Terry Jones of Monty Python fame?","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I could not get out of my head the thought that Terry Jones (of Monty Python fame) gained inspiration from Mr Memory when he played his fussy, boring, bureaucratic characters in the famous comedy series.With Hitchcock you get a first rate thriller coupled with sophisticated comedy - a very entertaining mix.For 1935 there is quite an erotic scene where Robert Donat and Madeleine Carroll are handcuffed together while lying down on a double bed.I would be surprised if this scene got through the American film censors at the time, after all, Extacy (1932) starring Hedy Lamarr had been banned over there initially.I believe these two films were before the American Hays Code in Cinema had been been created.1940s censorship by contrast was far more draconian.My DVD shows the British Board of film censors certificate as an A which means for adults only.Even after 70 odd years the scene where Madeleine is pulling off (to dry) and putting on her stockings again is still quite erotic!I really liked the way Hitchcock gradually built up their initial hostile relationship into romance.He uses a similar device to hook the viewer in The Lady Vanishes (1938).Oh how I wish Hitchcock had filmed sequels to both these films as he left this viewer wanting to see more of their leading men and ladies playing their respective characters!!. "},{"Title":"A Film That Successfully Does it All","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 39 Steps is one of Hitchcock's most economical and greatest films. In this plot-heavy film, Richard Hannay - a young bachelor - experiences a series of very improbable events, starting with the murder of a mystery woman in his apartment by what he believes to be foreign agents and a picture perfect frame-up. Dogged by the police, Scotland Yard and jealous husbands, Hannay runs for his life. Catapulted from one humorous quasi-romantic encounter, plot twist, and narrow escape to another, our protagonist searches frantically for a way out and ends up with much more than he could have expected.A lot of good intellectual analysis has been written here on IMDb and elsewhere about The 39 Steps. And the film deserves it. The 39 Steps is not only a great romantic adventure with the usual Hitchcock humor blended seamlessly into the mix, but it is also rich in allegory, metaphor and even subtle symbolism. Many of Hitchcock's typical themes appear throughout the film - marriage in its various forms, human relationships, and the many varieties and scales of deceit. But the purpose of this review is not to indulge in the meta-text of The 39 Steps, but rather, to discuss its entertainment value.It is lovely to look at, but lacks much of the cinematographic experimentation and play of Hitchcock's earlier films. It is perfectly scripted - each character has a distinct personality and predicament, and they are all very believable and very well acted. The plot provides suspense, comedy, a powerful but unexaggerated analysis of belief, paranoia and propaganda. Suffice to say that the film can be seen from many perspectives and tends to hit its audience at many levels.The camera work is more consistently focused on the story than many of Hitchcock's films, and the script offers a lot of activity jammed into a relatively short length. No time is wasted and the film zips by. Despite the lean and economical style, The 39 Steps is easily followed and doesn't require a great deal of thought or interpretation. However, as previously stated, the film can certainly inspire interpretive and critical thought if that's what you are looking for.The 39 Steps is a gift, and never a burden. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A first-class thriller","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" All Hitchcock's movies' aim is to amuse;some of them are masterpieces (Suspicion ,1941;Rear Window ,1954;The Trouble with Harry ,1955;Marnie ,1964), others are excellently made (The 39 Steps ,1935).Like several Greene novels of the same era,39 is partly inspired by the Nazi threat's fear.It is fast-paced ( the sudden switches and the jumping from one situation to another with such rapidity,said Hitchcock), imaginative,funny.People are brutally murdered in this movie,gruesome assassinations take place,people are stabbed,beaten,shot,but here,unlike Greene's novels of the same content,the tone is,in strong contrast,quite comic,almost lighthearted,thereof highly ironic,and this might be the main difference between the two artists;this approach will reach its height in films like The Trouble with Harry (1955).There are big mistakes in 39's plot,unexplained facts (e.g.,why do not the two secret agents come after Richard Hannay,since they killed Mrs. Smith?).But Hitchcock himself was aware of this,as he explained about his English periodthe films of the period were full of fantasy, and one didn't have to worry too much about logic or truth.So,this should be taken on its own terms.There is a pleasant feverish thrill in this paranoid espionage story.Hitchcock said it bestthe rapidity of the switches, that's the great thing about it,and one idea after another, and with such rapidity;yes,this is the striking quality of the 39.Donat was an actor that Hitchcock liked much.The director had an idea about the kind of male lead he could use in his movies the dignified type,as he called it,the Colman/Olivier type (in fact,he even worked with Olivier)Grant,Stewart,Cotten,Donat,Connery .This was his idea of a male lead.Of course,he was functionalist, pragmatic, practical, so some of his male leads are,for the needs of a given movie,more European than others.He complained about compromise casting.So,Donat fitted remarkably Hitchcock's idea of a male lead.39 has a gladsome blonde,the glamorous Madeleine Carroll,as Pamela .She embellishes a funny sexy scene,when she takes off her stockings.Hitchcock was deft in '35,with The 39 Steps,as he was deft 41 years later,with Family Plot,in '76.50 years of artistic vitality (plus several volt-faces). Michelangelo Antonioni had a similarly long career,and Fellini was near.John Ford had an even longer activity. "},{"Title":"Hitch and the Music Hall","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 39 Steps is a neatly made thriller directed by Alfred Hitchcock, and a nice companion piece to the director's The Man Who Knew Too Much, made the previous year. As is so often the case with Hitchcock, the plot revolves around a someone in flight from people he doesn't know for reasons he doesn't understand. In this case it's a Canadian named Hannay, who finds a murdered woman in his flat and is then pursued by the police, ending up in Scotland, where he runs into a pack of spies, who also begin chasing him,--he's now handcuffed to a beautiful woman--and the two flee to London, where the film concludes, as it began, in a music hall. There's much humor in the man-woman situation, which, due to the strict censorship of the time, leaves much to the viewer's imagination, such as how they deal with matters pertaining to the bathroom.The script, co-authored by frequent Hitchcock collaborator Charles Bennett, has somewhat more serious situations than was typical of the director at this time, and there are certain scenes that seem almost to have been written by Hitchcock, such as the one in which the criminal chief shows Hannay the stump of his missing little finger.Robert Donat makes a dashing hero, though he can't conceal a certain dourness. To paraphrase a friend of mine's comment on Jeff Bridges, He's a fine actor, but not a fun one. Madeline Carroll makes a gorgeous heroine and nice counterpart to Donat, as she at least seems more in tune with the director's intentions. Also good is FDR lookalike Godfrey Tearle, as Mister Big. A nice touch. Peggy Ashcroft has a small part as the wife of a morally rigid, highly religious Scottish farmer whose baleful and suspicious disposition makes Donat look like Danny Kaye.The exteriors in the film are none too convincing, though the editing and photography are first rate. There's a rhythmic, musical quality to the picture that's difficult to pinpoint. Hitchcock was still in the process of finding a style, and here, as in The Lady Vanishes, we see him working somewhat apart from the story, constructing his film almost as a composer puts together a symphony. There's humor, suspense, drama, surprise, sadness and joy, as we can sense the director working on how to present his work to maximum effect, and rejoice with him as he finds just the right angle, pace and mood to nail down a particular scene. "},{"Title":"Early Hitchcock still delivers.","Date":"18 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is the oldest movie that I've seen (made in 1935), and it took me a bit of time to get adjusted to it as a film from such and early era. After all, it was only recently that I really started enjoying movies from the 50's.But as I was adjusting to the classic black and white visuals and the abrupt editing, I began noticing the same Hitchcock themes and flourishes that I've seen in the later favorites like North by Northwest. The train scenes, the cases of mistaken identity and being in the wrong place at the wrong time, the innocent man on the run who meets an icy blonde, it's all here. The 39 Steps is Hitchcock through and through, that's for sure.I thought the story was pretty good, if a little abrupt in places. There's lots of tension, a bit of occasional sexually charged humor, and another thrilling escape for the protagonist always seems just around the corner. Any fans of Hitchcock's other movies will probably appreciate this. "},{"Title":"extremely entertaining, even by today's standards suspenseful, and probably Hitchcock's first great (sound) movie","Date":"17 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 39 Steps, which is based on a novel and now has become the basis of a hit Broadway show, is full of the kinds of things we love about Alfred Hitchcock's films, and in a rough, awesome form. It's got a MacGuffin, sort of (or rather the title itself is something that doesn't even matter ultimately in what it *really* means), it's got a wrong man scenario where the lead character is chased as a suspect with spies and daring-do escapes, and the interaction between a classy leading man (here Robert Donat) and a leading lady (here, though for a shorter time, Madeline Carroll) up to par with him as a screen presence.True, it's also a little less 'polished', if you will, compared to Hitchcock's 50s and 60s work, but considering how so few years it came out after the advent of sound, many sequences are rather incredible, if only for what little is used. I loved seeing the chases, one on a train, another through a mountain-side, and another that is more like a hide-don't-find moment after Richard and (very reluctant) Pamela escape from the spies and hide under a bridge covered with sheep. Even the climax of the picture speaks to Hitchcock's unequivocal gifts at painting suspense but also throwing in a sliver of pathos; watch Mr. Memory in the final shot explaining about a formula or other and see how Hitchcock regards such silly things as plot details, unless it's at the expense of something of a joke (i.e. on the train with the Hard Day's Night 'old man' and the other guy joking about the paper).What matters is that the story keeps moving and, under the circumstances, makes some sense. And here we get somewhat a pre-North-by-Northwest tale where average Joe, Richard, brings to his home Miss Annabella Smith, who's a spy and is running after shooting someone at the Memory show they both just left from. Morning after, he finds she's dead with a knife in her back, he's the blame, and has to run to find people she's mentioned to him (which Hitchcock shoots eerily in a faded close-up over a map of her face repeating things she said earlier in a different tone of voice). Throughout this short but invigorating film, we get lots of comedic bits, like Richard's stumble into a town hall meeting and giving a speech to buy some time. Or even a lovely romantic piece that's like a slice of a silent film as Pamela almost escapes but decides to curl up on the couch instead.It's overall a beautiful, tense but very funny movie by a filmmaker who knows his stuff inside and out, and isn't worried about showing a good time in the midst of some unconventional technical choices. "}{"Title":"Have it, my lovely, and welcome","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Lucid, breakneck visual storytelling moves this picture like the Flying Scotsman coming round the mountain. No extra word, no empty gesture impedes it. 39 STEPS has all the energy and breathless need missing from 90% of Bond flicks.Robert Donat has a more exciting British vacation than most Canadian tourists. Behind every door, there's a cop. Jump out a window and two spies are waiting. Any train compartment hides a girl to be kissed. And if he enters a political rally, he'll probably have to deliver the keynote address. Everyone he speaks with has clever things to say quite rapidly; the dialog piles up like the set pieces, spilling and tumbling effortlessly toward epiphany. Best of all Donat gets to enjoy that peculiarly English institution, the prewar music hall, not once but twice in its greatest screen portrayal. These sequences glow with the specific that lends universality to the parochial.What a pain a lot of modern filmmakers must have when they look at something like this. It's a rebuke; it's proof money doesn't buy quality. With 200 million dollars, we don't make stuff this good. This movie has all the hallmarks of budgetless Depression-era British film-making, but it looks fine and is nearly great. So if all it takes is writing, carpentry, acting, photography and editing, why isn't every movie this good? Some guys make it look easy.After Hitchcock got to Hollywood, his movies, while suffering no general decline in excellence, gradually lost that free and easy weightlessness that characterizes his early period. FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT still has it, to an extent, and MR AND MRS SMITH has it in spades, but by SABOTEUR and SPELLBOUND he was more and more a formalist. This trend of course culminates in bravura exercises like VERTIGO and PSYCHO, so I'm not complaining. But SECRET AGENT and 39 STEPS and LADY VANISHES delight me with a more cheerful elegance, and I can watch them more often. "},{"Title":"It sounds like a spy story.?","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" What is drama? Alfred Hitchcock once reflected, but life with all the dull parts cut out. For Richard Hannay, the unwitting hero of The Thirty-Nine Steps, all of life's dull moments are suddenly all pulled together.The plot of The Thirty-Nine Steps is simple and like all of Hitchcock?s films, entirely subordinate to the development of characters and theme. The film concerns the adventures of a Canadian Richard Hannay ( the handsome Robert Donat), who while visiting London, becomes involved in a deadly game of espionage when a murder is committed in his flat. To establish his innocence, he must discover and bring to justice a ring of spies known as ? the thirty-nine steps.? Throughout the entire film there are two major themes, the disparity between appearance and reality and that theme of trust. For example, throughout the entire film, Hannay assumes at least four different ?roles.? First, he avoids the murderous spies by pretending to be a milkman. Another, is the scene in which he tries to avoid the police by posing as a political candidate and of course, gives a speech. However, my favorite is the scene in which a handcuffed Hannay and Pamela (Madeleine Carroll), give off the appearance that they are newlyweds.Perhaps the most striking example is the fact that the spies themselves are able to masquerade as police and their leader, the dangerous spy with part of his small finger missing, isn't exactly who he claims to be either. To everyone else, he is the well-respected member of society, Professor Jordan, but to his fellow spies he is their dangerous leader.The theme of trust, is all over this film. Should Pamela trust Richard? Should Richard even trust her? These are also similar to the relationship of Cary Grant and Eva-Marie Saint in North by Northwest. The fact is Hannay is forced and compelled to trust others in his attempt to establish his own innocence. The scenes involving the farmers and innkeepers wives, also carry this theme, as they both insist on helping. It is their husbands, who are reluctant.One of Hitchcock's most entertaining films, and my um personal favorite. My favorite scene is when the two lead characters, Hannay and Pamela are handcuffed and on the run, and not a minute passes and they are already bickering and she says to him How far are you going to get shackled to me? Donat instantly fires back Save that question for your husband!? "},{"Title":"A Fine Example of Early Hitch.","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" What a craftsmanlike job Hitchcock did on this one. It belongs to his chase/thriller category but it's neatly plumped out by comedic and serious dramatic interludes. It may seem strictly an entertainment, but that episode involving the dour Scottish farmer and his lonely, compassionate wife is like a little short story in itself, and blended effectively into the overall story.What's also impressive about it is how much it presages Hitchcock's later favorite kinds of scenes. The man stuck in a public space, the exits covered by his pursuers, who must try to improvise his way out of danger. In this instance, Robert Donat sneaks into a political meeting and is mistaken for the keynote speaker. He stands at the podium and gives a rousing speech full of political malarkey that has the audience on its feet clapping and shouting. His pursuers still manage to nail him and lead him away in manacles but as the police escort him through the door, the audience turns and cheers him again while he waves his grinning farewell with a shackled hand. (A situation nicely handled in North by Northwest, too, at an auction.) The fact that it works is evidenced by the thousand times it's been copied. (Vide, The Prize.) The script is quite funny, and sexy too. Scotland looks so barren and windswept. It's hard to believe those bens were once covered by natural forests.The performances are up to par. Poor Donat died of asthma, which is an unpleasant way to go. Madeleine Carrol was a beautiful blond, one of Hitchcock's first. He seemed to like frosty blonds, but he was never a sentimental mope. Years later he was shooting at a location only a few blocks from where Carrol lived and never bothered to visit her. Peggy Ashcroft, as the farmer's wife, gives a first-rate performance. And she has an inner beauty that transcends anything resembling glamor. She looks almost compellingly homely in this part. One wants to be a kitten and curl up in her lap, certain of being treated gently.Great stuff here. "},{"Title":"For Sheer Entertainment, It's Hard to Top","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  For sheer entertainment, it would be hard to top The 39 Steps.  While Hitchcock made other movies with more psychological depth and more fascinating characters, there is as much fast-paced suspense here as you will find in any of his later films, along with a good dose of humor and a wide variety of creative settings.This is one of several movies on Hitchcock's theme of the unjustly accused man.  In a nicely-crafted sequence at the beginning, Richard Hannay (Robert Donat), a Canadian visiting London, is caught up in a spy plot and suspected in a murder, and he spends the rest of the film trying to evade both the police and the actual killers.  The settings include a London music hall, a train, the Scottish moors, a political meeting, and several others that add to the exciting story.  For much of the action, Hannay is entangled with a skeptical blonde played by Madeleine Carroll, and the two have good chemistry in a running verbal battle.  There are also several entertaining minor characters that add wit and interest, especially the music hall performer Mr. Memory.It all moves quickly and holds together well, resulting in great entertainment that will be enjoyed by anyone who likes classic thrillers. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable, fast paced yarn","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Richard Hannay is enjoying `crazy month'  at his local music hall when shots ring out.  He is approached by a young woman who asks can she shelter at his house.  He takes her in and she tells him she must get to Scotland to try and contact a man about the 39 Steps in order to prevent vital information being smuggled out of the country.  When she is murdered in his flat, he finds himself framed and goes on the run &#150; his only chance to clear his name being to continue her trail and expose the real killers and the spy ring itself.Having recently seen both the 1950's (poor) and 1970's (enjoyable) remakes, I decided to revisit the original film version of The 39 Steps.  The Hitchcock film steps away from the book somewhat and is more a fast moving story of one little jape after another.  It has quite a short running time and is surprisingly light on it's feet as it quickly moves from one scene to another.  It is hard for me to judge how tense or exciting it is, having seen it so many times, but it always keeps me engaged, whether it be the witty political speech or the climax in the music hall.The direction feels old and worn now but is actually very sharp and well paced.  The film stock is worn and patchy and one shot in particular appears to be running at the wrong speed but it does have a very good sense of place.  The highlands (and internals) feel like the highlands and the music hall atmosphere is well captured and treated with affection.  The mix of humour and drama is well done, with alternate scenes using one or the other while some scenes mix the two very well.Donat is partly to thank for this as his performance keeps things light without ever going so far as to wink at the audience or make us think that he is playing it for laughs.  His is a charming lead and he plays it well.  Carroll is well used as the traditional blonde cast by Hitchcock, she is a little dappy but she is a match for Donat in early scenes.  The chief villain is a dry sort and would have made a good Bond villain with his mix of menace and manners.Overall this is a classic film and for good reason.  It is dramatic, funny and enjoyably light footed and fun to watch.  It has stood the test of time and can be enjoyed by a mix of tastes due to these qualities.  A good old fashioned mystery adventure story with plenty of witty touches from Hitchcock. "},{"Title":"a quite good early Hitchcock film","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the better of the early Hitchcock's British-made films, probably second only to The Lady Vanishes.  It is also the one that has been remade the most number of times &#150; in 1959 and again in 1978.  It is loosely based on the novel of the same name by John Buchan, who, incidentally, became Governor General of Canada under the title of Lord Tweedsmuir the very year the film was released.The plot will be familiar even to Hitchcock fans who happened to miss this movie.  A visiting Canadian, played by Donat, is falsely accused of the murder of a beautiful spy who had sought refuge in his London flat.  Like Cary Grant a quarter-century later in North by Northwest, he is forced to flee both the law and an international spy ring, heading north to Scotland to seek out a man missing part of his little finger who turns out to be the ringleader.  While fleeing south again he is kidnapped and handcuffed to Carroll and, naturally enough for a Hitchcock film, an initial friction between the two eventually blossoms into romance as she is increasingly persuaded of his innocence.  The action is fast-paced and there are some wonderfully amusing scenes.  My favourite found Donat accidentally thrust onto the platform of a by-election campaign rally and forced to improvise a political speech as if he himself were introducing the candidate.  The humour lies in his actually pulling it off to the audience's satisfaction and applause!There are a few scenes of a sexually suggestive nature that probably would not have appeared in an American film at that time, although they might have only two years earlier before the adoption of the Hayes Code.  One has Donat and Carroll checking into a small hotel together, with the proprietors uncertain whether or not they are married.  Another is a closeup of Carroll removing her stockings while handcuffed to Donat.Virtually everyone notes the appearance in two brief scenes of a very young Peggy Ashcroft, the famous Shakespearean actress.  I myself didn't like these scenes.  Although Hitchcock was a Roman Catholic, he was apparently not above stereotyping the man of faith (John Laurie) as a dour, humourless wife-beater whose one positive contribution is a bullet-stopping hymnbook!  I can't help wondering whether C. S. Lewis or G. K. Chesterton saw the film and, if so, what they would have thought of such a one-sided portrayal.Three more flaws keep this from being a masterpiece.  First, like many of Hitch's early efforts, it has something of a rough, amateurish feel to it.  (Admittedly, part of this may be due to a physical deterioration of the film over the decades, but it's difficult to tell for sure this many years later.)  Second, Donat's accent is obviously not that of a Canadian.  Surely I'm not the only Canadian to have noticed this?  Third, it all ended too abruptly.  I found the final scene something of a letdown. "},{"Title":"Sly wit, but moving too","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After hearing a summer of bad political speeches, I went back to The 39 Steps to listen to Hannay's impromptu speech on the hustings.  It's all doubletalk, but the opposite of what that usually means  when Hannay apologizes for not recognizing that they were talking about him when he was introduced, what he says sounds insincere, but turns out to be true.  The rest of his speech continues this trick brilliantly, as he tells the audience how happy he is to be before them, how he feels safe standing on the podium, etc.But what is remarkable is how his speech becomes truly moving oratory as it picks up momentum. Maybe it's the reaction of the audience, maybe it's Donat's earnestness, but as Hannay begins to talk about a world in which no one is unjustly accused, no one is hunted, no nation plots against nation, I find myself wanting to hear more. Then it ends as the crowd surges forward.He may be no more sincere than Marc Antony at Caesar's grave, but we want to believe him.  A good antidote to all of the good and bad political oratory we are forced to absorb every four years. "},{"Title":"A preview of things to come","Date":"9 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Watched this movie and at the same time I could see a genius in his formative years where he would use many of the devices in other movies later in his illustrous career. The Hitchcock standards are here to see the wrong man accused, the icy but elegant blonde, the use of the train, the evil traitor, the climatic scene where it all comes together. The movie started a bit slow and was somewhat stage like but as it got going it was very entertaining. The stars were serviceable and yes Ms. Carrol was very fetching. Helpful people aiding the good people another recurring motif foreshadowing many a Hitchcock saga. A great little film not a classic but better than most out there. "},{"Title":"Defining moment for the thriller genre","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the finest spy thrillers of all time, having aged very well, all its thrills and suspense intact. Its influence is ongoing - the James Bond we see in the films has more of Hitchcock's Richard Hannay in him than Fleming's own literary creation. The repeated discoveries that good people can prove to be not so good, and that our precious law enforcement officials can be worse than bumbling and incompetent, they can be thoroughly taken in by the evil they are sworn to bring to justice has long since become cliché. So too has the hero's seemingly impossible task of simply convincing people that he knows what he's talking about. So too the romance developing between seeming antagonists bound together under difficult circumstances.But all this was fresh when this movie was made.The film is, admittedly, shot through with wildly implausible plot devices and twists - the romance could very well have proved a disruptive interpolation. But Hitchcock drives through all of this with a directorial panache rarely seen in cinema, with some of the most crisply edited pacing you're likely ever to see. There's no lag-time here, we're alway on to the next adventure. Hitchcock also depends quite a bit on his actors to help us suspend our disbelief, and they do remarkably well, especially Donat.Finally, of course, there are the poignant vignettes which had enormous humanity to the proceedings - especially that involving the farmer's wife, and the brief glimpse we get of the villain as family man, bidding wife and daughter farewell.A thriller bordering on the epic - that doesn't happen every day. That Hitchcock gave us the best hint of what such should look like, still rather young, and working with a budget minimal by Hollywood standards, indicates why his memory is held in such high esteem among those who love cinema. "},{"Title":"One of Hitch's Best","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I included this film in my top 25 films of all time, at the expense of such critical and popular Hitchcock favorites Vertigo and Psycho. To me, Vertigo lags for much of the film and I just was never a big fan of Psycho.It's a rarity that I can remember when or why I saw a film, but this film is the exception. I was in high school and the manager at work knew I was a film fan and told me to rent this film. He said it would be your favorite film of all time. Well he was close, since it is in my top 25 films.This film has a staple that was to follow in many of Hitchcock's films--that of the innocent man accused of murder. Robert Donat is the Canadian man accused of murdering a double agent and has to escape the police. He kidnaps Madeline Carroll along the way and tries to prove his innocence to her, to no avail.Hitchcock's films have always been so much mature than his contemporaries in their dialogue, in terms of the timing and content. Robert Donat was outstanding in the role of the innocent man thrust into a murder rap. Madeline Carroll was absolutely beautiful, and a great actress as well (today's uni-dimensional actresses pale in comparison).The ending is fantastic. This film has it all--suspense, humor, romance--and does it all well. What a shame that Hitchcock was never honored for Best Director by the Academy Awards. "}{"Title":"Humble beginnings","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There have been three versions of The Thirty-Nine Steps filmed, but Hitchcock's original version is considered by far the superior.This is a real old fashioned murder mystery/spy thriller, told in real serial style. After being visited by a mysterious woman who claims to be a spy, our hero is thrown into the world of international espionage when she is knifed in his flat.Robert Donat is stylish and debonair while Madeleine Carroll is cheekily funny in Hitchcock's early British work, and the pair play off each other well. The master is at his best when toying with comedy about death or sex, in his own unique and subtle way.Even if this is far-fetched and unclear, Hitchcock's humble beginnings showed promise.Sunday, August 1, 1993 - T.V. "},{"Title":"Quintessential British Thriller And Early Hitchcock Masterpiece","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Richard Hannay is a Canadian in London who comes to the aid of a mysterious woman who tells him she is a spy with assassins on her trail. When she turns up dead next morning in his flat, both the killers and the police are after Hannay. He goes on the lam to Scotland to try to meet her contact and find the only way to clear his name ...In many ways this is the most important film Hitchcock ever made; the one that shaped his illustrious career in Hollywood, his best British movie and one of the very best films of the thirties. Almost every key ingredient of his thrillers surfaces here - the double-hunt structure, the ice-cool blonde unwillingly tied to the put-upon-yet-chipper hero, the suave society villain, a classic McGuffin, red-herring comedy sequences, bungling coppers, a suspenseful scene on a national monument (in this case the Forth Railway Bridge outside Edinburgh), and most of all, an inimitable combination of thriller intrigue, sexual frisson and absurdist humour. It was a revisionary film when it was made, reinventing Hitch's slightly stodgy crime-thrillers like Blackmail and Murder! into what would become To Catch A Thief and North By Northwest, and was a runaway success. Donat is absolutely magnificent as Hannay - the definitive mannered hero - cool and physical, but also sharp as a tack (when his pretend-police kidnappers run into a herd of a sheep, he quips, It's a whole flock of detectives !), and is given great support by the whole cast, especially Mannheim as the furtive Miss Smith and Ashcroft and Laurie as the crofter couple (Will ye no come in ?). The Scottish locations are wonderfully bleak - it was filmed in Glencoe, quite close to where it's set, a profligate luxury at the time, and the photography is tremendous, with Hitchcock employing his endless gift for stylish touches, such as the moment when a woman's scream dissolves into a steam train's whistle. It's based on a great book by John Buchan - a larger than life character himself, who was Scottish and who went on to be Governor General of Canada - who wrote four other novels featuring Hannay (who is South African in the books), and is a terrific clattering tale of spies, murder, chases and state-secrets. What Hitchcock and his writers did was take a great story and make it even better, by adding all the humour (Mr Memory and the music-hall scenes) and the romantic high-jinks (there are no women in the book). The end result is a crackerjack thriller that entertains and amuses from start to finish. A must see, and look fast for Hitch's cameo as a litterbug. Remade competently but unnecessarily twice, once in 1959 with Kenneth More, and again in 1978 with Robert Powell. "},{"Title":"The innocent man on the run theme gets quite a workout from Hitchcock...","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" While I'm not as enthusiastic about this Hitchcock film as some of the others here, I do appreciate the chemistry between ROBERT DONAT (as the man on the run) and his reluctant, but charming, partner who shares the handcuffs with rightful indignation, MADELEINE CARROLL. Both were still in their prime and make an interesting duo.However, it's the kind of story that we've seen countless times since--and even Hitchcock himself has repeated it with stories like NORTH BY NORTHWEST or SABATEUR. Furthermore, my favorite man on the run stories were THIS GUN FOR HIRE (with Alan Ladd and Veronica Lake) and MINISTRY OF FEAR (with Ray Milland on the run the moment he steps outside of an asylum into an even crazier world).Nevertheless, as the story progresses from an entertaining opening at a British Music Hall and the spy theme is quickly developed, which leads to the chase that occupies most of the film, it's clear that Hitchcock is in his element. He himself had an absolute fear of authorities such as the police and it's clear from the clever camera-work and point of view of the film's leading character that he is able to transmit this fear and loathing to the viewer.Summing up Not the best of Hitchcock and it's absolutely necessary to view this one in a good print. Many of the public domain copies are hard to watch and liable to alienate you from the film's gripping suspense. "},{"Title":"Many Levels","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This wonderful film works on so many levels spies, suspense, the chase and as a romance of a man and woman poles apart. In addition to these standard elements of film, it is also a capsule of a time and place England in the mid-thirties, showing us the average music hall and then the London Palladium on Crazy Night. I am not English, nor was I alive then, but this IS what a music hall must have looked like with its hecklers, drinkers and smokers filling the air with their haze. Then we have the two intrepid traveling salesmen on the train, going to Aberdeen to flog their wares. Hitch used Wayne and Radford to great effect in 'Lady Vanishes', but here I love their topical remarks about the BBC of the time. And whatever is that contraption used by the police in Scotland to hunt from the air. Did King Wesley lend them his auto-gyro from One Night? Donat and Carroll are another of those wonderful couples Bogart and Hepburn, Finney and the other Hepburn, and Gable and Colbert,whose American comedy hit the screen the year before. Their night together compares favorably to G & C's in the motor camp in One Night but they have no 'wall of Jericho' between them. Hitch's goal was to unite the bickering twosome, but he frames the story with a chase of an innocent man, and within the hunt are smaller chases that bring out so many wonderful touches. There is the dining car steward so anxious to sit Donat for tea as the police chase him through the train. A few seconds earlier there was that gasp of amazement from us as Carroll denounces her seeming 'husband' embraced about her in her train compartment, which sends Donat out the door in a hurry. But none compare to the five to ten minutes after Donat breaks away from the police in Scotland. Seeing police everywhere, he takes up with the temperance band, marching to some meeting, but he leaves them to duck inside a door only to find himself thought to be a speaker at a political rally. Oh, how wonderful he is, thinking on his feet up on that stage, transposing the name of the candidate into McCrocodile and earning the cheers of the audience. Sometimes when you watch a film, you wonder if another writer/director borrowed an idea from the present. How similar that meeting is to the one in Third Man when Holly is dragged off to the literary soirée.39 Steps was the best film of 1935, and while the sound is poor in parts and in parts the print grainy, I will never throw my copy away, especially when it opens by telling me that the movie met the approval of the Board of Censors of Great Britain and the Irish Free State. "},{"Title":"Classic 'British Era' Hitchcock","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 'The Thirty-Nine Steps' shows all the hallmarks of embryonic, vintage Hitchcock; the bickering romance, the dark humor, the paranoid sense of persecution, the chase, and the mysterious, but really quite irrelevant, McGuffin, fuelling it all.The story, though pretty slim, is carried along at a brisk pace. The sequence on the train is composed with a very modern sense of editing and composition, which really reveals Hitchcock's revolutionary understanding of the dynamics of movie-making. Werndorff brings an original German Expressionist eye to the production design and several scenes are truly striking, particularly on the fog bound Scottish moorland. Though John Laurie almost steals the whole show (as usual), Donat and Carroll have great chemistry, with the kind of sexy and sharply written dialogue that for some reason, became extinct around 1951. The biggest fault of the movie is that they only actually spend about 20 minutes of screen time together.Though 'The Lady Vanishes' is, in my mind, the best from Hitchcock's 'British Period', 'The Thirty-Nine Steps' is a great example of the director's emerging style and a thoroughly entertaining adventure romp in its own right. "},{"Title":"Thought provoking mystery. A Hitchcock classic.","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The classic mistaken man caught up in the middle of high drama and intrigue. A man(Robert Donat) comes to the aid of a young woman(Madeleine Carroll) only to get involved in a cloak and dagger chase through London and Scotland. The mysterious spy activities culminates in a novel climax. Donat and Carroll are flawless. Their banter will influence movie dialog for decades to come. This mystery is not that easily unwound.A perfect example of the genius of Hitchcock's pre-war British period. Also in the movie are Godfrey Tearle and Frank Cellier. A small, but major role in the plot is played by Wylie Watson as Mr. Memory. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock classic is arguably his best from the '30s...","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  According to Hitchcock, the MacGuffin was a phrase devised from Kipling that was used to cover any plot curiosity or unexplainable necessity; the unattainable object that must be attained, or the mysterious device that must be discovered. The MacGuffin was that of meaningless intrigue, as when men die for the sake of a tune in The Lady Vanishes - a tune whose relevance and importance is of no knowledge to them, and exists merely as an excuse for a greater picture.A greater picture indeed. In The 39 Steps, Hitchcock's MacGuffin is presented early on, much to the ignorance of the casual viewer, who will no doubt pass over its significance without so much as a thought. Then, the MacGuffin transforms into another key element of the story. By the end of the film, we get the basic idea of what is going on, but the purpose for its existence in the first place is never fully explained - nor does it need to be.Hitchcock's own cynicism towards his `MacGuffins' is clearly evident in most interviews where he suffers through explaining their definitions yet once more. But author Eric Rhode explains, `It would be as foolish to take Hitchcock's cynicism on its face value as it would be to accept François Truffaut's view that Hitchcock elaborates a philosophy of the absurd of it. Genuine anxieties and genuine intuitions do emerge in his filming.'These anxieties appear in full during the course of The 39 Steps, Hitchcock's early British masterpiece from 1935. Perhaps one of the first examples of the `buddy comedy' genre to later be fulfilled by Planes, Trains and Automobiles (1987, John Hughes) and Midnight Run (1988, Martin Brest), The 39 Steps is a simple story that is technically flawed and yet structurally perfect. Arguably Hitchcock's most popular film of the 1930s (closely rivaled by The Lady Vanishes 1938), The 39 Steps is a reason to return to his older films and marvel at their utter simplicity and wonder. For a film released in 1935, filmed with a low budget and a somewhat low-key cast, The 39 Steps is still relatively well-paced and interesting, and should wet the appetite of most mystery lovers - especially those who think the classics aren't `any good.' If you are interested in `weaning' yourself onto older motion pictures, this is a good start, and still one of the finest films you will ever encounter on your quest. In this case, Hitchcock's MacGuffin is inadvertently stumbled across by a Canadian man on vacation in England. His name is Richard Hannay (played by Robert Donat), and his presence is never given a backdrop. A lesser director might employ the unnecessary fifteen-minute opening that sets up the character, his flaws, his quirks, his reasons for visiting England. Instead, Hitchcock does something just short of brilliant by introducing the character to us from the very start, halfway through his journey, and by doing so therefore lets us judge him on our own standards, without having forced opinions crammed down our throats. Unjustly accused of murder after being told of the `thirty-nine steps' by a female spy who is assassinated inside his apartment, Hannay flees into the British landscape, taking along a beautiful hostage named Pamela (Madeleine Carroll), who is eager to escape, but soon falls for the Canadian and believes his self-proclaimed innocence to be the truth.What is the MacGuffin of the story? In short, we never really know. To spoil the ending would ruin the entire film, but in a nutshell, Hannay himself becomes the MacGuffin, as he is the victim being pursued by men who are not aware of who he is, or what he knows. Hannay is the story's connecting thread to all of the following events, and the end presents us with two separate MacGuffins, in a sense Hannay and the realization of why he has been chased up unto this point. Hitchcock does not use his typical MacGuffins here - the characters, and what they know, and why they know what they know, and why their pursuers want to know what they know, is the theme - or the MacGuffin, depending on how you want to interpret it.Quentin Tarantino used the MacGuffin ploy in Pulp Fiction fifty-nine years later - what was in the briefcase? No one knew, and it was not important - the idea of the briefcase was all that mattered, and its presence was what compelled the characters to try and achieve it.  We learned to realize that by revealing nothing, Tarantino was actually thereby offering our minds room to think for a change. To reveal the MacGuffin would ruin the entire theory - some of us might find it to be a worthy object and I am sure that many of us would consider it to be a waste of time. Instead, we react to the haze of light that shoots out of the briefcase whenever it is opened, and our curiosity grows as we see each and every character that encounters the case stare in awe at its presumably marvelous contents.Hitchcock could be credited for starting this entire trend of less-is-more cinema. He perfected the sense of mystery in Psycho (1960), which completely startled audiences across the world, setting up two oft-mixed genres of serial killers and split personalities. (It also spawned three inferior sequels, two of which were passable but all of which failed to realize that the subtlety of Psycho is what propelled it, not the exploitation present in its offspring.)In The 39 Steps, the MacGuffin is more clear than usual, but the relevance of the MacGuffin itself to those who need it is what we are never sure of - and that is why the mystery is never truly explained, and is miles ahead of many other films that try, and fail, to imitate its success.5/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Step By Step Performances","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" All but two Hitchcock films are cursed by the transcended achievement of those two. So the remainder will always seem pale in comparison while unfairly having elements of those retroactively applied.I believe that the early Hitchcock was a simply competent filmmaker and only later came to understand the more complex tricks and structures of narrative.This early and excellent project could prove me partially wrong. You decide.Nominally, it is a spy story using elements of noir before they matured and became planetary.It has amazing texture and pacing. Comedy, tension and such. Lots and lots of side stories. The laughable unbelievability of the story and the economy of coincidence is mitigated by all sorts of side stories, unusual then and now. The one you notice is the gruff Scot with the young wife, or perhaps the joking underwear salesmen. The one that impressed me the most was the inclusion of the evil professor's daughter. Her small role had a huge impact on the texture.But none of that is what this comment is about. Narrative structure is our topic. Here's the setup this is a performance which features as its gimmick a performance, a stage mentalist. So far so good, a simple fold, ordinary for the period. But just as we have side stories, we have side references to the performance. There are two main ones our hero is thrust upon a stage to make a political speech and does exceedingly well. Later he spins a tale for the woman to whom he is handcuffed, equally with relish. That tale refers to yet another show, the wax museum.None of this parallelism is done lightly. It is deft engineering decades before he would actually begin to base whole movies on folding.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"one of Hitchcock's greats","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Richard Hannay (Robert Donat) is a Canadian visiting London. During a show of Mr Memory, shots are fired and he takes Annabella Smith back to his apartment. She's very frightened and she tells him that she's a secret agent for hire. She mentions the 39 steps. That night she is stabbed in the back. He finds a map clutched in her hand with a circled location. He goes on the run from the killers and the cops. After Pamela (Madeleine Carroll) gives him up for a second time, they are taken by fake cops. With her help, he tries to take down the foreign spies and discover the 39 steps.This is one of the Hitchcock greats from his British works. It is an action packed spy adventure. It works great all through the entire film. Donat is good as the lead and Carroll is even better. She's a great Hitchcock blonde and together they form a fun combative duo. "},{"Title":"Alfred Hitchcock is the finest filmmaker of suspense and thrill and even chase.","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock is the finest filmmaker of suspense and thrill and even chase. His chase films are far superior and better than most. The 39 steps started it all way back in 1935 and his other films like North By Northwest followed it up.I saw this film way back in 1994 in DD Metro when films were played at 10 30 at Night. I revisited this film nearly 3 times again and this time, I am reviewing it now. I must confess that I love this in all aspects. An innocent accused of murder Robert Donat, running from London to Scotland and back picks up a reluctant Madeleine Carroll as his companion. The journey they undertake is a revelation. It's more suspenseful and happening than being merely called romantic. The hotel in which they stay, the happenings around. The protection offered and the escape and the ultimate truth being brought out. This forms the crux of the film. Now, all this while, there are some splashes of romances at least some nuances being thrown at and I hope you watch it for yourself to know what those are. Oh, did I mention that this is an espionage film. Now, 4 years before the World War 2, Hitchcock made this in England and thats the vision of a man. Post World War, the spies become a common phenomenon. But Hitchcock made all of these much before anyone had even got a thought and that's genius. Of course there can be few more espionage films prior to this but Hitchcock glorified the genre with this film I believe. This film came after the much successful The Man Who Knew Too Much and the climax follows a similar path. But this is probably Hitchcock's best film from his pre-Hollywood period era. There are some really wonderful editing moments like the one after the maids scream dissolves into the hissing of a train whistle. Now, see what she finds and that's really good in terms of editing and screenplay too. Now, cinematography is superb the sound editing of which Hitchcock is a master is sublime considering 1935 and from gun shot to wind everything seems to be captured well. The 39 Steps is the quintessential Hitchcock and it's worth a watch for it holds many aces up the sleeve and delivers it at the apt moments. A 4/5 for this. "}{"Title":"A classic","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The novel by this name and the Hitchcock film are only very loosely connected by title and lead character. In the novel, there is no beautiful woman involved and there is no memory-expert, nor is there much of anything taken from the book save for the possible sub-title Inspired by an actual novel, and the title The 39 Steps. That is not say the film isn't every bit as good as the novel. Each in its own way is a clever and fascinating tale, simply told by two different authors, as a fairly average fellow gets caught up in a densely-knit spy plot with life-threatening implications. And, in all fairness, as a film, the Hitchcock version makes for better audience approval. The book has no love interest, which audiences in films love to see. This also gives the director a spot for a little humor here and there to balance against the danger and suspense. And there are sections of the novel that would have made tedious viewing for a theater audience. I'm sure Mr. Hitchcock himself realized this and fashioned the film story accordingly. So, all things considered, I'll keep both on my list of favorites. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock Comes of Age and the Age of Hitchcock Begins","Date":"1 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Much Loved Hitchcock Film that is Considered His First Fully Formed Feature that Began an Escalation and Admiration that Lasted for Decades. The Hitchcock Themes Contained in this Film were Reused Many Times.There are some Outstanding Set Pieces. The Countryside Vista, the Farmhouse Suspense, the Train on the Bridge, all have Excellent Visuals and Contain Cinema Extravagances that are done by a Director in Full Control of His Craft.The Story of a Wrongly Accused Man on the Run with a Female Literally Attached to His Side makes for some Witty Banter and Amusing Double Speak. The Movie is Short but is not Short on Suspense and Our Heroes are Caught and Confronted or Nearly Caught and Confronted Many Times.It is not Without some Weakness, like in the Music Hall Beginning where the Audience Acts like Boobs, or in the Political Speech where Everyone is Overwhelmed by this New Politico and Storms the Stage, both of these are just too Silly and Over the Top and come off much worse when Viewed Today.Overall an Excellent Film that is a Landmark of Sorts and is Highly Entertaining, not a Perfect Movie or the Best of Hitchcock but is Nevertheless Fine Craftsmanship and in the Context of the Mid-Thirties, Quite an Accomplishment from a British Production. "},{"Title":"Familiar Hitchcock story","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This early Hitchcock outing sees Robert Donat on the run from both a secret ring of spies and the police force. Pretty much everyone in the movie is determined to see him captured or dead. Yes, it's another in Hitchcock's long line of 'wronged man' type thrillers, and it's more than tempting to view this movie as an early forerunner of later classics like NORTH BY NORTHWEST.It's a fun, worthwhile movie but it's not my favourite Hitchcock. The story feels a little dated and stodgy, even though the pacing is super-fast by 1930s standards. It's just that I've seen, and been spoilt by, Hitchcock's later works and this feels like a diluted, watered-down version of them. The kinetic scenes where Donat outwits his pursuers are all well achieved, but the mystery of the story feels a little too vague and not focused enough.Donat makes for a strong protagonist and shares genuine chemistry with Madeleine Carroll, to whom he's handcuffed for much of the production (another trend-setting element that would be mined by dozens of future filmmakers). Hitch's direction is more than adequate, and he elicits decent supporting performances from John Laurie (delightful as a mad crofter) and Godfrey Tearle (an urbane villain). There's little to dislike here, but the combination of poor quality video and sound detract from the viewing experience &#x96; if ever a film needed remastering, it's this one &#x96; and it feels like a dry run for the director's later greats. "},{"Title":"An oldie, but always a goodie.","Date":"30 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Rating **** out of 4.The great Alfred Hitchcock, who would later go on with grander projects with enough money to back him up, started with simpler, humbler efforts like this classic British spy thriller. It's obviously done in a low budget, with a feel to it that still embraces the silent era. But with Hitchcock's born talent, THE 39 STEPS is an unqualified success and still is one of the best in his career. Many might see it as a prototype for his later thrillers like SABOTEUR and the classic NORTH BY NORTHWEST, but having seen it, it deserves to be seen in its own right.Robert Donat plays Richard Hannay, a typically pedestrian man who finds himself in a wave of conspiracy and murder when he meets and escorts a random woman (Lucie Mannheim) who is actually being pursued by enemy spies for a secret which she possesses. Now on the run himself, Hannay picks up a blonde stranger named Pamela (Madeline Caroll) and grows an affection for her while being pursued by enemy spies. There are a number of respectable (if dated) set-pieces here worthy of attention, and the funny and romantic leads may the journey worthwhile. The ending was great, especially when you realize that what all these characters, the good guys and the bad guys, are making such a fuss about doesn't even really matter to you. This is the birth of the classic Hitchcock trait; The MacGuffin.THE 39 STEPS is a classic, and a worthy curio for you movie buffs out there. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock Becomes Hitchcock","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've seen many Hitchcock films, and at first glance, The 39 Steps (one of the legend's earlier, British projects) may seem like a run-of-the-mill adventure/thriller. However, it's important to keep in mind that for its time, I'm sure it was a fresh and rousing experience. I don't mean any of this in a negative sense; the film is still just as fun, engrossing, and witty as I'm sure it was upon release. However, now that we've seen Hitchcock's later masterpieces and all the films that have copied them over the years, The 39 Steps may seem like old news to an unfamiliar viewer. Robert Donat perfectly portrays the charming, witty, and dashing Richard Hannay, a classic Hitchcock character ladies man in a suit on the run due to a series of misunderstandings. Our damsel, Pamela, played by Madeleine Carroll, doesn't enter the film (save a brief early appearance) until the second half. Hitchcock enjoys throwing-off the audience by making you guess who the main character will be (i.e. Psycho), which is part of his brilliance. The film unfolds as a series of twists and turns, with a McGuffin of sorts pulling our characters along What or who are The 39 Steps? The answer isn't important, but it's how we get there that counts. "},{"Title":"Taut, well made and exciting- another personal favourite Hitchcock of mine","Date":"21 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" While The 39 Steps doesn't quite make my top 5 of my favourite Hitchcocks, it easily makes it in my top 10. It is taut, well made and very exciting, with a clever plot that served as a common theme in later Hitchcock films, especially North By Northwest and an invigorating pace that makes it one of the faster paced Hitchcock films. Hitchcock's direction is once again superb, full of his fashioned, suspenseful touches, that helps give justice to some truly great set pieces, whether it is the well rounded climax, the scene when Donat and Caroll are forced to share a room(quite shocking in those days), the chase across the moors, the Crofter's cottage scene and the train sequence. Also helping is the splendid black and white cinematography, some excellent scenery and a rousing music score. Not to mention the performances, with Robert Donat winning as Hannay and Madelleine Caroll both alluring and icy as Pamela. Godfrey Tearle, Wylie Watson, Lucie Mannheim and Peggy Ashcroft give solid supporting turns, if careful not to overshadow the treat-of-a chemistry between Donat and Caroll. My only minor problem is that I feel the film, at just over 80 minutes, is a tad too short. Other than that, it is a truly great film. 9.5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Jolly Good Fun","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Being a fan of anything Hitchcock, I decided to go back in time and view some of Hitch's early British period productions, via a packaged set. Well, I just realized that it all started way back when-all the elements of Hitchcock's epics are right here in this 1930's era espionage thriller. It's all here the everday man caught up where he's not supposed to be, the blonde femme fatales, the humor; it's almost an early day Man Who Knew Too Much or North By Northwest. It's just Hitchcock gone Scotland Yard for this To Catch A Thief. If you enjoy the prototypical Hitchcock spy drama with a twist, you'll have fun viewing this early product. It really really was Jolly Good Fun! "},{"Title":"39 Steps To Rescue","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Hitchcock's 'The 39 Steps' is an enjoyable adventurous chase thriller about a man who is framed for murder. It grabs the viwer's attention right from the beginning.Hitchcock pretty much uses his usual elements in this film. Thus, the execution is superb. He tells a story of a common man caught in unusual circumstances. This time, in addition to suspense, he also uses humour and tackles interesting themes while, at the same time, focussing on Hannay's attempt to escape and prove himself innocent. It's interesting how he contrasts the relationships between Hannay and Pamela, the crofter and his wife and the innkeeper and his wife. In each of these relationships, the man and woman seem to play different roles. The film moves at a steady pace and the viewer roots for Hannay to make it while we are amused, shocked, surprised and/or intrigued by the outcome of each of his encounter. Robert Donat is outstanding. While he makes it easier for the viewer to identify with Hannay, there's a humbleness and sincerity in his portrayal when compared to, for instance, the characters played by Cary Grant (who pretty much plays the typical charming man/hero). Not to say that Donat is not charming (quite the contrary) but his Hannay feels more human and real than the usual Hollywood hero. Madeleine Carroll is a treat to watch. Her scenes with Donat are hilarious. is a fun watch. I'm surprised this movie was from the 30s because the quality and the execution gives many films of today a run for the money. 'The 39 Steps' felt quite refreshing, even though it was made more than 70 years ago. "},{"Title":"Excellent Hitchcock","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Richard Hannay (Robert Donat), a Canadian visitor in London meets Annabella Smith (Lucie Mannheim) at a music hall.She's running away from the secret agents and gets killed at his flat.Now he has to run for he becomes the prime suspect.At the side he has to break the spy ring.He takes a train to Scotland.On a train he gets to kiss a girl named Pamela (Madeleine Carroll) in order to trick the cops.Later he's handcuffed to this unwilling woman.There's a little of this early Alfred Hitchcock classic The 39 Steps (1935).Robert Donat and Madeleine Carroll make a brilliant couple in the lead.John Laurie makes a great Scottish crofter.Peggy Ashcroft is wonderful as his pretty wife Margaret who gets to help Richard.This movie is exciting, romantic and funny.The escape is most captivating to watch.And so is the young couple being handcuffed to each other.It's funny when Richard's mistaken for a politician and he gets to speak to the crowd.Hitchcock really was a master at these kind of movies. "},{"Title":"The film that set up the storyline for many future Hitchcock films","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 39 Steps is directed by Alfred Hitchcock and it stars Robert Donat and Madeleine Carroll. This is a masterpiece has great photography and acting and as always from Hitchcock is filled with plenty of suspense.This has all the plot lines for his future films including the icy blonde woman who isn't interested in the hero,an innocent man accused of a crime he didn't commit and has to run for it,a pursuit across the country(this time England of the 1930's)and plenty of betrayal and mystery.The ultimate suave man Richard Hannay(Robert Donat)bumps into a beautiful and mysterious woman who turns out to be a spy at a music hall concert.He takes her home(at her request)and is stunned the next morning when he wakes up and she has been murdered.He goes on the run and is thrown together with the original blonde heroine Pamela(Madeleine Carroll).Funny as well as thrilling and suspenseful and there is that iconic scene where Pamela takes off her wet stockings while handcuffed to Hannay. "}{"Title":"Early Hitchcock classic","Date":"4 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 39 Steps incorporates several elements which, over the next four decades, were to feature strongly in Alfred Hitchcock's films- a man wrongly accused of a crime, a glamorous blonde heroine, an espionage-related plot, a train journey, a mixture of suspense and humour and a cliffhanger scene at an iconic building or structure (in this case the Forth Railway Bridge near Edinburgh, one of Britain's best-known bridges). A similar mix of elements can be found in North by Northwest, made nearly a quarter of a century later.Richard Hannay, a Canadian engineer living in London, meets by chance a woman who goes by the name of Annabella Smith. Annabella reveals to him that she is a spy, working for British Intelligence, who has uncovered a plot to steal vital British defence secrets. Before she can tell him the full details, however, she is stabbed to death. Hannay manages to escape, and heads for Scotland, where she had told him she was going to visit a man, but to his horror he learns from a newspaper that he is wanted as the prime suspect in her murder. He goes on the run in the Scottish Highlands, pursued by both the police and by the villains, who realise that he knows about their plans.The plot is only loosely based upon John Buchan's thriller, and updates its setting from 1914 to the 1930s. Even the significance of the title changes; in the novel it referred to physical steps, but here it is the name of the foreign spy ring, originally called the Black Stone. In Buchan's version the villains were the Germans; here they are all British, and it is not actually revealed which foreign power they are acting on behalf of. Film censors at this period were often sensitive about anything which might upset foreign governments; as late as 1938, only a year before the outbreak of war, Hitchcock was forced to set The Lady Vanishes in the fictional state of Bandrika rather than Nazi Germany.Those two films have several things in common, apart from an espionage theme. One difference is that the earlier film deals with foreign spies in Britain, the later one with British spies abroad, but both feature train journeys and an unusual method of smuggling the secret information out of the country. Robert Donat and Michael Redgrave play similar characters, dashing, debonair English gentlemen. (Donat sounds very English, despite his supposed Canadian origins). Both feature a seemingly charming, helpful stranger who turns out to be a villain, Professor Jordan here, Dr Hartz in The Lady Vanishes. (Hitchcock was to make use of similar characters in later films, such as the ranch owner in Saboteur).The most important feature they share is the use of humour to lighten the mood. In his blending of espionage and humour, Hitchcock seems to foreshadow the James Bond franchise. Had Ian Fleming started writing his novels in the thirties, Donat or Redgrave could have been the first screen Bond. Although there are serious moments in The 39 Steps, such as Annabella's murder, there are many amusing ones as well, such as the scene where Hannay persuades the milkman to help him escape, or the one where he has to give a speech to a political meeting without knowing anything about the candidate he is supposedly supporting. The most famous scene in the film is probably the one where Donat and Madeleine Carroll, as Hannay's love-interest Pamela, have to escape across the moors while handcuffed together- a scene both dramatic and yet comic. The relationship between Hannay and Pamela (like the one between Iris and Gilbert in The Lady Vanishes) parallels that of many romantic comedy couples who fall in love after an initial period of mutual dislike.Hitchcock's film was remade in 1959 with Kenneth More in the leading role, but this version is dull and pedestrian compared with the original. The 1979 version with Robert Powell (which keeps much closer to Buchan's novel) has some virtues, but for me Hitchcock's dashing, fast-moving comedy thriller is by far the best of the three versions. Together with The Lady Vanishes it is his best film from his pre-Hollywood period. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Hitchcock British Thriller","Date":"1 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 39 Steps is an early example of the types of films Alfred Hitchcook brought to Hollywood later in his career. It is an excellent example of storytelling and British film-making and the old chicle 'they don't make them like that any more' is very applicable here.The 39 Steps follows the normal Hitchcookian route of an ordinary man thrown into extra-ordinary circumstances. It old fashion spy story, based on stories that were written before and after the First World War. The film also reminds me a little be of North by Northwest, with a similar plot, and also another good film.The focus of the film is on Richard Hanney, a visitor from Canada in London. In a Music Hall he watches from a man called Mr. Memory, and as his name suggests he can remember any fact and answer any question. However during the performance a fight breaks out and shots are heard. Outside the Music Hall Hanney meets 'Annabella Smith' and they go back to his flat. It is they Annabella tells Hanney that she shot the gun so she could run away from men who were chasing her. She tells that she discovered a spying plot in Britain they foreign spys were trying to get a information of a secret military project out of the country. Hanney is spectikel, but in the night Annabella is murdered and as she dies tell Hanney that he needs to go to Scotland to stop the plot. But as well as trying to uncover the plot and the mystery of the 39 steps he discoveries that he is the prime suspect of the murder of a Annabella and is on the run from the police and the spys.If you are a Hitchcook then this film is a must see for you. If you are a fan or thrillers or British cinema, again this film is a must see. It is an intelligence film and keeps your mind activities and keeps you compelled to keep you eyes on the screen. "},{"Title":"Early Hitchcock is superb!","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" My first reaction to this fine movie was that it would have been even better if filmed in the 1950's when cinematography had progressed so much further, particularly the scenes on the moors, or the male lead on the bridge over the Forth River in Scotland. Yet, this classic movie needs to be appreciated for its beauty and clever techniques when made in 1935, not to mention the give and take of the leading couple-Robert Donat and Madeleine Carrol. The interesting supporting actors, such as a young Peggy Ashcroft and John Laurie, her God-fearing Scottish husband, the fellow passengers on the train ride, and the co-operative milkman as Donat tries to escape from his pursuers in London are some examples of the added depth that Hitchcock gives his movies. The humor of the handcuffed couple as Donat is on the run, and the tense situations that Donat manages to extricate himself from as the authorities chase him all over Britain are just some of the examples that make this movie one to remember. The strong script, including the clever ad-libbing of the main character in various predicaments, is another strong element in this classic movie. All in all a great addition to the Hitchcock legacy. We can see where some of the inspiration came for North by Northwest some 24 years later. "},{"Title":"The First REAL Alfred Hitchcock Movie","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Master of Suspense really hit his stride with this. The story is kind of simple. Innocent man witnesses murder, takes it on the lam, meets up with girl, gets betrayed, gets handcuffed to her, runs again, and finally exposes the bad guys. Film does seem somewhat creeky today with plenty of obvious inside studio shots that are supposed to be outside, but it really doesn't matter too much. Carroll and Donat are wonderful together and their sophisticated and witty dialogue set the stage for many sophisticated comedies and mysteries that were to come. In other words, they have chemistry, and it shows. Movie is a top notch blend of suspense and comedy and it delivers from the beginning to the end. Many great sequences including the political rally, Donat's journey across the Scottish moors, the man with part of his finger missing, Mr Memory's act at the music hall, Carroll and Donat pretending to be husbund and wife to get a room at the country inn, and, of course the train trip from London to Scotland on the Flying Scotsman express. Many of these themes would surface again in the best of Hitchcock's work including the great, great classic North by Northwest with Cary Grant. Do NOT look at this film as a classroom example of film-making. Watch it for what it is- the film that put Hitchcock on the map and made his reputation. Even after more than 70 years, it still remains fresh, innovative, and above all, FUN! This one can teach many of today's so-called thrillers a thing or two.A timeless movie, it just seems to get better every time you watch it. Love that helicopter chasing Donat in Scotland, and the bra salesman on the train! "},{"Title":"A Very Good Film","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a film definitely worth seeing, a film for anyone whose interested in a thriller, drama, crime, mystery or even a romance, this film has it all. Definitely one of Hitchcock's best, including The Lady Vanishes and Phsycho. Wonderful performances, incredible suspense, thrilling, chilling, extremely powerful and definitely the best film released in 1935.This film is based around an organization called The 39 Steps, this organization is full of agents, which have secrets, questions, mysteries and fears. One man incidentally and completely accidentally gets tangled in a terrifying conspiracy. This man struggles to keep his life encountering all sorts of problems. He meets different characters, both bad and good and characters that are able to be persuaded to change decisions when offered money.Excellent filming providing experiences which will virtually tip you off your seat, this film is great! I recommend this film to anyone and everyone and even if you don't like it; it doesn't take all that long. And to anyone who enjoyed this film, I recommend every other Hitchcock movie, especially The Lady Vanishes.I give this movie a 9.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It's all done with writing, directing and photography","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Notice how in almost every scene there's an unexpected twist as well as a beautifully composed shot, and all the way through the jeopardy of the hero. This is how it's done, thriller makers. Snakes on a plane? Bringing down a jumpjet by hand? Catching bullets in your teeth? Watch Hitch and learn about suspense without SFX. Except don't learn to abuse your female lead, as Alf used to and is quite evident here.It's a shame that Donat and Carroll now look so lumpy and unhealthy compared to modern lead actors. Donat in particular must only be in it as a bankable lead, but he still outclasses Kenneth More and Robert Powell in the remakes, even if his reedy voice makes it a squawkie rather than a talkie. "},{"Title":"Rough around the edges but great none the less","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When you hear about Hitchcock, his film 39 Steps doesn't typically come up unless you are talking to a film fanatic and for good reason. The editing, the lighting, the sound work, the use of time and place and most importantly the acting were extremely creative. That's not to say that his later films were not great (my favorite being Strangers on a Train) it's just that obviously there were more restrictions in place when it came to making this film. Those restrictions allowed for creative work and one of those restrictions was the film stock which obviously needed a certain amount of light for exposure (notice the exterior shots at night at the Palladium). Also note the sound work, most of the acting relied on expressions and looks courtesy of Robert Donat. Coming from directing silent films, Hitchcock wasn't a big fan of dialogue so he only used it when absolutely necessary. An excellent example of the use of time and place being manipulated by editing can be seen in the scene where Robert Donat's character has taken refuge at the police station giving us the impression that everything we have seen up until this point was the result of his telling his side of the story.Okay, I'll say this, I'm a film fanatic and I enjoyed this film and you should do yourself a favor and watch this simply because they rarely make good movies like this anymore. The studios don't care and there are too few good films made each year and even worse they are remaking this film for 2009. But at least we have a catalog from the golden age, take advantage, rent it, save it on your dvr. "},{"Title":"Yet Another Masterpiece from the Man Himself","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is supposedly the film that made Alfred Hitchcock a household name and it's no wonder as to why. As an earlier Hitchcock film, it's lesser known, but that doesn't make it any less great. If you love Hitchcock, you'll love this movie.It's a very thrilling story of a man who is caught up in a deadly spy chase. Great performances from Robert Donat and Madeleine Carroll as well very well thought out suspense scenes make this a winner in my book. This movie proves, like all his other ones, that Alfred Hitchcock truly is the master of suspense.To review, The 39 Steps is a great movie for the whole family and I think you'll enjoy it. Don't forget the popcorn. "},{"Title":"Foreign agents from the country of&#133;","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 39 Steps is Alfred Hitchcock's film about a man who unexpectedly becomes involved in a plot involving foreign agents. The man, Richard Hannay, quickly finds that the only way to stay safe is to remain on the run.Robert Donat convincingly plays the man on the run, Richard Hannay, and is along the way joined Pamela, charmingly played by Madeleine Carroll. Another performance of note is that of Peggy Ashcroft, who is enchanting as a stranger that aids Richard.Even though the film's overarching premise is a spy story, ultimately the spy story is of secondary importance to showing a man on the run. I didn't mind that the spy story was ultimately even treated comically, but for me the film could have been more interesting by including more twists during Richard's almost constant fleeing. Hitchcock's more polished North by Northwest (1959) follows similar lines to this film, but benefited from having more intrigue interspersed into the man on the run story. However, the end scene concluded the spy story nicely and was very clever and surprising.However, that is not to suggest that this film's man on the run story is ineffective. On the contrary, this film successfully mixes suspense, humor and romance to remain engaging. There are no dull moments in the chase, even if there could be more intrigue, and a number of exceedingly amusing moments such as Robert's ad hoc political speech. The 39 Steps is an absorbing thriller film from earlier in Hitchcock's career. "},{"Title":"I know what it is to feel lonely and helpless and to have the whole world against me,","Date":"13 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I decided to visits a couple of classics last night and I started with the British Hitchcock movie. It was a few years after this film that he came to the United States, A career that spanned 50 years and some very fine films.This film reminded me of The Fugative. The basic premises are similar. A man is on the run after being accused of a murder he did not commit. He wasn't looking for a one-armed man, but for a spy. Of course, no one believed him and he stayed just a half-step ahead of the law.The climax is a little contrived, but Robert Donat (Goodbye, Mr. Chips) made a dashing fugitive, and Madeleine Carroll as the typical Hitchcock blond added humor to the film.A good introduction to the master of suspense. "}{"Title":"One of Hitch's early greats!!!","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The original film, directed by Alfred Hitchcock, is as suspenseful and shocking as it was back in 1935. Robert Donat and Madeleine Caroll make the perfect match, and there are enough twists and turns in this film to keep you excited.The plot Richard Hannay goes to a Music Hall one night for a bit of fun. While there, some shots disrupt the performance, and everyone rushes out. A glamorous girl clings onto Hannay on the way out, and afterwards, looking scared, begs him to take her home with him. Taking pity on her, he does so. Once there, she reveals that she is in fact a spy named Anabella Smith. Apparently, an organisation are planning on taking a secret from England and dispatching it to a foreign area. Anabella was assigned to stop them. That night, she is stabbed in the back, and she dies, clasping a map of Scotland. She had marked a certain area on the map, and Richard takes it up on himself to carry on in her footsteps. But the spies are hot on his trail...Do not be fooled by this film's age. There are a couple of DVD releases (both in the UK and America) that offer a digitally remastered version of this film. The copies shown on the TV aren't bad either.Any lover of Hitchcock will be lost without viewing this. No matter how old this is - it still stands out as a Hitchcock Masterpiece! "},{"Title":"I'm going to tell you something which is not very healthy to know","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" At the peak of his British period, Hitchcock here solidifies his reputation as not only a director of grisly murder thrillers, but also rip-roaring espionage adventures. The 39 Steps was his most professional looking film to date (technically it's almost flawless), and also establishes several key motifs which would appear throughout his career.Hitch had dealt with the innocent man falsely accused as far back as The Lodger, but Hannay is really the first archetypal Hitchcock wrong man hero. He is an average, unsuspecting everyman who by chance gets swept up by events he has nothing to do with. In the opening scene he is literally a face in the crowd. Madeleine Carroll's character also marks the debut of Hitchcock's typical unwilling female accomplice, who would be dragged along on many a Hitchcock thriller to come.Even though this is really a pure adventure film, Hitch still finds time for plenty of the cheery murder-related banter that had already become a standard part of his crime thrillers. There's also plenty of his bawdy humour, like the cockneys taunting Mr Memory in the opening scene, and the two lingerie salesmen discussing their trade on the train.Hitchcock's direction is really tight. It's at this point in his career he was striking just the right balance between the occasionally heavy-handed expressionism of his earliest work and the more direct approach of his later pictures. He'd shown a great imagination for the use of sound right from his first talkie, and this is no exception. This is the earliest example I know of a phone ringing sounding ominous. There's also that brilliant moment where a woman's silent scream fades into a shot of a train leaving a tunnel, with the train's whistle creating the scream. The camera moves are really smooth, and the editing and shot composition is spot on. The closing moments are particularly neat and subtle, with both the central plot and the love story resolved in one carefully constructed shot.Hitchcock often repeated himself, and The 39 Steps would be reworked first as Saboteur (1943) and then North by Northwest (1959). They aren't remakes as such, but the plot structure is fairly similar, and there are little bits of business that crop up in more than one film, such as the hero trying to hide the fact he's wearing handcuffs. The 39 Steps is my favourite of the three though. Like all his British pictures, it's dark and atmospheric, and has a kind of charm that was lacking in his Hollywood output. The suspense doesn't build quite as much as it does in other films made before and after, and it's not his best espionage thriller (that would be The Lady Vanishes) but it's a good fun film, and prime early Hitchcock. "},{"Title":"The Best of Hitchcock's British Films!","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 39 Steps is one of the best films made by the legendary director, Alfred Hitchcock. It is arguably the best of his 1930s British films.A young Canadian, Richard Hannay (Robert Donat) is living in London. At a music hall where he attends a show featuring a memory expert called Mr. Memory (Wylie Watson), two shots ring out and the hall is cleared. A young woman who calls herself Miss Anabella Smith (Lucie Mannheim) comes up to Hannay and asks for his help.At his flat, she reveals to him that she is involved in espionage with an unnamed foreign power involving the theft of military secrets. She claims that foreign agents are following her. During the night the woman is murdered and Hannay flees knowing that he will be blamed.Hannay makes his way to Scotland to a location where the young woman had told him she was to meet with a gentleman involved in the case. En route he meets a beautiful lady, Pamela (Madeleine Carroll) aboard a train. He uses her to evade the police but she doesn't believe his profession of innocence forcing him to leave the train.Trying to reach the location of the planned meeting, Hannay comes upon a cottage owned by John Crofter (John Laurie) whom he asks for lodging for the night. A newspaper alerts Crofter to an escaped murderer from London whom he suspects might be Hannay. Crofter's wife Margaret (Peggy Ashcroft) helps Hannay escape. Finally he arrives at the home of Professor Jordan (Godfrey Tearle) whom Miss Smith was to meet. Having earlier learned that the ring leader of the spies has a portion of one finger missing, Hannay is shocked to learn that the professor is actually that man.Hannay is arrested after having been shot by Jordan and taken into custody. He manages to escape and is forced to speak at a political rally where he again meets Pamela. Anyway, the two eventually becomes handcuffed together and are forced to flee the foreign agents and the police until Hannay learns that Mr. Memory holds the key to the puzzle and..........................................This is another classic Hitchcock tale of an everyman being caught up through no fault of his own, in extraordinary circumstances, although the Donat character does adapt to the situation rather adeptly. The acting by all is superb. Donat as the the beleaguered hero is outstanding. The beautiful Miss Carroll (there's another of Hitchcock's blond heroines) makes a an excellent foil for Donat. The future Dame Peggy Ashcroft has a nice bit as the woman who helps Donat escape. And again Hitchcock uses a concert hall for his climax, a setting that would crop up in other films.And ah yes, Hitchcock's cameo. Watch for him near the end of the film as the man sent for help. "},{"Title":"The fastest paced of all Hitchcock's movies","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of the most enjoyable movies ever made and the first of Hitchcock's many masterpieces. Freely adapted from the John Buchan novel by Charles Bennett there isn't a single redundant shot or moment in the entire film, (it's the fastest paced of all Hitchcock's films), and in Robert Donat's Richard Hannay it has the most likable of all his heroes. It's a lovely bit of comic acting primarily because Donat plays it straight. The heroine is Madeleine Carroll and she's something of a patsy but she's lovely to look at. Lucie Mannheim's spy with the knife in her back is more fun though they are acted off the screen by a lovely young Peggy Ashcroft as the crofter's wife who helps Hannay escape. It was remade in 1959 with Kenneth More, entertainingly enough but needlessly, and again in 1978 with Robert Powell in a version that stuck more closely to Buchan's original. While enjoyable neither of these versions need bother you. "},{"Title":"It sounds like a spy story...","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" With The 39 Steps,  Alfred Hitchcock proved he had a flair for directing tales of suspense and intrigue. Indeed, many of the elements that have come to be associated with Hitchcock films are here an innocent man (Richard Hannay, played by Robert Donat) caught up in circumstances beyond his control, a cool blonde (Pamela, played by Madeleine Carroll) for him to encounter, a MacGuffin that catalyzes an action-filled plot, etc. Hitchcock's direction, camera work and editing also come into their own in The 39 Steps. He assuredly handles its shifts in tone from almost screwball-comedy when Hannay and Pamela are handcuffed together; to a serious and sympathetic treatment of a farmer's wife (Peggy Ashcroft) in a loveless marriage; to plenty of exciting chases and narrow escapes. The pace is swift without unnecessary scenes, and the final shot has to rank among the all- time greats.However, I'll admit that my favorite film from Hitchcock's British period is still The Lady Vanishes, which features better characterization for its hero and heroine. The 39 Steps, in contrast, tells us frustratingly little about the characters. The only thing we know about Hannay is the irrelevant fact that he's Canadian; yes, he's an Everyman, but does that mean we must know nothing about him? Pamela has one brief scene and then doesn't reappear until the last half-hour of the movie&#151;and her return occurs via a forced coincidence. This is not to denigrate the actors, though&#151;in fact, it speaks well for their performances that you want to know more about their characters when the script denies you the chance. Donat, in particular, has a great scene where he is mistaken for another man and forced to give a political speech, which becomes an ironic commentary on his situation. I also like how as the film goes on, you can see him loosen up and enjoy the adventure of it all.And really, who wouldn't enjoy an adventure like The 39 Steps? Though other, later Hitchcock films have plots that rely less on coincidence, or characters with more psychological nuance, The 39 Steps is a great accomplishment exciting, funny, and always enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's classic film with exciting pursuits and awesome protagonists","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After a panic scene into a music-hall where actuates Mr. Memory(Watson),Richard(Robert Donat)invites his house a foreign(Mannheim)whom pursues a espionage net called 39 steps.Later he goes to Scotland where is pursued at the same time by the police and the spies.Richard is handcuffed to a unknown beautiful blonde(Madeleine Carroll).They confront united several risks,odds and misfortunes. This is the most important pursuit-film in the Hitchcock's British period as ¨North by Northwest¨(1959)is in American stage. The movie combines imagination,thriller,action and satirical comedy. Picture contains the usual elements argument in Hitchcock as the wrong guilty,pursuits,and the McGuffin,this time are the 39 steps. Elegant and charming Robert Donat(1905-1958)submitted to continuous escapes is top-notch.Delightful Madeleine Carroll(recent her acting for John Ford) as distinguished and elegant blonde is marvellous .The support casting is frankly excellent,John Laurie,Helen Haye and famed theatre actress Peggy Ashcroft(born 1907) who win an Oscar(1985) by ¨Passage to India¨(David Lean).The film is a Gaumont British production by the great producer Michael Balcon.As almost always the screenwriter is Alma Reville,Hitchcock's wife.Besides his usual musical conductor Louis Levy and a dark black and white cinematography by his habitual cameraman Bernard Knowles. The motion picture is magnificently directed by the master of suspense. "},{"Title":"What are the 39 steps?","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 39 Steps is the film that set Hitchock on his road to international stardom. Starring Robert Donat and Madeline Carroll, the movie is suspenseful as well as charming and filled with all those marvelous Hitchcock touches.The film begins in a music hall - the Hitchcock ordinary i.e. safe place. We are treated to a performance by that master of knowledge, Mr. Memory and see Richard Hannay (Robert Donat) in the audience. Then a shot is fired, and in the confusion and frenzy to get out of the theater, a woman attaches herself to him. She's obviously terrified of something - when they get to his apartment, she plasters herself between two windows. She tells him a wild story - she's an agent en route to Scotland. She's trying to keep important information from leaving the country. When she winds up dead in the middle of the night, Hannay takes her map of Scotland and sets off. Meanwhile, back home, he's wanted for her murder.An ordinary man, a victim of circumstances, and for Hannay, they haven't even begun yet. Once on the train, he meets Pamela (Madeline Carroll) and starts kissing her when the guards come around. She turns him in. He escapes. Once in Scotland, he gets another Hitchcock lesson - evil lurks in a small town and hides behind respectability. Eventually he runs into Carroll again and this time, they become handcuffed together in the Scottish countryside.Robert Donat is a very attractive Hitchcock hero/victim and Madeline Carroll is lovely as the Hitchock blonde. She's cool but feisty when she has to be. They have a nice repartee.You'll see bits of Hitchcock's other films in this - there are strong reminders of Sabotage here as Hannay gets help along the way; he and Carroll are assumed to be a couple; Pamela wants to turn him over to the police; the honorable citizen is a traitor.The Macguffin here is the 39 steps. Like the neo-Nazis in Notorious, the 39 steps are but an excuse for a great story. And when Donat yells out, What are the 39 steps? you're going to ask, after enjoying the entire film and not being bothered by them at all - yeah, what are the 39 steps? "},{"Title":"Classic Mystery Thriller","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 39 Steps is not Hitchcock's best film, but it is a good film, nonetheless. The story follows an average man caught in the middle of a crime that he did not commit, and he has to run away to prove his innocence by finding the people involved and avoiding the police because they think he is responsible. He brings it upon himself to prove his innocence and hunt the criminals by traveling across the countryside, meeting several characters and assuming different identities along the way. The film is well-paced and explores human psychology. As in any Hitchcock film, the cinematography plays a part in telling the story. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of Hitchcock's earliest hits, The 39 Steps sees The Master unravelling the soon-to-be-typical plot of an innocent man on the run, trying to prove his innocence. The film stands out for several reasons; Firstly, the performance by Donat as the innocent Hannay, chased by both the Law and the spy ring he must infiltrate to save himself, is probably the best of his career. He easily shows the frustration his character must be feeling as his attempts are thwarted at every turn, but keeps the British stiff upper lip attitude, a sense of humour, and manages to convince us that he has the ability to charm Pamela while handcuffed to her. The rest of the cast are strong, including Carroll as Pamela, Mannheim as the mysterious Miss Smith, and Tearle as the devious Professor Jordan. Secondly, the sets and scenery are fantastic, moving from London to train, to the misty moors of Scotland, and back. Thirdly, we see the beginnings of the technical skill Hitchock was becoming proficient in, with many memorable cuts and fades. Finally, the humour Hitchcok injects into the story raises it above typical thrillers of the day, without having the budget of his American counterparts. There are many visual gags, and subtle sexual innuendo, provided in part by the excellent cameos. As an early Hitchcock chase thriller, this has everything you could wish for.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A film that TRULY has it all (including an autogyro !)","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Well, quite how this film could be ranked below 8 or 9 by anyone is beyond me. I am bewildered. I guess people who lowered this film's points are those with goldfish-like attention spans who cannot watch old Black and Whites. That is the ONLY reason I can assume someone would not rate the 39 Steps most highly. Then again if you like quality movies, you will know and love this film already and won't need to read this or any reviews anyway.It's tightly written so that you don't realise it's only 86 minutes long. It is definitely exciting, tense, intelligent, humorous, inspiring, invigorating, full of suspense and even romantic (without being dull). A real barn stormer. The pace never drops in this film even in the romantic parts, You cannot miss a second of it.I probably watch this film twice each year and never tire of it. 100% full marks. It's got everything - including an autogyro (predecessor to the helicopter !!!). "}{"Title":"The 39 Steps (1935)","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of Hitchcock's most sheerly enjoyable films and as such is one of my firm favorites of his. Truth be told, I haven't seen it in ages and, although, I've been meaning to reacquaint myself with it via Criterion's SE DVD for some time, I keep postponing such a viewing not least because I have an awful lot of other less familiar Hitchcock films on disc to get through first&#133;not to mention those by other directors which I haven't seen at all! The film is full of memorable characters (particularly Godfrey Tearle's villain and Wylie Watson's Mr. Memory) and sequences, one of which (the innocent hero having himself arrested by the police in a public place to get out of the villains' clutches) was recycled by Hitch himself in such subsequent movies as SABOTEUR (with Robert Cummings as the hero) and, of course, NORTH BY NORTHWEST (with, who else, Cary Grant). Robert Donat and Madeleine Carroll are thoroughly engaging in the leads and their perky banter throughout the film is a joy to watch and quite unique for a thriller of its day.Robert Donat was a great British star of the 30s and 40s but is perhaps chiefly remembered today for having snatched the Best Actor Academy Award from Clark Gable (playing his greatest ever role of Rhett Butler in 1939's GONE WITH THE WIND no less) playing a mild-mannered schoolteacher in GOODBYE, MR. CHIPS; among his impressive credits are THE PRIVATE LIFE OF HENRY VIII (1933; with an Oscar-winning Charles Laughton and Elsa Lanchester), THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO (1934; directed by Rowland V. Lee and which I've yet to see), THE GHOST GOES WEST (1935; with Lanchester again), KNIGHT WITHOUT ARMOUR (1937; with Marlene Dietrich) and THE CITADEL (1938).Madeleine Carroll, who rejoined Hitchock the following year for the bizarre SECRET AGENT (1936), was for a time married to Sterling Hayden and appeared in only a few distinguished films, most notably THE GENERAL DIED AT DAWN (1936) with Gary Cooper, the splendid David O. Selznick-produced THE PRISONER OF ZENDA (1937) with Ronald Colman and the delightful Bob Hope vehicle, MY FAVORITE BLONDE (1942).Although I own the original John Buchan novel, I've never read it but I understand that it has almost nothing to do with Hitchcock's film. I've seen two other reasonably entertaining but unmemorable cinematic versions of the story &#150; the 1959 shot-by-shot remake directed by Ralph Thomas with Kenneth More and Taina Elg and the Robert Powell/Karen Dotrice version directed by Don Sharp which, I believe, was reasonably faithful to the original source novel. "},{"Title":"Required viewing for Hitchcock fans","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This was the third Hitchcock film I saw (after Rear Window and Psycho), and I must say this is the one that really got me started on my admiration of the man's films. It made me realize that Hitchock made some excellent films before he went to Hollywood, and I'm now trying to view as many as possible.The 39 Steps is fun, inventive and probably a pioneer of the spy-thriller movie. The dashing Robert Donat stars as Hannay, an innocent man wanted for murder after a mysterious woman (Calling herself 'Smith' and saying she is a secret agent)that he picks up at the Music Hall (they are watching a performance by Mr Memory, one of Hitchcock's classic eccentric characters)is murdered in his home by agents of 'The 39 Steps'.On a classic run from the police, Hannay encounters one of Hitchcock's typically lovely blonde's, in the form of Madeleine Carroll as Pamela. She gets caught up in this web of intrigue, as the story flows on and reveals the puzzle of The 39 Steps.Great suspense techniques at work here. You can tell Hitchcock had a lot of fun with this one, and the audience does too- it's witty, it's clever and it's a fairly ahead-of-it's-times 30's film. It's got a touch of sexiness in it that other films of the time lack (probably because of the Production Code in Hollywood at that time restricting any 'naughtiness'- that's why Hitchcock got to be slightly cheeky in his early British films!) Hooray Hitchcock! "},{"Title":"Just terrific vintage Hitchcock","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The 39 steps is one of those film that is just so dang entertaining, which is seldom in today's films. Alfred Hitchcock show what he could do, which is truly fantastic because the direction is very flawless. Robert Donat did very fantastic job and he provided comedy relief at unexpected moment. I never had so much fun like this film does, which is surprising since it clocked at approximately 84 minutes. It doesn't have to be artsy-fartsy to be clocked at 2 hours but it can do when provided with rapid establishing storyline and dynamic characters. It is very fantastic film and you can see many of Hitchcock's signature in this film, which is very astonishing since there are several masterpieces that he would create later. Madeleine Carrol did wonderful job in this film and her relationship with Robert Donat is kinda hilarious in this film.I'd watch this film over and over, if I could afford Criterion Collection version because they did great job cleaning up the print of The 39 Steps. Trust me, I have seen old print of The 39 Steps and it is very hard to see what's going on and the print is very dirty. It's just fantastic film that I could enjoy a lot. It is very seldom that we get this type of film but we should be fortunate that we have this film for us to enjoy.****/**** "},{"Title":"Dated? ....umm, no.","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Odd to see this word crop up in reviews so frequently. Its almost become a sort of pet quote for those with lack of something more insightful to say. Now let's see..this film was made almost... 70 years ago! Yes that would sort of 'date' it a little; I'm sure that in 1935 Hitch wasn't losing any sleep over the chance that certain concepts might not gel with those living in 2003. What he did accomplish however is making one heckuva fine flick. Just one look at the list of imitations it spawned should somewhat prove this. The pace is fast and the action hooks you from the beginning with all the usual Hitchcock elements added in - some of them being used here for the first time. Considered to be the true first 'typical' Hitch movie and therefore a must see. "},{"Title":"Comedy in Horror?","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  39 STEPS is an excellent example of how Hitchcock adds moments of comedy in his suspense and thriller plots. While the main character of the film is jumping from trains and jumping out of windows to save his life, he always manages to have moments of comical antidotes to leave the audience of too much action for one evening. 39 STEPS is another great example of his continuing use of the same plot structure with the wrongly accused man and the style of how he escapes one situation after another.  "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Wonderful, warming, witty, and downright bloody brilliant. Simplicity and suspense. See it, again. The continuity of time, and quality of the central characters combine to involve the viewer at the most basic level. Modern thrillers should learn that bangs and bombs can never match a perfect plot and premise in engaging the viewer "},{"Title":"My favourite film of all","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw it on tv.  I decided to tape it for no reason at all, other than that I'd never watched a Hitchcock film.  Next day, I sat down to watch it, and was near the end of the film, and Mr Memory was saying Facts from history, from scientific books-- when the tape ran out!  I didn't know how it ended.A couple of years later it was playing in a Sunday double with The Lady Vanishes at a local cinema, and I went to see it.  It was worth the wait. It was just as good as I remembered, if not better.  The suspense, the humour, the rapid changes of scene, have not really been done better before or since.  At least one much-overused plot device occurred for the first time in this movie, but here it's still fresh.  It might not be the greatest film ever made, the wittiest, the most suspenseful, but for maintaining a fair average on all these counts and more, it's up there with the best of them.  My favourite. "},{"Title":"Just as good as anything Hitch did in Hollywood","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Alfred Hitchcock made this film in Britain way back in 1935, five years before venturing over to this side of the Atlantic, and yet The 39 Steps is just as suspenseful, exciting, and fun as any of his best Hollywood movies.  Amazing.  Fine performances from Robert Donat, (Mr. Chips he ain't here) Madeleine Carroll, and Lucie Mannheim as the woman who's murdered in the beginning.  Even Peggy Ashcroft shows up as a Scottish farmer's wife who helps Donat, and she's good, too.  Great atmosphere of intrigue, deception, and everything else you'd expect from Hitch, and indeed it is very fresh even today.  There's even a clever little shot of a maid seeing the murdered Mannheim's body, as her scream dissolves into a train whistle blowing.  And there are some great lines that are still funny.  (Donat to milkman Are you married?  Milkman Yes, but don't rub it in.)  The sound is a bit muddy, (Though not very bad) and there are some confusing points along the way, but all in all it's great, classic Hitchcock.   "},{"Title":"Breezy surface, troubled depths.","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Although the American Hitchcocks are the masterpieces of the medium, there is something about the British films that come as a bit of shock.  Violent, flippant, vulgar, jerky, saucy, risk-taking, they are absolute gems that should not be neglected.  THE 39 STEPS is obviously the most famous one like all great Hitchcocks, it works on two levels.  On the first is an immensely enjoyable innocent-on-the-run thriller, full of excellent jokes, astonishing set-pieces, a hurtling narrative, dashing heroes, gorgeous heroines, sinister villains, sundry eccentrics, and a wonderfully erotic coupling.  On the second is a bleak, stunning deconstruction of masculinity look closely at how Hannay is treated, and how he is compared to the other men of the movie, especially in his treatment of women.  He is not a very nice man. "},{"Title":"The best of Hitchcock's early films.","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Most people forget that Hitchcock directed a group of very fine British films before crashing Hollywood in 1940 with the Oscar-winning Rebecca. In my opinion, The 39 Steps is the finest film of this early period.  It has intrigue, romance, suspense, and wonderful chemistry between Robert Donat and Madeleine Carroll.  Anyone who considers him or herself to be a true Hitchcock fan must see this excellent movie. "}{"Title":"Mr Hitchcock's best chase","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Although the comments of those who consider this film to be merely 'good' Hitchcock need to be respected, I feel they are somewhat mis-informed. This is the best Hitchcock chase movie and certainly one of his most enjoyable. I feel many are put of by the somewhat shaky production values and the age, which makes the film seem tremendously old (only five years before Rebecca?).  Coupled to this Robert Donat's hair and moustache does the film no favours.  Being a fan of older films and FILMs in general, I have no such worries.The film is better than North By Northwest I think.  Now I have watched the latter film 3-4 times since I believe in giving every film its deserved viewings, but I cannot shake the feeling it is somewhat overrated BUT BY JUST.  It is still an EXCELLENT film, but by no means up there with HIS best.  The 39 Steps is better, the story has better pacing, a wittier interchange between the 2 leads (and from the supporting characters - i.e. the 2 gentlemen in the train) and some subtler comedy substances.  Plus the fact the locations are moodier - London, and dark, misty Scotland!  The chemistry between the two leads is phenomenal much better than in North by Northwest, and yet, is based purely on the their mental and verbal interactions rather than their physical (incidently I found Madeleine Carroll very sexy even if, all she does is remove her stockings).There are also some great touches such as that famous sound cut to the roaring train when the first murder is discovered, and the chases on show. Although these set pieces are more brief and low key compared to his later films, they complement the story to no end.  They all fit in with the natural flow of the film as opposed to being flamboyant showpieces.  For me North by Northwest is a more glossier affair and is a great example of the stereotypical Hollywood romance including the long gazes, long kisses, and reliance on star charisma to give charisma.The 39 Steps is something special and deserves to be in the BFi's greatest list.  Certainly as good as the THIRD MAN (not as accomplished a piece in terms of cinematic art, but definitely more thrilling enjoyable).  While not as deep or psychologically complex as some of his other works - for pure entertainment, atmosphere and storytelling its hard to beat.  After all, Mr Hitchcock was always primarily in it for good, intelligent entertainment fused with creative art  - he never cared much for the pretension and pointless symbolism that most yearn for (that is why I like his work so much), and certainly the amount of interest and exhaustive examination into who Mr Hitchcock was, is utterly pointless - people need to spend more time watching his films, rather than partaking in pointless exercises.Some may argue that the film COMPLETELY skimps over the criminal elements of the story, NEVER elaborating on details, or the motivation of the crime perpetrators (they are very much relegated to the shadow), but I prefer it this way since mystery and intrigue is built up and  and the picture is devoid of all the (intrusive?) talky, exposition evident in his later works. Instead Mr Hitchcock focuses on his two leads, letting them light up the screen.The 39 Steps is certainly up there with Rear Window, Vertigo, Notorious, Man Who Knew Too Much etc.. as his best work and still better than accomplished chase pictures such Minority Report and Mission Impossible which come out today.  A five star film - must see for all art fanatics.PS the similarities of this film to 1942s Saboteur (an underrated Hitchcock movie) are extraordinary, if it were not for the fact that both films are made by him it would be plagiarism.  Similarities extend to the device with the handcuffs, the somewhat feisty and hysterical blonde, journeys to the middle of nowhere to confront the mastermind, and the way the main protagonist is helped by locals who are all too quick to place faith in believing him.  "},{"Title":"Spying with charm.","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Donat stars in this engaging spy thriller as Canadian Richard Hannay, who gets embroiled in all manner of intrigue when he attends a live stage show in London.  The finale of the show features Mr. Memory, a remarkable man who has memorized thousands of facts on all manner of subjects.  When someone asks Mr. Memory who the last British heavyweight champion was, before he can answer, one member of the audience calls out, Henry V111, and another, My old woman.  Then shots are heard.  Hannay finds himself escorting Annabella Smith to his apartment, where he feeds her a huge piece of fish fillet.  Somehow, she manages to get fatally stabbed in Hannay's apartment, (A neat trick since he wasn't hurt, there was no hint of forced entry, and she certainly didn't go for a walk since she knew there were men after her and had alerted him about it.) and tells him sensitive information which will force him to go to Scotland with international spies and the police hot on his heels. The film is very compelling and Donat is superb as the level-headed, easy going and remarkably shrewd gentleman who always manages to outwit his adversaries.  One scene in particular is a riot.  Hannay is on the run from spies in a large town in Scotland with handcuffs attached to one of his wrists.  He manages to slip into a political meeting at the very moment a large room full of people are waiting for a candidate to arrive and give his views on the issues.  Using platitudes, generalities, sincere fervor, and his dashing charm, Hannay delivers a rousing speech, demonstrating the seldom recognized truth that politicians rarely if ever say anything definitive about the 'issues'.The cast is excellent, including Miles Malleson as the music hall announcer who introduces Mr. Memory.  Miles was in A Christmas Carol with Allister Sim as a kind of disheveled pawn broker.  He also played a minister who is an expert on tarantulas in the Hammer version of 'Hound of The Baskervilles', and he played a doctor in Hammer's Brides of Dracula.  Also in the cast is Peggy Ashcroft as Margaret Crofter, an attractive and lonely woman who is married to a farmer much older than herself.  She falls for Hannay right away and helps him escape from the police ... and her husband!  She had a pivotal role in The Nun's Story with Audrey Hepburn, as the nun in charge of the community in the Belgian Congo.The 39 Steps keeps up a bristling pace as Hannay races against time and continually must elude the pursuers who are after him at every turn.  What is nice about the film is that it has a particular charm and a number of sweet interludes in unexpected places that do not diminish the suspense which keeps you completely engrossed in the story.  "},{"Title":"Let's cut to the chase ...","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A sort of Scottish `North by Northwest', but better.  In both films the hero is pursued by criminals AND by the forces of the law, but Thorndyke has an escape clause that Hannay doesn't if the worst comes to the worst, Thorndyke can always run into the arms of the police and hope for the best - and ultimately he does, and the best comes to pass.  Hannay is lost whichever side catches him.  He leaps adroitly from frying pan to fire and back again so many times that even he has difficulty remembering who he's running from at any given moment.  Anyway, Robert Donat has much more unforced charm than Cary Grant ever did.  And Madeleine Carrol is a much less wan and floppy heroine than Eva Marie Saint ...  Indeed, it's largely because of the women that `North By Northwest' has not aged nearly so well as its predecessor, made twenty-four years earlier.I'm not trying to sink the boot into the later film it's just that the earlier one is about as good as Hitchcock gets.  Like `The Lady Vanishes' it's enormous fun, with a romance between equals and non-stop motion.  There's also a scene that I find the most touching one in Hitchcock's canon, involving a nasty fire-and-brimstone preacher and his courageous wife. "},{"Title":"I am truly shocked this movie has an 8 rating...","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As a Hitchcock fan, this was the only movie of his I had not seen. I waited for a very special occasion to watch it and the setting was perfect. Oh, but what a disappointment! I mean a huge disappointment, especially compared to any other Hitchcock film. As another reviewer has mentioned, I think this is an example of people giving good reviews simply because they are supposed to and it shows their Love & Understanding of Fine Cinema. My guess is many have not seen the movie. Where do I begin to tell you why this movie is such a disappointment? Ridiculous overacting, implausible change of heart by main character, forgettable milquetoast of a leading man (Donat), and repeated coincidences to push the seriously weak plot that are so unbelievably silly that everyone in my viewing laughed.The capper was the ending. After I watched it, I went to the National Archives in D.C. (I live there) to find original reviews on the movie (which I do often). The 1935 critical reviews are far more diverse in their opinions than the glowing write-ups on this board would lead you to believe. Many major critics of the day hated the movie and many more were confused by the silly and convenient ending which Hitchcock himself was forced to explain many times. I recommend that those interested do their own research into the opinions of Hitchcock's contemporaries without the modern hindsight and positive baggage the director's name conveys.I'm sorry to say this but the 39 Steps is, without any doubt on my part, Hitchcock's worst. I recommend you take 39 Steps away from this movie and move down the isle to get _any_ other Hitchcock movie especially Torn Curtain, Rear Window, Lifeboat, and The Lady Vanishes. "},{"Title":"What are The 39 Steps?!?","Date":"12 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Hitchcock is certainly directed over 10 films to the THE 39 STEPS. The director who promises, or simply he does not succeed to make a good movie. There are many reasons. Hitch persistently raises and cares for their style. This way of expression in the British film industry is not going well. Specific time. Average and commercial novel, a story loosely based on the novel of the same name, a solid budget and freedom to work were the guarantor of director's success.At the heart of the story is a murder around which interfere an innocent man, a beautiful girl, a lot of plot, mystery and conspiracy. The story is solid, at times illogical and very exciting. Hitchcock's convinced me that probability, logic and detailing are not the key to good film. This genre is needed speed, excitement and tension. I condemn some directors called masters. Hitch is one of them. I will be more clear, the script is well written and composed, only some segments targeted set aside. Complications are in the right place, even though they appear out of nowhere and keep uncertainty at a high level. The characters are quite interesting, and each is special in its own way. Even those who appear in several scenes fit perfectly into the story.Robert Donat as Richard Hannay is a kind of tragic hero who accepts his fate and searches for truth. Donat's choice for leading actor is a hit. Madeleine Caroll (Pamela) is offensive and frightened female character. The change in her character that comes with the knowledge of the truth is impressive. It is more beautiful and charming.I think the director did not take into account the chemistry between the two main actors. Donat and Carroll made sure that it is. There are especially fine performances by John Laurie as the treacherous Scot who harbors the fugitive, Peggy Ashcroft as his sympathetic wife, Godfrey Tearle as the man with the missing finger, and Wylie Watson as the memory expert of the music halls, who proves to be the hub of the mystery. Hitchcock's magic at work. "},{"Title":"too superficial","Date":"19 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A. Hitchcock's mindless and unjustly acclaimed adaptation of J. Buchan's dark and gripping novel makes me think that people in the 1930s, who had no ready access to video, craved for superficial visual crap. The film discards the literary Hannay's agonizing ordeal for survival in a bleak environment and his cryptic challenges, while it opts for trite sexual stereotypes, casting 2 irritating females one of which the murdered agent (no Scudder or black book here, not even the real 39 steps), shamefully sugarcoated by comic overtones & laid-back atmosphere.All in all, a silly movie, not a thriller that pays the slightest tribute to Buchan's story. "},{"Title":"Great pot-boiler that wears its contrivances on its sleeve","Date":"9 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 39 Steps is a great early Hitchcock pot-boiler. This is what every masala film should aspire to be.Every twist in the film is an event in itself. the plot isn't really that important but the ending is ingenious. The Mr.Memory character is a great creation.It is amazing how much Hitchcock packs into an 86 minute film. The melancholic housewife in the Scottish highlands who longs for the city life and her strict religious husband - what a strange choice of characters to make an appearance in an exciting film like this. I never saw that coming. They are a perfect foil for the gung-ho bar running couple who appear towards the end of the film. Both couples provide shelter to the man on the run, of course.The writing is unbelievably clever. Every scene is adorned with witty and tongue in cheek dialog. I guess The Third Man borrowed the bit with the man on the run entering a meeting and talking to an unsuspecting audience to escape the police from this film.The 39 Steps proudly wears its contrivances on its sleeve.The choices of camera angles at the beginning and ending of the film are very stylish.(8/10) "},{"Title":"A good little ride","Date":"31 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 39 Steps of 1935 is a film directed by Alfred Hitchcock and stars such people as Robert Donat. This is one of those films considered to be not only the first signs of what Hitchcock would do in his later life, but also a film that is considered one of the very best British cinema has to offer. I though have to disagree, now don't get me by any stretch wrong here, I like this movie and I thought it was a good watch, but I just couldn't look at this and say it was great let alone really liking it.The story is exciting to be fair, man on the run, secret agents, a man who can memorise anything he see's or hears, it is absolutely crazy, but good. The plot plays our rather nicely, the timing is crazily off mostly because of its short running time and bits can seem rushed but all in all it is fairly exciting. I think it feels different than from other films of the day, it just seems much more like what you might see in films today, whether or not this has stood the test of time well that is for you to see, but it still feels refreshing-ish amongst the classic films.Robert Donat is our main man, trying to find out what these 39 steps are all about and also getting into a few pickles along the way. Donat is fine in the role and is really good here, not only is he calm and sophisticated but he also deals with the more serious moments well, and still in them can seem oddly charming. Madeleine Carroll is alright as Pamela but I did feel no one in the cast can quite match Donat and his performance. The characters are very complex I will say, Hitchcock makes sure he is not letting us the viewer know what the hell is going on until the every end, a good bit of suspense.And to the legend himself, Alfred Hitchcock whose skill is plain to see but also in my opinion overrated here. Now alright alright I'm not saying he's bad here, far from it but what I think is that people who watch this and see Hitch directed it instantly just say he directed it amazingly and he makes it good. Now although I don't fully disagree, I think it is actually those like Robert Donat who make this enjoyable and the whole thrilling plot is based on a book, Hitch does do a fine job, just not as good as he would do one day.If your looking at this film as either a Hitchcock fan or want to see his movies, I wouldn't say don't watch but don't also think this will be a masterpiece, it isn't all perfect. It is the length that didn't work for me and I even love short movies but it just feels too rushed like I previously said and you can't fully engage into the characters and their lives, we just don't get to know them well enough. I hear a lot of people compare this to the future Hitchcock film North by Northwest and that is true it is the man on the run kind of film, but what I will say is Hitchcock didn't copy this when he made that, this is very much his own style and one that is in line with British Cinema, not over in Hollywood.Overall I did (even if my review seems kind of oddly negative) enjoy this piece of cinema. I would recommend it to people mainly because I think some will really enjoy it, the excitement is there and the leading character is well acted out. I do however feel this is yet another old film overrated by us in the future, I mean not by a lot but just watch it properly and don't keep thinking about Hitchcock directing it. "},{"Title":"Classic film which will last through the ages","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When watching a black and white film in the modern day it's easy to overlook subtle aspects which would've made it stand out for its time. The 39 Steps has all the hallmarks of a classic Hitchcock escapade with the addition of some of the most innovative cinematography ever. The smooth panning, cut-away shots, and smart camera angles are techniques which are revered even today; Hitchcock made the most of the sterile B&W format by prioritising cinematography to create a tense, gripping story. The main flaw with this adaptation is its divergence from the book - several significant points, such as the nature of the 39 steps and the inclusion of a female lead (Madeleine Carroll), were altered to make the film more exciting. If - like me - you haven't read the book, however, this isn't an impediment to the story at all. Surprisingly for an early film, the pace of the narrative is exactly right, never once moving too quickly (as many short 30s films have a tendency to do). Comic elements are blended seamlessly with tense sequences, emphasising Hanney's peril rather than undermining it. A strong sense of realism pervades the action, making the story even more beguiling. All the acting performances are sublime, but the real star of the film is the Scottish Highland backdrop, bleak and beautiful even in black and white. A sparse yet emotive score builds tension at key points; the dialogue is as sharp as in any Hitchcock thriller. The ultimate test of a classic film is if it can still be as entertaining as it was on its day of release, and The 39 Steps fulfils that category perfectly. It remains an excellent, amusing thriller which twists and turns right to the end, and will hopefully continue to delight audiences throughout the ages. "},{"Title":"A Delightful Thrill Ride From A Young Hitchcock","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" What are the 39 steps? we ask ourselves at a near constant pace during The 39 Steps. Unlike the ambiguities of The Birds or Suspicion, we do eventually find out the answer to the question that so harshly eludes us. But like The Birds and Suspicion, we have a director at the front of the film that makes us care about the answer. If it was devoid of its smart suspense, surely the results would not be so startlingly entertaining. The 39 Steps comes fairly early in Alfred Hitchcock's lustrous career, arriving in 1935 (keep in mind his last movie was released in 1976) and acting like a sample of the more assured wronged man/chase movie/adventure romps of the Master of Suspense's future. I was reminded of later masterpieces, like Saboteur and North by Northwest, two wronged- man on-the-run actioners that slid along with electric thrills and winking humor that felt at ease in the tense atmosphere.Robert Donat portrays Richard Hannay, a young man confronted with murder and intrigue at a rate most normal folks would faint at. One night, Hannay attends a sideshow highlighting Mr. Memory (Wylie Watson), a performer with startling memorizational abilities &#x97; ask any question (besides a personal one), Mr. Memory will know the answer with the detail of a much tended to Wikipedia page. Hecklers attempt to damage the wonders of the scene, but just as things are beginning to turn around, shots are fired, causing a massive panic and the thud of a dead body. Hannay finds himself comforting an attractive woman, Annabelle Smith (Lucie Mannheim), in the midst of the ruckus. He takes her back to his flat in sympathy, but just because it's 1935 doesn't mean that some people aren't hoping to get just a little bit lucky.Before anything can happen, though, Annabelle reveals her true motive &#x97; she is not just a woman who trusts that men will take her back to their apartment and not try anything questionable; she is also a spy who is being pursued by deadly assassins. You see, she has just discovered a wicked plot to steal important British military secrets. Why she is foolish enough to tell all this to a bystander she only met a few minutes ago I don't know, but here's where the plot kicks in she (a) mentions the 39 steps (but doesn't include its meaning!), (b) warns that the mastermind behind the entire plot is missing the top joint of his finger, (c) is murdered, and (d) leaves Hannay not only confused but also wanted for her murder. So he goes on the run, and throughout the course of his unwanted adventure he finds out what the 39 steps actually are/is, meets the man who probably has a difficult time handling a pencil, discovers who offed Annabelle, and teams up with a blonde (Madeleine Carroll) who acts as his love interest and sidekick.Truth is, Hitchcock has made plenty of movies that bear similarities to The 39 Steps (he can't get enough of wronged-men and sophisticated blondes), but our inhibitions are nonexistent because this is a Hitchcock movie, for crying out loud. Even if many of his themes and characters could pass for brother and sister, there is never a feeling of repetition in his films. As one of the best (and most inventive) directors of all time, he is never lazy, always devising new ways to fondle the camera, finding the fun in actors and their characters, making them people we can root. It's impossible not to remember a specific shot or a specific character in his films considering they all feel so utterly distinct.The 39 Steps is perhaps a seamless example of Hitchcock's genius. It's uncomplicated, totally enjoyable fluff, but like all of his films, there is a harmonious relationship between unaffected escapism and true art. The plot moves along with remarkable speed, resembling a roller coaster ride or an old-fashioned adventure film in the same mindset of The African Queen or King Solomon's Mines. But the punchiness would simply not work if not for Hitchcock's extremely deliberate attitude towards his camera-work and his storytelling. Take, for instance, the scene in which the first murder takes place the crowd, heckling their brains out, are almost a single body, one big ball of sassiness. But when the gun is fired, it isn't just some random noise that interrupts the situation. Hitchcock skims around the entire group of people, defining them as a large mass. Then, suddenly, he cuts to the hand that shoots, sending the room into a frenzy. A quick move like this only builds the suspense. It gives an impression that in any setting, even a sideshow act where things seem safe, there is always some sort of faceless threat, establishing our, and the leading man's, paranoia. We can laugh at the wit that we're faced with near constantly, and we can sweat bullets all we want at the sight of a villain, but never do we feel completely at ease. Other quirks, such as keeping the mugs of the men who eventually kill Annabelle far away but dangerous, keeping a close-up on Donat whenever he enters a situation where he may or may not be recognized, heighten the giddy thrills Hitchcock magnificently creates.Donat is wonderful, and so are Carroll and the writing, but The 39 Steps is more about Hitchcock than anyone else. It is, perhaps, the film that started it all. It began the legend of the macabre adoring director just as much in love with entertaining audiences as he was with his camera and his thoughtful manipulations. "}{"Title":"Early Hitchcock","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A man in London tries to help a counterespionage agent. But when the agent is killed and the man stands accused, he must go on the run to both save himself and also stop a spy ring which is trying to steal top secret information.Of the four major film versions of the novel, Hitchcock's film has been the most acclaimed. In 1999, the British Film Institute ranked it the fourth best British film of the 20th century; In 2004, Total Film named it the 21st greatest British film of all time, and in 2011 named it the second greatest Best Book to Film Adaptation. There is really no denying that Hitchcock's version is best. Who else has even come close. The other honors are a bit harder to understand. This is not even Hitchcock's fourth best film, let alone the fourth best in all of British history...Where Hitchcock's previous film, The Man Who Knew Too Much, had costs of £40,000, The 39 Steps cost nearly £60,000. Much of the extra money went to the star salaries for Robert Donat and Madeleine Carroll. This is ironic in retrospect. Few today (2015) know of Carroll or Donat, whereas Peter Lorre went on to become quite famous for his image and voice. "},{"Title":"Classic manhunt movie.","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 39 Steps has a theme that's common in a lot of Alfred Hitchcock films. That's where an innocent person gets in some deep trouble. Richard Hannay (Robert Donat) is a Canadian in the United Kingdom on a trip. After witnessing the incredible talent of Mr. Memory (Wylie Watson) a man who knows almost everything he hears gunfire in the audience. As Richard is frantically trying to escape he finds a girl named Annabella Smith (Lucie Mannheim) who is seemingly scared. But later in Richard's hotel Annabella tells him that she is a foreign agent investigating a spy ring. Later in the night Annabella is fatally stabbed and dies in Richard's room. Because the police think that he killed her he has to go on a run from the police, prove his innocence and find out who or what the 39 steps is. The script is really good here, and the story is very intriguing. The acting here is also good. And it's really intense like most Hitchcock films. I can definitely recommend to fans of Hitchcock as well as anyone who appreciates a good film. "},{"Title":"It Is Hard to Keep a Secret","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It is often said that in old movies, even husbands and wives had to sleep in twin beds, and if both got on the same bed, at least one foot of one person had to be on the floor. Actually, if that was a rule, it was never written down, because it is nowhere to be found in the Production Code. And if it was a rule, it was not followed in this 1935 movie, because an unmarried man and woman get in a double bed and spend the night with all four feet on the bed. Part of the reason may have to do with the fact that the movie was made in the United Kingdom. Maybe their censorship rules were different, and America just went along. Also, it probably helped that the man and woman are antagonistic toward each other, sleeping together only because of handcuffs, so that there is not the slightest suggestion that they will have sex with each other.At the end of the movie, Hannay calls out to Mr. Memory during a performance, asking, What are the 39 steps? to which Mr. Memory begins to answer before he is shot, thereby leading to the capture of the man who shot him, who heads the organization of spies. We have to wonder why Mr. Memory started answering the question. We suspect there are two reasons first, Mr. Memory was a somewhat unwilling participant in the spy ring (blackmail?); and second, his pride in being able to answer any factual question that was put to him made him unable to say, I don't know.But that started me thinking. This is not the only Hitchcock movie in which a villain blurts out the truth even though in so doing he provides information that could or does lead to his undoing. In Spellbound (1945), Constance (Ingrid Bergman) gets her colleague, Dr. Murchison (Leo G. Carroll), to help her figure out the meaning of a dream, which he does, thereby incriminating himself. In Shadow of a Doubt (1943), Uncle Charlie (Joseph Cotton), the Merry Widow murderer, vehemently expresses his disgust for foolish widows at the dinner table. In Frenzy (1972), Blaney (Jon Finch) is being hunted by the police for being the Necktie Strangler. He turns to Rusk (Barry Foster) for help, not realizing that Rusk himself is the Necktie Strangler. While they are talking, Rusk says with a hostile tone in his voice that some of these women who are raped and murdered get exactly what is coming to them, but Blaney is too distracted to notice.And come to think of it, I suppose we all have had moments when we blurted out something incriminating, when we could have simply kept our big mouths shut. "},{"Title":"The Original - and Best - of the Buchan Adaptations","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Forget the other two film versions (from 1959 and 1978) as well as the long-running stage adaptation that has graced the London stage for several years now. Hitchcock's version of the John Buchan classic still has the power to surprise and astonish eighty years after its premiere.Basically it has very little to do with the Buchan source-text Hitchcock merely takes the title (The Thirty-Nine Steps) as a pretext for constructing a highly entertaining comedy-thriller that's not without its sinister overtones - for example the sado- masochistic implications of Richard Hannay (Robert Donat) and Pamela (Madeleine Carroll) being chained together by the hands as they try to escape the clutches of Professor Jordan (Godfrey Tearle) and his gang. The two roam the Scottish Highlands and even spend the night together in a sequence notable for its sexual subtext.As with many of Hitchcock's British thrillers, THE THIRTY-NINE STEPS is replete with memorable supporting performances. As a noted stage actor of his day, Tearle comes across as polite, well-mannered and calm; the only indication we have of his sinister nature is the fact that one of his fingers has been severed (emphasized in a deliberate close-up). John Laurie is a suspicious Highland crofter, interested more in money than in sheltering Hannay and Pamela; his surly characterization contrasts with that of Peggy Ashcroft as his spouse, a tidy yet sympathetic woman (even if her Scottish accent is a little forced).The thriller comes to a head in an old-style variety theater, where Mr. Memory Man (Wylie Watson) is forced to admit the secrets of the Thirty-Nine Steps in the middle of his stage act, interrupting the performance and startling a packed house. Hitchcock shows a masterly grasp of popular culture of the time; the combination of sweat, dirt, good fellowship and classlessness that prevailed in variety theaters, contrasting starkly with the class-ridden world outside.Shot on a low budget, with some location shooting in Scotland as well as a memorable sequence where Hannay escapes on a train, this THIRTY-NINE STEPS is a unique cinematic experience. "},{"Title":"The 39 Steps/Saboteur/North by Northwest","Date":"28 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Hitchcock made this movie three times the first was released in 1935 called The 39 Steps, the second in 1942 called Saboteur, and the third in 1959 named North by Northwest.The basic ingredients are (1) A lonely man wrongfully accused of something he didn't do. (2) His wanting to have himself in the clear. (3) His incapacity of turning his case over to justice. (4) His pursuit of the party who incriminated him. (5) His involvement in between with a blond girl that he can't trust. (6) His final encounter with his nemesis, preferably at a spectacular site.The 39 Steps is truly a masterpiece, for it is still mesmerizes you in spite of being filmed 80 years ago! Which other movie that old does that? None whatsoever, I dare you. (The next likely candidate, The Lady Vanishes was only released three years later, and was directed by the Master of Suspense as well.)Now, North by Northwest would have been this masterpiece, had it not been preceded by The 39 Steps. Noth by Northwest has some unforgettable moments as the pesticide aircraft chase, but the plot is anything but new.Saboteur differs from the other two pictures in being excessively patriotic and antifascist, somewhat of war propaganda, shot during WWII as it was. It does have some exciting moments, but having seen the other two movies in the trilogy, it just sticks out as the lesser attempt of them. "},{"Title":"How far is Winnipeg from Montreal?","Date":"4 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a review of The Lady Vanishes and The 39 Steps, two early classics by Alfred Hitchcock. Released in 1938, The Lady Vanishes stars May Witty as Miss Froy, a British woman who vanishes whilst on a train journey across Europe. Attempting to locate Miss Froy are Iris (Margaret Lockwood) and Gilbert (Michael Redgrave), a couple of unwitting adventurers. She's your typical Hitchcockian leading lady, headstrong and opinionated, he's a dashing musician, complete with that pencil-thin moustache so favoured by dapper British heroes. Both believe Froy to have been kidnapped.Hitchcock's films often find their heroes trapped in mischievous conspiracies. Here our heroine, like the lead in Hitchcock's North by Northwest, is accused of being absolutely insane. She, everyone insists, imagined a kidnapping where none took place. But Iris remains undaunted. She proceeds to search her train, determined to get to the heart of what turns out to be an ingenious shell-game.Whilst The Lady Vanishes doesn't ascribe a nationality to its villains, it nevertheless serves as one of Hitchcock's early propaganda pieces. Most of the film finds various British characters unconcerned about Miss Froy's absence. It is only when Froy is revealed to be a British secret agent, and when a certain European country is revealed to be sinister and violent, that our cast of Brits spring into action (they assemble in a carriage and take up arms against the enemy). In this way, the film becomes a covert attack on British obstinacy in the face of Nazi aggression. Why jump a fence when you can sit on it?! one character quips, a form of passive diplomacy which the film denounces. Epitomising these attitudes are Charters and Caldicott (played by comedian duo Basil Radford and Naunton Wayne), a couple of chronically unimpressed Englishmen who'd let people vanish if it meant arriving at a cricket game on time. Because of such petty obsessions and snobbish self-regard, the film argues, kindly heroes like Miss Froy are left to die! Like most Hitchcock films, Vanishes is brisk, kinky (copious shots of women in their undergarments), gives complex (for the time) leading roles to women and carefully mixes thrills with humour. We also see Hitchcock's unique approach to filming space; he creates models to facilitate sweeping shots, his camera work is almost always audacious and he seems exhilarated by the challenge of shooting a film almost entirely within a train's cramped carriages.Politically, the film is a bit less impressive, its last half hour resorting to emotional blackmail (a cute, elderly spy!), British xenophobia and simplistic attitudes toward history and politics; the European fascists (particularly Hitler and Mussolini) weren't Britain's enemy in the lead up to WW2, but her chief allies against workers movements which sought the toppling of European aristocracy. It's a truism found throughout history the enemy of your enemy is your friend, and when he gets too big for his boots, take him out yourself. The result is a film supposedly about British insularity and classism, that is itself insular and classist. Whilst typically viewed as being apolitical, Hitchcock actually made several propaganda pictures (Foreign Correspondent, Adventure Malgache, F3080, Bon Voyage, Sabotage, Topaz, Lifeboat, Torn Curtain etc). Before all these was 1935's The 39 Steps, an ahead-of-its time espionage thriller.Like most Hitchcock films, Steps revolves around a man wrongly accused of a crime. He's Richard Hannay, a Canadian tourist who finds himself in the strange world of Britain, and the stranger world of pre-War espionage. Unfolding like a noirish nightmare, much of the film consists of Hannay evading the police, lurking in shadows and attempting to solve a mystery involving the theft of stolen military secrets. Interestingly, the film reverses several aspects of The Lady Vanishes; where that film involved spies and secrets returning to Britian, Steps involves the smuggling of stolen secrets out of Britain. Both films also have their secrets stored in music, one stored within a Music Hall performer, the other embedded within a song.The 39 Steps has been overshadowed by North by Northwest, but in many ways its the better film. It's tighter, darker, and would set in stone many subsequent genre conventions. Like Vanishing, Hitchcock also mixes thrills with screwball comedy, throws in yet more shots of women in their lingerie (Hitch's camera practically salivates as women remove their stockings), and climaxes with a bickering duo becoming a romantic couple. Its last shots then echo that of The Lady Vanishes, hands clasping as nightmares end.8.9/10 &#x96; Charming and brisk, both films are early Hitchcock masterpieces, though both are also perhaps too British for international audiences. "},{"Title":"Exceptional and Futuristic","Date":"29 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 'The Thirty Nine Steps' Alfred Hitchcock (1935) BFI 100 #4I don't know how innocent you may be, but you're a woman and you're defenceless and you're alone on a desolate moor in the dark, manacled to a murderer who'll stop at nothing to get you off his hands. If that's the situation you prefer have it my lovely and welcome.There is a sequence in Hitchcock's 'The Thirty Nine Steps' when a car is speeding down a Scottish hill. As our protagonist and his distrusting, unwitting blonde protégé realise that everything is not as it seems, we observe their realisation in close-up. Suddenly and seamlessly the camera that is so close to their faces exits the moving car and stops static on the hill as the vehicle continues to hurtle away. The appropriate response is How the hell did he do that? A quick glance at other cinematic releases from that year gives some idea of how exceptional an accomplishment this movie is. Other directors from that year just weren't doing the things that Mr Hitchcock was. Not that they were incompetent, just not as bloodthirsty with the available technology as he clearly was. Evidently, an immense personality with a heap of verve was pushing camera and crew to traverse a 'pre-Kubrickian' envelope, creating something that still technically outsmarts and thrills, despite also dating somewhat. It is the actors who date the piece the performances are fine, but Robert Donat, watchable as he is, doesn't even try to sound Canadian and Peggy Ashcroft's Scottish accent is a little bit on the English side, but that level of authenticity barely mattered as much back then- Marlene Dietrich in 'Witness For the Prosecution' anyone? Nevertheless, each scene is vivid with a very individual imagination and a Hitchcock fan can tick off the riffs that the director would repeat in later blockbusters the film opening with the lens on the protagonist's feet, as in 'Strangers on a Train,' tumultuous panic in the theatre, like in 'Torn Curtain,' a luckily resourceful man in the wrong place at the wrong time, up against the villainously well to do, just like 'North by Northwest' and of course the gleefully ill-treated blonde, ubiquitous in later works. I particularly enjoyed the high-jinks on the Forth Bridge, and I expect Mr Hitchcock did too. Exceptional and futuristic. "},{"Title":"Still gripping after more than seventy five years","Date":"13 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This early Hitchcock thriller gets the viewers attention in the opening scene when shots ring out during a London music hall show. After the show a woman approaches Canadian Richard Hannay and tells him that she is a spy who is in grave danger after learning of a plot to sell government secrets to a foreign power. I assumed that she would turn out to be the 'romantic interest' in the film but she is soon dead with a knife in her back; before dying she mentioned The Thirty-nine Steps and was clutching a map of Scotland with a village circled. Hannay manages to evade the killer and boards a train to Scotland but by now the police think he is the killer. On the train he seeks the help of a woman but she alerts the police and he makes a daring escape on the Forth Bridge. He then makes his way to the village marked on the map where he finds the man he believes to be the murdered woman's contact but is in fact the chief conspirator! After a very lucky escape he has both the police and the killers after him. He is briefly captured and he finds himself handcuffed to the woman he first met on the train... she is believes he is a killer and as he forces her to escape with him he must persuade her of his innocence if he is to survive and expose the secret of the Thirty-nine Steps.'The 39 Steps' is rightfully considered a classic; it is still exciting over seventy five years after it was made with thrilling chases, taut moments and a constant sense that the hero has nobody he can trust... the killers want him because he may expose them and everybody else wants him because they think he is a killer! The acting was solid with Robert Donat putting in a fine performance as Hannay and Madeleine Carroll being entirely believable as Pamela, the woman he met on the train. While the film is principally a thriller there are a few chuckles to be had such as the lingerie salesmen on the train who embarrasses another passenger while showing off his wares and later when Hannay is forced to give an off the cuff speech after being mistaken for somebody else when he stumbles into a political meeting. If you are a fan of early cinema, the films of Alfred Hitchcock or spy thrillers in general this is a must see. "},{"Title":"Nimble Hair-Trigger Purity of Kind Which is Few and Far Between","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Crisp, uncluttered, witty, and alive with characteristically Hitchcockian tension, The 39 Steps altogether validates the director's unswerving rank as a cinematic master. This rapidly paced chase trails Richard Hannay, played by the charming and perhaps even moving Robert Donat, through one treacherous escapade after another and concurrently pursues, albeit elusively, his quixotic (if not downright chauvinistically portrayed) liaison with Madeleine Carroll. Akin to countless Hitchcock protagonists, Hannay is isolated with little perceptible explanation, erroneously charged with a crime, and mired in a world of deception and peril. It gradually occurs to Hannay that he's among such diabolical powers, and that he must grapple to survive. This situation frequently persists in the director's filmography. Through this premise of the wrong man, Hitchcock mulls over the concern of human individuality and the connected matter, in film, of human uniqueness. He, also through this subject, considers what it signifies to be hurtled into the world of a Hitchcock film. Mortality and exposure to being seen are among the cost, or dangers, that people (characters, actors) confront in his cosmos.Up to cold-blooded brutality and fixed upon reaching worldwide dominance, the character of Professor Jordan brings another foremost Hitchcock subject to exhilarating concoction of spycraft, repartee, expository double-blinds and hectic pursuits across the Scottish Highlands the director by proxy. Hitchcock's films periodically integrate these characters---in North by Northwest, Vertigo, Notorious, Rope, so on---via whom he mirrors his own insight into film authorship. For Hitchcock, to direct a film is, among other things, to build characters through casting and to determine whether they live or die, whether they get idealistic happiness or stay in seclusion, a.k.a. to be God. The trial met by Hitchcock's leads entails tussling free of these author characters. A subsequent maxim in Hitchcock's filmmaking, maybe, is that no one inside the world of a Hitchcock film has his authority or influence over it. But it's also true that, generally, these substitute instigators also lack his humanism.No description of a Hitchcock film is finished exclusive of observations of his camera and its distinctive imagery and composition. Hitchcock wouldn't be Hitchcock if the camera, and the function it serves in the world of the film, were not particular and inimitable. All of the director's renowned cinematic gesticulation is here in what was both a new sort of thriller and a new sort of comedy high angles, such as Hannay's view of the abyss from behind a pillar of the Forth Bridge; radically juxtaposed shots, such as the well-known audio association between the maid's scream and the deafening train; and calculated and evocative shot-reverse-shot sequences, most remarkably in the dinner table scene at the farmer's lodge. Momentous point-of-view shots are rampant too; certainly, this work of pure filmmaking can be appreciated as an analysis of film's ability to translate human subjectivity. Bear in mind, in this light, the camera's function during the sequence in which Hannay is on the train, or when he extemporizes a stump speech at the political rally, or during the film's breathtaking climactic scene.The film bookends with scenes set in theaters. However by the final scene, that which divides the world of the stage from that of the film, the imaginary streak between drama and truth, play and spectator, is butchered. The stage, and the proceedings on it, become part of the movie's reality. Theater's bared in this cleansing movie experience as defenseless to the medium of film, pregnable by reality itself. One shouldn't undervalue the weight of this theme. In this fashion, we'd do well to consider the association of the safety curtain that falls in the pinnacle scene of this 1935 film to the shower curtain ripped down in Psycho, along with the multitude of curtains that drop in all of Hitchcock's pictures. The director's most entrenched focuses&#x97;the stage and its involvement with film, the desertion of people in unoccupied and ominous panoramas, the multifaceted individual pursuit of information, and the nature of mistake and coincidence&#x97;flourish in The 39 Steps. "},{"Title":"The 39 steps","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I first saw The 39 Steps over 10 years ago and have seen it many times since. However during that time, nothing has subtracted from my enjoyment of the film It was the first Hitchcock I ever saw, and it spawned for me a love of the great man.The film is not without fault, the now very cliché scene where Hannay gets shot and the Hymn book saves him can be an irritance. The acting of the French agent, Annabell Smith at the start of the film, also leaves something to be desired. It also spawned the now very familiar story of an innocent man on the run. However overall it is a brilliant film. I love almost everything about it. One of my favourite scenes is where Hannay, whilst on the run from the Scottish Police, accidentally stumbles into a political meeting. I love how it is the beginning of the transformation of a useless charecther into someone who actually has talents. It is brilliant how he convinces the crowd into agreeing with him, even though he has no idea of their beliefs.Another favourite part of the film is the late night conversation in the hotel where Hannay and Pamela are hiding. I love the way in which the Hotels mistress manages to get rid of the pursuers without giving the game away. I also really love The scene near the beginning where Hannay swaps places with the milkman. However I must come to the end of the film. I simply adore the ending. I love the way in which Hitchcock closes the film as he opens it, with the firing of a pistol in a music hall, only this time the shots are used to kill instead of distract. I like the way in which Hannay manipulates Mr Memory into giving the game away by using his compulsion to expel facts when asked. Also Hannays sudden realisation of the tune he has been whistling for the last few days and its significane is brilliant. "}{"Title":"Hitchcock prototype","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This was the prototype of many Hitchcock films to come, and fans of Hitchcock will notice many scenes in The 39 Steps that would be repeated later in Hitchcock's other films. Likewise, The 39 Steps has Hitchcock's recurring themes of a man wanted for a crime that he did not commit and espionage. The fact that this is early in the master's career should not lead one to believe that this movie is inferior to his later films. Quit the contrary, The 39 Steps shows the master at his finest with his quintessential screen shots, strong male lead played by Robert Donat, and Hitchcock blond played by Madeleine Carrol. Donat and Carroll are wonderful in this role with Carroll, in particular, stealing many scenes. Despite a few implausibilities, I found this to be a very enjoyable film that I would recommend to anyone who enjoys this type of thriller. "},{"Title":"A taut and well-made English thriller.","Date":"30 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of the legendary Alfred Hitchcock's first films and a timeless movie, The 39 Steps stands as one of the very finest in mystery/thriller that English cinema has to offer. Hitchcock was getting his feet wet in sound pictures at this time and it is great to see him experimenting with camera angles and mise en scene as well, which would serve him well for some of his later American films that are now considered classics.Two very fine but under-appreciated English actors, Robert Donat and Madeline Carroll, who lead us through this twisted and complex story of a man who comes across a mysterious woman who asks if she can hide at his apartment for the night. In the middle of the night, she comes into his room with a knife in her back and muttering about 39 steps. Framed for the murder, he flees to Scotland in hopes of finding out what she was getting to. Along the way, he meets a young woman on a train who becomes his unwilling partner in solving this tangled mess.As mentioned before, Hitchcock plays with some different techniques that were probably considered ahead of his time. But, what really holds this film together are the two leads; impressive as they are and able to get us interested in their problems and want to know how it all wraps up. The final sequences does come as a bit of a shock, and may polarize some viewers. But, this does stand as one of Hitchcock's early achievements and points the way for his later masterpieces. "},{"Title":"smooth, fun, suspenseful, and a foretaste of things to come","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I can't think of a better film that gives the viewer a glimpse of the next 40 years of quality that lay ahead than The 39 Steps did for Hitchcock. it is a taut, humorous, and lovely film to watch (even in the not so glorious black and white of most editions that are out there).the actors are awesome in all respects, and while there are some occasional slow scenes in the beginning, the overall pacing of the film is remarkable (even in comparison to the films of today, nearly 80 years later). the chase scenes on the moor, the political speech scene, and the scenes in the hotel continue to energize the audience still while Hitchcock was still developing his eventual mastery of editing in this stage, one is still amazed at how the 39 Steps continues to hold up, even in comparison to its later rendition (North by Northwest).Also, in viewing this film again, nearly 20 years after the first time I watched it, one forgets how many movies were inspired by Hitchcock's innocent man stuck in a bad situation (Foul Play, Enemy of the State, etc etc). Just a great film all the way around. a must see. "},{"Title":"One Finger Joint Missing","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There are so many classic Hitchcock films that one can never choose between them. When dazzled by such brilliance on all sides, what is one to do? It is like being in an ice storm, with everything glittering everywhere. One simply has to admire them all, one by one, slowly. So I saw this one again for the nth time. It has certainly not faded with repeated viewing. This time I was able to appreciate things which I had insufficiently noticed in previous viewings, such as the many fascinating details of the rail journey, the shots of Edinburgh Waverley Station, and countless interesting location shots which one can easily overlook in the heat of the story, as for instance the shot of entering the London Palladium really was shot at the entrance to the London Palladium, even though one gets only the briefest glimpse of it. This film contains one of the most famous cuts of all Hitchcock's ouevre, the one where the cleaning woman in London discovers the body and turns towards the camera, uttering a horrified scream which we do not hear, but instead we hear the scream of a train's whistle, and we cut to a shot of the train speeding towards Scotland with Robert Donat aboard. That remains perhaps 'the' classic Hitchcock moment, and is the one all the cinema historians like to rave about, reproducing the shots and talking about what a genius Hitchcock was, all of which is true, of course. As Hitchcock's wife Alma Reville was in charge of continuity (which included working with the editor Derek Twist) for this film, the ironical question to ask is this was Mrs. Hitchcock really the one who did this, rather than Alfred himself? Every time I see this film I admire the eerie touch of Wylie Watson's performance as Mr. Memory. At the end, Watson adds a touch of utter pathos which is one of the finest things in the film. Somehow, one can never quite get Mr. Memory out of one's mind, as he is such a wounded elephant, a man with a memory of gigantic proportions, but with the tiniest of personalities, whose one greatest desire is to download and be rid of part of his huge burden of information. Peggy Ashcroft makes so much of her cameo role, in only her second film, and conveys profound pathos as well in just a few glances. Lucie Mannheim as Annabella Smith has just the exotic and foreign touch needed to make her character convincing, as the Mata Hari-type for hire, who gets the dagger in her back for all her pains. The story of this film is tosh from start to finish, as threadbare as an old carpet, but none of that matters, and we don't care, because it is a 'chase' film, not a whodunit. Nor do we care that the early form of helicopter (a Pitcairn auto-gyro) is just a model. There is one shocking continuity lapse in this film, which is that Robert Donat, who has not carried a suitcase with him, leaves London in a dark suit and ends up in Scotland wearing a pale suit. It is to be doubted that the Scottish mists were sufficient cause for this bleaching and change of tone, and one surmises Alma must have had flu or something when the costume department made this catastrophic error. (Or should we say that Robert Donat's suit was so unimportant that it paled into insignificance?) Robert Donat is such a splendid lead for this film, and his early death from an asthma attack at the age of only 53 was a monumental tragedy. But here he is only 30, and as sprightly as can be, with enough charm to melt the heart of the Wicked Witch of the East. I have always had my doubts about Madeleine Carroll. She was, as has often been noted, 'the first of Hitchcock's ice-cold blondes'. But frankly, I find her as a character to be as bleached as Donat's suit, and as a personality, she is a photo which didn't come out. If only a better and more intriguing actress had been in the role! But then one can't have everything, and at least there are 38 steps, and there is only one tiny finger joint missing. "},{"Title":"Good Early Hitchcock Directing; Robert Donat; an Enjoyable Noir Thriller","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have always considered this estimable earl film to be overrated. But this is not to say that the film does not have values that have, in fact, stood the test of time rather well. Alfred Hitchcock directed this fluid-looking film with writing credit given to John Buchan for his novel of that name, Charles Bennett for the rather free adaptation (no doubt with Hitchcock's participation also) and Ian Hay for the above-average dialog. The film is ambitious for its time, I suggest, taking the viewer from London to Scotland via train and back to London once more with stops in a crofter's cottage, a manorial-looking house, a London flat, several theaters, a police station or two and a county inn in addition to several outdoor scenes. Michael Balcon and Ivor Montagu were the uncredited producers; the understated music is also uncredited. The cinematography by Bernard Knowles is frequently atmospheric and well-matched, despite the script's great variation in locales and lighting; and the art direction by Albert Jullion and Oscar Werndorff generally holds up well despite the film's age. What I find surprising about the production is that while it depends on the very good cast's work for its major values, much of the piece's swiftness, convincing realism and dramatic action is supplied by Hitchcock even this early via camera virtuosity. Among the cast, Madeleine Carroll is more-than-adequate as the young woman literally dragged into a dangerous situation, and Godfrey Tearle and Helen Haye are powerful as the villains. Lucie Mannheim has a small voice but is quite effective in her early enigmatic scenes, as are Peggy Ashcroft and Hilda Trevelyan in particular. John Laurie, Frank Cellier, Wylie Watson, Peggy Simpson, Gus McNaughton, Jerry Verno and Pat Hagate make the most of what they are allowed to do. Robert Donat, the pursued central; character, has to carry much of the film alone. I found him to be above average in intelligence, humor, timing and his ability to enact the difficult physical actions of this adventure. He makes a somewhat underdeveloped character interesting, praiseworthy and nearly important. The viewer who has seen the director's later Saboteur, North By Northwest and the early Man Who Knew Too much should find familiar approaches, scenes and ideas in this seminal and much-admired work of cinema noir. Escape from a public place, the death of someone by knife to whom the hero is speaking, the cool blonde who refuses to believe a wild story, urbane villains glimpsed at a party, unsympathetic police, enforced automobile rides, a crisis in a theater, the mysterious object whose pursuit sets events into motion--all these elements are put to even stronger uses in the later works, I suggest; nevertheless, they are present here, and memorably well- used. This is not for me a riveting work; but it is very-much-copied storyline, nicely- directed for the most part and certainly worth more than one viewing. "},{"Title":"A very entertaining early film for Hitchcock which establishes many of the director's classic themes","Date":"10 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 39 Steps is largely the film which put Hitchcock on the map along with The Lady Vanishes. Its far from his finest work obviously, but viewed over seventy years later, its still a remarkably enjoyable film. The melding of suspense and comedy is something Hitchcock would do continuously throughout his career, and while this isn't nearly as good as North by Northwest, its still a remarkably entertaining film. There's constant tension to the protagonist's dilemma and plenty of rapid-fire and witty dialog. Its proves that Hitchcock was a genius director early on in his career and he only became better.However, if there's one aspect that prevents Hitchcock's early work from being nearly as good as his Hollywood output, is that they seem to lack staying impact. Rear Window and North by Northwest are still as suspenseful the second time around as they were the first. The same can not be said of The 39 Steps and The Lady Vanishes. Repeat viewings seriously take the edge off them and they lack the character and psychological depth that Hitchcock's later work also had. Still, this is a remarkably entertaining film and I envy anyone watching it for the first time. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Surprising good 'unknown' early Hitchcock movie.","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is one fine early Hitchcock and early thriller movie, with one fine story in which the movie its main character is always one the run for somebody.Because I had never heard about this movie before, my expectations for it weren't too high, despite the fact that it was directed by no other than Alfred Hitchcock. Early Hitchcock movies I had already seen were good but were also always lacking a thing or two, preventing the movies from being true great genre classics or making any of them among Hitckcock's best work. Nevertheless this movie turned out to be surprisingly great and despite some of flaws it's a real great early Hitchcock movie from 1935.Like expected the cinematography for this movie was great. You can thrust Hitchcock on always featuring some great and innovative cinematography in any of his movies. Also the fast editing makes this a fast going and well flowing movie. It's mostly the thing that makes this movie so great and perhaps even make it seem a bit ahead of its time. It nevertheless is still an at times slow going movie due to its story but this is the case with basically every '30's movie.It otherwise is one fine and intriguing thriller story with mystery elements thrown into it. It's a movie in which the main character is constantly on the run for somebody. You can say that this is the '30's version of The Bourne Identity. It makes this movie always on the move and it's something that Hitchcock often would let feature in his movies.Besides that this movie of course also featuring lots of other different typical Hitchock elements such as stairs, a cameo by the man himself and amazing unmatched suspense. His more earlier movies from the '30's and '40's are not as well known as his later movies from the '50's and '60's but most of them are just as good, especially considering that they got made in the earlier days of cinema, when thriller movies and such were still pretty much in their early beginning stages.Despite the fact that the movie has no well known actors in it,a ll of the actors suit their roles well and did a good job. It really shows that Hitchcock was a great actor-director as well.A great and entertaining early spy-thriller, that still holds up very well this present day!9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Early Hitchcock Is One of His Best","Date":"23 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 39 Steps is the best book Graham Greene never wrote.This classic thriller from Alfred Hitchcock has Greene's stamp all over it, though the famed author had nothing to do with it. It's got spy rings, a man implicated in a murder he didn't commit, a feisty and reluctant girl Friday and wonderfully atmospheric English settings ranging from a rowdy London music hall to the barren, eerie countryside.Robert Donat plays the man on the run and Madeleine Carroll the young lady who first joins him against her will and then cozies up to him when she realizes he's playing straight with her. I had some trouble warming up to Donat at first, but his charming performance gradually worked on me. I had no trouble warming up to Carroll -- I was in love with her from the start, even if I did want to punch her character repeatedly for making things so difficult for our leading man. The entire middle section of the film, that finds Donat and Carroll handcuffed together, is sexy and racy, especially a scene in which Carroll removes her wet stockings while Donat's cuffed hand wavers suggestively about her knees.This is pure Hitchcock, creepy, exciting and funny all at the same time. It's not to be missed.Grade A "},{"Title":"Espionage","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" First I would like to say that i found Alfred in his cameo,, as the passerby who throws the litter early on in the film as the 2 main characters are getting ready to board the train. Second i liked the movie as a whole a good blend of comedy dark.. suspense,, not spine-tingling, but gripping, it never wants to let you go ,, the minute you think that you can take it easy. . up comes something, and that is typical Alfred Hitchcock. The girl who the main character is attached by the handcuffs to in the movie is someone who i would hate to be handcuffed to always whining. never satisfied. i thought that the Professor and his appendage were a neat idea for the film. Sort of like the one-armed man in The Fugitive, this is a tale of international intrigue, basically a spy story, with some dark slapstick comedy thrown in.. not Hitchcock's best work, but better than 3/5 of what's out there today in Hollylwood. Overall i will watch this again soon as i love Alfred Hitchcock movies any time of the year or day. "},{"Title":"The Original Fugitive/The Ultimate Hitchcock","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" To many, including myself, Hitchcock did some of his best work before he went Hollywood. That said, this has to be his best British based effort of many. What more do you want? Spies, murder, intrigue, wit, action, thrills, chills, love, betrayal, and humor - this one has it all! What starts out as a simple visit to England turns deadly for Canadian Richard Hannay. Robert Donat plays in arguably his best role (Yes, including Mr. Chips) as the brilliant and resourceful Hannay who's on the run practically the entire time. He is joined by beautiful Madeleine Carroll, sultry Lucie Mannheim and Godfrey Tearle among other talents who make this production shine. The dialog is as crisp as any film ever made. The production is as good as anything Hollywood had yet to produce which is why they drooled over luring Hitchcock across the Atlantic where big budgets and bigger name stars were waiting. That said, I really don't think anyone including Cary Grant, James Mason, or even Bruce Dern could have done any better than this cast and crew. It starts with a bang, grabs you and drags you from London to Scotland with deadly purpose and a sly wink. At the end you are shaking your head in disbelief that 97 minutes actually passed so quickly. Why this is not in Top 250 is one of the IMDb's biggest mysteries. Yes, it is THAT good. So see the original Fugitive and learn why this remains so highly regarded. "}{"Title":"I'm sorry but...","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I think that The 39 Steps is a good film. Well rounded, nicely crafted fun stuff. But I don't just don't see what all the praise is about. Sure, it's suspenseful, the actors are charming and it's a good story. I just find, and I'm speaking as a Hitchcock fan, that he's done it better in other films. Young And Innocent for example is very similar in plot (just lacking some of the foreign espionage elements) but for me personally it packs more of a punch on every level. I must admit the DVD I saw of this film was struck from an absolutely horrible print that was completely washed out with a terrible audio track. Maybe one day I'll give the Criterion disc a chance and see what all the fuss is about.See Hitch as a litterbug when the action first moves onto the street. "},{"Title":"The beginning of a legend","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Right after the huge success of his first film for Gaumont-British Picture Corporation, The Man Who Knew Too Much in 1934, director Alfred Hitchcock crafted what is known as one of his first masterpieces and one of the best British films of all time, The 39 Steps. Personally, If I were asked to describe The 39 Steps in one word, that word would be influential, as this film introduced the concept of the innocent man on the run, a theme that Hitchcock himself would explore again in Saboteur (1942) and then again in 1959 in the magnificent North by Northwest, taking the idea to the extreme. But The 39 Steps' influence extends beyond Hitchcock, and quite recent films such as the 90s thriller The Fugitive, owe more than a bit to Hitchcock's road trip across Scotland.The 39 Steps is the story of Richard Hannay (Robert Donat), a young Canadian man who meets Miss Annabella Smith (Lucie Mannheim) after the chaos that followed a fight that ended prematurely the spectacle both were attending. Back at Hannay's flat, Smith confesses him that the fight at the show was caused by her, as she is a spy trying to escape enemy agents. At first Richard doesn't believe her, but when he discovers her dead body the next day, he realizes she was telling the true and that now he'll be accused of murder. With Scotland Yard after him, Hannay realizes that his only chance to clean his name is to go to Scotland to fulfill Annabella's mission and to discover what are the 39 Steps.Loosely based on John Buchan's novel, the film adds what would become Hitchcock's common themes, as his obsession with human relationships and the constant meditations about marriage, as well as a love interest that is not present in the book. As written above, The 39 Steps presents the model for all the innocent man on the run films that followed it, mixing perfectly action, suspense and comedy as well as a series of inventive plot twists that make the film an entertaining experience that never becomes dull or boring. Like in his previous movie, The Man WHo Knew Too Much, Hitchcock use of the comon man in uncommon situations theme makes the story familiar, and one cannot help but feel identified with the characters.By this point in his career, Hitchcock's style was fully developed, and it definitely shows. The inventive use of the camera as a way to communicate the suspense to the audience instead of just show the actions give the film a fluid dynamism that would become a trademark of his style, and make the film look atemporal, making hard to believe it was made more than 70 years ago. Also, Hitchcock's use of comedy to break the suspense is effective and accurate, and give the film a charm that forecasts the future collaborations between Hitchcock and Cary Grant (North By Northwest being the most obvious example).The acting is quite effective, with Robert Donat making a great lead actor that really transmits the sensation of being just a common guy who got involved in something bigger than himself. His Richard Hanney is witty, funny and brave, but at the same time is flawed, like everybody else. Madeleine Carroll as Pamela joins the film with her beauty and her charm, making the perfect counterpart for Richard Hanney. They show great chemistry together and are an example of Hitchcock's excellent casting. Godfrey Tearle, Lucie Mannheim and Wylie Watson complete the cast, everyone giving an effective performance, essential for the success of the film.The 39 Steps is a film that really lives up to its reputation as a masterpiece of British cinema, and along with The Lady Vanishes (1938) stands as the best Hitchcock film of his British era. However, unlike The Lady Vanishes, this movie has aged a bit more gracefully and in fact looks as fresh as when it was released. Thanks to its fast packed action and the brilliant way the plot is structured, it's probably one of the old classics that less problems will give to modern viewers, as The 39 Steps was way ahead of its time in many aspects.Influential would be the perfect word to describe this film, and what's most amazing is that it was just only the beginning for one of cinema's most important figures. The Master of Suspense crafted his first masterpiece in The 39 Steps (and soon followed it with many more), but that's just one of the many reasons to watch this excellent film. 9/10. A real must-see. "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Early Hitchcock film has many of his trademarks. There is the innocent man (Donat) unwittingly involved in a web of mystery and intrigue. There is the cool blonde (Carroll) that the hero matches wits with. There is romance, comedy, suspense, and thrills. Donat and Carroll, who end up handcuffed together, display terrific chemistry as they work their way through the elaborate story. This can be seen as a precursor to North by Northwest. As with most Hitchcock films, the plot tends to become silly at times, but it's quite entertaining. Ashcroft has a small but touching role as a lonely farmer's wife who is smitten by Donat as he spends a night at her house. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's First Real Classic","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 'The 39 Steps' is Hitchcock's first great film. Hitch made this while still in Britain in the 30's, trying to make a name for himself as a director. He succeeded with this great offering, which has comedy, suspense, spies, romance and a lot more.The title and basic premise for this film were taken from the highly regarded Robert Buchan novel. You can't really compare the two, as not much of the original remains in the film. I would say the film is more accessible to audiences because of the addition of a female character, whereas the novel is very much a boy's tale in contrast.Robert Donat stars as Richard Hannay, in the soon to be classic Hitchcock set-up of a wrongly accused man trying to prove his innocence. The Canadian-born visitor to England Hannay accidentally gets himself involved in a web of intrigue after he meets the mysterious woman named 'Smith' at a concert hall. He brings her to his flat unwittingly, and invites her to stay because of the danger she insists that she is in. Hannay soon wakes in the middle of the night to find her with a knife protruding from her back, and a map clutched in her grasp. He sets off on a mission to find out more about this woman' secret work, and to find just what 'The 39 Steps' that she talked of really is. Inhibiting his plans is the crazy fact that he has been framed for the woman's murder, and a manhunt has been set-up in Britain to find him.Robert Donat is charming and oozes charisma as Hannay, but one must look past the fact that the Brit really doesn't sound like a Canadian. His love interest, Pamela, played by the gorgeous Madeleine Carroll, is an early prototype for later Hitchcock blondes such as Grace Kelly. She's icy and beautiful, yet her portrayal is more comic and light-hearted than overly dramatic. Like Hannay, she becomes mixed-up in something she has no control over, re-enforcing the film's central thematic elements of displacement and uncertainty. Young Peggy Ashcroft has an extremely eye-catching yet small role as the unhappy younger wife of a strangely religious farmer whose cottage Donat hides out in. Her character and performance is one of the most poignant to be found in a Hitchcock film; for her, Hannay offers a chance for salvation. When Donat makes his exit, watch her reaction. It's truly touching and heart-breaking.Great filmic devices employed by Hitchcock throughout; I particularly liked the way he cut from the maid's silent scream at the sight of Smith's body to a shot of the loud, whistling train. Hitch just loved trains, and they have a prominent role here. Also, the handling of Donat's many guises is effective. Hitchcock had a knack of often making his villains more interesting than the hero, and here we have some wonderfully charismatic bad guys on show. In 'The 39 Steps', Hitchcock established many of the 'director's trademark's' that he would come to be known for. This film is a forerunner to Hitch's later classic 'North By Northwest', and like that film, 'The 39 Steps' is a humorous Hitchcock outing. The two guys on the train discussing women's underwear are a hoot. The battle of the sexes between Donat and Carroll is witty, playful and just the slightest bit risqué, and the direction is fast-paced and lively, in keeping with the plot.Oh, and keep an eye out for Hitch, too.9/10. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's jabs at marriage and the police","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Most Hitchcock films have had a verbal swipe at the institution of marriage. As the lead character escapes from his apartment being watched by strange men, he asks the milkman Are you married? as he figures a scheme to borrow his clothes. The milkman answers sullenly You don't rub it in! The film also allows the viewer to evaluate two other marriages; the sexual frustration of a good beautiful woman (Dame Peggy Ashcroft) married to a Scottish farmer and a similar situation between an innkeeper and his wife.Hitchcock was always scared of the police as his father sent him to the police station when he was young or so the legend has it. Hitchcock has on several occasions made out the police to be stupid in his films. In this one a Scottish policeman while arresting the lead character says We are not so daft in Scotland as you Londoners think---only he has arrested an innocent man! Elsewhere in the film a flock of sheep is described as a flock of detectives! As a film, there is one sequence that remains etched in my memory over 40 years since I first saw it&#151;the dissolve of the woman screaming as she discovers a murdered woman to a train whistle. That was brilliant.The final shots of a Hitchcock film always grab me&#151;this one was a sublime one. Handcuffs dangle from the wrist of the hero while the woman who hated him for being handcuffed to the man earlier willingly joins hands, now as lovers. Do the handcuffs give a final Hitchcockian quip at marriage? "},{"Title":"Good Hitchcock thriller","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 39 Steps/1935/***Main Stars Robert Donat Madeleine CarrollThere were a few scenes in Alfred Hitchcock's The 39 Steps that reminded me a bit of Vertigo. It involved the main character Richard Hannay (Robert Donat) and supporting actress Pamela (Madeleine Carroll). Pamela acted a lot like Kim Novak trying to escape from James Stewart's hands in the film. Richard acted a lot like James Stewart trying to avoid Kim Novak from scampering away from him. Supposedly this film was a classic in its time when it came out in the theaters in 1935 and supposedly still is considered one. But, as I've said before, North by Northwest, Vertigo, Rear Window, and Rebecca are the best Hitchcock films made so far that I have seen but I will have seen all of them when I'm about 90. I cannot give this a ***1/2 or a four star rating because it was rather short. Also the people who were in it were hard to understand having the most English of the English accents. But at least their accents weren't most English of the English cockney accents. That would have been much much worse and extremely hard to understand. So yeah the main point came through and the whole story made sense. The film had a creative story to it based on a novel by John Buchan. I have to say the ending was a bit disappointing. And after the ending, I thought is that really it? O come on, there's gotta be another scene right? But there wasn't, just black and then (DUN DUN!) the typical The End. They could have added something more but that can't change now. But yet it is still a good film with the typical Alfred Hitchcock external conflicts that has the main character wrongfully accused of doing something wrong and having to prove to everyone that he/she didn't do it (usually the person is a he). That's usually the case but in some of his films it isn't. Throughout the film, there were some thriller scenes with cops chasing Richard around Scotland thinking he murdered someone who was really murdered by someone else. Someone more sinister who had his pointer finger with the top of it chopped off. So yes there were interesting thriller scenes with Richard and his cop friends chasing him on a train which reminded me of North by Northwest and The Seven-Percent Solution (yet less violent and they weren't on top of the train either which also happened in Top Secret!). So during the film I was reminded of many other classics and I thought it was actually fun to think back on the memories and that would give me more ideas to watch them more often. Throughout the film, Richard looks for places to stay overnight or just to talk to the people inside without getting caught or recognized. Obviously he was recognized many times because there were about ten thousand cops in Scotland and it seemed they were all after poor innocent Richard. Basically Richard was in the wrong place at the wrong time. Hadn't he been at the Music Hall the better and so then he wouldn't have gone through all that mess that he had to put up with. But you gotta have some fun once in a while, right? Some adventure? The answer is yes. It seemed Richard was having fun seeing that he was in a good mood throughout the film knowing that the cops were a bit too inept to look down an alleyway when he was there. Or under a waterfall when he was there. Or in a house when he was there. They were looking for him; they just didn't look in the right and most least expected places to actually FIND him. Ohhh, but they did do that a few times however so just watch and see. So the movie was dramatic, thrilling, intriguing, and somewhat humorous too. That's the Hitchcock way and I think you'll enjoy this film maybe even more than I did. Movie directed Alfred Hitchcock. "},{"Title":"For all you know I may murder a woman a week.","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Time spent earlier in developing his craft allows Alfred Hitchcock to achieve a masterful film in the story of The 39 Steps. Combining a deft use of suspense and humor, the movie keeps one constantly off balance with it's story of odds defying events intruding into the life of a common man. Well, at least a common man who can instantly turn on a dime and outwit armies of police and address a political meeting as well as if he had prepared.The film's protagonist goes by Hannay (Robert Donat), and when he's picked up by a music hall patron (Lucie Mannheim), she winds up in his apartment with a knife in her back. That he's now a target as well in a mystery with few clues, Hannay embarks on a mission to uncover a state secret as well as save his own neck. Prepare for the unexpected when Hannay makes his first acquaintance with the man with the missing fingertip.Not only is the film fast paced and tension filled, but it's fun and sexy as well. The scene at the inn with Hannay still handcuffed to Pamela (Madeleine Carroll) is particularly memorable, made all the more so by the willful removal of her stockings, and I'm not just talking about the heat from the fireplace. It sort of memorializes Hannay's earlier line when the pair were on the run across the Scottish moors - There are twenty million women in this island and I've gotta be chained to you. Besides the humor, other Hitchcockian devices are at work here. One I was impressed with was the reaction from the woman who discovers the dead body in Hannay's apartment dissolving into the scream of a train whistle. The director himself provides one of his signature appearances as well, but you'll have to be attentive.As if to provide a satisfactory nightcap to the raucous proceedings, the movie's finale takes place during Crazy Month at the London Palladium, where Mr. Memory (Wylie Watson) reprises his act from the start of the film. As if in a trance, Memory reveals the 39 Steps as an organization of spies collecting information on behalf of the Foreign Office...You'll do well to view some of Alfred Hitchcock's prior films to appreciate the quantum leap in visual storytelling on view in The 39 Steps. It's reputation as one of his best films is well deserved, and is a must for fans of the master of suspense. "},{"Title":"In this film the great director achieved his masterpiece.","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is by all accounts a brilliant film, the best that Hitchcock ever made. From the opening scene in the crowded music hall the action and intrigue run unabated, with one harrowing escape after another. I was particularly struck by the high quality of the performances. I don't believe Hitchcock was able to put together such a consistently outstanding group of players under his aegis in any other film, either before or since. Imagine the likes of Robert Donat, Madeleine Carroll, Godfrey Tearle, and Peggy Ashcroft appearing together in an Alfred Hitchcock film! Shakespeare anybody? The other reviewers have covered thoroughly the various details and highlights of this film, either pro or con, so I have little to add. Let me just say that I can't recall a film, regardless of the genre, that was so thoroughly satisfying on all levels. Choose your taste dramatic intensity, action and intrigue, wit and humor, beautiful women(who can act)--it even has a rousing music hall finale that will keep you tapping. In this film the great director achieved his masterpiece. So how do you figure the people at TCM in a recent tribute to Hitchcock failed to include it in their offerings? Just go out and buy it. It's cheap enough and you won't waste your time changing channels. "},{"Title":"Decent little movie, nothing special","Date":"9 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The one real reason why I wanted to watch this movie is that I wanted to see Alfred Hitchcock before he became the well known director of Psycho, North By Northwest, Vertigo and many more. I have a DVD set of 10 of his movies all made in the 1930's. This is the first one that I have watched and to be perfectly honest it really isn't anything really special.The movie's plot is that a man takes a woman home, she is a spy and later that night she dies. He is the prime suspect. He is also pursued by foreign spies after her because she gave him some secrets. He is to go to Scotland because the woman was looking for a man there who may help him.This movie is a decent little spy thriller for it's time. However to some modern audiences this movie may seem a bit slow. I personally couldn't really connect to any of the characters. If you want to watch Hitchcock in his early years then this might be one for you to see. But me personally, I don't think it's anything really special. "},{"Title":"A classic and you've got to see it!!","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" An absolute marvel which has been remade a couple of times &#x96; only really to show how good the original was. Alfred Hitchcock had received a contract to create spy thriller and this he did and then some&#x85; This film was the marker which established his reputation as the master of suspense, something which remained unchallenged throughout the remainder of his career.There are also several Hitchcock hallmarks that would recur in his later films - the innocent man being suddenly catapulted by accident into the sinister world of spies and secret agents is very much like his later 'North By Northwest'. There's a train journey as there are in many Hitchcock films, and of course, the icy, mysterious blonde, in this case the excellent Madeleine Carroll. The director cites this as one of his favourite films of all time &#x96; it contains all the requisite elements &#x96; pace, noir and at times black humour.The film is in essence a spy story, with man, Richard Hannay, accused of murder right from the outset. At one point of the movie he is handcuffed to a beautiful girl but this gives the film its extra sexual edge and also Hitchcock the territory to exploit desperate situations for humour. Note should be taken of the risqué 'stockings scene' if I can call it that. Carroll removes her stockings whilst she is still handcuffed to Donat in a bedroom &#x96; by today's standards I'm sure it's laughable but not in 1935.There are two criticisms commonly made of this film. The first is that there are logical imperfections in the story. This is true of almost all Hitchcock films (as well as those of most other directors). The second criticism is that this film, whilst based on John Buchan's novel of the same name, departs very considerably from the story in the book. Few films very closely follow the original book &#x96; simply because they are different mediums.The script fairly crackles and the pace is nearly relentless until the protagonists arrive at the inn for the night. It's jumping from trains, man hunts across the moors and enemy agents turning up everywhere. The dialogue is sexy by 1930's standards, reminiscent somehow of Bacall and Bogart in The Big Sleep - the electricity between Carroll and Donat is a joy to watch. It's all innuendo, of course, which is far steamier than being explicit about things - but I bet it initially troubled the censors all the same. The acting too is top-notch and some mention should be made of Dame Peggy Ashcroft (looking sexier than Carroll in my view) in an early role. Donat is superb as a kind of proto-type James Bond, all debonair and very, very English.The film may not have the budget or the scale of some of Hitchcock's later work but there's no doubting his way with a story. We have to remember than this movie was made 70 years ago and in context is full of violence sex and a roller coaster ride! We are right into the thick of the story within about three minutes of the opening titles and it never lets up. "}{"Title":"breezy fun","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Robert Donat is extremely funny as Hitchcock's usual wrong man trying to clear his name. Honesty never works for him in the movie, so it's handy that the character is a terrific liar. While trying to barter a deal with a milkman, honestly associating himself with a murder fails to work, but a lie about fooling around with a cheating wife is acceptable. When saddled with slow-witted prig Madeline Carroll who also insists he's a criminal, he gives in to her pressure too, and feeds her fears; rambling off an invented-on-the-spot family criminal history which is darned funny. The movie also features a more well-known sequence in which the fleeing Donat winds up on the stage at a political campaign and improvises a funny speech using only one-size-fits-all, boilerplate language. But Hitch is so competent here he precedes it with an hysterical introduction by a mousy, low self-esteemed nebbish; and follows it with a beautiful throwaway; as Donat is escorted to the door in handcuffs, the crowd ignores the next speaker to applaud him out of the theater. It's a wonderfully-observed, light moment that belies his dire situation.This movie is subtler, funnier and easily more charming than the similar, but hideously bloated North by Northwest. Hitch makes his project look effortless here, in a way different from later more well-known movies that are weighed down by self-conscious technique. Much like in Rear Window, other couples integral to the plot, are shown who suggest what might lie ahead for the hero and heroine.I seriously doubt there is an earlier movie that proceeds at the recognizable, speedy pace of todays movies. It's 1935 and this movie just hums along, assisted by short, breathless explanations. It may also be the first time that nearly every scene in a Hitchcock movie is vivid and memorable. While technically patchy there is still some nice camera moves. This is the only Hitchcock movie I can name where I wouldn't have minded another scene or two before the resolution. While never receiving it's due as a major classic, this movie is absolutely charming. 2 or 3 of Madeleine Carroll's dresses feature lapels so enormous they would require their own structural system. "},{"Title":"Can you guess what the 39 steps are?","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Back in the days when Alfred Hitchcock was still making movies in his native England, he made the slick - if somewhat confusing - 39 Steps. This one has Canadian tourist Richard Hannay (Robert Donat) getting involved in intrigue while in England. Getting handcuffed to the perplexing Pamela (Madeleine Carroll) only complicates matters.Probably the most interesting aspect of this movie is about the 39 steps themselves. What are they? I can't tell you or it would give away the plot. But let me tell you that end scene really comes at you. All in all, Hitch created another classic here. Maybe The 39 Steps won't change your life or anything, but it is another installment in Hitch's filmography. Pretty interesting. "},{"Title":"Random Thoughts on The 39 Steps","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I must admit, I seem to have missed the boat with this Hitchcock classic, but I will acknowledge its place in cinematic history as one of the first films to fully showcase Hithcock's sense of story, style, and pacing. Also, one of my favorite visual gags of all time occurs in this film, during the scene in the small bed-and-breakfast when the leads are still cuffed together. She wants to remove her stockings, but in doing so his hand is forced to rest on her knee, so she says Here, hold this, and hands him a sandwich. Brilliant.Having said that, I still like Hitchcock's later films much better, particularly Psycho and Rear Window. The ending of 39 Steps left me wanting a bit more to punch it up, or something like that. I guess it just ended too quickly. I guess what happened is that I saw his later films before seeing his early films, and it just doesn't match up to them, in my opinion. But it's still light-years ahead of Full Frontal. That's random, but true. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and essential","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" My favourite Hitch film, I've seen it now maybe 20 times and it still never fails to engross and enchant me by turns (no pun intended). Everything that Hitch became later in Hollywood is in here in spades, albeit usually in a more primitive manner thanks to the technical limitations of the British film industry in the '30's.North by Northwest was far more polished, Psycho far scarier, many of his others were far more nail-biting, and even the Lady Vanishes was funnier, but the 39 Steps is the total tour de force. Firstly Hitch jettisoned most of Buchan's book, although worthy in itself this is worthier. Next all the main characters fitted perfectly into their parts; the comedy and the thrills come thick and fast down to the typical Hitchcock dramatic denouement with Tinkle Tinkle blasting out. So much here is so memorable! What might seem obvious or over-contrived to modern tastes was well constructed and executed and mostly still holds up well - the policeman's shadow opening Godfrey Tearle's box at the Palladium has always grated however!The balance of tension and humour is perfect throughout, sometimes it leads to a real roller-coaster of vying emotions, all the way from the first minutes through the chase from London to Scotland and back, to the last second. Donat and Carroll were wonderful in their parts, Donat's asthma problems began shortly after this film and blighted the rest of his career. A must-see to anyone interested in the history of film making and of film content - this was clever but basically throw-away entertainment of a type no-one can make anymore. "},{"Title":"A wickedly entertaining Hitchcock thriller!","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film was one of the turning points in Alfred Hitchcock's career. It shed light on the film-maker, and helped the rest of the world catch on to what a genius he was. The 39 Steps is classic Hitchcock, containing so many of the elements of what made him The Master of Suspense. You have the handsome everyman, played by Robert Donat. There is the beautiful blonde, a staple in practically every Hitchcock picture. Dark humor, plot twists, suspense, and a climactic surprise ending; This film is a wonderful display of Hitch's powers! The story of Richard Hannay (Robert Donat) is one of spies, government secrets, and conspiracy. It all sounds cliché, but Hitchcock puts your fears at ease early on when Hannay dismisses the whole thing by saying, It sounds like a spy story. The mysterious Ms. Annabella Smith replies, That's exactly what it is. Hitchcock takes an old story, and injects it with life, through his dark humor and the brilliant plot twists that occur. I don't want to spoil it for you. This is a tremendously enjoyable movie, one that must not be missed by any Hitchcock fan! "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's First Great Movie","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After laboring as a gifted amateur in the latter stages of the silent era and into sound, Hitch finally hit a home run with this influential movie, his first truly entertaining and mainstream effort. This features many motifs which later became commonplace, but were highly innovative at the time, including the reluctant man and woman forced together thru circumstance (handcuffs this time), the wrong man / wrong place, and the first bravura chase sequence of many to follow. Many aspects of this movie recur in later efforts like NORTH BY NORTHWEST, THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH, and THE WRONG MAN, but more than anything else, 39 STEPS has a real sense of fun with signature Hitchcock twists and droll irony meted out liberally.Is 39 STEPS dated and a bit tame by today's standards of violence and vehicular destruction? Maybe. It's not Hitchcock's greatest movie by any stretch. But it's an early and authoritative step toward the greatness that would follow. Some of those bored by old black and white movies may struggle, but others will get swept up by the intrigue early on and be happy to stay through the frantic climax. 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"The Man-on-the-Run movie to beat all others. One of Hitchcock's finest moments.","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While the man-on-the-run picture Hitchcock is best known for is NORTH BY NORTHWEST, the praise all belongs with THE 39 STEPS, the movie that started it all (sort of). The plot comes second to the suspense, but it includes such things as international spies and a man targeted for assassination. Robert Donat's flight across Scotland, pursued by spies and the police, is one of the most intriguing, exciting things in cinema. In fact the picture is packed with highly memorable scenes and all  the credit is due to Hitchcock. I read the source novel by John Buchan and it wasn't nearly as good (and how often do you hear that?). All the great parts of the film, from Mr. Memory in the music hall to the handcuffed chase across the moors, were purely Hitchcock's invention. Many of the major chase-thrillers made since have borrowed things from this, not the least of which is THE FUGITIVE (1993). This film is the best you can get from the genre. Helps to prove the title master of suspense is well deserved. Hitchcock, even in the early days, was rather good at leading us down the garden path; or is it up? "},{"Title":"best of all three versions","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Bored to death with the Robert Powell version of this tale, what a relief it was to see the short-running original in which the great Robert Donat stumbles into a spy ring (too much attending of low-class music halls, clearly!) and gets himself in a lot of trouble.  Madeleine Carroll plays the suspicious girl who ends up sharing a room with Donat while handcuffed to him and not wearing her stockings (hot stuff for 1935), while John Laurie and Peggy Ashcroft play a Scots couple who Donat meets on his way to meet a mysterious man with part of a finger missing ...Hitchcock's sparse film gets across its point well, and has an interesting conclusion (nothing to do with Big Ben, thankfully).  But where is the director's obligatory appearance?  Didn't spot him.  Must look harder next time.  "},{"Title":"Replete with humor and comic touches","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  ***MILD GENERALIZED SPOILERS***A gun is fired! The crowd flees a performance by Mr. Memory in fear.  A mysterious woman asks a stranger (Robert Donat) if she can go home with him. She's involved in espionage. Someone enters the flat during the night and stabs her in the back.  Before dying, her last words to the man are about the Thirty-Nine Steps and about a man with part of a finger missing.  Donat must flee because the police are searching for him in connection with the murder of the mysterious woman.  He goes in search of the man with the missing finger.  He meets a beautiful woman (Madeleine Carroll) on a train.  She later becomes embroiled in the subsequent arrest of Robert Donat's character and his escape from the police.   The Thirty-Nine Steps is a marvelous mystery and suspense film by director Alfred Hitchock.  Made in 1935, it is arguably the best Hitchock film he made in Britain before coming to the United States to work circa 1939.  This film is extremely watchable and has aged rather well over the several decades since its release.  The opening scene of the film with Mr. Memory and tremendous shots of the British audience is one of the most 'memorable' opening scenes in cinematic history.  The humor and comic touches woven into The Thirty-Nine Steps are splendid.  This delightful film is a good choice for folks who'd like to check out an older movie and to see what all the fuss about Hitchcock is.  I rate The Thirty-Nine Steps a well deserved 89.0/100.  "},{"Title":"THE 1935 original Film Version was GREAT!","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"                  Alfred Hitchcock in 1935 did everything he could to have his favorite actress Madeline Carroll in this picture, he always loved to have blonde women to perform in his pictures.   This 1935 version of The 39 Steps was very comical how they tried to show two people in bed fully clothed and the shocking scene with Madeline taking her stockings off.  Hitchock always tried to surprise the audience in any way that he could.  Just having Madeline Carroll and Robert Donat handcuffed together must have given plenty of people a bundle of laughs.  However, Hitchcock had to direct this film in London, England, America was not ready for such a naughty Drama/Comedy. "}{"Title":"The second of Hitchcock's string of thrillers released in the early 1930s that went on to associate him with the thriller genre for the rest of his career.","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The 39 Steps is one of Hitchcock's smartest thrillers, and it displays almost all of the characteristics that later became traditions in his films. The plot concerns an ordinary man who suddenly finds himself involved in an extraordinary situation, which is common in Hitchcock's thrillers, but in this case it is especially noteworthy of the extent to which this man's involvement was completely accidental and unwitting. It could very well have happened to just about anyone who was in his position.The film starts off in a crowded theatre during the performance of a man who goes by the name of Mr. Memory. He learns 50 new facts each day and literally never forgets a thing. While the audience is questioning him to test his intellect, a shot rings out and the frightened crowd quickly disperses. Robert Donat plays the part of Richard Hannay (as well as a variety of other identities). After the gunshot, Hannay leaves with Anna Smith, who turns out to be the woman who fired the shot in order to create a diversion to escape from two men who wanted to kill her. Hannay gradually catches on to Smith's strange behavior in his apartment, afraid to have the lights on and not wanting to get too close to any open windows, and at first he scoffs at her, calling it &#145;persecution mania.' (spoilers) Clearly, Hannay is a regular guy who ran into a woman and suddenly finds himself involved in this criminal situation, much like in The Man Who Knew Too Much, the thriller that Hitchcock released just before this one. In this case, however, the unwitting involvement is even more believable, because a normal guy seems to leave a theatre with a normal woman, and the next thing you know she ends up dead and he ends up impersonating the milkman to get out of the building (in a scene that is certainly not without its comic appeal!). Soon we see the famous match cut on sound when the maid finds the woman dead and turns to the camera to scream, and her scream is drowned out by the train whistle that begins the next scene (probably one of the most famous bits of editing that Hitchcock ever made). The rest of the movie takes place on the train, and we begin to see references and allusions and foreshadows to some of Hitchcock's earlier and later films, such as the way Hannay overhears people on the train discussing the murder to which he has been erroneously linked (similar to Hitchcock's earlier film Blackmail), the train is crawling with police officers (also similar to Blackmail), two businessmen are (strangers on the train, you might say) are entirely preoccupied with a cricket game even during shootouts that they are involved in (similar to Bob Lawrence's occasional aloofness in The Man Who Knew Too Much), and like in just about all of Hitchcock's other films, he uses complex editing to convey an impressive amount of the plot.In fleeing from the murder, Hannay finds lodging with a poor Irish couple who live in a cabin out in the country, conveniently isolated from his pursuers. At a dinner table scene, there is an exchange of glances in which the wife sees a newspaper headline reporting a murderer on the run, then she looks at Hannay who returns her glance with one that tries to admits that the headline refers to him but that he is not really a murderer. The woman's husband sees all this and immediately concludes that they are having an affair. The scene is constructed using a complex sequence of close-ups and point of view shots. Hannay sees the newspaper article on the table and we see his eyes scanning the page, and then we see a shot of the newspaper on the table. The wife sees Hannay reading and follows his glance, sees the newspaper, and then looks up at him with a horrified expression.There is a quick bit of cross-cutting between them as they have their silent conversation in which he attempts to tell her with no words that he's not a killer, and then we see a shot of all three of them from across the table, the husband in the middle on the far side and his wife and Hannay on either side of the table and the screen, the husband's eyes are darting back and forth between them. Through nothing but close shots of facial expressions and the juxtaposition of shots we see the wife discover Hannay's secret, Hannay's attempt to explain it to her without words, and the husband's resulting suspicion that they are having an affair. The level of humor in The 39 Steps is especially effective. Humor is present in just about all of Hitchcock's films, and is often the most effective when it is inserted in places where it doesn't seem to belong, which happened in The Man Who Knew Too Much the year before The 39 Steps was released, and probably even more in this film. In some cases, the comedy is juxtaposed with scenes that are most certainly not to be laughed at, leaving you with mixed emotions about whether you should laugh or cringe.There is a scene after Hannay has left the Irish couple's cabin that her husband discovers that she has not only let Hannay escape when he planned to sell him to the police for the reward, but has also given him his good coat as protection. He advances on her and we hear him begin to beat her off screen, and then the film immediately cuts to a scene where some detectives are marveling over a hymn book that managed to stop a bullet and save Hannay's life (joking about just how hard it really is to get through those hymns). Hitchcock mixes a very serious scene here that entails some social commentary with one that is genuinely amusing, especially a moment later when the detective says, `We're not so daft in Scotland Yard as you smart Londoners think!' as he arrests the wrong man. Hannay later refers to some sheep as `a whole flock of detectives,' making an unmistakable comment on Hitchcock's opinions of the law enforcement community.From this point on, Hannay finds himself handcuffed to a woman who thinks him a murderer, and he is faced with the task of convincing her that he is not a criminal while at the same time trying to get her to flee with him so he can avoid capture. There is some interesting symbolism in this relationship as she gradually begins to believe that maybe he is telling the truth. When she finally discovers for sure that he is telling the truth, he is asleep on a bed, and she has managed to free herself from the handcuffs. Rather than run from him, she goes to him and covers him with the blankets, which is understandable since she is probably developing the obligatory romantic connection with him, but then she pulls the covers back off of him and covers herself, seemingly showing that she doesn't really care about him but is instead only interested in her own protection. In the closing scene of the film, Mr. Memory is revealed to be not the astronomically intelligent man that he was presented as earlier in the film, but rather a man who has a steel trap of a mind but who exercises little control over the information that goes into or comes out of it. It seems that he has been given secret information to prevent any kind of paper trail, and in the climax of the film, Hannay storms into the theatre during one of his performances, pursued by police and criminals alike, and demands of Mr. Memory to tell what the 39 Steps is, and Mr. Memory's expression goes blank as he recites that information that has been installed in his head. `The 39 Steps is a collection of spies collecting information on behalf of the foreign office of &#150; BANG!!' Poor Mr. Memory drops to the floor dying, Hannay is vindicated, and the film closes with a heartwarming if slightly cheesy close up shot of the woman holding Hannay's hand, which still has an empty cuff hanging from it.  "},{"Title":"immature Hitchcock","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  MILD SPOILERSThis film certainly doesn't deserve to be number 4 on the British Film Institute's all time greats list right next to Lawrence of Arabia at number 3 and the Third Man at Number 1.  This is one of Hitchcock's earlier films and it is clear that his suspense building skills are just starting to develop.  The large flaw with the film was that in unraveled in the period of 3-4 minutes at the end of the movie with an inadequate buildup.  Then I found I had a problem in that I didn't establish any connection with Donat's character like I did with Cary Grant's character in North by Northwest.  That's because few match Grant's charisma.  I believe Hitchcock noticed the flaws in this film, and capitalized on his mistakes in make NBNW (a full-fledged masterpiece).  Overall, this was still a good movie.  I just expect more from Hitchcock.  8/10.    "},{"Title":"Vintage Hitch","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who loves Hitchcock should see this early film.  It really is a prototype for some of his best loved American films.  It's a spy story involving a regular guy falsely accused and hunted by the police, thrown into a plot of international intrigue, and forced to run from the police long enough to clear his name and save the day.  It involves a masterful blend of suspense, humor, and romance.  Basically, if you like films like North by Northwest and Notorious, there is no reason why you wouldn't like The 39 Steps.Except, of course, that it is very old.  This creates a barrier to modern audiences in a number of ways.  Many of the techniques used to make the film are incredibly primitive, even by the standards of Hitchcock's American films.  A lot of the editing, which is usually a great strength in a Hitchcock film, is extremely choppy.  The sound is very primitive.  But if you can overlook these minor quibbles, you are in for a treat.But be warned  if you're going to sit down and give this film a chance, you must watch at least the first 30 minutes.  The acting of Lucie Mannheim as Annabella Smith in the first act of the film is truly horrendous... some of the worst I've ever seen.  But once Hannay gets himself on the train, the film is terrific from there on.There are some other minor problems.  Several of the Scottish accents sound pretty lousy.  Of course, my knowledge of what Scottish people sound like comes exclusively from modern films, so perhaps they sounded different in the 30s.  My money, though, is that the accents are pretty bad.  Some of criticized Robert Donat for not sounding very Canadian.  It's a fair point, I suppose.  But then, I can't figure out why Hitch didn't make the character British anyway.  It would have given Hannay that much more motivation to foil the plot of the spies.  On second thought, perhaps that would have deflected from the point of the film.  That would have made Hannay more of a heroic character.  The wrong man scenario that Hitch returns to again and again seems to work better when the main character is not particularly heroic, merely thrown against his will into a storyline which requires a hero.  Note the focus of the ending.  Uncovering the spies' plot is far less important than clearing Hannay's name.  Making Hannay a non-citizen, arguably, makes this level of the film even stronger.There are a lot of great set pieces in this film.  The sequence on the train is wonderful, the sequence in the crofter's house is wonderful, the sequence with Hannay and Pamela handcuffed is glorious.  Overall, and despite its minor flaws, this film is excellent, and should be required viewing of anyone and everyone who claims to be a Hitchcock fan.      "},{"Title":"Good, clean, old-fashioned suspense","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  More proof that the young Hitchcock far outshines the old. The 39 Steps is a beautifully crafted thriller that keeps you on the edge of your seat without being manipulative. Add to this mixture Alfred's wry, thoroughly British sense of humor, and you've got the recipe for a perfect movie. The 39 Steps ranks right up there with The Lady Vanishes and The (first!) Man Who Knew Too Much. Also be on the lookout for some of Hitchcock's best camera shots. "},{"Title":"Vintage Hitchcock adapted from the John Buchan novel.","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this film immediately after reading the novel by John Buchan.  I expected the film to follow the plot and was surprised when the 'little man' that Hannay takes in was replaced by a woman from 'no country'.  I can see that the novel needed some work in order to be transformed into a screenplay, and the result was a wonderful film.Complete with dreadful Scotch accents and kilts, the sequences set North of the borders reminded me of later scenes in North by Northwest.  Does anyone else think that the Scotsman who takes Hannay in looks a little like Fraser from Dad's Army?On the whole, a very enjoyable film.  Do you know how many miles it is from Winnipeg to Montreal? "},{"Title":"65 years later, this is still a bullet paced thrill-fest.","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Last autumn I started work on my film, which features a 'man on the run theme.  To show my leading actress and my co-producer my mind set, I showed them about ten minutes of THE 39 STEPS.  These two have never seen this classic.  I showed them the scene between wrongly hunted fugitive Richard Hannay (Robert Donat) and the real culprit, all the way past Hannay's narrow escape from Scotland Yard and the bad guys. They begged to see the outcome, so we saw the rest of the film.     As early as 1935, Hitchcock knew what was cliche in movie thrillers.  He played with them a little bit.  Just as his film would get predictable, he would pull an unexpected 180 degree turn and startle the audience.  This has always been one of my favorite films.  I always show this classic to people who don't have enough Hitchcock in their diet!        "},{"Title":"Resourceful","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Although The Lady Vanishes is my definite favourite of Hitchcock's early British films, it's not hard to understand why many consider The 39 Steps his best film of the era. Despite some clumsy technical executions (quickening the film in the chase scene), it works quite splendidly. Hitchcock provides a number of unforgettable moments and proves his mastery via ingenious scene transitions.  "},{"Title":"The Early Hitchcock","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The early Hitchcock isn't much different from the older Hitchcock. He loved suspense and he loved dark comedy. This is a great little gem. With a non stop pace and great wit. It almost plays like two movies. One is a mystery the other a screwball/romantic comedy. The greatness about that is, it's all happening at the same time. Never a dull moment and great comedy, even by today's standards. I personally think comedy is the hardest form of movies to withstand time. And this Hitchcock classic hasn't aged a bit. The acting is in top form and the direction, well, I don't really need to tell you it's perfect. A must see for a fan of movies. Period. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Early British Masterpiece","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie along with The Lady Vanishes is considered one of Hitchcock's greatest movies in his British period.  This movie is sort of hard to follow simply because it is such an old movie and it was hard to follow the dialogues, so one has to view it several times to really appreciate it. Robert Donat is very good as is Madeline Carroll.  However, the character of Mr. Memory is not only pivotal to the movie but IMHO steals the picture. Don't get frustrated if you can't follow this movie at first.  A good Hitch movie but not one of his top 10. "},{"Title":"excellent chase film","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"          The 39 Steps , made at the same time as Secret Agent, was as big of an impact on cinema as much as it was then as it is now. This is THE origin and grandaddy of all chase and action films of today. Certainly  one of Hitchcock's best, it features running from the world as it is. Nothing is unrealistic besides the hymnal happens to block the bullet. Robert Donat is excellent in the starring role. Wylie Watson is superb as the mysterious vaudeville 'Mr.Memory' (which was a real person that Hitchcock saw as a young boy). This film can combine suspense and comedy LIKE NO OTHER. Story was later redone in Young and Innocent. And remade with Kenneth More. "}{"Title":"An early Hitchcock classic","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The 39 Steps is a great Alfred Hitchcock film.  It has elements of humor and romance in it, and of course, a suspenseful and thoroughly entertaining plot.  Robert Donat and Madeleine Carroll make a wonderful team together, and create true screen magic.  I consider this movie one of Hitchcock's best, and also, one of Donat's best.  Although it can't compare to his Oscar winning Goodbye, Mr. Chips, it comes pretty close!  I recommend The 39 Steps to any suspense movie fan, or any Hitchcock fan.  It's a definite must-see!   "},{"Title":"Vintage Hitchcock romp that set the standard for chase movies","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Perfect cross-country chase from a director full of energy for his work (and it showed). Witty and daring fare that we've all seen but have never seen bettered in its genre since. Donat was on top form and Carroll never looked so becoming. Top drawer stuff that any serious movie buff should have seen. Only film I've seen in the last ten years where the audience applauded at the end...which says it all. "},{"Title":"Golden Oldie","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The first time I saw Hitchcock's The 39 Steps (at the American Film Institute in Washington, D.C.) my spirits sank during the opening reel. The movie looked and sounded so much like a primitive early talkie, with its dingy photography and the actors seemingly shouting to make themselves heard over the tinny recording system. It's too technically antiquated, I thought - there's no way I'm going to enjoy this. But then, I began to get more and more caught up in the plot, and by the time it was over, I was thinking This is a terrific movie! (Who can forget the trivia expert, the train chase, the farmhouse dinner, the political rally, or the sight of Madeleine Carroll handcuffed to Robert Donat?) So if you're seeing The 39 Steps for the first time, don't give up on it too quickly - or you'll never find out just what The 39 Steps are. "},{"Title":"Early Hitchcock","Date":"19 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I understand fully the historic importance of this movie, since it was a very early example of Alfred Hitchcock's work in the suspense genre. That alone qualifies it to be considered a classic. In my opinion, however, that may be the only thing that qualifies this as a classic, and it astonishes me that so many people consider this a masterpiece. All I can observe is that Hitchcock got better as the years went on.A lot could be said about this. The story revolves around a Canadian man in London who gets involved in some sort of foreign espionage activity and ends up wrongly accused of murder. The movie tries to unravel the mystery. It did not, however, enthrall me. I thought it plodded along with performances that were passable but little more. Some elements of the story mystified me and as a result I found myself losing focus from time to time. The scenes in the Scottish man's house seemed unnecessary. The movie's high rating surprises me, quite frankly. The only reason I can come up with for the high rating is that it's early Hitchcock.In fairness, this isn't a bad movie. Compared to other movies of the era, it's what might be described as fair to middlin'. I've seen many worse movies from the 30's, but there are also movies from the 30's that seem timeless and can still hold me captive. Overall - 4/10 "},{"Title":"truly decades ahead of its time","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  alfred hitchcock is rightfully renowned as one of the masters of movie making. he has directed some of the greatest films ever made, and this is one of the greatest films he ever made...so how can it still be so underrated and underappreciated???????        and yet it is! this is without question a film that shows a master at his best-and produced the first true modern movie-in its fast paced action, nonchalant 'hero', sex and violence, astonishing twists and turns, this film has everything-and had it thirty or more years before anyone else!        i suggest any film lover that did not give this a '10'-see it again! i just saw a dvd of it and even after seeing it dozens of times, i still get a kick out it! there is not one wasted second in this film, and the actors from top to bottom are flawless, with donat giving one of the great performances of all time-full of humor and quick thinking, a man who is setting out to save the world, and yet is not a typical 'hero'-every nuance is wonderfully underplayed-and long before anyone else.       what are the 39 steps? a classic!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"My all time favorite","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw this film when i was 8 years old.  It had everything a young lad could want.  Action, Adventure, Suspense, Special Effects(yes honestly), Chases.  The works.It left an indelible mark on my mind, I compare every film i see against it. So far none have bettered it, some have come close but none have surpassed. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite Hitchcock's","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen this film many times and every time it was a surprise to me. Everything in this film is perfect. And it looks like it was made yesterday, it is fresh, modern, amazing... "},{"Title":"A Hitchcock masterpiece","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen this film dozens of times, and never tire of it. An early British Hitchcock masterpiece, this film delivers an excellent adaptation of the John Buchanan classic novel. The on-screen chemistry between Donat and Carroll is amazing. A pacey, action-filled adventure from start to finish, with early screen appearances for (Dame) Peggy Ashcroft and John Dads Army  Laurie.  "},{"Title":"Great characters","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Hitchcock is a master storyteller with a wonderful eye for humor. Major and minor characters alike are developed in loving detail.It's really fun to see so many striking images and devices which are now film cliches - (E.g. falling over on face to reveal knife protruding from back... wonderful!)It might not be faithful to the book but this is my favorite movie version of the 39 steps.  "},{"Title":"Matineetastic","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm quite amazed at how early this film is. There's so much naturalism; the action sequences are invariably kicked off with hectically delivered lines and a spontaneous quality to the acting and tracking, which makes everything feel 'live'. Added to this is the more prepared element which one more readily associates with Hitchcock, the telling close up or symbol-in-foreground set piece (although this is more elusive - I'm thinking of the newspaper on the rural Scottish dinner table here).Robert Donat is a real Bond-figure, dashing and almost casual in tricky situations but prepared to turn desperate action hero given the circumstances. Madeleine Carroll is an enticing foil for Donat, equivocating between feisty blonde and vulnerably feminine. The supporting and minor roles are all excellently filled - perhaps this is a characteristic of a British film of this period, that excessive reverence for a 'star' is eschewed. There are a number of stumbling blocks for a modern viewer, but these are technical not in the vernacular, either cinematic or script. Tight and often very funny. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Not up to par with other Hitchcock movies","Date":"3 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie just isn't as watchable and enjoyable as some other Hitchcock movies are. The beginning is especially bad. Well , just far from great.Then, it gets better. But it never gets great.The relationship with Pamela just isn't right on the screen. It doesn't make sense. There should be a bit more intense , confused relationship. With both attraction and being unsure. But it just falls flat. There is no attraction. And only disbelief. So, the scenes in the movie just don't make much sense. It doesn't make sense, why she is making certain decisions. Such as calling him out when they are handcuffed together and on the run, and at the next moment being quiet. Especially when it is quite obvious that he would not hurt her. So, a lot of incongruence. Or just plainly bad acting/casting.I don't know, sadly this movie just isn't convincing enough.But, it is made in 1935!!! So, huge props and lenient approach is appropriate.Especially because there are a lot of amazing , probably first seen tricks , that we later see in a large variety of movies.So, kinda hard to rate. Real rating of 6.3 "},{"Title":"My least favorite from Hitchcock","Date":"22 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Beautiful, mysterious woman pursued by gunmen. Sounds like a spy story.I have always considered Alfred Hitchcock among my favorite directors, and after hearing that The 39 Steps was one of his first masterpieces I decided to give it a watch. Several of his classic trademarks from his films in the 50's and 60's can be seen in this spy thriller although they lack a lot of polishing. The story was so rushed that the characters never felt fully developed, the romance felt forced, and the comedy never really worked for me. Despite how much critics revered this film, I had a hard time enjoying the story. The continuity from one scene to the next was a bit jumpy and important details of the story felt like they were left out. I know that for the time it was made (1935) it was highly considered for the fast pace that Hitchcock was introducing to the classic spy tale and for all the surprise and twists that he used here, but those elements haven't really aged well and Hitchcock himself would later go on to polish those issues I had in his following films. In my opinion Hitchcock's earliest masterpiece is his 1940 film, Rebecca, which has much more psychological suspense, better sound editing, and much better character development. The 39 Steps was a bit of a letdown for me, but I still understand why it is so highly regarded for the way in which Hitchcock was able to balance and mix genres such as this spy thriller with romance and comedy. I'm glad Hitchcock managed to polish these common trademarks and cemented his reputation over the following decades (considering my favorite films of his are mostly from the 50's).Charles Bennett and Ian Hay adapted the screenplay from John Buchan's 1915 spy novel centering on Richard Hannay (Robert Donat). Hannay finds himself in trouble with the law when he helps a woman named Annabella Smith (Lucie Mannheim) after a disturbance broke out in a music hall. She is escaping from some secret agents and Hannay takes her to his home where she tells him about a potential national security breach. While she's telling him these things, she is murdered by the men who were following her and Hannay has to escape for his life. He not only has to run from the secret agents who don't want him to discover what they are up to, but from the police as well who suspect him for murdering Anabella. Hannay recalls that Anabella had mentioned something about Scotland so that's where he heads first in order to unlock the mystery of the 39 Steps. Several surprises and twists take place along the way as eventually he is forced to continue on the run handcuffed to a young woman named Pamela (Madeleine Carroll) who doesn't believe he's innocent. The 39 Steps may have been the start of a new kind of thriller inexistent until then, but it hasn't aged as well as other Hitchcock films due its very rushed pacing and poor character development. I honestly can't recall any one character in this film with a definite personality as everyone seems to be playing a specific role to move along the story. There were several comedic moments that Hitchcock was trying to introduce in order to lighten up the mood and suspense, but they didn't work too well for me. The romance between Carroll and Donat's characters wasn't too believable either. I just didn't see the sparks that other critics have found in their performance. I usually tend to like Hitchcock's use of sound in his films and how they enhance the story, but in The 39 Steps it didn't work at all and I found several moments that instead of building the suspense simply felt misplaced. I still respect this film for how it helped form Hitchcock's career, but I can't call it a masterpiece. I will continue to claim Rebecca is his earliest masterpiece. "},{"Title":"What better excuse for sleeping with a random stranger . . .","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" . . . than having your wrist handcuffed to his? THE 39 STEPS is one of the first talkies to employ this device, going a step further than earlier films in having Richard help remove Pamela's damp lingerie so she won't catch pneumonia overnight. As you can see, it was a case of anything goes for the Pre-Hollywood Alfred Hitchcock, uncut & uncensored. There was no need to dress killers up as grannies or black birds when the presumed murderer could have his way in the fashion Richard does Pamela in THE 39 STEPS. Spy movies have since been cluttered if not spoiled outright by the James Bond series. THE 39 STEPS proves you do NOT need martinis, fast cars, and goofy gadgets to rivet an audience. Pamela is sort of like the first Bond girl, and all it takes to get her is a pair of handcuffs. There's a lot to be said for love at first clink. "},{"Title":"A 1935 classic worth watching","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm not particularly a fan of old movies, but this one held my interest for he full 86 minutes. It's worth watching, especially if you find it interesting to see what London and Scotland were like in 1935, and how people spoke and dressed back then (or at least how Alfred Hitchcock chose to portray this). I'd say this film has withstood the test of time and can be called a true classic.Richard Hannay (Robert Donant) is a likable, resourceful and articulate Canadian who goes out for a show and finds himself caught up in the affairs of a beautiful stranger, a murder, a spy intrigue and a cross-country manhunt. Will he find out who committed the murder and be able to clear his name? During this adventure, he crosses paths with the beautiful Pamela (Madeleine Carroll), resulting in some conflict and sexual tension.I was struck by how charming and handsome Robert Donant is in this movie. How come I've never heard of him? These old male movie stars -- I'm thinking also of Errol Flynn here -- had a certain unflappable style and masculine presence you don't see in modern actors. Something has happened to men, and male-female relationships, over the last four generations. It's worth about 7.5, but I'm rounding it off down to 7 because old movies are not my thing. "},{"Title":"An Early Achievement in Alfred Hitchcock's Glorious Career.","Date":"7 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brilliantly applying the twists & turns to build up its suspense while also supporting the entire narrative with its clever use of humour in order to keep the whole film a light-hearted cinematic experience, The 39 Steps is an earlier gem in the career of a filmmaker who later went on to become, arguably, the greatest director of all time.Directed by Alfred Hitchcock, this motion picture tells the story of a man in London who tries to help a counterespionage agent prevent the stealing of top secret information from an organisation of spies but when the agent is killed & he is framed for the murder, he goes on the run to expose the spy ring & prove his innocence in the process.Packed with a tight screenplay, wonderful British humour, sincere performances & impressive editing, The 39 Steps is a rollicking mystery thriller that's nicely crafted from start to finish and even though its climax might be a turn-off for some viewers, it nonetheless succeeds as one of those early films in the career of a master filmmaker which laid the foundation of a legacy that still remains unequaled. "},{"Title":"What are the 39 steps?","Date":"5 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Sir Robert Donat is deliciously wonderful in his performance of a wrongly accused man on the run from the law and those mysterious men after him. Post World War I and per World War II adds intrigue to the mystery. Madeleine Carroll plays the female love interest and the young Dame Peggy Ashcroft has a small role. This is on Sir Alfred Hitchcock's earlier classics. Donat is wonderful as he goes to Scotland and comes back to London, England. There is also great humor in this film as a backdrop. Other cast members include Sir Godfrey Tearle as well. Hitchcock's classic inspired a stage adaptation of 4 actors playing 30 roles. I can see it done from the film version based on a novel of the same name. It's one his earlier and memorable films. "},{"Title":"naive","Date":"14 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" a nice novel. a great director. crumbs of spy story, romance, adventures, betrayal and duty. murder, secrets, bad guys and almost good guys, an innocent victim and amusing love story. charming, seductive, nostalgic movie. but not very interesting. movie of a time, it is only part of a prestigious filmography. after Bond experience, it is difficult to appreciate an adaptation in which drama is an old cloth. in which tension is slice from a tale presented by a child.so, the only feeling is the sweet tenderness for acting, situations, known recipes, Hitchcock tricks and air of a time face to face with terrible war. precious memories, lovely story and mark of magnificent filmmaker. "},{"Title":"Very Good Film","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 39 Steps, The (1935)*** 1/2 (out of 4) Early Hitchcock classic as Robert Donat accused of murdering a woman and having to go on the run to try and prove his innocence. Along the way Donat pretty much kidnaps a woman (Madeleine Carroll) and the two try to prove that a group of spies are behind the murder and perhaps much more. This type of story is one that Hitchcock would revisit throughout his career with NORTH BY NORTHWEST being the most popular example. This film really gives the director his first extremely good film even though there are a few flaws here including how easy it is for our hero to constantly escape. He's got spies and cops after him yet he seems to escape with way too much ease. That's a minor nitpick but the rest of the movie is incredibly fun and manages to be entertaining from start to finish. What really carries the film is the IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT-type of romance and road trip that goes on between Donat and Carroll. With lesser actors this romantic side plot would have killed the film as well as the drama but the two actors are so great together that you can't help but want to see them go through all the flirtatious stuff. Donat really steals the film with his laid back style of acting, which manages to make his quite calm and collective even during the more suspenseful scenes. Carroll is quite cute and makes you enjoy her character even though she turns out hero in early in the film. The film has a very fast pace to it and you can see countless great touches from the master including a great scene early on in the train involving looking over a newspaper. "},{"Title":"Great thriller","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I went into this movie as a devoted, almost rabid fan of the book it's based on, yet knowing perfectly well that this movie wasn't going to be much like it. And it wasn't, of course, but it was an excellent movie on its own account, better fun than North by Northwest and very well-made, with a great sense of paranoia in some places and laugh-out-loud funny in others.John Buchan, who wrote the book, had the opportunity of seeing this movie late in life, and while his wife was highly indignant at the liberties taken by the plot, the then-Governor-General of Canada surprised everyone by liking it enormously. I can see why. It's full of charm and grace; the main actors do a great job, and while it has parts that seem dated, it is all in all a very fine movie.Besides, I can still look forwards to a newer, more faithful adaptation, should that ever occur. "},{"Title":"Another nice thriller","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Just like any other Hitchcock film its a great film. It is thrilling and the suspense is very rewarding. Robert Donut has acted well. The best part of the film is the plot itself. Scenes in the handcuff are truly inventive. Its old Hitchkcock so lot of frame detailing is lost in shoddy light and indoor shoots. Scenes where Robert Donut describes his criminal background is very funny. Last scene of the film is also fantastic. Its a definite watch for all 'thriller' lovers(specially Hitchcock fans). This film is initial success of Hitchcock. He won an Oscar after 4 years for 'Rebecca'(his first American film). He made 5 other films in this duration. A must watch for a hitchcock fan. "}{"Title":"An influential film","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A man in London (Rober Donat) drawn into the situation by accident, tries to help a counterespionage agent. However that agent is killed and the man must evade both the police and foreign spies to save his life and stop the leaking of important military secrets to a foreign power. Along the way he is joined by a reluctant accomplice (Madeline Caroll).After seeing this film, you can really see from where modern thrillers (as well as films from other genres) get their inspiration. This film has it all- escaping from being held captive in a car because the vehicle was stopped by a bunch of sheep crossing the road, running from the police only to accidentally end up in a place where you're mistaken for someone else and then have to give a speech on something and then pull it off well. There's even a shot of people inside a car which then smoothly transforms into a shot of the camera moving away from the car and then having the car drive away. All of these are things that you'll find in so many modern films.Hitchcock truly is the master of suspense and this is further proof of it. "},{"Title":"Side Steps","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Considering the degree to which Hitchcock is respected for his Hollywood work, this little gem can only be underrated.He demonstrates here how effortlessly he could take us wherever he willed, on track or sidetracked, with equal measures of charm and determination. And Donat is the man to bring this to life.Consider the genius of the 'McCrocodile' speech -- we have- Donat playing Hannery.- Donat playing Hannery playing Hammond.- Donat playing Hannery playing the 'guest speaker'.While all of this is going on, he- Plays as Hannery (inside the movie).- As Hannery to his love interest.- As 'Hammond' to the 'detectives'.- As the 'guest speaker' to the audience within, - AND (outside the movie) to us, and to all of Britain as a motivational speaker, with a warning of Nazi subterfuge.Simultaneously, this describes his situation, Britain's situation, and the movie audience's situation...whew! The closest modern equivalent is Chevy Chase's performance in Fletch.On top of that and the usual visual composition brilliance, Hitchcock is making it abundantly clear that the whole thing is self-referential (the election meeting audience paralleling us, the movie audience). So we find our expectations completely turned around we find the central value is not the story, but the humorous asides. Where the mysterious maguffin turns out to be not within the movie, but the entire movie itself. And all of it done with remarkable, winning wit...it's the sort of cinematic fun that It Happened One Night should have been. "},{"Title":"What are The 39 Steps?","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" What a wonderful film! In this early effort, Alfred Hitchcock shows why he would one day become arguably the greatest director ever. You want mystery &#150; The 39 Steps has got it. You want comedy &#150; The 39 Steps has got it. You want intrigue &#150; The 39 Steps has got it. You want a little romance &#150; The 39 Steps has got it. It's all here and wonderfully done. And the best part, it's aged rather well. The actors speak in a natural tone and rhythm and it doesn't have that stagey feeling that so many early mystery/thrillers seem to have.And talk about influential. I doubt it was the first, but The 39 Steps sets out the blueprint of the wrongly accused man on the run trying to find the truth that has been copied countless numbers of times. The number of films that have followed this formula is staggering. Even Hitchcock himself would revisit this formula over and over again. Why mess with a winner? The only negative thing I can say about The 39 Steps and the only reason I don't rate it a 10/10 is my problem with the lead actor, Robert Donat. It's not that he's particularly bad, but he's just not a very likable guy. "},{"Title":"important movie about suspense theme","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of the greatest thrillers I have ever seen ..You can easily see the first impacts of thriller cinema from every scenes of the film .. There is important technical details in film that will give great reflections over Alfred's cinema .. Donat gives a great performance full of suspense and this makes the audience terrible while watching the movie.. The bridge scene and the final scene of the movie can be remembered as remarkable scenes at movie history..I think this is the greatest and most influential film of the master's cinema at england..Film noir atmosphere is very successful also..See and affect with the beautiful cinema language of the suspense master.. "},{"Title":"Great film, bad version","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I bought this film at Wal-Mart, and though I liked it very much, I was greatly displeased with the version I bought distributed by Front Row Entertainment Canada. First off, it said the film was digitally remastered, which was why I bought it. Well, now it's worse than the old vhs versions. It hasn't been restored to its widescreen version, and you can tell that things are cut out of the picture with the fullscreen version--it is that obvious. You can also tell that the source tape used for this DVD is an old rented vhs that has been viewed millions of times. And the film is so horribly bright, you can hardly make out what is on the screen. I had to readjust my television just to watch this film. If this is Front Row Entertainments idea of digitally remastered, I think they should have left the venture for someone who could have done this film justice and presented it as the classic it really is. What a disappointment! Thumbs down to Front Row Entertainment Inc. "},{"Title":"Early and Distinctive Thriller by Hitch","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Rating 7 out of 10. Directed by Alfred Hitchcock. Many call this the original Hitchcock 'wrong man' thriller. It is the story of Richard Hannay, played by Robert Donat, who is a Canadian visiting London, England in the 1930's. Due to being in the wrong place at the wrong time, Hannay is caught up in a web of espionage and becomes a wanted man on the run.Hitchcock's direction is excellent. Many fans call The 39 Steps his breakthrough movie. It also appears to be the original outline for his `North by Northwest' made more than twenty years later.Although a very good movie, my rating of 7 does not suggest that it is incredible, this is because compared to all movies since the 1930's in general, The 39 Steps is quite dated. However, many scenes are as riveting as ones in other Hitchcock films, so therefore this movie is not to be missed by Hitch fans. "},{"Title":"Exciting Spy Story that keeps you guessing till the end!","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Though obviously dated and tame by today's standards, Hitchcock keeps you guessing until the end in this black and white spy drama. The secondary plot line, (A romance) adds some interesting sexual tension as the couple is handcuffed together by the enemy agents, and subsequently pose as husband and wife while checking into the Inn.Without nudity or gratuitous sex,it is sensual and playful. Hitchcock makes us want to see these two fall in love. > "},{"Title":"The Man Who Knew Too Little","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock directs Robert Donat (as Richard Hannay) to a London music hall, where he joins the crowd enjoying the Mr. Memory show. A commotion erupts, and Mr. Donat finds himself in the company of a mysterious, beautiful woman. The woman (Lucie Mannheim) asks to be taken to Donat's flat, asking, May I come home with you? Then, she is stabbed by spy types. Of course, Donat is suspected. While on the lamb, he meets cool blonde Madeleine Carroll (as Pamela)...The 39 Steps is an fine representation of 1930s Hitchcock; although, the director more finely tuned some of the craft evident as his career developed. Some Hitchcock touches I found amusing were the train men reviewing progress in the development of women's undergarments, and handcuffed Donat and Madeleine Carroll enjoying a sandwich while she removes her stockings. Hitchcock elicits nice performances; with John Laurie (as John) and Peggy Ashcroft (as Margaret) standing out, in particularly effective characterizations. Early on, the film is reminiscent enough of Greta Garbo's The Mysterious Lady (1928) to invite some comparison. ******** The 39 Steps (6/35) Alfred Hitchcock ~ Robert Donat, Madeleine Carroll, Peggy Ashcroft, John Laurie "},{"Title":"excellent but not quite perfect,...","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've seen this film twice. The first time, I thought it was an exciting and wonderful film that I would have probably scored a 9 had the IMDb been around then. I saw it again today and found that it only merited an 8 because of one glaring problem. Again and again and again, the hero (Donat) kept miraculously escaping. Whether it was cops or spies--whoever caught him went all brain dead and allowed him to escape. Now the police think he is a murderer and the spies are afraid he'd uncover their ring--and yet BOTH seem to let this ordinary guy simply escape!? This does strain credibility a bit.Now if you ignore this basic problem, you'll find that the rest of the film is rather cleaver. The dialog is good and the plot, though highly improbable, is very entertaining. So give it a try and try not to count how many improbable escapes occur! "},{"Title":"McCrocodile for Parliment","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Robert Hannay, a Canadian visiting in London, is caught in a web of intrigue when a double agent is found murdered, but after she tells Hannay about an organization of spies called the 39 Steps is planning to steal government secrets on behalf of a sinister foreign power. Hannay tries to make his way toward Scotland to relay the information of Annabella's death, while at the same time trying to avoid the police. When Hannay arrives at his destination, he encounters the leader of the 39 Steps and only escapes death by a stroke of fate, but Hannay realizes he has little time to stop the 39 Steps from accomplishing the mission, only made more difficult by the fact that Hannay is handcuffed to a woman who believes his guilt. This is quintessential Hitchcock with all the elements that made the director famous such as suspense, dark humor, plot twists, and the like. Donat and Carroll give the characters such life and personality benefiting every way possible from a brilliant script. An essential film for any movie fan. Rating, 10. "}{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I watched it again last night. The 39 Steps is a great story told in a rapid-fire movie by Alfred Hitchcock who would become somewhat known for 'fattening' later pictures (except Rear Window). I came to the IMDb to identify the actress who played Patricia (it's NOT Pat, the director's daughter, who was only 7 years old when the picture was released). No luck. Meanwhile, I read ALL of the 91 comments to date.In all the comments, I could not find any which picked the nits I would want to pick. Those are two first, Jordan shows Hannay a pistol and calls it a 'revolver' when it is clearly an automatic. And, second, it is a very small caliber weapon...one which could not possibly have knocked Hannay down when he was shot in the prayerbook. Assuming that Jordan was, as Annabella stated, a brilliant and clever foreign agent, he would not have made either of these mistakes. "},{"Title":"What are the 39 steps?","Date":"1 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Hearing Robert Donat shout out this question near the end of the movie still sends chills down my  spine - it is one of *the* great cliffhanger moments in movies, period.  Except for the ludicrously  overacted mystery woman who appears in an early scene, the cast is a treasure, and if Hitch had  never made another movie he'd be remembered gratefully for this one.  I hunted down the John  Buchan novel on which the film is supposedly based, and found the book to be a leaden, dated,  anti-Semitic turkey - which makes this radically re-imagined interpretation even more impressive.  This movie is on my rent it for me if I'm ever in traction and stuck in bed for 3 months list.  An  all-time all-star affair.  9 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"The 39 Steps (1935) ***","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A good Alfred Hitchcock film, with two likable lead performers in Robert Donat and Madeleine Carroll. It's got a lot going for it tight pacing, potent suspense and even a touch of '30s screwball comedy to flesh things out a bit. I would have to imagine that all of this felt pretty fresh in 1935 and we know it set many standards for cinema thrillers to come ... but watching it for the first time now in 2004, I couldn't help that inevitable feeling that I kind of saw this already. But in all fairness, that's hardly the movie's fault that I haven't gotten round to seeing it till now! Recommended. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Hitchcock is awesome","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The new dvd has considerably better sound quality than the old tape but this has been one of my favorites since I first saw it. The situations are funny the mystery hangs together and the direction is wonderful, make sure to check out the scene where the camera pulls out of a moving car and then pans to follow.  "},{"Title":"best ever version","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This has to be the best version of 39 steps that has ever graced the silver screen. Robert Donat and Madeline Carrol were just born to play the parts. The story is true to the book and it concludes with by far the best ending to any of the films. "},{"Title":"39 Steps of Excitement","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The 39 Steps looks outdated because the story happens in 1935, but the story is exciting and unbelievable.  It is about a guy (Robert Donat) getting mixed up with spys (before WWII) and a beautiful- unfriendly blond (Madeleine Carroll).  This is Robert Donat's most spirited performance.  It is hard to believe that he suffered with asthma all his life. This is one of Alfred Hitchcock's first big hits.  It is a good thing he never made the remake of this movie. It didn't need it!  Someone else did the remake in the 1950's and it is rather dull.  Nobody could top Robert Donat's and Madeleine Carroll's stress in many tense moments.    "},{"Title":"Hitchcock at his cutest.","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is really a neat little movie. I'm constantly amazed at what Hitchcock was able to do with such limited resources. The bit with the handcuffs is classic and deserves a place among the best Hitch moments. Not to mention Robert Donat is pitch perfect in the lead. Definitely a winner and a must see for fans of The Hitch. "},{"Title":"As Orson Welles said in his radio broadcast of this story, not true to the original novel..","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have read several of the reviews by viewers.  Yes, it is greatHitchcock. But that is the problem, Hitchcock has taken the WorldWar I spy novel and created a new revised plot.The original storyinvolves an actual place called the 39 steps, not evident in thismovie.  The combination of Madeleine Carroll and Robert Donatmake this a delightful film worth watching. The finger is a greatscene. Handcuffs were also a key focus of YOUNG AND  INNOCENT; SABOTEUR. The scene where Carole slips out ofhers is replicated by Claudette Colbert in IT'S A WONDERFULWORLD. What is evident in the four previously mentioned films isthe sudden realization by the heroine that she hasn't beenkidnapped by the hero, but she has been primed for love ormarriage. "},{"Title":"Classic spy story signed Hitchcock","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  39 steps is a kind of blueprint for many of Hitchcocks later movies - a man becomes accidentally involved in criminal activities and have to find proof of his own innocence... Splendid acting by Donat/Carroll and (despite its age) very agile storytelling make it a _must see_ for anyone who is the slightest interested in film history. "},{"Title":"The best of his early work","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  WOW! That's all I can say after seeing this movie. Humor, suspense and great camera tricks- what more could I ask for in a Hitchcock movie? Even though, this was released in 1935, while watching it, that didn't even phase me. And what can be said about the women of this film especially Madelaine Carroll- she is absolutely stunning in her role. There is not much I can say about this movie but buy this now (and do yourself a favor and buy the Criterion edition). Simply outstanding! "}{"Title":"Great British Hitchcock film","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Together with 'The Lady Vanishes' this is the best British Hitchcock.The special thing about this film is the extraordinary pacing. Hitch doesn't give us any room to breath and lets Robert Donat fall from one impossible situation to another. It's all incredibly funny and tongue-in-cheek, mostly thanks to the great performance from Donat.The story itself isn't that original but it's interesting because it explores a lot of the main themes from Hitch's American work. We have the innocent man on the run theme ( to be repeated in 'Saboteur' and perfected in North by Northwest), the platinum blonde (see Grace Kelly and Tippi Hedren), the handcuffs (Saboteur again), the Mac Guffin and so on. Hitch was exercising here and what a great exercise it's turned out to be. Highly recommended.Rating 8/10Most Memorable Movie Moment The scenes with Mr Memory "},{"Title":"Well-done suspenseful movie...","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  1st watched 2/2/2002 - 7 out of 10(Dir-Alfred Hitchcock) Well-done suspenseful movie about a man being in the wrong place at the wrong time and getting involved in international intrigue quite by accident. The plot begins and ends in a music hall with an opening act called Mr. Memory who is able to remember everything(supposedly) that he is presented with.  Without giving you too much of the movie we'll just say that this becomes a very important element into why events occur in the movie as they do.  The Hitchcock style is very apparent in this early movie as he weaves us thru this plot and the audience becomes more and more involved in it. For me another viewing will probably help me understand all the ins and outs because honestly the VHS copy that I viewed left much to be desired in sound and picture quality, which leaves me panting for the restored DVD version to keep this film alive for future audiences to take in and hold onto. "},{"Title":"wonderful work on the Heaths","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Wandering misty Scottish heaths, against the elements and mankind, in search of redemption is a powerful theme, especially when employed with this kind of spook. And especially when tied to a woman, who functions as Lear's fool in this capacity.Propaganda can be burdensome, but Hitch uses it to propel the drama. Today, PC politics is a dead weight to drama.  They should learn the difference. "},{"Title":"In my top 10 (spoiler alert)","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Someone said the ending is too abrupt...The dying Mr Memory declines a chair and is lowered to theground in an echo of the 'Deposition of Christ from the Cross'scene in Hitch's silent The Lodger. It's a great piece of acting. Herecites, haltingly, the 'secret vital to your air defence' he hasmemorised, then says 'I'm glad to have it off my mind at last.' THEENDAnd what's dreadful about those Scottish accents?Yes, the crofteris played by John Laurie who played Fraser in Dad's Army. He wasa genuine Scotsman and there's nothing wrong with his accent.xxxxxxx "},{"Title":"a class flick","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS** the 39 steps is the first really good hitchcock sound movie he was to mark out himself as one of the greatest directors of the 20th century. in this movie richard hannay picks up a woman arrabella smith from a music hall and takes her back to his flat only to wake up and find her stabbed in the back.His only clues are that smith was investigating spies and that she must meet a man in scotland with the tip of his finger missing.He escapes to the train and travels to edinburgh only to loose the police on the forth rail bridge after a night with john lawrie and peggy ashcroft he finds that the man arabella told him aboutthe professor is the leader of the spies the 39 steps hannay manages to escape but he and madeline carol are handcuffed together by the professors helpers they escape and after a night in a guest house they eventually make it back to london where hannay manages to find out how the professor is smuggling information out of the country about new aircraft parts.Mr Memory the act at the start of the film by asking him what are the 39 steps hannay gets the truth the professor has to shoot memory and hannay is proved innocent. "},{"Title":"One surprise after another","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yet again we see how brilliant Hitchcock is, how fond he is of sequences on a train, and how much impact he had on everything that came after.  Every shot in this film became a staple of filmmaking, every line grew into a cliche, and the ending, though endlessly copied, even today is so fresh and well built-up that you never see it coming in this film. Wonderful. "},{"Title":"This is the movie that started countless cliches.","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Upon seeing this film, one is stuck by the fact that virtually everything in the film became a cliche.  Yet all the cliches come off as being very fresh and enjoyable.  Why?  Because this is the movie which gave birth to these cliches, and when you see how effective the film is, it's easy to see why it has been so readily copied.  "},{"Title":"Some people call it one of the finest movies Hitchcock made.  I disagree.","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just read a few comments on this film, for inspiration and direction. Some people call it one of the finest movies Hitchcock made.  I disagree.The plot is similar to `North by Northwest' in that is centers on an innocent man, unwittingly dragged into a spy game.  Without spoiling much of the plot, suffice to say the protagonist, Richard Hannay, played by Robert Donat, is abandoned within a world too powerful for him with few and unlikely allies.Were it not for the addition of the amazing character of Mr. Memory (`Am I right, sir?'), I would have been somewhat disappointed by the film as a whole.  Mr. Memory has the uncanny ability to remember many facts with incredible recall and detail.  In fact, he memorizes fifty new things a day. The one dimensionality of only being shown Mr. Memory while he performs is given depth by his charm and sharp wit in response to countless hecklers.There's an interesting bit of pastoral symbolism, which may or may not have been intentional.  Hannay is saved from his pursuers once by a hymnbook and a second time by a flock of sheep.  I haven't set decided what to make of this, but it's an interesting conversation piece if nothing else.If you've already seen `North by Northwest', you stand to be satisfied to seeing its predecessor, or disappointed by a slightly less suspenseful variant on the theme. If you haven't, it's definitely worth your few hours.  "},{"Title":"Maybe not Hitchcock's best, but...","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I think The 39 Steps was the first Hitchcock film I ever saw. I was not impressed. However, after four years and a whole lot of education in film, I have come to respect it. I disagree with the opinion that it is one of Hitch's best, still. He possibly has more perfect films than any other director in cinema history Rebecca, Rope, Vertigo, Psycho, Rear Window, North by Northwest, The Birds and probably many more that I have not seen. The 39 Steps does not compare to those great films. It is a fun suspense film, but it has not the layers of subtext that Hitch's greatest films have. I give it an 8/10. "},{"Title":"The 86 Minutes","Date":"14 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I was really looking forward to this movie since the Criterion DVD is rather costly and a rerelease with a flawless screening seemed like the perfect way to be introduced to this so-called Hitchcock classic. It's a real shame the film ends up being so damn twee.The main problem is that the film is just too quaint. None of the bad guys feel like a real threat and are frequently fooled by Hanney's simple tricks, the stakes aren't exactly high and the MacGuffin is surely Hitchcock's lamest. The final scene in which a memory man (a pre-USB key device) recites a vital formula to no one of importance before dying is a dumb way to end the film. I was expecting some gripping set-piece like at the end of North By Northwest or Saboteur when the hero and villain went head to head at Mount Rushmore and the Statue of Liberty. But a single shot fired at the London Palladium? Come on! And what's the deal with that silly chase sequence over the moors of Scotland. The stupid speeded-up footage makes it look like a Benny Hill skit sans music. Plus there absolutely ain't no atmosphere to speak of. The only thing that really amused me was the chemistry between Hannay and Pamela, but that came too late in the movie.They also changed too much from the book. Pretty much all that's left is the name Richard Hannay and the words 'the 39 steps'. Take away those and it's something completely different from John Buchan's book.A true adaptation would have been much better. "}{"Title":"Classic, Innovative, Oft-Copied, Excellent Direction","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A true gem of an example of the 'English Mystery Movie' of its era. The repartee between Donat and Carroll stands as a boiler plate/guideline, for all the intellectual male/female conversational fencing matches, (e.g. Powell/Loy Thin Man), that followed for generations. Needless to say, expertly directed by Hitchcock. If you haven't you should SEE IT!  "},{"Title":"Scape... scape","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the best Hitchcock's movies that i have seen. The story is very clever (as usual) and the performances are perfect. The story is about an innocent man who must discover the secret of the 39 steps before people kill him before he discover.This movie, that i alway remember when i see movies like The fugitive is more than a classic movie. Is a movie that stills moves and thrills any one that can see it. Because the plot is irresistible and witty. An unforgettable movie.As usual Hitchcock's always give us tales of action and thrills, and this is a movie that, if you have not seen yet, see it. If you love Hitchcock, see it! If you love thrills, see it! If you love a good movie. See it! Go and scape for it! *Sorry for the mistakes... well,if there any "},{"Title":"Anti-women, or anti-anti-women?","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Breezy, entertaining early suspense caper from Mr. Hitchcock.  Fans of his mature work might be disappointed that not much of his signature darkness is to be found here, but fortunately his twisted sense of humor is more than apparent.  In fact, the espionage plot, title McGuffin, and proto-`North by Northwest' chase across foggy Scotland all seem to be a mere vehicle for the director and screenwriters' string of bitchily sexist jokes and scenarios.  As always, we can't tell whether Hitchcock is criticizing or condoning this misogyny, and whether you are amused or outraged when the auld Scots farmer beats his wife will depend on how highly developed (or depraved) your sense of irony is.  As for the cast, Robert Donat makes a fine twittering Canadian `hero,' and Madeleine Carroll is a sharp-toothed foil, one who keeps the female-bashing from overpowering things.  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Nice early Hitchcock","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Nice early Hitchcock but nothing too special. Some wonderful b/w photography makes the movie for me. The romantic parts seem a bit dragged out but had a winsome, none-too-serious air which was pleasant. That this move makes the 250 is interesting-i personally don't think it is that strong. It ain't nothin' to go out of your way for. "},{"Title":"My favorite A. Hitchcock movie","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  IMHO, this blows away any of the hollywood stuff he did. This has got to be one of the best made films I've ever seen. It has a plot that draws you in, and you are actually wanting to find out what happens to the characters.  The whole movie has an air of mystery around it too, kind of like pulp fiction did.  Who exactly was the man with the pinkie missing, was Robert Donat all he said he was?  Hmmmm....   "},{"Title":"Really good.","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I really like this movie. Of all of the early Hitchcock films that I have seen this is really the best. As soon as the film starts we are thrust right into this mystery, that keeps you guessing until the end. This movie has great acting, good directing, and an excellent story. It's nicely paced. It also has a nice balance of comedy and suspense. It has it's share of surprises as well. Like when the female spy is killed in the beginning of the film. I thought the movie would revolve around her and Richard. I was also really surprised about the mixed reviews I've read. But I guess everyone has an opinion. Another reason I liked this film is that it laid the foundation for future innocent man on the run films. I highly recommend this film to all. Hitchcock knew what he was doing when he did this. So if you haven't seen it, rent it soon and just sit back and enjoy the thrill ride. "},{"Title":"Thrilling adventure despite technical flaws","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I agree with an earlier comment about this film...it feels like it's ahead of its time. I felt like it was made in the 60s, especially in relation to Truffaut and the French New Wave at that time.There are several flaws regarding camera work and special effects, but I still regard it as an almost magical adventure. I just saw the film in a theater. I had seen this film before not remembering the title, but having the scenes of the film mesmerized in my mind - I had even dreamed that I was in it. The story goes on rather rapidly, and in that sense perhaps less credible, but there are so many good moments that keep you interested from the beginning to the end. Like in a Truffaut film, there is attention to details, and warm and wonderful twists. There is quite a lot of romance and humor too, which makes it warm.Not perfect, but highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Not one of the great Hitchcocks, but a good movie nonetheless","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The 39 Steps begins with a rather unconvincing set-up, as one of the least secretive secret agents in movie history explains her mission to a complete stranger, the charming Robert Donat.  One piece of haddock and a bed for the night and she's told him everything; who needs thumb screws when you've got a big fish and a comfy mattress?If you can forgive this contrived opening, The 39 Steps is an entertaining and often tense thriller which brings with it the roots of classic Hitchcock.  When Lucie Mannheim's gobby spy is murdered in Donat's apartment, he goes on the run to escape the long arm of the law and to find the secret of the 39 steps, meeting a cut-glass blonde along the way.There is great chemistry between Donat and Madeleine Carroll (as his reluctant companion) and their relationship effortlessly blends action with light comedy.  Their best scene comes when they are handcuffed together and Carroll tries to take off her stockings, with Donat's hands doing their best to help.  You probably have to see it to appreciate it, but for me it summed up their relationship perfectly;  it manages to be funny, mildly sexy, with Donat at his most charming and Carroll slightly uncomfortable in the company of a man she believes to be a murderer.  As is the case with The Birds, this thread of romantic comedy would have made a nice enough movie on its own.There are a few shots that show Hitchcock's imaginative direction, but these are balanced out with a few tacky moments such as the speeded-up film in one of the chase scenes, so that this is not quite evidence of a genius at work but of someone well on his way.  He provides great twists throughout the film, each coming as a genuine surprise, which of course should not be given away here.  The ending, like the opening, doesn't quite ring true but its twist is perhaps the best in the film so its flaws can almost be forgiven.The niggles with the set-up and its final pay-off prevent The 39 Steps from reaching the heights of Hitchcock's best movies, but this is still a solid film from a legend on the way to his peak of success. "},{"Title":"Suspenseful, yet droll","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  You just have to love Hitchcock's mixture of suspense with wry humor. I haven't seen any other of his British films, but will make an effort to do so. There are a few problems with quality of the film, but that's to be expected, I guess. Every Hitchcock fan should see this. "},{"Title":"Old is gold but very old is not","Date":"1 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Defense secret of Airways is about to cross the border through the keyword The 39 steps. Did they make it? It's not look like a movie rather like a Play. As its a very old movie Very bad art direction and direction too. No depth in story also. But the technique of stealing the secret is awesome. Alfred Hitchcock stands really tall there. Great suspense. The movie proves that 2013 has astonishing technology but the 1935 movie has the great thinking. Movie could have been lot better. Hero looks like comedian for me. Not worth watching it. "}{"Title":"OK suspense movie","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Fairly involving mistaken identity movie with international spies pitted against the man they've set up for murder (Donat).  Carroll is handcuffed to him (in Capra fashion), and only decides to trust him because she hears the Nazis talking on the phone (Capra would never be so tasteless).  Some laughs and good action scenes.  Nice photography.  Pace seems a bit slow to me. "},{"Title":"Good but not brilliant","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not one of the best Hitchcock but still good to watch. Spy story with Richard (Robert Donat) being caught in the middle of it. Funny when is tied up with handcuffs with Pamela (Madeleine Carroll). The camera work is excellent.Out of 100, I gave it 79. That's *** on a **** stars rating system.Seen at home, in Welland, on November 18th, 2001. Marko Roy. "},{"Title":"39 Steps-Not Good for Your Heart *1/2","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Surprisingly, an absolute stinker by Alfred Hitchcock.Debonair Robert Donat is so thoroughly stiff here as a man encountering a foreign woman who knows about espionage and suddenly has a knife put in her back in his apartment. This leads to a very wily chase with the supplies in hot pursuit of the Donat character along with Madeleine Carroll, a woman he encounters on the train and is forced to flee with when they are both handcuffed to each other.It isn't until the very end that the meaning of the 39 steps is revealed and at that point, we really don't care.As always, some of the good guys are really bad guys in this so called boring thriller. "},{"Title":"Confusing at times, though not a total waste.","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" And certainly after he kidnaps the girl, damn she's mighty hot for a woman out of the mid 1930's. The movie runs like an original Fugitive. The acting is okay, but not Hitchcock's Best. Which is either The Birds or Vertigo. (haven't seen Psycho so I can't speak for it) But it takes awhile for me to figure out where the girl comes from and though I find it's never really answered. And sometimes characters disappear and we don't know what happens to them. And although it may seem obvious to many, I still don't know if Mr. Memory died at the end or not. (6/10QUality 4/10 Entertainment 8/10 Replayable 5/10 "},{"Title":"An Air That Kills","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is only the second Hitchcock thirties film I've seen, the other being The Lady Vanishes; both films deal with spies and music is a vital element (from what I've read about The Man Who Knew Too Much, music features again) so it's no wonder I tend to dismiss Hitchcock as something of a vastly overrated Johnny-One-Note. Here, as in TLV, we have to get round some fairly unrealistic stuff; for reasons best known to himself, Robert Donat, a Candadian in England for a short visit, decides to go to a Music Hall where shots are fired at a performer on stage; nothing much is made of this and as he leaves Donat is accosted by a well-dressed woman who asks if she can go home with him; bizarrely and/or naively he agrees and once at his flat she confesses to firing the shots and speaks of a spy ring intent on removing state secrets abroad. She also asks for a map of Scotland which of course he has on hand, as you would. To lend credence to her story she indicates two men loitering in the street below, one of whom telephones the flat from the call-box on the corner. It is totally unrealistic to believe that the men would know either Donat's name (Richard Hannay) OR his telephone number; he was chosen at random by the woman and they had no way of ascertaining his phone number. If you're prepared to swallow this - and I accept that thousands are - then you won't have a problem with the remainder of the film. Nice to see a young Peggy Ashcroft even if she was married unrealistically to John Laurie. Fans will love it. "},{"Title":"Are you married? Yes, but don't rub it in!!","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I must say my 2 star review is far away from the 8 star rating this movie holds on IMDb, but I just simply didn't like the movie..it bored me. This made my second time watching and I keep looking and trying to find something great about it, but I can't.I hate remakes with passion, but maybe the 2011 remake of this will do it justice and make me actually enjoy it more. This film was made not far out of the silent era and overacting was still a major thing, I love horror and even some comedies from the 30's but drama and suspense just don't cut it for me from that time period of film.I tried watching for beautiful direction and I didn't see anything that stood out for me except some of the shots of the farmland where the man first hid out. Hitchcock had some great long shots there, but otherwise it was pretty basic. I liked Robert Donat's character as the lead, hes a very smooth and laid back actor. I also found the couple at the farm house to be great on film, the very religious man played by John Laurie and Peggy Ashcroft as his wife. It was my favorite part of the movie to watch Peggy's character and how she longed to hear more about the exciting life in the city, and how the girls had so much more life and freedom there, I think so many women can relate to that, especially ones like her where religion rules the house...such a shame.Basic story of the film is a man takes a woman home, she tells him shes a spy and during the night she is killed. The men who want to kill her await outside the apartment and then of course cops put him as a main suspect in her murder, and he goes out looking for the men who did this so he can free his own name, and lots of little twists and turns along the way.The movie was slow, the story was boring, there was nothing to amaze the eyes, and I just didn't care for it. 2 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Same Old-Same Old Even For Beginning 'Hitch'","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Back in the long era of VHS tapes, I never found a clear tape of this movie, so I could not fully appreciate it since the visuals and the sound were always so poor. That made it tough to decipher the dialog.This started off interesting but began to bog down with a It Happened One Night-type of romance with more comedic lines in here than suspense, which is what I thought the film was supposed to be.The film also is overrated because critics seem to all love Alfred Hitchcock. This was one of Hitch's first efforts, obviously, but had his familiar trademarks of anti-Biblical bias and innocent man-on-the-run theme. Here, he shows the religious man (a Scot in whose home Robert Donat hid) as untrustworthy and simply no good. Also, I found it interesting to hear a 1935 film the word damn said a half-dozen times. I guess the British didn't have the same moral code American had that year.All in all, a fair and definitely overrated movie. However, now that's it out on DVD maybe I would be a lot kinder with this after seeing a good print of it. "},{"Title":"The 39 Steps","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film once before, and not remembering any of it, being directed by the great Sir Alfred Hitchcock, and featuring in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, I had to see it again. Basically Richard Hannay (Robert Donat) is the Canadian visiting London, and after going to the London music hall, where Mr. Memory (Wylie Watson) was performing, and some shots were fired. There he meets Annabella aka Miss Smith (Lucie Mannheim), she admits she is a spy she fired the shots, but she knows about a plot to steal vital British military secrets. The next morning Richard finds her stabbed to death, and he decides to follow her instructions to Scotland to find out about the 39 steps she mentioned, with the police on his trail for suspected murder. He goes to a farm house, escapes from a moving train, and runs across countryside to get away from the police, and get to the bottom of this conspiracy he has got himself involved in. He is accompanied eventually by the woman he saw twice before, Pamela (Madeleine Carroll), who joins him to see Mr. Memory again at the London Palladium. It is him that explains what the 39 steps are, a spy organisation, and before dying of being shot by Professor Jordan (Godfrey Tearle), he reveals the other details in his brain about the whole affair. Also starring Peggy Ashcroft as Margaret - Crofter's Wife, John Laurie as John - Crofter, Helen Haye as Mrs. Jordan, Frank Cellier as Sheriff Watson, and Hitchcock's cameo is a man tossing some litter while Donat and Mannheim run from the theatre. Donat alone, and joined by Carroll, is very good, the story is witty, and Hitchcock is of course on fine form directing this enjoyable classic spy thriller. It was number 27 on 50 Greatest British Films. Very good! "},{"Title":"Badly dated","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This story has been made three times now, & although I don't usually like remakes, I must admit that the 1978 version with Robert Powell is in a different league to this Hitchcock version. It doesn't help that the film is in the wrong time frame (pre 2nd war instead of pre 1st), plus cheesy acting (why did the women always have poncy accents in these films, even if they were working class), & incoherent plot don't help matters.  Spoilers. Early on for instance Hannay puts up a female spy, who informs him she is in danger. In the night assassin(s) break in, murder her, then leave, & are waiting outside for him next morning. Eh! Why didn't they just kill him, & get any information. He then gets past them by borrowing the milkmans outfit, who believes his whole story, including the murder. (Is this guy the local idiot or what) The whole plot revolves around secrets being taken outside country & being stored in memory man. Haven't they heard of cameras or microfiche. The list goes on.I saw this many years ago & thought it was good, but seeing it know I can see how dated it has become, & the only reason it is so rated is because it is a Hitchcock film. Many other of his films are also very dated & silly.4/10 "},{"Title":"Early Hitchcock laugher","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"8 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The fact that this version of The 39 Steps is considered one of the top #250 films of all time on this site pays sad tribute to the willingness of so-called film fans to support anything done by anyone they revere.In fact, both this film and the 1934 version of The Man Who Knew Too Much merely demonstrate that Hitchcock had yet to find a creative voice. Bogged down by the camp over-acting that dogged film immediately following the silent era, both should be regarded as curious early attempts at film-making by a master and nothing else. Given the number of votes this film has received despite its relative scarcity, I have to say for shame to those who ranked this highly because it was made by Hitchcock without having seen it first.Although some of the atrociousness of the first attempt at filming Buchan's excellent novel can be put down to the quality of productions during the day, it isn't the only reason this clunker failed miserably. In fact, how this terrible, terrible film can be ranked above the far more entertaining 1950s version starring Kenneth More is beyond me. Though attempting to remain faithful to the book, the first version is bogged down by stoic, wooden performances, absolutely laughable direction by Hitchcock and pacing that would put a coffee bean to sleep.Donat was a light-weight far better suited to feel-good vehicles like Goodbye, Mr Chips and The Magic Box than the adventure films that made him famous witness his laboured perfomances in the Dietrich-vehicle Knight without Armour and the first 'talkie' version of the Count of Monte Cristo. Madelein Carroll is truly waifish and weak in the kind of demeaning way all women of the era were portrayed, any moments of acid tongue quickly reverting to being pulled along by the wrist and 'saved' by Donat at every occasion. The laughable climax at the Mr. Memory show that works so well in the original novel comes across as camp and heavy handed here, and is a long way from the ease with which the same plot device is employed in the Ray Milland classic The Manchurian Candidate.Ultimately, there may be one redeemable feature to this early stinker is the first -- albeit uncredited -- appearance of classic British television actor Wilfred Bramble, who would go on to star alongside the Beatles in A Hard Days Night and as the lead in Steptoe and Son, the show that prompted the U.S. hit Sanford and Son. "}]