[{"Title":"Strong Best Picture Winner of 1935.","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"37 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Clark Gable and Franchot Tone received Oscar nominations in this excellent early Best Picture winner. But it is Charles Laughton (also Oscar-nominated) who gives his greatest performance as the captain who is harsh, strict and unforgiving. However, his true skills are shown when he is thrown off the ship, but never gives up and returns to safety in a small boat with limited men and supplies. The primary actors are solid and the shooting locales are breath-taking. Frank Lloyd's direction lifts a somewhat questionable screenplay to safer waters and the film turns into a Hollywood classic by its final act. 5 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Our Favorite Mutiny April 28, 1789","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"32 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Although the versions with Marlon Brando and Trevor Howard, and with Mel Gibson and Anthony Hopkins, are fairer in presenting William Bligh than the 1935 version did, it is the 1935 version that remains the best American version of the story of Bligh, Christian, and the Bounty. It is the most literary version (based on the novels of Nordhoff and Hall - there are actually three novels), and it did give Charles Laughton his most famous ogre (which he repeated later as Captain William Kidd twice), but somehow the story was properly told in this version. Somehow making a case for Bligh weakens the story of men rebelling when they can't stand anymore.If one wants to see the story from Bligh's side, read his very readable account THE MUTINY ABOARD H.M.S. BOUNTY, but keep in mind that it is his account of his side of the story. Christian never did get a chance to produce his side of it. Peter Heyward, the real life version of Byams (Franchot Tone) had the family connections and money to publish his anti-Bligh account, but Bligh's book became a best seller.Historically most people feel that Bligh was more bark than bite. Unfortunately for his reputation he would be involved (in later years) in two other mutinies that of the entire British fleet (the Great Mutiny of 1797), where his ship H.M.S. Director was the last ship to take down it's flag of mutiny); and the New South Wales mutiny of 1805, where he was the Governor of the colony and his measures led to a mutiny of the local New South Wales Corp. But the Great Mutiny was actually caused by government corruption and neglect of it's seamen. As for the 1805 mutiny, Bligh was trying to control the New South Wales Corps which was not only corrupt but bullying the civilians. In the end his reports led to the recall of the corp. to fight against Napoleon on the Iberian Peninsula. But Nordhoff and Hall presented Bligh as the villain there too.The film also has more to it than the ranting of Bligh at MR. Christian! There are moments of comedy. Laughton's temper and anger are punctured a few times when the new cook (Herbert Mundin) keeps bungling things. When Laughton is angrily confronting a dissatisfied sailor, he happens to be staring directly at the sailor and Mundin. He orders the sailor to step forward, but Mundin does, causing Laughton to sputter. Also Mundin manages to toss garbage over the side so that it ends up hitting Laughton in the face. One wishes there had been more than this, or (better than that) an attempt to bring the two actors together in a comedy. Add to this Mr. Bacchus (Dudley Digges) whose leg (depending on when he is talking about it) was lost in a sea battle with the French, by a shark (who six months later turned up dead, with the leg still inside him), and shot off by a pirate off Madagascar (or something like that). His death in the film is a signal for the collapse of the one spot of humanity linking Christian's faction with Bligh's.It is now generally accepted that Bligh was one of the greatest navigators in history, and the open boat voyage after being thrown off the Bounty remains an incredible achievement (he lost only two men). The film's best moments for Laughton is in this section, as he suddenly becomes far more wiser and humane trying to keep his crew healthy and able to continue to sail to safety. But when in charge of a full ship Bligh could not, or would not control his temper and his tongue. It was sufficient to get him into trouble. However, it was also his ticket to fame. Seaman remember the great navigator and the cartographer - the man who sailed with Captain Cook and who fought (at Copenhagen in 1801) next to Horatio Nelson. But the public will always remember the ill-tempered martinet, fairly or not, whose tongue made nautical history. "},{"Title":"The Grandest Sea Saga of Them All","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"33 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" At that most prestigious of all film studios, MGM, they produced the greatest and grandest sea saga of them all. In 1935 it was considered quite daring to have an over two hour film. But Mutiny on the Bounty holds your interest through out.All three leads Clark Gable, Charles Laughton, and Franchot Tone were nominated for Best Actor that year and they managed to cancel each other out. Victor McLaglen took home the statue for The Informer with the fifth nominee being Paul Muni for Black Fury.Clark Gable wisely did not attempt a British accent and yet there was no criticism of his performance as Fletcher Christian. Christian was first mate of the HMS Bounty and a man of conscience. It tears him up inside to see the sadism and cruelty of Captain Bligh on this voyage. The men aren't king and country volunteers as he tells the captain. But the captain has his own ideas.Normally Charles Laughton played a whole lot of twisted and/or tortured souls for the screen. His Captain Bligh is a man with a deep inferiority complex. The key to him is in the dinner scene on board the Bounty. Watching him, you can see the envy and jealousy he has of the confident and self assured Gable, the callow youth Franchot Tone brimming with idealism and even the surgeon Dudley Digges who despite his drunkeness and crudity is a professional man with some education. It's so much like James Cagney's captain in Mister Roberts and worse because at that time the British Navy gave him the authority of God on that ship.The conflict between Gable and Laughton is obviously the main plot of the film. Yet there is a subplot that's rarely talked about, the conflict between Gable and Franchot Tone. Tone who was also American, but was stage trained and could fit into a British setting easily, plays Roger Byam one of the young midshipmen on board and who Gable befriends. The key to his character is right at the beginning of the film when he's being sent off to sea by Henry Stephenson playing Sir Joseph Banks. Seven generations of Byam's family have been part of the glorious naval tradition of Great Britain and none have failed in their duty. That should be uppermost in your mind.Gable and Tone have different ideas of duty and it tests their friendship. Each chooses a different path, yet Tone ends up defending Gable against Laughton. Franchot Tone's finest screen moment for me has always been at his court martial where he makes a stirring speech in defense of the rights of the ordinary British seaman.As always though the mark of a really great film is the impact those small character roles leave. The men on the Bounty include Donald Crisp, Stanley Fields, Eddie Quillan, Herbert Mundin. My favorite though is Dudley Digges as the ship's surgeon Mr. Bacchus. At the drop of a shilling he'll tell you how he's lost his leg. Outrageous, humorous, and a kindly man who softens the blows of Laughton's harsh discipline, had there been the Supporting player categories then, Mr. Digges would have been my choice for 1935 as Best Supporting Actor.Even in black and white, made in the studio back lot, Mutiny on the Bounty still holds up well today. Despite two subsequent versions of the story, this version has stood the test of time. "},{"Title":"The sentimental favorite version.","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  When watching this great motion picture keep in mind that it is now over sixty (60)years old! Even through the passage of time it provides for entertaining viewing. Charles Laughtons performance as William Bligh captain of the Bounty basically set the standard as how Bligh is pictured and thought of when his name is mentioned. Other actors have portrayed Bligh but it is Laughtons portrayal that is remembered most. The 1984 version with Anthony Hopkins and Mel Gibson is probably a more historical version of actual events but this 1935 classic will most likely always be the sentimental favorite.    "},{"Title":"A Movie Worth Seeing!","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Few stories have stirred the imagination as much as the infamous mutiny aboard the HMS Bounty, in 1789, and this movie captures the spirit of that historic event very well.Clark Gable stars without his trademark mustache (and British accent) as Fletcher Christian, the officer in charge of the mutiny. Fortunately, his performance as Christian was strong enough so that the average viewer would overlook that particular flaw (unlike Kevin Costner's turn as Robin Hood in 1991's Robin Hood Prince of Thieves).Franchot Tone's portrayal of Midshipman Roger Byam was sympathetic, as he appeared to be more of a witness to the events than a participant. Byam's plea for reforms in the British Navy at the end of his court martial put a cap on a memorable performance. It should be noted that one of the factors in creating the Best Supporting Actor/Actress categories at the Oscars undoubtedly came about as a direct result of this movie, with three men nominated for Best Actor. If Best Supporting Actor had existed, Tone would have been up for (and likely received) Best Supporting Actor.And then there's Charles Laughton. As Captain Bligh, Laughton made the most of his scenery-chewing role. Fortunately for him, the open-boat sequence added depth to his character, avoiding the cliché of Bligh being a cruel and inhuman sea captain. Unfortunately for him, his likeness graced cartoons and magazines for decades as a depiction of controlling and maniacal leaders.While watching this movie, I began to notice a few plot points that Herman Wouk must have used for his novel The Caine Mutiny. For example, Byam sees a tall ship and asks if it's the Bounty, but the Bounty is a smaller ship behind it; likewise, Ensign Keith spots a proud new vessel and asks if it's the Caine, but the Caine sits beyond, a small minesweeper full of rust. Captain Bligh obsesses over two wheels of missing cheese; Captain Queeg turns his ship upside-down over a few pounds of strawberries. And both Bligh and Queeg believe the whole crew of their respective ships are against them, even going so far as to conjecture a conspiracy theory based upon half-heard (and innocent) conversations. By the way, I am not trying to discredit The Caine Mutiny in any way; both the novel and the 1954 movie (starring Humphrey Bogart) are classics in their own right, and I recommend both reading the book and seeing the movie.Mutiny On the Bounty is a well-made movie, with one of the best musical scores I have heard. When I heard the violins sweeping into the theme music at the opening titles, I knew right away I was in for a good time. Strong performances, great camera work, a well-written script, and an astounding musical score. All in all, this is a movie worth seeing! "},{"Title":"Lavish, Interesting, & Memorable (Whether Historical Or Not)","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  With three fine leading performances, lavish settings and scenery, and an engrossing story, the 1935 version of Mutiny on the Bounty is certainly the best cinema version of the familiar story, whether or not it is historically accurate.  The 1962 version had some quality aspects, but it seemed to suffer from some odd casting and from over-extending itself.  The revisionist 80's version made claims to being more historically accurate than the others, which may or may not be the case, and it was interesting for Anthony Hopkins's distinctive portrayal of Captain Bligh, but it was otherwise an unremarkable and not especially creative film.The trio of Charles Laughton, Clark Gable, and Franchot Tone set a standard that none of the rest could come close to equaling.  Laughton is perfect as Bligh, or at least as the kind of captain that Bligh is/was commonly assumed to have been.  Gable does very well in adapting Fletcher Christian just enough to fit his own strengths - Gable is not quite what you expect of a British naval officer, but if he had tried to force himself into that mold, it probably would have been rather unconvincing.  In themselves, Gable's charisma, decisiveness, and energetic personality seem just right for Christian.  Tone also fits smoothly into the role of Byam, giving it the right combination of earnestness and restraint.Their performances are set off nicely by the carefully detailed and interesting settings, and by a supporting cast that gets its share of good moments.  The historical truths of the Bounty incident can be fairly debated, since it's unlikely that anyone now knows the inside story.  But setting aside those questions, and purely as a movie, it would be hard to argue the virtues of this version of the story. "},{"Title":"Legendary, Memorable--But Somewhat Problematic","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Based on the then-popular novel by Charles Nordhoff and James Norman Hall, the 1935 MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY is among a series of legendary films of the 1930s that have been repeatedly celebrated for cinematic achievement. And small wonder the film has a host of powerful assets.The single most obvious among these is the star power involved led by two Oscar-winning stars, the critically formidable Charles Laughton and the incredibly popular Clark Gable, the cast reads like a Who's Who of mid-1930s male actors ranging from leading man Franchot Tone to the memorable character actor Donald Crisp. In a visual sense, the film is also a knockout filmed on location in a full-size replica of the Bounty, it set a new standard for capturing the sea on film. And the story itself is powerful, the tale of the battle between the cruel and autocratic Bligh and the humane and populist Fletcher Christian. Taken together, it makes for a powerful ride.Still, some viewers may not find MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY all it is cracked to be. Then as now, Hollywood was less interested in getting the facts right than in telling a good story--and from a factual point of view the film is perhaps twenty percent accurate and eighty percent nothing more nor less than historical tarradiddle. That is no real hindrance per se; after all, we're not watching a documentary. But seen from a modern standpoint the cast now feels somewhat problematic.Charles Laughton was so critically well regarded that he received star billing over Clark Gable for the film, and seen today his performance is easily the single most powerful in the entire film. Autocratic, brilliant, and immediately and increasingly unlikable, he drives the film from start to finish--and it is here, really, in which most of the film's historical accuracy resides. The rest of the cast, however, is extremely Hollywood. Clark Gable, Franchot Tone and all the rest give an excellent show, full of power and drive--but you never for a moment forget that they are indeed Hollywood stars and not members of the British Navy.This is very much a big film in the MGM tradition, often brilliant, often memorable, and often setting new standards for the motion picture industry. And when regarded from that point of view it is extremely, extremely entertaining. But it may also be a film whose power has slightly faded with the passing of time.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Exquisite.","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Wow. I haven't seen this movie for many years and it turned out to be even better than I'd remembered it. I really have to admire this film, as the acting and entire production are top-notch. I rarely give 10s, but this one comes very close--oh, heck...the more I think about it, the more I realize it does deserve it.As far as the historical accuracy of the film goes, while it isn't perfect (after all, Bligh's exact role in starting the mutiny is tough to determine), it did get most of the points of this true tale correct--showing a rare reverence for the source material. All too often, history takes a back seat to making a marketable film. The only major thing the film got seriously wrong were the mutineers themselves. However, this is because only recent excavations have shown that the men who mutinied in effect killed each other off--as they apparently WERE scum after all. But, based on material available at the time, it was pretty good. As to Bligh's temperament, the British admiralty found Bligh completely blameless. However, later as governor of Australia, Bligh alienated everyone and was, by most accounts, a real jerk. So, the essence of the film appears to be true. Hmm...for once I have no serious complaints about the accuracy of a historical film--that's pretty rare.The best part of the film, however, is that the actors were absolutely on top of their game. Charles Laughton, though prone to overacting by all accounts, was exceptional here. Clark Gable was in his element--and simply one of his best film roles. The same can also be said of Franchot Tone--here, he has a much deeper and meatier role than usual. In fact, the three came off so well that all three were nominated for Best Actor--necessitating the creation of Best Supporting Actor and Actress categories. The rest of the cast, the supporting journeymen actors, were great--with Donald Crisp (with hair!!) excellent as a troublemaker, Dudley Diggs as a very sympathetic drunkard and many others in top form.The direction by Frank Lloyd, the cinematography, music, sets and location shooting were also wonderful. So why, if this film was so perfect, would they try remaking it?! This is a great example of a film whose remakes definitely pale by comparison. A perfect or at least near-perfect film in every way.By the way, if you are curious about the real life Bligh, after both this mutiny and the rebellion in Australia (that he appeared to instigate), he was rewarded with the rank of Rear Admiral! Who says life has to be fair? "},{"Title":"Quite Possibly The Best Movie Of The 1930's","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  In a decade that saw some spectacular movies in a variety of genres (from All Quiet On The Western Front in 1930 to Gone With The Wind and The Wizard Of Oz in 1939) Mutiny On The Bounty is in every way at least equal to and in my opinion better than any of the others. It is a classic example of movie-making at its finest.Technically the film is superb. Well filmed and with realistic sets, the viewer feels as if he really is on an 18th century British Navy vessel. I remember as a teenager coming across this movie halfway through and not really knowing what it was about but being captured by the vividly realistic portrayal of life at sea. That feeling has never gone away when I watch it. The performances are breath-taking. Clark Gable as Fletcher Christian and Franchot Tone as Roger Byam are excellent, but it is Charles Laughton as Bligh who steals the show. Everything about Laughton in this film screams Captain Bligh, and his is almost certainly the face that comes to mind when one contemplates the historical figure of Bligh. All three were nominated for Oscars, as was director Frank Lloyd (and inexplicably failed to win, although the film itself was named 1935's Best Picture.) The film mixes adventure, gripping drama and even humour into about two and a quarter hours of sheer enjoyment.You can quibble about a few things. Apparently history suggests that Bligh might not have been quite this sadistic nor Christian quite so noble. There's a strange shot of the Bounty being run aground by Christian at Pitcairn Island, and as the ship is about to crash into the island the film inexplicably reverses and the end of the shot is clearly going backward for about 2 seconds. I admit that it was passing strange that both Fletcher Christian and Roger Byam speak with American accents, making one wonder how these guys were in the British Navy (but for the sake of Gable's and Tone's performances that can be overlooked) and at the end the movie gets a bit preachy (particularly Byam's speech to his court-martial.) But these are minor and do not detract from one's enjoyment of the film.Watch this if you never have. Watch it again if you have, and watch it over and over if you can. It is a masterpiece. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Music at sea","Date":"26 June 2011","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" By 1935 the worst years of the depression were over, the pitfalls of the early talkies had been overcome, and Hollywood was starting to regain its confidence. For the first time in several years pictures were being made as big and bold as they had been in the late silent era. And like the flagship of this new era comes this highly fictionalised account of the Bounty mutineers.Although this is very much a Hollywood production, it may seem a little strange to see that all-American lead idol Clark Gable playing an Englishman. This being the days before such things really mattered, and Gable not really being one to shift his persona too much, he makes no attempt whatsoever at an English accent. And yet he fits in very well. Gable always carried with him a touch of the theatre where he cut his teeth, and proves himself a powerful counterpoint to the blustering Charles Laughton. With his barrel chest, wavy hair and easygoing swagger he does have the makings of a swashbuckling hero, and this is the role Fletcher Christian takes in this adventuresome adaptation. Gable is, in a way, Hollywood's ambassador in the story &#x96; just about convincing as an 18th century naval officer, but familiar enough to give US audiences a lead into the movie.Opposite Gable is a mix of American faces and the British actors who had started to migrate stateside. Charles Laughton's performance as Captain Bligh is integral to the movie. You realise here that Laughton was rather a short man, and he plays on this, making Bligh a jumped-up, Napoleon-complexed bully; all sharp, jabbing motions, an arrogant stance and a face like a dead fish. Alongside Gable and Laughton, the third Best Actor nominee was Franchot Tone, although he is not really exceptional, merely worthy. There is a typically strong turn from Donald Crisp, and Eddie Quillan is surprisingly decent if a little overwrought. The only wrong note is perhaps Herbert Mundin, or at least his character. The bumbling little comedy performer was always good to see in Errol Flynn adventures and the like but he is wrong for this more serious affair. Note how he seems to disappear from the story when the mutiny takes place, which is fair enough &#x96; one couldn't really imagine that sweet little chap joining the mutineers or cast adrift and dying by inches.The director is one of the masters of old Hollywood, multiple Oscar-winner Frank Lloyd. Lloyd's smooth, confident set-ups bring a tense, fractious feel to life on board ship, while never using too much obvious technique as to make it seem artificial. A lot of shots, such as the early one of Gable leading the press gang, show men facing each other in profile, aggressive, combative. In almost every shot we are made to feel the motion of the ship, and even below decks we have the swinging of hammocks. By contrast the scenes on dry land are palpably solid, emphasising the change to a more peaceful life on Tahiti. Lloyd is also one for composing tableaux that are memorable and iconic. There's an odd-looking but very effective shot shortly before the flogging scene, with punishment-doler Morrison staring coldly ahead on the left-hand edge of the frame, that has seared itself into my memory.And ultimately it is just such a grand, iconic feel that characterises Mutiny on the Bounty. The Herbert Stothart score is a bombastic medley of nautical themes and emotional underscoring. The forceful, rhythmic editing of Margaret Booth provides us with some striking montages. And of course there is the fact that nothing is faked. Full-size replica ships were built and location filming was carried out in Polynesia, with none of the ugly back projection shooting that mars many pictures before and after. Such a mighty production demonstrates why you need such larger-than-life stars as Gable and Laughton. Here is a movie that does everything it can to announce that big Hollywood is back in all its glory. "}{"Title":"Classic Adventure Movie","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Probably the greatest adventure movie ever made! The casting was perfect. I just bought it to add to my collection, mostly to see if they got it wrong. They did, but having been to Tahiti at least they did right by Polynesia....even the words were Tahitian!! Hard to imagine that in a 1935 film.What was wrong was the reasons for the mutiny and the portrayal of William Bligh. I have nothing but praise for every role Laughton has done. SUPERB!!! But the real Bligh was the exact opposite. Too gentle, I think and didn't see this all coming.Put yourself in the crew. Almost a year at sea, eating rotten salt pork, then months in a tropical paradise with sexy girls....would you look forward to that return voyage??? "},{"Title":"An epic voyage","Date":"30 May 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios' Best Picture till date.HMS Bounty is all set to sail from Portsmouth to Tahiti lead by Captain Bligh. The ship is need for a few workers and everyone is intimidated when they get to know the ship will sail under the command of Captain William Bligh. Captain Bligh, played by Charles Laughton, is a ruthless man who doesn't share a camaraderie with the crew as Captain Fletcher, played by Clark Gable, does. The conflict starts when Captain Bligh punishes a man to get on top of the ship despite the inclement weather in the sea. The captain-crew relation further strains when the workers are ill-treated by the Captain and those loyal to him. The mutineers, lead by Captain Fletcher, jettison Captain Bligh and those loyal to him and they carry on their voyage to Tahiti. Captain Bligh and his acolytes venture the sea, and after more than a month of starvation with nothing but water in the vicinity, the emaciated men reach shore. Captain Fletcher and his men reach Tahiti, trade with the local people, make settlements and even marry the women of the country. In the meanwhile, Captain Bligh and his men get aboard another ship and are on a pursuit to incarcerate Captain Fletcher and the mutineers and bring them to the book in England. Captain Fletcher and his men spot the ship when it's a more than a day's sail away and flee from Tahiti. Captain Byam and a few men who are neutral on the mutiny wish to stay back only to be taken to England for prosecution. The men are sentenced to Capital punishment. Captain Byam is proved not guilty and is promoted in rank. Fletcher and his men inhabit a deserted island.Charles Laughton portrays Captain Bligh as a tyrant, care-for-nothing, petulant captain who expects to be revered and feared by his crew. Never does he grin nor smile and carries a straight-face throughout the movie. Charles Laughton has made Captain Bligh one of the greatest on-screen villains with ease. Clark Gable and Franchot Tone have performed really well.A true epic that is far ahead of its times by several nautical miles. "},{"Title":"The definitive expression of the myths of the adventure film","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The historical incident of the mutiny aboard the H.M.S. Bounty has been chronicled in a number of films, including THE MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY (Australia, 1915), IN THE WAKE OF THE BOUNTY (Australia, 1933), MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY (MGM, 1935), MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY (MGM, 1962), and THE BOUNTY (Orion, 1984). A number of other adventure films are directly imitative, from relatively obvious cases such as TWO YEARS BEFORE THE MAST (Paramount, 1946) to less probable derivations, such as ADVENTURE IN SAHARA (Columbia, 1938).The 1935 version is by far the best remembered of all of these, although the 1962 and 1984 remakes benefited from south seas locations, and the early Australian productions had a regional proximity, with one of them starring Errol Flynn. While none of the versions are historically accurate, the 1935 film most closely follows the original bestselling trilogy of novels by Charles Nordhoff and James Norman Hall, which also formed the basis for the 1962 version. The 1935 film was produced and directed by Frank Lloyd, who had spent some of his early years at sea himself and also directed such other notable historical sea adventures as THE SEA HAWK (1924), THE EAGLE OF THE SEA (1926), THE DIVINE LADY (1929), and RULERS OF THE SEA (1939).MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY has an extraordinary cast in Charles Laughton as Captain William Bligh and Clark Gable as Fletcher Christian, with Franchot Tone in the pivotal role of Roger Byam, a fictional addition to a story whose other primary characters are all actual historical figures. At the beginning the voyage is without a hero, becoming an odyssey that takes the protagonists far from their usual existence. MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY opens as Christian raids a tavern to impress a crew, including a young man who must leave behind a pregnant wife, while on board Bligh has a man flogged who is already dead from punishment. Bligh has lost all grasp of humanity, treating his men so barbarically so as to ultimately obviate any loyalty due his position. Christian is cynical but considerate, initially unquestioning of the status quo and obeying the captain, although never sharing his malevolent streak. However, tormented by his duties, Christian transforms as the voyage progresses, with Bligh's excesses forcing Christian to discover the need for ideals. The narrative seeks to unify these sides of Fletcher Christian's character and live up to his surname, which finally causes the need for radical action--mutiny--although this alternative will make the crew permanent outlaws and exiles. When Christian has Bligh and his followers set adrift in a small boat, Bligh's subsequent achievement in steering his loyal men to safety is negated by his motivation, to avenge himself on the mutineers. Roger Byam became a victim of Bligh's vindictiveness, but unlike Bligh, the navy as an institution is redeemed when a royal pardon is forthcoming for him. Christian had been an avuncular, mentoring figure for the inexperienced Byam, a junior officer whose ultimate conversion to the rightness of the mutineer's cause symbolizes a change in attitudes toward life at sea.In the sea adventure, the ocean-going vessel is the kingdom in which the captain reigns, where a small-scale allegory of revolution occurs, espousing the right of a people to free themselves from oppression. I would suggest that this is the key element that has made this film so memorable, and which is lacking in the other versions. The emphasis on the struggle for human dignity against a despot has a resonance beyond its direct context as the reenactment of an episode in naval history. MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY celebrates a myth central to the American experience, of a downtrodden people who rebel against a cruel king and replace him with a leader of their own choosing. In the process, their heritage as Englishmen and their ties to the mother country are left behind in favor of a new land and a fresh identity (in the film, on the mutineer's refuge on Pitcairn's Island). In celebrating the self-determination of a necessary revolution, MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY, by analogy, parallels the reasons, methods, and outcome of the creation of the United States. "},{"Title":"From now on, they'll spell mutiny with my name.","Date":"29 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" When you go as far back as the mid-Thirties, the movie landscape is cluttered with a vast variety of B programmers - mysteries, Westerns, crime films, exploitation flicks and a whole lot more. The rare standout is a picture like Mutiny on the Bounty, produced on an epic scale with an almost unheard of run time of two hours. Even rarer is an intelligent story line moving from a starting point to a finale that builds drama and excitement while developing the main characters.The story is a well known one, even if one has only a passing familiarity with the various screen versions. A tyrannical ship's captain rules his crew with an iron fist, while his first mate gradually begins to question the brutal methods used to instill fear and loyalty. As Captain Bligh, Charles Laughton seems fairly at home in a role that he reprised in various incarnations on the big screen, particularly as the haughty squire Sir Humphrey Pengallan in 1939's Jamaica Inn, and later as the title character in 1945's Captain Kidd. To look at him, Laughton seems to have all the characteristics needed for a pirate of the high seas, except perhaps for an eye-patch and a hook for an arm. Laughton's treatment of his role here as an exalted British naval commander gives one pause to consider his methods, made memorable by frequent whippings to keep the crew in line, even if they're already dead.As first mate Fletcher Christian, Clark Gable is forced to balance his opinion of Bligh, maintaining loyalty to command while favoring more civil methods to win the respect and loyalty of the men on board the Bounty. The turning point in the story occurs with the death of ship's surgeon Bacchus (Dudley Digges), a position of no return when Christian casts Bligh and his supporters adrift - I'll take my chance against the law, you'll take yours against the sea.What's probably most remarkable about the historical facts behind the story is Bligh's miraculous journey back to dry land over a distance of some thirty five hundred miles. For those who stood trial for mutiny once recovered from the island of Tahiti, a gallant soliloquy is delivered by seaman Roger Byam (Franchot Tone) on behalf of the crew who remained loyal to Bligh. Of the three principal characters, it's Byam who was the most conflicted, renouncing Christian's friendship while maintaining some of his own sympathetic feelings for the men who suffered the Captains' wrath.With occasional interludes on the island of Tahiti to relieve some of the shipboard tension, Mutiny on the Bounty delivers a nice blend of action, adventure, intrigue, romance and the occasional humor supplied by Herbert Mundin's unique casting as a reluctant seaman. The more exotic locales of the picture often cry out for a color treatment, and though that's addressed in the 1950 and 1962 remakes, there's something about the original that makes it endure as first among equals, even if historical accuracy is a frequent victim. True cinema fans will want to view all three to make up their own mind. "},{"Title":"Award Winning Hollywood-Style History","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" In 1935, Mutiny on the Bounty won the Oscar for best picture against very strong competition that included the delightful Fred Astaire/Ginger Rogers romantic musical comedy, Top Hat. MGM's big budget blockbuster was bursting at the seams with talent. Charles Laughton, as Captain Bligh, the abusive and tyrannical ship's master, and Clark Gable, as Fletcher Christian, the brave leader of the mutineers, turned in such gripping performances that both were nominated by the motion picture academy for the best actor award, as was Franchot Tone for his first rate performance as the harshly mistreated midshipman, Roger Byam. This is the one and only time in the history of the Oscars that a single film's cast received three nominations for the best actor award.The plot-line of Mutiny is based on a true story. In 1787, the HMS Bounty set sail from England to the island paradise of Tahiti in the south seas on an ill-fated mission to gather breadfruit plants for slave plantations in the West Indies. The voyage out was a long and hazardous one made worse by the many hardships faced by seamen of the British fleet in the eighteenth century deadly dangerous weather, and especially the cruel discipline and torture that were characteristic of the imperial naval service at that time. By contrast, the five months' stay on the lush tropical island of Tahiti was idyllic, with the ship's crew lazing about in the sun and making love to the beautiful native maidens. It was only on the voyage back to England that the talk of mutiny began, finally erupting into a full-fledged rebellion. Even today, there is considerable historical debate about Mutiny on the Bounty and the best-selling novel upon which it is based. Some critics believe that the punishments inflicted on the Bounty's crew could not have justified a mutiny and that the movie unfairly takes the side of the mutineers. But they forget that the shipboard rebellion, which caught fire at almost the precise moment as the French Revolution, was entirely in keeping with the radical spirit of those politically turbulent times. Because of such tragic events, flogging would eventually be abolished completely in the American navy and later in the British navy as well. Today, all forms of cruel and unusual punishment are outlawed upon the high seas, thanks in part to the sacrifices of the brave men on board the Bounty. The legend lives on in the movie and is a rallying cry to the downtrodden victims of oppression all over the world.What finally happened to Fletcher Christian and his men? Did they survive their escape or have later misadventures in the South Seas? No one is sure exactly what became of them. What is certain is that many descendants of both Christian and his followers to this day continue to live on Pitcairn Island, the mutineers' final stopping place.If any one star can be credited with the success of Hollywood in the Golden Age, it must be Bounty star, Clark Gable. He was the most popular movie actor who ever lived, in role after role playing the sexually irresistible macho foil to tinsel town's sultriest leading ladies. Ironically, because he had to compete with his own co-stars, he didn't win the best actor Oscar for Bounty, but he already had won the prize the year before for the romantic comedy, It Happened One Night, starring as a gossip hungry reporter opposite Claudette Colbert as a spoiled rich girl. Most fans will remember him best though for his unforgettable role as the roguish southern gentleman, Rhett Butler in Gone With the Wind, the movie with the largest audience in history. If Clark Gable nearly always played the romantic idol, co-star Charles Laughton had one of the most colorful careers of any Hollywood star, being cast in the kinds of unusual character roles that many a typecast leading man would fear to play, such as Henry the Eighth, the Hunchback of Notre Dame and Dr. Moreau in Island of Lost Souls. By the way, the actors in Bounty weren't the only ones nominated by the academy for awards. Other nominations were for best screenplay, best film editing, best musical score and best director, which went to Frank Lloyd, who had already earned the Oscar in 1933 for Cavalcade. A terrific job all the way around! "},{"Title":"MGM epic has lost little lustre over time.","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Hollywood's lavish 1935 high seas adventure Mutiny on the Bounty is a prime example of big budget epic film making during the reign of the legendary producer Irving Thalberg at MGM. Leaving studio and sound stage behind, this costly gamble has a pristine veneer from ship to shore with the magnificently rigged Bounty defiantly battling sea, storm and mutiny to reach it's exotic paradise destination. Amid this backdrop you have the titanic struggle for maintaining order between the sadistic Captain Bligh and his first mate Mr.Christian. It makes for a suspenseful, rousing ocean voyage.Cinematographer Albert Edison's camera work more than captures the vast surroundings and trappings of the ship to give the film it's epic feel but it is the powerful turn by Charles Laughton as Bligh that puts the wind in Bounty's sail. A by the book officer with a taste for administering the lash he brooks no dissent and remains defiant even when the tables are turned. Laughton like no other English speaking actor of his period had the tools of nuance and inflection to sustain a lead performance as he does with Bligh. Clark Gable as the dashing Christian is a perfect counterpoint in looks and decency to Bligh and matches up well in scene after scene with the magnificent Laughton. Overshadowed by this superstar tandem Franchot Tone gives a notable performance, especially at the film's end where he delivers a powerful speech to a naval court.Mutiny on the Bounty has been filmed more than once and probably will be again but until that day this remains the best. As far as finding a better Bligh than Laughton, good luck. "},{"Title":"A Rare Masterpiece","Date":"30 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Mutiny on the bounty is one of the finest films I have ever seen, and a rare beast of a film at that. It succeeds in everything a film should, with an interesting story, idyllic and realistic acting, and a wonderful feeling. The leading performances of Charles Laughton, Clarke Gable and Franchot Tone are the ones of legend. The fact that the 3 of them canceled each other both in the film and in the Oscar for Best Actor is a common fact. Laughton's scenes as the ruthless Captain Bligh succeed not only in making me believe he was a British Naval Officer of the late 18th century, but also made me loather him. Rarely do we see actors throwing themselves into their roles like this. Gable's Fletcher Christian is perhaps some of the more daring characters I have seen on the screen, with Gable wisely not trying his hand at a British accent and shaving that iconic mustache. Gable's performance is among his career's best, and he seemed to fit naturally within the plot and his talented co-stars. The scenes when he finally loses his temper and lets go of his bottled emotions are awe-striking. Franchot Tone, in one of his first film roles, steals the show with his earnest, wise and passionate turn as Roger Byam. His speech in the final moments of the film is the greatest monologue I have heard in a film, especially due to his criticism of brutality at the seas, and that of Captain Bligh. If the Academy even saw that scene, they should have given the thing to him. One of the best movies Ever. "},{"Title":"Mutiny on the Bounty","Date":"23 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I had seen a few clips of this original film, I knew there was a version with Marlon Brando, I found out about another with Mel Gibson, and I was keen to see the original because of the leading villain character, and this was in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die. Basically, set in 1787, the HMS Bounty is on a two year voyage from Great Britain, sailing the Pacific Ocean, to Tahiti to collect a supply of breadfruit plants to be transported to Jamaica. The ship is under the command of greedy and brutal tyrant Captain William Bligh (Oscar nominated Charles Laughton), second in command is first mate Fletcher Christian (Oscar nominated Clark Gable) who along with the men is finding his harsh leadership unpleasant and questionable. Arriving in Tahiti the men all take leave for a short time while the plants are placed in cargo, Christian is initially refused to take leave by Bligh, but he persuades him, and there, with midshipman friend Roger Byam (Oscar nominated Franchot Tone) they form close bonds with island women Tehanni (Movita) and Maimiti (Mamo Clark), before being forced to leave. Following the departure from paradise Christian and the crew have had too much of the harsh treatment from the Captain, and they band together in mutiny to overthrow Bligh, and set him and his supporters adrift in a boat, while the Bounty returns to Tahiti. The men in the boat assume that with the little food and drink they have that they will not last very long, but Bligh urges them to keep going, and they do manage to find land and salvation, and meanwhile Christian has married Maimiti and all of the mutineers are living the tropical life to the fullest. They are surprised when the ship Pandora from Britain comes into view, and being taken aboard they are even more surprised to see Bligh alive and well, he is taking them back to England to face the charges of mutiny, and despite the court hearings and imprisonments, everything seems to settle in the end, Christian returns to another tropical island, and the Bounty is burned down. Also starring Herbert Mundin as Smith, Eddie Quillan as Ellison, Dudley Digges as Bacchus, Donald Crisp as Burkitt, Henry Stephenson as Sir Joseph Banks, Francis Lister as Captain Nelson, Spring Byington as Mrs. Byam, and apparently James Cagney and David Niven are extras somewhere. Laughton is a great character actor and plays villain Bligh very well, and Gable as the good looking hero is likable, and he was apparently uncomfortable in his first costume movie, the story has some great scenes on the high seas and in tropical palm tree and beach paradise, and the sweeping swashbuckler sequences with cutlasses and costume are worthwhile, a terrific classic historical adventure. It won the Oscar for Best Picture, and it was nominated for Best Director for Frank Lloyd, Best Writing, Screenplay, Best Film Editing and Best Music for Nat W. Finston (head of department) and Herbert Stothart. Captain Bligh was number 19 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, Charles Laughton was number 45 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, and he was number 37 on The World's Greatest Actor, and the film was number 86 on 100 Years, 100 Movies. Very good! "},{"Title":"Superb Mutiny- Mutiny on the Bounty ****","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" No wonder this won the Oscar for best picture of 1935. This was a far superior version than the remake of 1962.This version produced 3 actors being nominated for best actor. Charles Laughton stole the film with his venomous performance as Captain Bligh. He was truly the embodiment of evil. He really gave cruelty a new meaning as well as interpretation here. As his assistant, who would ultimately lead the mutiny, Clark Gable was most impressive here. Despite his one scene, why was Franchot Tone nominated for best actor? Of course, in 1935, they didn't have the supporting categories.This terrific film shows what men will do to fight tyranny, no matter where it is. It is really an indictment of military life in the 1700s. "},{"Title":"Often imitated...NEVER duplicated !!","Date":"14 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" One need not possess all of the intimate knowledge of cinema to know when a film is great and when it is sub-par. This version of Mutiny on the Bounty still stands on its own legs some seventy years after theatrical release. It is one of the signature performances of Charles Laughton, and he was always identified with it, the same as Robert Newton will eternally be identified with Long John Silver...because of what the actors brought to the roles which lifted the entire project up and away from the ordinary, and put it inside the realm of the indelible classic. I have seen most of the other versions of the film. Though they claim a new or revisionist measure of accuracy, they fail to capture the imagination of the audience in the same way. Some histories read that all of the mutineers were of a criminal element and perished on Pitcairn as a result of their criminality...with Fletcher Christian being among that number. Other historians attempt to tone down the alleged cruelty of Captain Bligh which provoked the mutiny. We may never know the full truth. But the film as it is is a captivating, engaging piece of cinema and of cinematic history, and I cannot recommend it highly enough. "}{"Title":"Great adventure on the sea","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Charles Laughton, Clark Gable and Franchot Tone star in Mutiny on the Bounty, a 1935 Oscar-winning film featuring Donald Crisp, Dudley Diggs, Henry Stephenson, Eddie Quillan and Movita. Laughton plays Captain Bligh, commander of the Bounty, and Clark Gable is first mate Fletcher Christian. Also on board is Franchot Tone as midshipman Roger Byam, who is en route to Tahiti with the ship in order to write a dictionary of the Tahitian language. The Bounty is to sail to Tahiti in order to pick up breadfruit trees, which would provide a cheap source of food. Men have been commandeered in bars, prisons, anywhere possible for a the voyage, which will last about two years. Bligh is an inhumane captain, preferring to starve his men and whip them rather than inspiring them and keeping them fed so that they are able to work.Once they arrive in Tahiti, both Byam and Christian become enamored of the lifestyle as well as the women but have to leave them for the voyage home. Christian finds it difficult to readjust to Bligh's tyranny; after seeing men brutalized in the hold, he decides to take over the ship. He and a group of men do so, and Bligh and anyone who wants to accompany him are given a small boat and supplies. Byam and some others want to leave, but there is no room for them. The Bounty returns to Tahiti. When a British ship arrives a year later, Byam and several others leave to report for duty. Christian and the ones who stay board the bounty with their families to escape arrest; they intend to find another island and settle there permanently. For Byam and the rest, the captain of the arriving British ship turns out to be Bligh, who survived the harrowing boat trip. The men are arrested. Even though he was not a mutineer, Byam finds himself on trial.The film is based on a true story and as such is highly inaccurate since the script comes from not one but two fictionalized accounts. So Mutiny on the Bounty has to be judged on its own merits, and it's a marvelous movie. Hard to believe that it was filmed on a back lot. The atmosphere definitely captures England, the sea and Tahiti beautifully, right down to the natives.Stupendous effects and strong acting contribute to really make Mutiny a must-see. Laughton is excellent as as Bligh (who in real life was not the evil man portrayed in the film) - he doesn't go overboard with the histrionics and has a commanding presence. Clark Gable is without his mustache, and he's gorgeous! What a hunk. He gives a strong performance as Christian. Franchot Tone looks fabulous as well, and here his theatrical training really shows, particularly in the last moments of the film. The characters of Christian and Byam are very different. Byam comes from generations of seaman, and the concept of turning on one's captain is deplorable; yet, he and Christian remain friends. The difference in class between the two is obvious in the film, with Tone's character being the more erudite and refined.Excellent. "},{"Title":"The Powers of the Sea","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" There is something about the world aboard a ship that causes men to act differently. At time we forget just how small these vessels were, how little privacy there was for everyone. The idea of a mutiny would have been hard to hide. In this, the cruel and neurotic Captain Bligh handles his men at arm's length and with a cat o nine tails. His authority is absolute on the ship, so, as far as legal standing, the crew had none. I've never been sure why this was, but it goes back to the very foundation of nautical travel. When Christian sees the injustices of Bligh and begins to stir up the men, he starts out patiently, and then sees that nothing short of mutiny could stop this. Bligh gets worse, with his breadfruit and his floggings and his keelhauling. Still, he is a match for Christian. Being an honorable man, Christian must set the good Captain in a boat and allow him to save himself. He rages against Christian. There is no gratitude. Bligh would rather die than give in to these inferior beings. This is a mistake for the mutineers, since they once cross that line, they are doomed to death, if caught. Had Christian not had the charity typified by his name, he would have slit the throat of the little monster. Instead, he runs the show and begins to see how this is not going to work. He discovers that Bligh was right in many ways about how to treat men. They go to their baser sides and end up hopelessly lonely and adrift (not literally). This is a great film. The three principal figures are wonderful. Laughton could be the bad guy's bad guy, and Clark Gable, sans mustache, is dashing and handsome, but, in some ways, quite naive. "},{"Title":"Superb performance by Charles Laughton","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" A fantastic movie despite small goof ups and major historical blunders. Charles Laughton is excellent as Capt. Bligh as is the fictional character Byam though I am personally disappointed with Clarke Gable. Fletcher Christian at times smiles while he should be seething in rage (When Bligh commands him to just follow his instructions).Historical inaccuracies1. Bligh never commandeered the Pandora but itwas Edward Edwards. 2. Fletcher Christian lost his father while still a child. How come hepresents himself in the mutineers trial. 3. During the trial of the mutineers Bligh was already on his second voyage to collect Bread fruit plants from Tahiti 4. Historically Bligh landed on the savage islands during the openboat voyage in the first week of May (Mutiny occurred on April 28). While retreating from the Island one of the members (Norton,according to historical facts) is killed by the natives. But Norton is shown on the boat on the 37th day of the open boat voyage (according to Bligh's log)There are other historical blunders.Other goof upsShips clerk Samuel looks different within matter minutes during the conversation about the stolen cheese.Samuel gets stabbed in the left palm during the mutiny but shows no signs of the injury during the open boat voyage "},{"Title":"Deservedly a Classic About Men, Motivations,and Muitny","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Mutniy On the BountY' is perhaps Irving Thalberg's most-famous and best-loved film. A slender but interesting novel by Char;es Nordhoff and Jams Norman Hall was written for the screen as a stirring narrative and character study by Talbot Jennings, Jules Furman and Carey Wilson. Directed by skilled Frank Lloyd, the B/W dramatic feature also included cinematography by Arthur Edeson, art direction by Cedric Gibbons and A. Arnold Gillespie, and original music by Herbert Stothart. Albert Lewin is credited as producer  but the project was overseen by Thalberg. This work of fictionalized biography has a story that is part of British naval history. Captain William Bligh of the HMS Bounty was sent to Tahiti specifically to obtain breadfruit trees by the governors of Britain's Empire. His chief officer, Fletcher Christian, gradually became repelled and then outraged at Bligh's harsh and unjust treatment of the men entrusted to his command. Finally refusing to be part of Bligh's regime of terror any longer, he led a mutiny, set Bligh and others adrift in a boat with supplies and sailed the Bounty away. Bligh returned safely to civilization, no mean feat of navigation; and Christian took the mutineers and the Tahitian women they had fallen in love with during their prolonged stay on that remote island while dealing with the breadfruit trees; and they ended by exiling themselves to remote Pitcairn Island. Another version of the film was made years later, in color in 1963; and Women of Pitcairn Island with Lynn Bari appeared in the 1950s. The screenplay is a good one, an especially surprising fact since the epic film was not often tried in the 1930s as a dramatic and not merely an adventure-level work. But this film works for most viewers; and this is true i claim partly because we discover the depths of Bligh's sadism through the eyes of Fletcher Christian. So it is that when we see him finding cause to take the extraordinary step of mutiny at last, we know why he is doing so and sympathize with his values that impel his decision. As Bligh, Charles Laughton was arch, sinister and tyrannical. Clark Gable's stoic simplicity and openness, by contrast, made one forget his accent and concentrate on his charismatic normalcy. Franchot Tone and Donald Crisp were also excellent, with such fine character actors as Herbert Mundin, Eddie Quillin, Dudley Digges, Ian Wolfe, Henry Stephenson, Spring Byington, Francis Lister and Movita in smaller parts. The action is well-paced, the incidents depicted generally believable. The physical look of the picture has a rough style and a consistent look all its own, and the appearance of the film is unusually spare and precise at the same time. Deservedly a classic from an early period in sound film-making that has lost nothing over 70 years.   "},{"Title":"Despite being not historically accurate and containing several flaws, brilliant film","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Despite my issues with Hollywood, Mutiny on the Bounty is my favourite film. I first saw the slightly poor version with Marlon Brando and Trevor Howard and wasn't very impressed. I then bought this on DVD and loved it. The story (based on a true historical incident) is about the tyrannical Capt William Bligh bullying and abusing his crew until he drives them to mutiny, lead by Lt Fletcher Christian. While this version is not historically accurate and has some un-impressive casting, it is very well filmed and has a very good script. The film stared Clark Gable as Fletcher Christian and he is my biggest issue with the film, he was not acting, he was just being Clark Gable. No attempt at an English accent, no real emotions showed, just reading his lines. The only reason he wasn't panned for this film was because the character of Fletcher Christian fitted his on-screen persona. He weakest in this film, there were so many other better actors in Hollywood at the time that would have been better for the role, Ronald Colman could have played him and the one I would have loved to see play him would have been Laurence Olivier . The other star was Franchot Tone as the idealistic Midshipman Roger Byam, again, no attempt at an English accent but he was acting a bit more than Clark Gable and he JUST about fitted the role OK. But the only person who owns the film is the legendary British actor Charles Laughton as the sadistic bullying Capt Bligh. He was absolutely fantastic and acted everyone off the screen, if it wasn't for him, I doubt I would enjoy this film. Other supporting roles are a bit better than the leading American stars. Donald Crisp as Thomas Burkitt, Eddie Quillan as Thomas Ellison, Dudley Digges as the surgeon Dr Bacchus (adding the right amount of humour to the film), Henry Stephenson as Sir Joseph Banks, Ian Wolfe as the slimy Mr Maggs and Bill Bambridge as Hitihiti.This film is grandly filmed with perfect sets and costumes for the period and the special effects for 1935 are VERY VERY good. It is one of the ultimate high sea adventure stories and I highly recommend it for classical film buffs.Derek "},{"Title":"The Editor Delivers the Breadfruit","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This is a marvelous movie in a couple respects.One is the thrill of the ship, a thrill that is more effective in its way than anything modern. Compare this to Master and Commander, in which the ship existed only as an assembly of parts which we knew would noisily disassemble.I suppose may would celebrate the performances. Well, yeah, I suppose. Or the location shots which are honest but oddly out of place.What gives me a thrill is how well assembled this was from the editor's point of view. These were days when the job was really nasty work, huge rooms, hanging films, tedious looping and physical taping. It was an unappreciated creative task, and because the studio system had restrictive philosophies in how it was done, it was essentially a task for clerks.The editor in Hollywood wouldn't be appreciated until the late sixties when Easy Rider spawned the independent movement. Here's a tremendous example of the value of the editor.In this case its Margaret Booth, who sorta followed a secretarial path to head the editing department at the studio, then the center of film-making for the world, moneywise. For the most part she followed the rules. But here for some reason she did something quite different than usual.Consider. The challenges of this story are significant. There's a long, very long first segment of the voyage out where we are shown the reason for the complaints. Because the nature of shipyard life and the complications of the conflict are pretty complex, this cannot be shorter.Then there's a segment in Tahiti where some love happens. This is as short as possible, but because it has to balance the weight of confinement and at the same time justify (for us) the location shooting, its still long.Then a segment of the mutiny itself. Then the longish voyage of Bligh. The chase, the escape, the trail, the coda. Now that's an awful lot. Too much by double, even compared to Gone with the Wind.I'd like to direct your attention to Gladiator, and Ridley Scott's technique of shaping each scene so that it is open at the end, not closed. Its open in a way that anticipates the next. In a regular movie, each scene is dispensed as a discrete, readable segment that opens and closes. It is the job of the story and associated elements to keep us engaged. In Gladiator, the story is too diffuse, so Scott shapes the scenes (and Crowe) so that each scene has its center of gravity in the next. We tip into the future. Its a joy to watch even if the thing itself is a bit inelegant.Watch that, then see what Maggie has done here, apparently without the help or even knowledge of the directors. She's assembled the footage in a way that's open at the end, anticipatory. It isn't &#151; alas &#151; a simple matter of cutting scenes short, or overlapping sound (which would come later). Its a matter of tuning into the very subtle rhythms of a setup, then ending it at a midbeat. Without the patterning of jazz from the period, we wouldn't have been able to read the subliminal syncopation.But here it is, as a sort of micromutiny. Thanks, Ms Booth.Oh, the story? They forgot to include the cabinboy. Funny how the British navy conveniently forgets the institutional buggery.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Ship Happens","Date":"31 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" If was to sum up Mutiny on the Bounty, it would be immensely satisfying. The actual build up to the mutiny itself is just so immense. Charles Laughton is an absolute beast as Captain Bligh. I can't stress just how much I love this performance. Shivers go down my back at any of his many outbursts. For me this is the ultimate love to hate character, that when he finally gets his comeuppance after subjecting his crew to overworking, lashings and other mistreatments, it's one of the most satisfying movie moments ever. There's just something about angry ship captains which make for such memorable characters (Captain Ahab, Captain Queeg, James Cagney in Mister Roberts).Of course there is also The King himself, Clark Gable as Fletcher Christian. Like Laughton, the hairs on my back rise at any of his outbursts throughout the film. Supposedly the two intensely disliked each other, thus the seething hatred between the two characters feels more real, making Mutiny on the Bounty a movie of two powerhouse performances. Then there are the scenes on the Island Tahati. Shirtless Clark Gable, beautiful exotic women, tropical island paradise, what more do you want? Oh, and did I mention James Cagney is in this film. Yep, he's in there for a brief second. Just when I thought this movie couldn't get any better.In defence of the film for being historical inaccurate; this is a movie, a work of fiction, not a documentary (although I highly recommend 1984's The Bounty, which tells the story with Bligh being the hero and Christian as the villain). Besides how can we ever truly be sure what happened aboard that ship 200 years ago. Regardless of what really happened, I find the tale of The Bounty is a story of great fascination and one which really sparks the imagination. Mutiny on the Bounty is the seafaring movie all seafaring movies are measured against. "},{"Title":"Laughton is the real star here","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" It's 1787. The HMS Bounty is departing from Portsmouth for Tahiti. Captain William Bligh (Charles Laughton) is a brutal tyrant but his lieutenant Fletcher Christian (Clark Gable) is much more humane to the crew. The ship is small, the quarters are tight, the journey is long and the food is bad.Clark Gable is a great movie star. I wish he isn't quite so jovial and so clean cut. His smile undercuts some of the tension and the needed grittiness. He is a very modern movie hero which sticks out a bit. Laughton is terrific as the arrogant Bligh. He is the real star of the show. Filming on water always adds a certain amount of difficulties which one must account for. It's an old school Hollywood fare with some good work done. "},{"Title":"Fascinating","Date":"10 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Here is an interesting study of the type of personality who goes by the book, no matter how horrible the human consequences.As the sadistic Capt. Bligh, Charles Laughton is excellent, although in the TCM version I saw he sometimes garbles his English-accented words. Though Bligh shows obeisance to the leader of a Tahitian community from which his ship gathers breadfruit seedlings for replanting closer to England -- the trees are intended to provide cheap food for slaves -- he behaves reprehensibly toward underlings on his ship, from the lowliest deckhand to his next-in-command, a never-handsomer and more-masculine Clark Gable, as Fletcher Christian.In addition to its first-rate performances, this film features stirring interludes in the island paradise, where Christian falls in love with and possibly beds a lovely native woman, and on the lashing high seas onto which Bligh and a band of non-mutineers are set to drift some 3,500 miles from the nearest port. (It's noted they can't set foot on nearer islands due to cannibalism.) It's in this latter sequence that we glimpse another side of Bligh -- that of a leader who actually can inspire his men when they encounter near-impossible odds to survive. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Naval Story Ever Told.","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Mutiny On The Bounty is something of a timeless tale. Fletcher Christian leads a bunch of mutineers to take over Captain William Bligh's ship which makes for one of the most exciting classics. From the beginning where people are lashed 2 dozen times, to the stunning court trial to lots of other things, the movie can be exciting.I will be comparing this with the 1962 version which was released 30 years after the novel. But for now lets take a look at the basics briefly.Clark Gable is great as Fletcher Christian. The movie portrays him as a man who questions Captain Bligh's punishments and finally has had enough of him and takes over the ship. Clark Gable looked good for the role as he did look like 23 year old. Charles Laughton as Captain William Bligh I'm mixed on. On one hand, he is a big threat, on the other hand, his overacting is nearly funny. So I can't really say that its a bad performance, but it nearly goes to a 'Camp' value.Tahiti looks wonderful and looking at it is a marvel. Some scenes can be slow like the romance scenes between the officers and natives but it plays a part in the story for later on.So this version is very well done even if Charles Laughton's performance as Bligh is mixed. But its considered to be the definitive version of the story and it is well done with the technical aspects and other stuff. 90/100 A- "}{"Title":"A Rare Masterpiece","Date":"30 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Mutiny on the bounty is one of the finest films I have ever seen, and a rare beast of a film at that. It succeeds in everything a film should, with an interesting story, idyllic and realistic acting, and a wonderful feeling. The leading performances of Charles Laughton, Clarke Gable and Franchot Tone are the ones of legend. The fact that the 3 of them canceled each other both in the film and in the Oscar for Best Actor is a common fact. Laughton's scenes as the ruthless Captain Bligh succeed not only in making me believe he was a British Naval Officer of the late 18th century, but also made me loather him. Rarely do we see actors throwing themselves into their roles like this. Gable's Fletcher Christian is perhaps some of the more daring characters I have seen on the screen, with Gable wisely not trying his hand at a British accent and shaving that iconic mustache. Gable's performance is among his career's best, and he seemed to fit naturally within the plot and his talented co-stars. The scenes when he finally loses his temper and lets go of his bottled emotions are awe-striking. Franchot Tone, in one of his first film roles, steals the show with his earnest, wise and passionate turn as Roger Byam. His speech in the final moments of the film is the greatest monologue I have heard in a film, especially due to his criticism of brutality at the seas, and that of Captain Bligh. If the Academy even saw that scene, they should have given the thing to him. One of the best movies Ever. "},{"Title":"One performance buoys a lead film.","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" If you live long enough you will eventually fall under the employment of someone who reminds you of Captain Bligh. It seems odd to say, but he could stand for all the stiff, unflinching, immobile employers whose duty is to a strict regimen of routine while any consideration of the human element is basically superfluous. What's worse is the moment when you can sense of perverse joy in their sadism and the uncomfortable feeling that they are smarter than you are.In life this is a problem, but at the movie it is the stuff of great drama. Great villains have no filter, no rules. The space of their actions is unpredictable and worse, they can reveal levels of themselves that are deeper and cleverer than we might imagine. That is to the key to the most memorable of movie villains, Hannibal Lecter, Darth Vader, Harry Lime, Nurse Ratched, Hans Beckert, The Terminator, Dr, Szell, HAL 9000, and The Wicked Witch of the West. There is always something up their sleeve.This also key to Captain Bligh. All through Mutiny on the Bounty we follow the machinations of a man for whom duty to the crown is more important than the attentiveness to his crew, a man who is a sadist, ordering punishments and cutting rations simply because he has the authority to do so.Mutiny on the Bounty is loosely based on the real-life 1789 takeover the HMS Bounty after the ship's company and crew endured months of cruel tyranny and punishments and severe cutbacks of the basic necessities of food and water. Bligh commands The Bounty with an iron will, and we get a sense of his diseased mind even before the ship leaves port. He orders the flogging of a man charged with striking an officer even after the ship's doctor informs him that the accused is dead. He demands strict adherence to the rules even in death.Our point of view is led by Fletcher Christian (Clark Gable), the ship's first mate, an officer who is tough but very fair &#x96; he is the kind of tough but tolerable officer who can command the seas as well as his crew with a balance of humanity and efficiency. The movie that surrounds him is somewhat simple-minded. It seems loosely constructed as a model on which to portray his cruelty that leads to the inevitable mutiny.Laughton's performance is proof that even the most mundane material can be livened by one performance. And what a performance it is. It is all in his eyes. When Christian confronts him there is a buried insecurity, a paranoia that runs down into his bones. He knows that if he is too lenient on his crew that they will take advantage but if he rules with an iron fist they will keep their place.Eventually, Christian rouses the men to rise against their tyrannical master and take command of the ship. In the most famous moment, as Bligh and his loyal followers are about to be set out to sea in a small boat he makes a famous proclamation to the revolting crew Casting me adrift thirty-five hundred miles from a port of call! You're sending me to my doom, eh? Well, you're wrong, Christian. I'll take this boat, as she floats, to England if I must. I'll live to see you &#x97; all of you &#x97; hanging from the highest yardarm in the British fleet! Fletcher Christian tells him I'll take my chances against the law - You'll take yours against the sea. We are conditioned, like Christian, to believe that no man and his crew could survive against the open seas in a small boat. But we are startled to find that the most frightening aspect of Bligh is that he is really smarter than we think. Left for dead on the rough seas in a small boat with little to eat and little to drink, it is assumed that he and the crew will perish but Christian has overlooked his skills as a seaman. An expert navigator, Bligh guides the small boat on a 3600 mile journey to safety, to the coast of Timor in the East Dutch Indies while The Bounty turns toward the isolated safety of Tahiti.What stays with me in Captain Bligh is the immobile manner. There's something that we can all identify with, working for someone who is hardbound to the letter of the rules but is ignorant of the human condition. What we miss is that there's a reason that Bligh is in command and the movie reveals that when he and his crew are set adrift. Bligh, ever the master seaman, makes a 3600 mile journey in a tiny boat to Timor in the West Indies. Bearded, exhausted, he proclaims that We've beaten the sea itself.The performance would become Laughton's legacy but for Laughton himself he felt that he gave better performances elsewhere. He didn't disown the role but he felt that it didn't fill the capacity of what he could do. Yet, I couldn't deny him the performance, it is a brilliant, tricky performance, one at which a seemingly one-dimensional character outsmarts even those of us who think we have him figured out. "},{"Title":"Sadistic British naval discipline and relaxed Tahitian life and amorous girls don't mix.","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" 1935 saw the release of 2 classic mostly sea-going adventure sagas the present film and Warner's Captain Blood the latter catapulting Errol Flynn into stardom, and establishing Olivia de Havilland as his favored leading lady through '41.This film deservedly won the Oscar for best picture plus several nominations for best actor. It was relatively solidly based on historical incidents, especially as interpreted by Nordhoff and Hall. The story of the HMS Bounty, and the fates of the mutineers and loyalists, is so compelling that 2 Hollywood remakes, in color vs. the crisp B&W of the present film, were made in the subsequent half century. Opinions vary as to which is the best rendering. If you are partial to Clark Gable and Charles Laughton, then see the present film. If Marlon Brando is more to your liking, see the '62 version. I prefer a mix of this '35 and the '84 version, with the latter more based on subsequent reevaluations of the characters of Bligh and Christian, with Bligh being judged wrongly portrayed in the past as a flogging-happy sadistic monster, and Christian having been portrayed as more heroic than was fitting. The '84 version is in color and the native girls are often topless, as historically they should be, vs. wearing western swim attire in the present film, as dictated by the then strict morality codes. Gable's Christian comes across as a formidable man-of-action, in striking contrast to Mel Gibson's introspective Christian, in the '84 version. Gable was about 10 years older than the real Christian when the mutiny occurred, whereas Gibson was only a few years older hence a more realistic stand-in by this criterion. Also, Gable and Laughton(Bligh) were only a couple of years apart in age, whereas Gibson was a good 15 years younger than Anthony Hopkins(Bligh in the '84 version). This difference in relative age also favored making Gable seem more equal to Bligh than was the case with Gibson. The real Christian and Bligh were about 10 years apart in age, with Christian in his early-mid 20s during the voyage. Gibson's portrayal emphasizes a wish to return to Tahiti as the prime motivation for mutiny, whereas Gable seemed instigated mostly by Bligh's actions. Gibson's private take on the conflict between the 2 is that Christian's rash act of mutiny, including the setting adrift of most of the loyalists with Bligh, was much worse, in terms of probable and actual long-term consequences for most of the crew, than continued submission to Bligh's prickly personality and material deprivations. If I were Christian and had instigated the mutiny, probably I would have taken Bligh and the loyalists back to Tahiti(if the other mutineers permitted) to await a ship to Britain, then sailed off for an obscure island home, oblivious to the lethal social problems that would develop among the real immigrants to Pitcairn's Island.Unfortunately, none of these 3 films of this saga point out to the audience what was unusual about the Bounty, besides its destination, that permitted so easy a spontaneous take over by Christian and his followers. The ship was undersized for its mission. Hence, it was felt that there was no room for the usual accompaniment of commissioned officers and marines, usually present to back up the authority of the captain(Actually, technically Bligh was a mere second lieutenant).Bligh is portrayed as commanding the ill-fated follow up ship 'Pandora', hunting fruitlessly all over the South Pacific for those former crew members not rounded up on Tahiti. The sinking of the Pandora on a coral reef is dramatized, with the rescue of some of the prisoners, who were eventually returned to England for trial. Historically, Bligh was not on the Pandora. However, he did command a third ship which later finally succeeded in transporting breadfruit from Tahiti to the West Indies as an anticipated cheap food for the slaves.Many reviewers seem impressed with Laughton's portrayal of a sadistic flogging-obsessed Bligh. However, I find Anthony Hopkins' excellent portrayal of a somewhat less sadistic, if still generally unfriendly Bligh, probably closer to the truth. But even this portrayal probably overemphasizes Bligh's disciplinary actions. Bligh has the distinction of being portrayed as an immortal hero, as well as villain, in different phases of this saga.The combination of the mostly upbeat Gable and the often smiling Franchot Tone(as midshipman Byam) provide a pleasant diversion from the blustery scenes dominated by Laughton. Tone gets to give a nice preachy speech at his sentencing hearing, which is probably the main basis for his nomination for best actor. Gable also has an important speech just before the Bounty is about to be anchored off Pitcairn Island. Prior to this, Laughton gives a defiant speech before his heavily laden landing boat departs the Bounty.Strangely, according to the map shown after weathering the storm, this storm did not represent the failed attempt to navigate around Cape Horn, as did the even more violent storm staged in the '84 version.Henry Stephenson serves well as the kindly Sir Joseph Banks, who succeeds in pleading for the life of Byam(Tone), after the latter's death sentence. Stephenson specialized in playing mostly secondary fatherly patrician characters throughout the '30s and '40s. "},{"Title":"Historically inaccurate but still a great adventure film","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Based on a famous incident in the history of British Navy, Mutiny on the Bounty is the cinematic representation of the famous mutiny against Captain Bligh led by Fletcher Christian. It has brilliant production values. Without any special effects, it nicely develops the feeling of the extremely exhausting and troublesome journey. From the beginning, it develops the sparks of the revolt. It nicely shows how all the small incidents and different thinking led to such a big revolt.The most and possibly only notable flaw with the film is its historical accuracy. Being a mainstream film, the characterization is binary. Captain Bligh is painted as antagonist and every action of Fletcher Christian is glorified in the film. The film has been made from the perspective of mutineers, considering this there isn't any big flaw in this film. However, I felt the role of Charles Laughton is not utilized properly.Apart from that I liked editing and entire production. The film stands tall when it comes to performances. The heat between Bligh and Christian is quite amusing to see. Charles Laughton is fantastic once again with his brilliant ascent. He brilliantly portrayed ruthless and inhuman actions of Bligh at the same time his character is a great seaman. On the other hand, it was quite an experience to see Clark Gable at his peak. His character is a good combination of a wise gentleman and an angry young man. Franchot Tone was also good. Movie has good dialogues and some fine monologues.Apart from being little partial towards a few things, It is a great adventure film. "},{"Title":"That Famous Mutiny.","Date":"4 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Frank Lloyd directed this Academy Award winning(best picture) adaptation of the famous novel based on the true historical account of how Fletcher Christian(played by Clark Gable) set sail with Captain Bligh(played by Charles Laughton) to Tahiti on a trading mission. The place seems like paradise, and Christian leads a group of men who do not want to leave it, and also in rebellion of Bligh's tyranny and cruelty, as he abuses his position of power in brutally punishing his men. Bligh and his few supporters are cast adrift at sea, vowing revenge, which he will indeed get... Fine adventure film with solid acting and direction. While viewer sympathizes with Fletcher's plight, his mutinous actions are doomed, as they and their women are forced to flee to a new land, with their fate unresolved. "},{"Title":"Distorted But Terrific Seagoing Yarn","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Director Frank Lloyd's Mutiny on the Bounty deservedly received the 1936 Best Picture Oscar as well as Oscar nominations for Best Actor, Best Screenplay, Best Editing, Best Directing, and Best Original Musical Score. This entertaining 140-minute version of the vintage Charles Nordoff and James Norman Hall novel, published in 1932, surpasses the costly remake that M-G-M launched with Marlon Brando in 1962 that clocked in at a grueling 178 minutes. Indeed, everything about the 1935 Mutiny on the Bounty is superlative. Clark Gable reluctantly shaved off his characteristic mustache to play Fletcher Christian because British officers were prohibited from wearing upper lip facial hair. Charles Laughton played the villainous Lieutenant William Bligh with immense relish, and Franchot Tone was cast as Midshipman Roger Byram on his first sea voyage. Interestingly, these three thespians each received an Academy Award Nomination for Best Actor. As good as Gable and Tone are as the protagonists, it is frog-faced Laughton with his imperious bearing that sticks in the memory long after the film has faded. You'll want to see Laughton swing from the yard arm for his performance because he is such a despicable villain. Happily, Laughton radiates glimpses of humanity thanks to the skillful writing of scribes such as Talbot Jennings, Jules Furthman, and Carey Wilson.His Majesty's Ship Bounty disembarks from Portsmouth Harbor in 1787 and charts a course to Tahiti to gather breadfruit plants. The plan was to grow breadfruit as an inexpensive food item to feed slaves in Jamaica. As the action unfolds, Fletcher Christian and a press gang prowl the local taverns for seamen to shanghai for service. Meanwhile, young Roger Byram is itching to embark on his maiden voyage to Tahiti. Byram has been assigned to compile a Tahitian dictionary. Lieutenant Bligh has requested Fletcher Christian because he prefers to surround himself with gentlemen. Bligh, it seems, is an admitted self-made man. This marks their third voyage together, and Christian doesn't like the captain. The friction between these two eventually generates sparks that sets them at loggerheads. In real-life, Gable abhorred Laughton because the latter was a notorious homosexual. Some sources claim that M-G-M studio heads cast them opposite each other because they felt the homophobic Gable would give a stronger performance. Laughton milks the insolent Bligh for everything he can. Anyway, the question of stolen cheese and later purloined coconuts exacerbates their enmity for each other to the point that Christian is prepared to usurp Bligh as captain. No sooner have they left Portsmouth than the energetic Byram gets into scuffle with a fellow midshipman and Bligh sends Byram aloft to weather a gale.When they drop anchor in Tahiti, Bligh has had enough of Christian and openly goads the man. Later, during the return voyage, Bligh cuts the water ration so that none of the breadfruit plants will perish. Bligh already has too many plants on board and his decision to deprive his sailors of water backfires. The inhumane treatment of prisoners aboard the Bounty is the last straw for Fletcher Christian and he leads a mutiny. Roger Byram and another midshipman try to thwart Christian, but the mutineers overpower them. Christian sets Bligh, several officers, and crew men in a launch. Incredibly, Bligh manages to sail the open boat across 3-thousand miles or more of sea to a port. Bligh returns to English and takes the Pandora back to search for Christian. By now, Byram and Christian have resumed their friendship. Meantime, Christian has married a native girl and they have a son. When Bligh returns, the naive Byram rushes out to meet the Pandora, and the vengeful Bligh puts him in chains. Christian and the mutineers flee from Tahiti on the Bounty and eventually crash the ship on the reef of Pitcairn Island where they make a new life for themselves. Bligh returns to English after he runs HMS Pandora on a reef. Most of the mutineers are condemned to swing, including Ellison (Eddie Quillan of The Grapes of Wrath), who was kidnapped to serve as a sailor on the Bounty. Through the intervention of a friend and a high-ranking Admiral, Byram wins a pardon and is allowed to continue as an officer in the British Navy.Of course, Clark Gable was no Englishman, but he gives better performance than Marlon Brando's hilariously awful performance as Fletcher Christian. Laughton steals the show as the repugnant Bligh. The only thing that the 1962 version has over this epic is its Technicolor cinematography and a replica of the actual Bounty. Director Frank Lloyd depicts the challenging voyage that Bligh makes in an open boat. This episode wasn't emphasized in the Brando version. Furthermore, Christian urges his men, against their wishes, to burn the Bounty once they have run it aground. In the Brando version, Christian refuses to burn the vessel because he plans to return to England and confront the Admiralty with the facts of the matter. Instead, Christian's mutineers set the ship ablaze and Christian tries to save the ship. In his efforts to preserve the Bounty, Christian is trapped below deck and burned so badly that he dies on the beach after his friends try to save him.Bottom line watch this version of Mutiny on the Bounty rather than the 1962 version. Purists will want to watch the Mel Gibson & Anthony Hopkins rehash to see what actually happened. "},{"Title":"Decent Chief of Early Spectacles","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Often have the viewers been supplied with thrill, tension and elaborate visuals in the spectacles of early talkies. It seems sufficient to mention a mainstay director in that case Cecil B DeMille. Those spectacles were to enchant audiences, to leave them breathless at the power of blissful feast for the eyes. Yet, it seems significant to mention one fact here while those earlier spectacles were filled with a certain amount of preachy content, Lloyd does something innovative here - a breathtaking insight into the core nature of social psychology, an insight into two laws one based on security and mutual respect, another one based upon cruelty, wretchedness and mutual destruction. Contradictory laws, indeed! In that case, what other means, within the clash of such laws, can there be at hand if not a radical reaction? Let me develop this aspect with the analysis of characters.THE MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY draws our attention to three characters and helps us understand different motives of theirs.First, it is the chief of the British Navy sailing to the West Indies for food reinforcement, Captain Bligh (Charles Laughton). Being a true villain of the story, called by some English noblemen sea going disaster, Mr Laughton marvelously calls our attention on certain features of his wretched character. The most outrageous feature appears to be his hypocrisy he is a captain, a judge, a jury who prays to the Lord for the safe journey but terrorizes his men finding the greatest pleasure in seeing them crawl. He is a character who knows no mercy, no human feelings seem to be his and we, as viewers, begin to detest him in time, particularly when the sympathetic Bacchus (Dugley Digges) dies.In contrast come two men who seem to be, at first, similar...yet, in whom we find more differences than similarities in the long run Fletcher Christian (Clark Gable) and Byam (Franchot Tone). Christian seems to be a man of strong will, a macho who is so enchanted when being called magnificent like a storm at sea by his beloved Tahiti sweetie and so strong and radical when taking over the leadership of the mutiny. Byam appears to be slightly shadowed for the majority of the film. We get to know him as a 'goodie' at the beginning but later, he is hardly emphasized. Yet, near the end, he wins our hearts in one of the most magnificent scenes of the film. He appears to be the true conscience of the law, the conscience of the story...yet, will they be able to listen to the voice of that conscience? He is beautifully contrasted to Captain Bligh. While blind discipline is a thing for Bligh, for Byam justice is a thing...The wonderful achievements of the movie would not have been half of what they are if it had not been for the performances. Laughton, Gable and Tone do marvelous jobs portraying their characters vividly. Emotions, feelings, thoughts occur to burst out over the action thanks to flawless acting. The supporting cast also overwhelm with their genuine and balanced contributions. This refers particularly to the witty, pleasant role of Bacchus (Dudley Digges), a good man with a good word here or there, with a weakness that became the ridiculous justification for the wretched deed Bligh committed.The visual aspect of the movie is unquestionable. Being the most expensive MGM's production of the time, BOUNTY became a sort of another BIG PARADE (1925). Remarkable sequences at Tahiti, unforgettable images of the sea, single details and interesting soundtrack make the movie a unique production in the genre. Although there have been some remakes, none has ever achieved the original splendor. No wonder BOUNTY is enumerated as one of the most significant epics of all time.Finally, what I need to mention as another merit of the film is wit. Perhaps, this aspect is not that significant for many movie buffs, yet it occurs really worth attention in BOUNTY. Such a historical stuff needs moments of relief and wit plays a decisive role here. It often makes you relax, it makes you laugh, it makes the whole story much more endurable.All in all, a remarkable production, a very captivating film that will make you stunned, lost in thoughts, keen and, foremost, understand some significant aspects of mutual respect. If there were any chiefs of early spectacles, THE MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY is surely one of them. "},{"Title":"Absolutely wonderful!","Date":"1 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I honestly loved Mutiny on the Bounty, and I will say I am one of those people who prefers this version over the 1962 film. Some people might say that the screenplay is questionable, but personally I had no problem with it. Mutiny on the Bounty is a lavish and stirring adventure on the high seas, that is thoroughly entertaining and exciting. The location shooting, sets, costumes and cinematography are fabulous, and the music score is suitably rousing and bombastic. Add some clever direction, secure pacing(I personally found this a problem in the 1962 version), a strong story and some nice scripting and you have a strong film. That just leaves the acting, while Clark Gable, Donald Crisp and Franchot Tone give wonderful performances, it is Charles Laughton as complex Captain Bligh who steals the show. It is easily one of Laughton's best performances, and this is giving honourable mention to the 1939 film The Hunchback of Notre Dame, where he played a grotesque yet poignant Quasimodo. Overall, wonderful, exciting film. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A Self-Made Man","Date":"14 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" No need to dwell on consensus points.This is MGM at its robust and big-budget best. Laughton and Gable play off one another magnificently. And to think that the Bligh role almost went to the totally unsuited Wallace Beery. He might do as a slobbering first-mate, but never as a captain able to navigate across 3,000 miles of open sea. I like the way we come to respect Bligh during that survival voyage, despite all his cruelties as a commander. Actually, Bligh is something of a tragic figure, a self-made man rising through the ranks on ability alone. In a social order like England's, where positions of command were usually reserved for the titled class, Bligh has distinguished himself. The trouble is the authority has gone to his head and he's lost perspective. Men are no longer men, but mere parts of the ship to be disposed of at will. My understanding is that armed soldiers (marines) aboard ship began as protection against mutiny in the old British merchant fleet, which says a lot about conditions aboard ships like the Bounty. So Bligh may not have been an exception as captain, after all.Anyway, it's a terrific cast, and Gable's never been better. It must have been 60 years since I first saw Byam (Tone) clinging atop the mast as the ship rolls like the proverbial cork in a storm. Scared the heck out of me then and still does. Great effect. And I expect more than a few guys, including myself, have been trying to figure out a way to get to Tahiti because of this film. Well, at least Brando made it. "},{"Title":"Impressive MGM production values anchor a mighty high-seas tale","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY, as a film, will not win prizes for historic accuracy- but that was hardly the intention of Frank Lloyd's impressively-made film. It was never intended as documentary, but as a dramatic re-telling of some of the more juicier aspects of an important event in history. MGM's film is grand entertainment, expensively and lavishly produced, and still holds up very well today.Charles Laughton chews every scene as Bligh. He is a ham, but a glorious, delicious ham basted with class. He is unforgettable. Clark Gable makes a handsome and authoritative Fletcher Christian, yet still looks like a movie star in naval costume. Imagine what Errol Flynn- who made an impressive leading-role debut in the excellent, better CAPTAIN BLOOD- could have done with the role! Stage actor Franchot Tone at time looks like a gust of wind would blow him off the ship, but he generally acquits himself well in his role. All three were nominated for Best Actor Oscars, losing out to Victor McLaglen in THE INFORMER, and this absurd situation was a major point in bringing in the Supporting category.The production values are impeccable. It is a high-gloss re-imagining of history, so it is not gritty, but it conveys a sense of other-time mood. The film moves smoothly along, with Lloyd steering this toward hi own little piece of film history, as it won the 1935 Best Picture award. "}{"Title":"Tempest and cruelty","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Mutiny on the Bounty (1935) directed by Frank Lloyd is an adventure in 1787, a tale concerning unrest and tells the version resulting as the true scandal from an authoritarian commander, that observes the accomplishment of his own severe punishment against a sailor, climbing the flagpole even under a stormy ocean in darkness and lightening on the vessel. Who in a relative period of peace put aside the security of the ship, in the name of a mission about a kind of fruit as bread, like if it was vegetables to bring up to England, after that same durable mission of two years. The itinerary by the sea is strongly instructive and the scene without wind for sailing, illustrated by a recurrent map of the world, shows the substitution by the working row, from the crew of sailors aboard two small boats, flagellated by instruction from the commander, as clue of cruelty and insensibility, under a rule of starvation and servitude. Two pearls given by the girl and grand daughter of the chief - who seems clever when questioned by a traveler that prepares a dictionary of native language about the value of comparing products in exchange as a piece of silver and a single nail - from the island to the immediate or second of the vessel, obliges the navy commander forcing him to its donation for the Crown own propriety, which is the measure of his abuse and inadequate agreement and contributes to the lack of confidence from the other officers, in particular the hate from the second and experienced navigator. As well another scene with a small part of the crew, that after the unrest was no given permission to go to another trip (as to Tahiti or even further Pitcairn island) or that took other choice before Christian Fletcher, the second of the navy vessel The Bounty. Then, putted inside other small boat, lost for forty five days, almost swallowed by the waves on the extreme Pacific ocean. Till arrives on the shores of Timor, all seemingly alive with the foolish captain Blyth, who had written during the crazy trajectory a short diary about the heroic trip. This movie was made like searching a mystery of the background of a new kind of pirates, as well a lot of small incidents before it happens on sea, nearby Cook discoveries on Pacific islands. It was amazing as law of the sea and for the time an unquiet phase for what came, as model of case for justice. At its place a beautiful and enjoyable movie about lucidity and cruelty, friendship and hate, where life and discipline on a vessel are pretext for too much small conflicts among the crew of sailors and marine commander - a man with a figure of a baboon, as an old officer told during the scene of the trial about the unrest against his insanity, many years after the event, in 1792 - with inefficacy from the majority of officers, because the sadist botanist which was effectively the main cause of disturbance on board in an inconclusive defeat for the Pandora vessel wrecked against cliffs during the pursuit of the mutineers. "},{"Title":"really holds water","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" For years, I've heard of Capt. Bligh, the HMS Bounty, and the mutiny thereon (I've even seen the Bugs Bunny/Yosemite Sam cartoon Mutiny on the Bunny). Well, I've finally seen Mutiny on the Bounty. And what an exhilarating experience. Part of what's so great is that we get to hear some of William Bligh's (Charles Laughton) side of the story there were some very strict British maritime laws and he saw it as his duty to follow them. The movie never gets into any pithy talk about whether or not it was justified for him to nearly abuse the men under his command (or whether the uprising itself was justified), they just move everything along at full speed.The movie's energetic pace makes for some pretty cool situations which often result in Bligh's drill sergeant approach to everything. One of the coolest parts was the whole sequence on Tahiti. I just have to wonder how much fun it must have been to film all that.As for the cast members. Charles Laughton plays Bligh to a tee. It often seems as if Clark Gable is playing Fletcher Christian for laughs (the second in command on an 18th-century British ship talks like a 20th-century American?), but make no mistake about it, his laid-back demeanor is the perfect counterbalance to Bligh's bombast. Franchot Tone as Roger Byams actually takes sort of a back seat to the aforementioned performances.But no matter. This movie is truly a classic. I recommend it to everyone. In conclusion Rule Britannia all the way! PS In the cartoon short Buccaneer Bunny, Bugs Bunny imitates Charles Laughton as Capt. Bligh in one scene; they clearly used the tyrant image of him. "},{"Title":"not historically perfect, but what performances!","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  while the true story of fletcher christian and william bligh is somewhat different than that portrayed on the film, as storytelling, the 1935 mutiny on the bounty can't be beat.  the real captain bligh was not a sadistic bully and fletcher christian was not a mature, humanist hero.  it was far more complicated than that.  however,  charles laughton and clark gable create vivid characters and the excitement of their conflict is terrific. if you want historic accuracy go to the mel gibson movie, but for great acting laughton and gable are ne plus ultra.  forget brando ca.1962 which is even less historically accurate and talky to boot.  for those interested in what actually happened there are a number of books on the subject.  also, there are links to pitcairn island where the mutineers landed.  there is also an excellent group on yahoo.com.  it is called friends of pitcairn island.  there one can communicate with actual decendents of fletcher christian. "},{"Title":"THE ALL-TIME POWERFUL EPIC","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The greatest sea story of all time. It never loses attention and doesn't need to add movie junk (sex and violence) like in the Brando remake to grab your attention. This is one of the best films of all time. Breathtaking humorous adventure and makes just want to throw old grouch Laughton off the ship (well that is what happens). Gable and Tone are stellar as the mutiny leader Fletcher Christian (our hero) and Byam , the young new experience on board. THE ALL-TIME POWERFUL EPIC!!! "},{"Title":"Bligh was typical British naval officer.","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I first saw this film as a boy in 1935. Loved it at the time and still do but not as much now. The problem is what has always plagued Hollywood when it attempts to deal with history and alters it to suit its own purposes. After reading an article by James Mitchener I became convinced Bligh was a product of his era when common seamen ranked at the bottom of the totem pole economically and socially. It was a miserable life which often required the ship owners to kidnap men for the long voyages which often lasted for years. We should not be surprised that the crew of the Bounty mutinied after visiting what must have seemed the equivalent of heaven-Tahiti. Beautiful women on an island which did not know poverty as the crew experienced in England. The wonder of this is why it really happened to this ship and to this captain? Why not others who suffered similar deprivations? The original story by Nordoff-Hall was really a trilogy. The films made of this incident attempt to combine the three books into one story and that is unfortunate. I liked the original book which dealt with the mutiny, was fascinated with the later books dealing with Bligh's superb seamanship in getting the long boat to safety in the Dutch West Indies with the loss of only one man. The mutineers later establishing a colony on Pitcairn Island shows that the racism of the crew dealing with those natives kidnapped after leaving Tahiti, the effects of alcohol in the murder of all the mutineers except one and the shortage of women makes this part of the story even more interesting than the mutiny. Seamen around the world had one thing in common and that was living a miserable life while at sea with very little respect from anyone at any station of life. For example, seamen who defeated the Spanish Armada were actually allowed to starve to death because Parliament refused the necessary appropriations to feed them. The First Lord of the Admiralty actually advocated this as the fewer that survived were fewer to be paid. A later First Lord, Winston Churchill, did not think too highly of the men he commanded when he commented that the fleet's lifestyle was rum, the lash and sodomy. Samuel Johnson was amazed when his servent ran away to sea by noting, He would be better off in jail as that cannot sink. "},{"Title":" Halfway 'round the world in Paradise, one asks why they mutinied '","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" England has always had the dubious honor of being a stanch maritime power. It's long history of naval exploits have established it as a formidable sea power. Thus it's a task to select the most infamous episode in that illustrious history to review. This film is called Mutiny on The Bounty. From Hollywood archives we learn the movie has been remade four times. It really doesn't matter if you watch the 1916 version, with George Cross and Wilton Power, the 1962 version with Trevor Howard and Marlon Brando, or the newest addition made in 1984 with Anthony Hopkins and Mel Gibson. All tell basically the same story. For me, I believe the 1935 version with Clark Gable and Charles Laughton is the best. The incident is set in the 18th century during the waning vestiges of dictatorial rule at sea by English sea Captains. From the actual transcripts by British seamen who labored and toiled on board English men of war, comes this factual account of the HMS Bounty commanded by one Lt. William Bligh and his First Officer, Fletcher Christian. Captain Bligh is ordered to sail to the island of Tahiti in the Pacific to obtain a cargo of Breadfruit and return. The mission there is strenuous to say the least under the harsh yoke of the stringent Commander. Once there, amid warm tropical weather, idyllic surroundings and beautiful bare breasted girls, the men decide they've no wish to return home. The harsh treatment they've suffered induces them to mutiny, set their Captain adrift, replace him with Christian and escape to places unknown. Their hope is the Admiralty will not chase after them. Each rendition of the story makes for a more colorful adaptation. Indeed with each successive version, the island, it's peoples, the dreamy location and the island women become more enticing. The movie is well crafted and regardless of which version you choose, the cast and leading men, will forever, like the ship itself, leave a lasting impression in your heart and mind. **** "},{"Title":"Mutiny, anyone?","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Despite its astonishing age (almost 80 years!), this movie has survived both as a physical object and a piece of entertainment surprisingly well.It is also my favourite version. It tells the simple story of men driven by cruelty who rise-up and rebel. To borrow a line from 'Liberty Vallance'; when the legend becomes the truth, print the legend. And that is what this movie does. Modern evaluations of Bligh & co, almost inevitably paint a picture of more complex characters and events. The two subsequent adaptations with Marlon Brando and Mel Gibson attempt to portray this. But it is, as they say, easy to be wise with hindsight. In 1935, people went to the movies to be entertained rather than educated, even as they do today. And in those days the Bounty was as much a confused nautical legend as the Marie Celeste.Whatever the truth behind this rebellion, the fact remains that no ordinary seaman would challenge an officer's authority without the gravest reservations. Punishments were severe and uncompromising. This was made clear in the movie, and not just by Bligh. A Captain's authority was absolute.Everyone turns in a sterling performance, with Laughton in particular being both insidious and charming by turns. Gable sometimes looks a little at sea with his part; he was much better at playing a suave ladies' man, as he would presently demonstrate in 'Gone With The Wind'. Othe crew members like rather fay Franchot Tone, Dudley Diggs, and Donald Crisp round up a watertight cast.The nautical photography is first rate, certainly comparable to 'Master & Commander' despite being shot in Black and white. The sense of danger, privation and suffering, which was the day-to-day lot of common seaman - no matter who their master - is brought home well notwithstanding a latent sense of swashbuckling adventure, which was again natural to any crew.A little light entertainment is offered from time to time by the bungling cook and permanently drunken doctor who re-defines the loss of his leg by a different method each telling.It runs for over two hours. That's a long time for such an old movie but there's seldom a dull moment. Forget historical accuracy, forget political correctness; this is the legend as it should be told, and if it doesn't do justice to Captain Bligh then perhaps he should have done more justice to his men. I'd back this adaptation against the best and most recent 'sprits-n-topsheet tale' you can find, including 'Pirates Of The Caribbean'. It took the Oscar for best movie in 1935.Give it a whizz, I say. And break out a round of ships biscuits and a tot 'o rum for the lads, Arrr. "},{"Title":"Great well known story makes a great movie.","Date":"31 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Of course this movie takes lots of liberties with its story. I mean you shouldn't watch this movie if you want to learn about the true story of the mutiny on the Bounty. For instance for the movie its sake, Captain Bligh is a ruthless almost Hollywood like villain while Fletcher Christian is a saint like hero. Also Captain Bligh never returned to Tahiti for vengeance. Well, he did return to Tahiti but on a different new mission, after he got back to England, to fulfill the very same task he was supposed to carry out with the Bounty, not to search for the mutineers or anything like that. Also the mutiny itself was without any bloodshed and actually quite peaceful. This can be said for certain since there even is no mention of any violence in Blight his logs. Just a few things that makes this movie differ from the truth. There is nothing wrong though of course with taking liberties with the truth, as long as the movie and story benefits from it, which it does. But like I said, just don't watch this movie for your history class.The movie with its 132 minutes is quite long for a 1935 studio movie. The movie is however just as long as it should be, since there is of course a lot to tell and the movie doesn't really ever bore or drag, though the middle part of the movie is a bit slow and perhaps stretched out a bit.Quite an achievement that the movie constantly knows to keep your attention, since the story of course is mostly set only aboard a ship. There is plenty happening though and they did a great job with telling the story. Yes, its mostly its story that makes this movie such a great one to watch. It's both adventurous and dramatic.The movie also is an interesting watch since it features Clark Gable in a rare role without his trademark mustache. He also plays the best role of the movie, also perhaps because Charles Laughton's role isn't always that credible and you have the feeling they perhaps overdid things a little. Not really Charles Laughton's fault though.It's also a real wonderful looking movie with convincing sequences on sea and aboard the boat. Real high class film-making! The movie also received 8 Oscar nominations but oddly enough only took home the one for Best Picture of the year.It's still a great and perfectly watchable movie also truly if you aren't really into '30's movies.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Blockbuster movie-making, 1930's style","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This is the (sort of) true story of the mutiny on the Bounty, captained by William Bligh. Yes, there are historical inaccuracies but, then again, the movie is based on a fictional (though fact-based) novel. If you want the facts then you should watch a documentary; if, however, you want entertainment then you've come to the right place.This film is the only one in history to receive three Best Actor Oscar nominations. While Franchot Tone's performance ought to have been relegated to the Supporting Actor category this nevertheless gives an idea of level of talent on display here. Charles Laughton is superb as the ruthlessly exacting Bligh while Clark Gable imbues Fletcher Christian with equal measures of charm and gusto. The growing conflict between these two characters is the heart of this picture.The interesting thing about these characters is that while there is a 'good guy'/'bad guy' dichotomy neither character is completely good or bad. Bligh may be ruthless but he's also an extraordinary seaman while Christian's spear-heading of the mutiny is spurred on as much by personal gain as it is by concern for the well-being of his ship-mates.The film is well done from a technical standpoint as well. It's too bad that the picture is in black-and-white, though, because this is the sort of story that screams for a lavish technicolor backdrop (like the 1962 remake).Given the over seventy year vintage of this film I was a little hesitant but I'm glad that I checked it out. It's a fine film in the grandiose, blockbuster mode, regardless of age. "},{"Title":"Classic Oscar-winning Drama, Classic Distortion of History","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Veteran Director Frank Lloyd, who transitioned successfully from making many not memorable silent films to quite a few not memorable sound movies, hit pay dirt with 1935's Mutiny on the Bounty which garnered the Best Picture Oscar.  Three cast members - a record - were nominated for Best Actor Ever scowling Charles Laughton as the Bounty's captain, William Bligh; Clark Gable as the here suavely romantic second-in-command, Fletcher Christian; the young Franchot Tone as torn-between-loyalties midshipman Roger Byam.The story of the Bounty is one of the greatest epics of the sea.  Sent by the Admiralty on a two-year voyage to secure breadfruit from the South Seas, a mutiny led by Christian placed the vessel and many crew members under his command as Bligh and those loyal to him were sent off in a boat to, probably as intended, perish.  What transpired is what even this bizarrely distorted account recognizes was one of the greatest epics in the annals of the sea Bligh's skillful and courageous directing of the boat and its starving and soon half-mad occupants through thousands of miles of ocean to succor at Timor.Norhoff and Hall wrote the novel that brought the Bounty story, as they interpreted it, to millions of pre-war readers and they're responsible for the script here.  But long before 1935 the Bounty attracted movie-makers, the first creating a 1916 film seen by virtually no one today. (By the way, Mutiny on the Bunny is Bug's take on this event.  Don't miss it.)Lloyd's Bounty is skippered by a cruel, sadistic and possibly even personally corrupt Bligh who doesn't care a farthing about the comfort, safety or even lives of his crew.  Impossibly handsome Christian is the modern officer arguing for humane treatment and justice for the hapless sailors operating under necessarily draconian Royal Navy law investing a ship's captain with authority many might deem best reserved for God.The clashes between Bligh and Christian increase while Byam ponders the breakdown in order.  Matters reach a breaking point after a purely back-lot hiatus in a Polynesia with pretty girls, none topless, cavorting about, each straight from Central Casting.Bligh sets off for Timor vowing revenge, Christian heads off to the eventual terminal point of the mutineer's escape from the long and never ceasing search by the Royal Navy for them, Pitcairn Island.  Some of the crew who didn't leave Tahiti are captured and tried by court-martial, a splendid opportunity for the film to proclaim the law.This is fine acting with Laughton and Tone the best of the lot.  It's hard to take Gable seriously.  I kept waiting for him to say, Frankly, Captain Bligh, I don't give a damn!The history is wholly potted.  Bligh was a brilliant seaman, acknowledged here, but he was no sadist and compared to many captains of the line he was decent and honest.  He was one of those men who function superbly, indeed without peer, in a crisis but who lack everyday abilities to command effectively (and the poor man had two more mutinies to endure after the Bounty, neither remotely attributable to his conduct).Christian was, simply, a disloyal, disturbed officer as many recent histories accurately detail.  His killing on Pitcairn Island by a dissatisfied former shipmate was, however wrong murder might be, a morally well-deserved, belated sentence.There are many explanations for Christian's conduct-one recent author argues that there was a subliminal homo-erotic quality to the Bligh/Christian relationship.  Right.  A better explanation is that the Lords of the Admiralty sent a ship on a two-year voyage with only one commissioned officer, Christian, a foolish and in the event disastrous economy.What has always intrigued me is what I suspect is a rarely recognized political agenda in this film.  The year 1935 saw Hitler's ferocious racism in rapid bloom and only one man, Winston Churchill, a true voice in the wilderness, was both warning about Hitler and arguing that the Royal Navy must be strengthened to prepare for the inevitable coming clash.For a pre-war Hollywood film, Mutiny on the Bounty is extraordinarily accommodating to the Royal Navy and in both an opening sign board and in the closing scenes, the Bounty incident is hailed as a landmark event that brought about fairer treatment of Jack Tar.  Pure rubbish but it must have made British and colonial audiences (at least the white members thereof) happy and proud.  A supposedly sadistic beast of an officer's transgressions led to something good and lasting.  Bet Churchill loved that (and it's known he admired the film).  For the reality of justice on a King's ship and the power of a captain, read Melville's Billy Budd.In some ways better than it's later re-make, largely because of Laughton, Mutiny on the Bounty remains a pre-war Hollywood spectacular film.  The DVD has a nice documentary about Pitcairn Island today, worth seeing.  The brief newsreel showing the acceptance of the Oscar suggests a far less glittering annual ceremony than we're used to-it even seems that there was a lot of chatter going on while the acceptor voiced his thanks with no need for a conductor to cut off long-windedness.9/10 "}{"Title":"Bligh and Mr Christian","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This first version of 'Mutiny on the Bounty' (it would be remade 27 years later and again in the 1980s) has a strong performance by Charles Laughton as Captain Bligh; some might say it is a scenery-chewing performance, and that may be true, but he's memorable, and more so that Trevor Howard in the 1960s.  As Fletcher Christian, who eventually leads mutiny against the tyrannical captain, Clark Gable appears without his trademark moustache and acquits himself pretty well.  Another key role in this movie is that of Roger Byam, a chap who just joins the ship and the person who witnesses all the events that unfold.  He's played by that reliable actor, Franchot Tone.This is a story of men who clash, of different perspectives which diverge, and of the different ways that peace and freedom can eventually be found.  Christian's answer to his predicament is to stay in the island idyll he has found (with Tehanni, his princess of paradise, played by Movita - interestingly both Movita and Tarita, who played the character in the 1960s, married Marlon Brando).  Frank Lloyd's film brings the harshness of the British Navy together with the fantasy of a world away and does it well.  The 1960s version went a little overboard in its shock factor, but this version comes off much better. "},{"Title":"A classic adventure","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  How can one describe Mutiny on the Bounty without such praise or honor as it truly deserves. The film is able to successfully define the word adventure in all its meaning, which makes it a wonderful film to watch. It is about a bunch of Navy officers dragged from the bitter squalls of London on a ship called The Bounty for a period of two years, in which they will be traveling to Tahiti. This film is not only about the adventurous trials at sea, but also about the relationship between Captain Bligh and Fletcher Christian. Before the trip out to sea, the audience is able to catch a glimpse of Bligh's savage brutality when he has a dead man whipped. That moment is effectively able to convince not just the audience, but also the men aboard that ship that Captain Bligh is a tyrannous monster who has the power to bring them to the sheer borders of Hell itself. Throughout the film, we basically see examples of the savagery and madness of Captain Bligh (like him taking food all to himself and prohibiting a sufficient water amount to the shipmates) which drive the men to mutiny against Bligh. However, there is a source of peace in the island of Tahiti which makes the sailors fall in love with it. It is on this island that we learn that Fletcher Christian is a rebellious and yet gentle soul who can no longer respect the harsh conditions of the notorious Captain Bligh. Bligh is played effectively by Charles Laughton, whom in my opinion should have received a Best Actor Oscar for this film, because of his sheer portrayal of a tyrannous dictator known only as Captain Bligh. His performance allows his character to go down as one of the greatest cinematic villains in all of history. Christian is also played effectively by the legendary Clark Gable, who equally gives a great performance. Mutiny on the Bounty is truly a classic adventure story. Yet it is also a story of the relationship between Captain and Shipmate and the sheer realization that if that line is crossed, it could lead to severe consequences like say, a MUTINY.Lenny's Grade ***1/2 "},{"Title":"Excellent sea drama of the famous Bounty...splendid cast...","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Excellent filming of the Nordoff & Hall novel about the tyrannical sea captain, Captain Bligh (Charles Laughton) and his overthrow led by Fletcher Christian (Clark Gable).Although Charles Laughton clearly dominates the film as Captain Bligh, the others around him are equally impressive. In fact, Clark Gable gives probably one of the strongest performances of his career as Fletcher Christian, easily holding his own against the formidable acting style of Laughton. Impressive too is Franchot Tone as Gable's midshipman friend who is forced to climb the crow's nest in a storm, among other indignities, by the cruel Bligh. The cruelty of the captain is amply demonstrated in a number of chilling scenes.It's easy to understand why all three stars received Best Actor nominations for this film--but lost to Victor McLaglen for The Informer.A must see film, powerful, brutal, sometimes harshly realistic, sometimes romantic--a little overlong and showing its age now--but still an unforgettable sea epic. Better than the color remake with Marlon Brando. "},{"Title":"Classic showcase of MGM talent","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Quite lengthy, but captivating sea epic adventure is based on the Nordhoff-Hall novel about mutiny on a voyage to the South Seas against Captain Blight (played brilliantly by Laughton). Gable and Tone are superb in their roles, but Laughton carries the picture.  Won the Best Picture Oscar of 1935, remade in 1962 with Marlon Brando.  "},{"Title":"One of the most famous naval mutiny!","Date":"15 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Mutiny on the Bounty is one sumptuous, serious and very realistic movie. The story is based on a novel, which is based on the true story. The historical accuracy is questionable. I'm not one of those people who believe that film story should blindly follow the facts offense which is inspired. This is one of the reasons why this movie I think one great sea adventure.Set design, atmosphere, authenticity and acting are top notch. One of the few high-budget films that did not take studio in ruin. In the thirties of the last century it was an amazing success.I felt American tone in the British environment. It sounds intimidating, but I am of the opinion that the director did it for a reason. In one interesting story covered various topics. I think this is a movie in which everyone can find a segment that he'll like that. The heart of the story is a constant complication that gets climax as sailor rebellion. In the center of the plot are the two main characters so that the excellent acting contributed to a better effect.Charles Laughton as Captain Bligh is described as a brutal sadist. In several scenes we witness the brutality when sailors put in chains or when ordering the flogging a dead man. The man who wants to destroy the human spirit, and at the same time calling for certain disciplinary view. But in one part of the film he shows the qualities great sailor, a spiritual leader, a motivator, a wise and capable captain. The desire for revenge and extreme conditions to change human personality. Laughton had to impose in addition to Gable. I enjoyed a brilliant performance by one of the major villains in the history of cinema. This is worthy of an Oscar.Clark Gable as Fletcher Christian without his famous mustache is the complete opposite of Captain Bligh. Exemplary and intelligent master's mate becomes the leader of the rebellion. Just a man who appreciates true values. Gable is perfect in the role.Franchot Tone (Byam) is a character with which everything begins and ends. I am convinced that the director wanted to induce the audience to perceive the essence of the story from the Byam perspective. I think that at the end of Byam maybe a little exaggerated his role. All in all not bad.Small roles are also spice up the story. Sam (Herbert Mundin) and Bacchus Dudley Diggins) are my favorite.A brutal, horrible, bold, exciting, dramatic and romantic story.This movie, I could not call epic, but certainly excellent. "},{"Title":"Decent telling of the Bounty story","Date":"29 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" 1787. HMS Bounty sets sail from England for Tahiti in the South Pacific. Her First Lieutenant is Fletcher Christian, an officer who cares about the welfare of his men. Her captain, Captain Bligh, on the other hand, drives his men mercilessly and punishes them for the most insignificant thing, to the point of manufacturing infractions. Bligh becomes universally hated by the crew and a confrontation with Christian appears inevitable...Decent telling of the (true) story of the Bounty. The sailing scenes are quite authentic and you get a good feel for what life at sea must have been like in the late-1700s. Good work by Charles Laughton as Captain Bligh - he captured the menace and maliciousness of Bligh very well. Clark Gable is fine as Christian, though at times maybe a bit too cavalier and cocky to be naval officer.Not great though. The story does feel a bit dry at times and is fairly conventionally told. I much preferred the 1984 version starring Anthony Hopkins and Mel Gibson. (I haven't yet seen the 1962 version starring Marlon Brando and Trevor Howard).Won the 1936 Best Picture Oscar. "},{"Title":"A good movie but not a masterpiece","Date":"29 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I watched the movie now for the second time and I have to disagree with those people who consider this movie a masterpiece. For me these fast changes between scenes of tragic truth and total joy were very confusing. By that I mean those overacted moments, were the actors had put on this childish face like there is no problem in the world anymore andthey are facing paradise itself. I doubt a sailor living in the year of 1789 ever had a reason to feel this kind of joy. My theory why they did the movie like that, was maybe because the director searched for a way to distinguish the cruelty of the Captain and the impact of his unjust actions on the sailors and their wellbeing, to, in the end, justify or make the audience understand why it came to a mutiny. Thats why maybe I was now and then close to destroy my television when the face of the Captain appeared. I can't remember ever feeling so much anger at a movie character, seriously. But in my opinion in a good movie it is not necessary trying to distinguish anything. If a movie is well written the truth comes out automatically. The end seemed to me like an attempt to give this movie a happy ending. By that I mean this optimistic music and the joyful face of this officer who was reprieved from the hanging. But a happy ending just wasn't possible. Those other 3 sailors were hanged and the others had to build up a new home on an isolated island living with the fact to never see their home land anymore. Why couldn't the filmmakers just leave the audience with the facts? Thats not a sad ending, its a realistic ending and shows the aftermath of their decision at this time. But at least the great story succeeds to reduce those critical points to a minimum and all in all the movie stays pretty watchable. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A suitably thrilling and rousing film","Date":"14 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Based on the 1932 novel of the same name by Charles Nordhoff and James Norman Hall, this is a suitably thrilling and rousing film. As it drew only indirect inspiration from the (in)famous 1789 mutiny, it takes numerous historical liberties such as Captain Bligh being more villainous and Fletcher Christian being more heroic than in reality but it is a very well made film on its own terms. The script by Talbot Jennings, Jules Furthman and Carey Wilson is very strong and Frank Lloyd's direction is excellent. The production values are phenomenal for the time - which is not surprising since it cost almost $2 million - and the scenes set on Tahiti were actually shot there. It is a beautiful looking film from beginning to end and it deservedly won the Best Picture Oscar.The film's best performance comes from the great Charles Laughton as William Bligh. The captain of HMS Bounty is depicted as a brutal, amoral tyrant and sadist who, as is observed in the film, punishes the men under his command not because they deserve it but because he aims to break them. He starves the crew by not giving them sufficient rations and delights in punishing them with lashes, typically two dozen but sometimes as many as four dozen, for only minor mistakes and perceived acts of insubordination. At one point, he keelhauls a sailor who left his post as he wanted water to bathe his injured knees and the sailor in question dies. While Royal Navy discipline was certainly brutal, I understand that nothing as severe as this ever happened under Bligh's command or on any other late 18th Century British ship in real life. However, it works very well in the context of the film as it leaves no doubt in the audience's mind that Bligh is a dangerous lunatic who must be stopped. When the mutiny comes, he is set adrift on a small boat with his loyal officers, most of whom are about as pleasant as him, and it takes them at least 45 days to reach land. The experience does not humble him much as he becomes less of a Captain Bligh and more of a Captain Ahab as he obsessively hunts for Christian. To the end, he lies about his own conduct and that of his former crew to justify his actions. He is a great film villain and Laughton plays the thoroughly detestable captain to perfection.An uncharacteristically clean-shaven Clark Gable is very good in the role of the first mate Lt. Fletcher Christian, who is depicted as a good and decent man who places morality over the chain of command. He has sailed with Bligh on two previous occasions and, while he respects his exemplary skills as a sailor, he hates him on a personal level for many of the reasons that I have already stated. He is apoplectic when Bligh forces the ship's extremely ill surgeon Bacchus, played wonderfully by Dudley Diggs, to report on deck, which directly leads to his death. Bacchus was a foolish old drunkard whose story about how he lost his leg changed considerably with every telling but he was loved by the crew. Christian openly accuses Bligh of murder but he does not decide to mutiny until shortly afterwards when he witnesses the inhuman treatment of prisoners below deck. He believes that his actions are completely justified and, while he regrets that his name will be forever synonymous with mutiny, he would do the same thing all over again if he had to. He and the mutineers settle down to an idyllic life on Tahiti among the natives before they eventually flee to Pitcairn after sighting a British ship, where they presumably live happily ever after. In the film, not so much in real life. The island is still entirely populated by the descendants of the mutineers and their Tahitian conquests and has a grand total of 56 people living on it.The third major performance (and the second best) comes from Franchot Tone as Midshipman Roger Byam, a fictional character based on Peter Heywood (whose name is used for another character whom he despises!) Byam is an idealistic young man from a privileged, sheltered background on his first sea voyage who becomes close friends with Christian as the film progresses. He is increasingly appalled by Bligh's brutality but he nevertheless does not approve of the mutiny as he is loyal to King and Country. He is imprisoned below deck when Bligh and his party depart but he agrees not to attempt to retake the ship. After the better part of a year on Tahiti, he is able to repair his severely damaged friendship with Christian but he is captured by Bligh soon afterwards and imprisoned in spite of its protestations of his innocence. He takes the opportunity provided by his court martial back in England to denounce Bligh's cruelty in a beautifully written speech that is brilliantly delivered by Tone. He is sentenced to death but he is later pardoned and resumes his naval career. Incidentally, Laughton, Gable and Tone were all nominated for Best Actor, the only time that three actors were ever so nominated for the same film, but none of them won. The Best Supporting Actor category was created for the express purpose of preventing it from ever happening again and was first awarded in 1937. The film also features strong performances from Donald Crisp (in particular), Henry Stephenson, Movita (the film's last surviving cast member at the time of her death in February 2015, her second husband Marlon Brando played Christian in the 1962 version), Ian Wolfe, Spring Byington and Herbert Mundin, who provides all of the comic relief. The only real weak link is Eddie Quillan.Overall, this is an excellent film which delivers a stirring and very entertaining adventure in the way that only Old Hollywood could. "},{"Title":"Good but not outstanding picture","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Charles Laughton's Captain Bligh is a thorough martinet, a sadist who happens to be an excellent seaman. Clark Gable is the tough, but fair and humane Fletcher Christian to whom the mutineers gladly shift their allegiance.This film makes serving on board an 18th century sailing ship seem like a great adventure, at least under the right captain. As The Bounty ships out, strains of Rule, Britannia! are heard as orders are called out and men strenuously but efficiently perform the various tasks required for a sailing vessel.While the beauty of the Tahitian paradise is somewhat muted by the black and white film, and native costume is somewhat inhibited by 1935 production standards, yet the film does well to convey the joyful time the crew had in Tahiti, and the dread they must have felt to return to their ship, led by a sadist, with no prospect of ever returning to their native paradise.Laughton's Bligh is easy to hate. While the screenwriter gives little opportunity for Laughton to present a softer, more humane side to Bligh, there are two instances where some humanity might be peeking through Bligh's sadism. The first is a look of remorse when the ship surgeon dies. The second is when Bligh gives Christian one last chance to return to duty. No one believes Bligh's one last chance, but Bligh seems sincere enough about it at the moment.Overall, Mutiny on the Bounty is a typical Academy Award best picture a period piece, stars in great performances, epic in scope, and with an exotic locale. Mutiny is a very good, but not outstanding picture. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and engaging","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" We follow the crew of the HMS Bounty on its mission to collect Bread Fruit from Tahiti to plant in the West Indies. Commencing with the formation of the crew through to the mutiny itself and the subsequent events, we see it mainly from the point of view of the crew.We're introduced to the film the way it ends, with a rousing patriotic rendition of Rule Britannia. Under the regime of Captain Bligh (Laughton), the crew sustain abuse and cruel unprovoked punishment until enough of them stand up to him under the leadership of Fletcher Christian (Gable) and send him on his merry way. The film shows (with all my experience of life aboard 18th-century sailing ships) a genuine portrayal of life at sea at that time, and the ocean scenes were very convincingly shot. They chose to shoot the Tahitian scenes in Tahiti rather than a set so we got to see real scenery and experience some local flavour as well. This is based on a book that was based on a true story so naturally some facts were lost along the way in the name of entertainment rendering it quite inaccurate historically. This period was a turning point of a new understanding between officers and men no small thanks to Byam (Tone) for his courageous speech at the trial. The tagline A Thousand Hours of Hell For One Moment of Love was a confusing choice since the romantic aspect was such a small part of the storyline! It took longer than I expected for the mutiny to commence, perhaps to really hammer home the reason for the mutiny without the audience labelling them as anarchists...but how much convincing did a 1930s crowd really need? Still, the film was engaging throughout and gave us a chance to really get to know the characters and sympathise with most of them. We did not get a chance to get inside the head of Captain Bligh, which made the film one-sided and most audiences would side with the oppressed on their own without being forced towards one point of view. It was a very enjoyable film, though it would have been nice to add what became of Christian and the other settlers after they began life on their new home. Despite winning the Best Picture Oscar® of 1936, someone thought they could do it better come 1962 with a remake starring Marlon Brando...they did come close with a nomination, which is not a bad result for a remake so I might have to check it out! "}{"Title":"Huge Production","Date":"4 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This film is probably best remembered because it was a gigantic production and was incredibly expensive for the time. This, in turn, probably helped win it awards. Not that it is a bad film, mind you, but it is not one of the better films of the era and certainly not Clark Gable's best work.Do I recommend this one? Yes, I suppose I still do. It is a really good movie. Not the best, but still far from the worst. And certainly better than the average film released today.I believe this story was made as a film at least once more, and I would like to see them for comparison. All I knew about Fletcher Christian before seeing this film was what I knew from Cage in a Cave, a Rasputina song. Now I wonder which was more accurate. "},{"Title":"Good performances.","Date":"8 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" An oldie but a goody. It's been over thirty years since I've seen this film, but I remember it. It's a staging of the HMS Bounty incident where a faction of the crew, fed up with British naval discipline, took up arms against their superiors, namely Captain William Bligh, and ventured back to the islands to revisit their romantic interests.My memory is a little sketchy on this one. The dashing Clark Gable portrays British Naval officer Fletcher Christian, while a true Brit, Charles Laughton, plays the notorious Captain Bligh. This film is about powerful performances. We're talking veteran thespians squaring off on camera to bring to the audience interpersonal conflict on a gut level.Technical aspects; there's a special effects shot for the keel-hauling sequence that might have younger viewer smirking, but, hopefully, that can be offset by the fact that the film was shot many decades ago, and that the real focus of the film is the story between two men at odds with one another on the high seas.The real story of the Bounty, like most history, has a disappointing resolution to it. There were no Hollywood endings for the Brits and islanders who eventually made their way to Pitcarin's island (most were killed by one another), but this film shows a slice of how events might have culminated in one of the most noted mutinies in history.Watch and enjoy. "},{"Title":"not historically perfect, but what performances!","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  while the true story of fletcher christian and william bligh is somewhat different than that portrayed on the film, as storytelling, the 1935 mutiny on the bounty can't be beat.  the real captain bligh was not a sadistic bully and fletcher christian was not a mature, humanist hero.  it was far more complicated than that.  however,  charles laughton and clark gable create vivid characters and the excitement of their conflict is terrific. if you want historic accuracy go to the mel gibson movie, but for great acting laughton and gable are ne plus ultra.  forget brando ca.1962 which is even less historically accurate and talky to boot.  for those interested in what actually happened there are a number of books on the subject.  also, there are links to pitcairn island where the mutineers landed.  there is also an excellent group on yahoo.com.  it is called friends of pitcairn island.  there one can communicate with actual decendents of fletcher christian. "},{"Title":"Great after all these years","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Well they don't make them like this anymore, a true classic.The two main  characters are poles apart one who would have been at home in a concentration camp as a guard and one a true hero a mans man.The rest of the characters are well acted also, this film moves at a great pace,and the important thing to remember is not to cross captain Bligh but eventually things come to a head then mutiny happens.Why has the film stood the test of time, because of the high production values and the acting of Gable and Franchot Tone but as good as they are this is Laughton's film.When at his best very few actors can live with Laughton and his acting here is superb.The native girls are very pretty and show plenty of flesh for a 1930s movie and the island they live on must have seen like heaven to the sailors after 9 months on a ship.I watched this on dvd and its a good transfer watch and enjoy this legendry movie.8/10 "},{"Title":"Terrific adventure","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Despite the major problem of the all-American Clark Gable being cast as a British naval officer, obviously for box-office considerations, I immensely enjoyed this true film classic. Just as Sean Connery IS James Bond, so, too, Charles Laughton IS Captain Bligh. This version compares favorably with the later Anthony Hopkins-Mel Gibson effort, The Bounty. I don't want to discuss two films here so I'll just say that both films have their merits. The later version is said to be more historically accurate but the original seems to have a more a more mythological quality about it. Regardless, first-rate commercial filmmaking by any standard, 9/10.  "},{"Title":"my favourite movie of all time","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I can't remember when I first saw this movie, but I have seen it many, many times.  I had a tape-from-TV version that was filled with commercials, so my parents bought me the original approx. 10 years ago.The acting is amazing, especially by the captain.This movie is in black and white, but I have seen the colorized version.  There is also a Marlon Brando version, but I didn't like it.  I have yet to see The Bounty with Mel Gibson and Anthony Hopkins.The movie was so amazing that it inspired me to learn more about Tahiti and British Navy history.  I even visited Whitby where Captain Cook lived for some time (Cook sailed with 21-year-old Bligh on the Resolution). "},{"Title":"the king","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  this original version that make other version wich came latter be poor in performance and acting comparing to the performance of the king clark gable and this movie is one of his legendary acting this actor should be labeled as the best of holloywood invesments "},{"Title":"Great Sea Story","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie deservedly won the 1935 Best Picture Oscar and is the only movie in history where three of its actors were nominated for Best Actor--Charles Laughton, Clark Gable and Franchot Tone.  If you want to see the most authentic movie about the mutiny, see The Bounty which is outstanding.  The 1935 version is more faithful to the book it was based upon but the book is more of a non-fiction novel, a generation before Truman Capote got credited with creating that genre with In Cold Blood.  The acting in this movie is first rate although Gable makes absolutely no attempt to affect a British accent.  The characters are richly drawn and have any two historical characters had as many powerhouse actors portray them?  Fletcher Christian  Clark Gable, Marlon Brando and Mel Gibson; Capt. Bligh Charles Laughton, Trevor Howard and Anthony Hopkins.   "},{"Title":"Some incredible goofs in a wonderful film","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Monumental performance by Charles Laughton as Capt. Bligh.  The show follows the popular Nordhoff and Hall novel as well as can be expected for Hollywood.  I enjoyed it thoroughly when I first saw it as an adolescent who had just read the novel. A few years ago (ca. 1995) I checked it out of my video store and enjoyed it again.  This time, however, I noticed two incredible goofs, that all movie buffs (and particularly those who are sailors, like me) will enjoy.Goof No. 1  The mutineers have cast Capt. Bligh adrift in a longboat, along with about 15 loyal non-mutineers.  The location is in the South Pacific, about 100 mi. SE of Tahiti, and a few hundred mi. south of the Equator, and near Pitcairn Island, where the mutineers Clark Gable, et al, eventually established their colony.  Fletcher Christian (Gable) has allowed the the castoffs some food and water, as well as a compass for navigation. Bligh has decided that they will sail to the Dutch-held island of Timor in what is now Indonesia. Timor is practically due West of where the longboat now is.    When the lines to the longboat are cast off, and the small sail hoisted, a man at the tiller asks Capt. Bligh, What course, sir? Bligh (Laughton), with complete assurance, barks out something like, Southeast by East.  Now, dear reader, if you contemplate your handy map of the world, or globe, you will see that such a course would head them directly to Antarctica and certain disaster!  And Capt. Bligh is supposed to be a great navigator.Goof No. 2  In spite of Bligh's stupid order, the boat has been sailing due West for many weeks.  They have skirted the northern coast of Australia and are headed dead-on for Timor.  One of the now bedraggled crew asks Capt. Bligh, What is our position, sir.  Bligh again barks out with assurance, something like, Latitude, 5 degrees South; Longitude 10 degrees West.  Again, dear reader, if you work this out, you will see that Bligh has located the longboat somewhere off the East coast of Africa, opposite Ghana and Nigeria!  Wonder what Bligh was drinking on that long trip? Nevertheless, Bligh and his loyalists do finally reach Timor-- in historical fact, in the novel,  and even in the movie.The show is still great.  Don't miss it.    "},{"Title":"A pure delight","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The first filming of how Fletcher Christian cast off the yoke of the oppressive Capt. Bligh is a joy to watch. Method actors may be a bit confused by the unashamedly hammy acting styles, dialectologists may wonder what part of England Christian and several of the Bounty's crew are actually from, and cultural historians may find more than a bit that doesn't belong. Everyone else, though, should sit back and enjoy the ride.Charles Laughton is wonderful as Bligh, the personification of pure evil, and a naval officer so fond of punishment that he continues flogging a criminal even after he's dead. Clark Gable plays, as always, Clark Gable, and this is quite sufficient for any film, though he is also much more than adequate as Mr. Christian. Franchot Tone is the new and amusingly smug midshipman Roger Byam, appointed by the influential Sir Joseph to write a dictionary of the Tahitian language, who gets caught in-between the battle between Bligh and Christian. Dudley Digges chews up as much scenery as he is able as the ship's doctor (Bacchus) who is fond of tall tales about himself, though he is even more fond of drinking. (Note for TV fans the always-old Ian Wolfe, who plays Maggs, was later Mrs. Carlson's houseboy on WKRP in Cincinnati.)Long but never dull, this is an old-fashioned movie that delivers action, intrigue, adventure, costumes, a trial, and even a love story. Pop some popcorn and have a good time. "}{"Title":"Laughton's best screen performance ever along with Witness for the prosecution.","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"    It seems that Charles Laughton's movie are greatly under-rated.  On AFI's top 100 list, Mutiny on the Bounty was ranked 86  and Witness for the prosecution wasn't even in the 400 nominated movies.  But mindless of these facts, Mutiny on the bounty is an excellent movie all the same and I feel that Laughton should have definitely won the Oscar for best actor in it as he perfectly played the evil Captain William Bligh.  Clark Gable was also very good as Fletcher Christian and in the supporting-cast, Franchot Tone was rather good as he played Roger Byam, a man who becomes friends with Fletcher Christian and unwillingly takes part in the mutiny.  The movie begins with Fletcher Christian (Clark gable) walking in the streets of London with a few sailors.  Then, the camera flips over to what is going on in a small bar of the city.  The main event that is going on is a man who is celebrating with his wife her pregnancy.  However, Christian walks into the bar announcing that he is there in the king's name and that he is looking for men to be sailors on the Bounty that is going to Tahiti.  At first, some of the men are interested but when they learn that the captain of the ship is Captain William Bligh (Laughton), they all renounce to the proposition.  However, Christian wasn't asking them if they wished to go aboard the ship.  He was telling them that they had no choice to become a sailor.  A few days later, the boat is ready to leave.  It is at the departure of the boat that we meet Captain Bligh for the first time and a single glimpse at him allows us to guess his character right away He is evil, cold-hearted and, according to him, always right.  As soon as he gets on board the ship, he orders that all the people present on the deck that aren't sailors be removed immediately.  Christian sees himself forced to go as far as throwing one merchant over-board.  The boat leaves and so begins the journey to Tahiti.  Along the journey, a young sailor from a wealthy family called Roger Byam (Franchot Tone) becomes a good friend of Flecther Christian.  However, Christian must try as hard as he possibly can to keep Bligh from being to cruel towards the men which leads to the title of the movie.  Based on a true story, this is one of the best movies of the 30's.  It's definitely my favorite.  Gable and Tone were pretty good as Fletcher Christian and Roger Byam, but Laughton controls the movie from start to finish.  It seemed simply that for a while in his life, as the movie was being shot, he was the real Captain Bligh.  The directing is also excellent and so is the script.  Naturally, the most exciting part of the movie is the mutiny but there are some very interesting scenes at the beginning or during the trip to Tahiti when Bligh shows his true cruelty.  But all this doesn't keep the movie from being controlled by Laughton as I already said.  It's a movie you definitely will not want to miss.  "},{"Title":"High adventure in the South Seas","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  An Academy Award winner for Best Picture, the 1935 version of Mutiny on the Bounty is both a terrific sea adventure and a case study of a vile and despicable man who behaves so deplorably towards the men under his charge that he falls victim to one of the highest crimes that can be committed on the open water.  Charles Laughton is mesmerizing as the petty, poisonous Captain Bligh -- a skipper who rules by fear and intimidation and thinks nothing of flogging a dead man on principle.  In fact, the variety of abuses Bligh unleashes on his hapless crew arguably justifies the desperate measures taken by Fletcher Christian (a solid Clark Gable), but I was surprised by how much I pitied the old goat once he was cut loose and set adrift.  And then I was even more startled when I began to hope that Bligh would survive his ordeal in the lifeboat.  Laughton's skill as an actor must be credited for creating such a rich, layered portrait of a misguided but multi-dimensional man. "},{"Title":"Oh, Ship!","Date":"7 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" In a foreword, Frank Lloyd's Mutiny on the Bounty provides its own very accurate description of the film's events and intent, In December, 1787, H.M.S. Bounty lay in Portsmouth harbour on the eve of departure for Tahiti in the uncharted waters of the Great South Sea. The Bounty's mission was to procure breadfruit trees for transplanting to the West Indies as cheap food for slaves. Neither ship nor breadfruit reached the West Indies. Mutiny prevented it - mutiny against the abuse of harsh eighteenth century sea law. But this mutiny, famous in history and legend, helped bring about a new discipline, based upon mutual respect between officers and men, by which Britain's sea power is maintained as security for all who pass upon the seas.With the story providing little mystery, apart from the question of who (if any) among the stars will die, and a relatively brief interlude during which the seamen have sex, you watched Mutiny on the Bounty for the excellent production values and top male performances. Not surprisingly, it won Best Picture honors from both the Academy Awards and Film Daily voters. Editor Margaret Booth received one of the former's richly deserved eight nominations. Surprisingly, there were three Best Actor Oscar applicants - Charles Laughton (as William Bligh), Clark Gable (as Fletcher Christian), and Franchot Tone (as Roger Byam).This startling event, it's been claimed, resulted in the Academy Awards organization introducing its Best Supporting categories the following year. While that may be (at least partly) true, it's also plainly evident that there really ARE three lead actors in this film. Arguably, Mr. Laughton goes to the head of his tightly-run ship - but, by the end, you will see Mr. Gable and Mr. Tone earn their Best Actor considerations, too. More likely, if the Supporting Actor category had been available during this picture's eligibility period, you'd have seen Eddie Quillan (as Thomas Ellison) lead three additional actor's names into the new category.Reportedly, the stars weren't exactly elated by having to play nicely among themselves, but the tension wound up working to everyone's benefit. Gable's moustache somehow ended up on Laughton's eyebrows, and razors worked overtime on chest hairs. Perhaps, by 2035, a more accurate version of these events will be filmed - but today, this is still the Mutiny to see.********* Mutiny on the Bounty (11/8/35) Frank Lloyd ~ Charles Laughton, Clark Gable, Franchot Tone, Eddie Quillan "},{"Title":"Strong performances by Gable and Laughton highlight this great film.","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" As I watched this film,I immediately became captivated by the strong performances of both Clark Gable as Fletcher Christian,and Charles Laughton as Captain Bligh.Gable always had a strong screen presence,and he didn't disappoint here in my first ever viewing of this film.I consider Charles Laughton one of the best actors ever to have graced the big screen,and this performance is the best I have ever seen from him,though I have yet to see all of his work.As for the story,it is without a doubt captivating.You have an overbearing Captain who is needlessly cruel to his crew,and is cast,along with those who help carry out his devilish cruelty,in a dinghy to brave the mighty sea without much resources for survival.There are brief times when you even feel sympathetic to Bligh and his cohorts,as they pray to Almighty God to get them through their imposed misfortune.The special effects are obviously dated,but when you give respect to the fact that they utilized what was available at the time,and try not to be spoiled to the much more advanced effects of today,you forgive,and you enjoy this great story.Excellent film! "},{"Title":"If not for the courage of the fearless crew, the Bounty would lost! The bounty would be lost!","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I'll come out and admit it, I am not a huge fan of huge sea faring ship movies. Ships are claustrophobic monsters, what else can you do on a ship besides yell at a guy, then 2 hours later, run into him again, and yell at him again? Having said that, I shouldn't have enjoyed the 1935 edition of Mutiny On the Bounty as much as I should have. The reason it works of course is Charles Laughton and Clark Gable. Both of them act the hell out of their roles and Captain Bligh and Fletcher Christian respectively, and you can tell there's either serious animosity or a good game of bait and switch going on, because they look like they're about to kill each other in some scenes. Their contempt is so grand actually, that the other players sort of are meek, even when they're angry at Bligh or Christian, (Franchot Tone being a good example).The story, I'm sure you know it, true story about a less than pleasant voyage on the Bounty to Tahiti for that all important breadfruit Cargo. Again, there's just so much that can go on in a ship, and well, if Bligh's going to punish one sailor over some minor thing, you can be sure he'll punish another one! And another one! But still, the Laughton and Gable pony show IS entertaining, and is worth watching for that alone. "},{"Title":"excellent (some spoilers)","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  On the whole, this film is excellent, the plot is quite good, and the actors played their part quite well, (Clark Gable looks less attractive without beard. lol)This film was filmed in 1935, considering those days when films were made without much computer technology like nowadays, some scenes in this movie are quite impressive.One thing haunting in my mind is how could Captain Bligh walk away with his greed and his cruelty towards seamen without punishment, after the office of lord high admiral of Great Britain and Ireland having heard the evidence provided against him.  "},{"Title":"Able Bodied Work.","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" A straightforward telling of an oft-told tale with Clark Gable as the mutineer Fletcher Christian and Charles Laughton as the sadistic captain of HMS Bounty. It was a very popular release and for a time entered the English vernacular culture -- Mister Christian, come HERE! It's the old MGM factory doing a journeyman job. Gable is handsome and righteous. Laughton is pure evil. The scenes of ships at sea are well done and the studio mock-ups match them well.But the story, based on complex historical events, isn't dumbed down to a toddler's level. Laughton may be the meanest man on earth but he's a superb seaman and takes his launch thousands of miles across the seas and through hostile islands to a port of call at Timor. And Gable may be a humanist but he's broken the law and pays for it with exile on Pitcairn's Island, a rocky and uninviting place, not paradisaical Tahiti.Its photography and locations are nowhere near as realistic as the 1960s version with Marlon Brando and Trevor Howard and there aren't as many laughs. But it's probably as good a film as the more recent one. The pace is fast and the action enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Still an entertaining film","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" It's Laughton's movie really. He makes a magnificent Bligh, full of false fury and shades of class overcompensation. Clarke Gable is a surprisingly good Christian, perhaps it's his combination of American individualism with an empathetic awareness of his fellow crew members that makes him so effect. Please close your eyes every time Franchot Tone is on the screen. The guy is awful, and he was nominated for best actor! Technically this is a good film, and further evidence of how films made during the 20's and especially the 30's in Hollywood were able to fuse together the magic of movies with good old fashioned storytelling and create something memorable. "},{"Title":"Disapponited","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" After reading many, many books on the Bounty, and seeing the 1984 version of the movie, I anxiously looked forward to the 1935 academy award-winning version. However, I was a little disappointed. The characters are much more one-dimensional than the 1984 version. Some of the historical facts are totally incorrect, and it didn't seem to have quite the atmosphere of the '84 rendition. Not bad, but a little disappointing after having high hopes. The acting and effects were good for its time, and it goes a bit further into the story than the '84 version, but overall I still prefer seeing Anthony Hopkins' multi-dimensional Cpt. Bligh. "},{"Title":"Very Good for the Time","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I have always been a big fan of the story of the Mutiny on the Bounty, and I've tried to read nearly every account and version of the story that I can find. When I watch a Bounty movie, however, I toss aside my own perspectives on which version of the story is correct, and instead settle in for what I hope is a wonderful, period piece, set on an 18th century vessel. This type of movie, if it succeeds, draws us into that world gone by for an hour or two, we come back at the end, refreshed, with a little salt on our face, and maybe a minor case of scurvy.This version is my least favorite, and not because it isn't a pleasure to watch. The problem for a Bounty aficionado, is, that the next version includes Marlon Brando, Trevor Howard and Richard Harris (need I say more), and the last version of our time (so far), goes big, big budget, with gorgeous sets, Mel Gibson, Sir Anthony Hopkins and Sir Laurence Olivier (cameo).Since this was the first, I will stay away from comparisons and stick to its strengths and weaknesses. By far, this earlier version is far more realistic in the crass, bitter nature of Captain Bligh. We learn, right from the start, that he is a tough, near ruthless, man driven to advancement, at the cost of his men's comfort, or possibly lives. The dashing Fletcher Christian (Clark Gable) is at times no match for the senior, hard nosed Bligh.Repeated, to a large extent in the next big screen version, the dynamic between Christian, a rich playboy, at sea mostly because his parents want to put some hair on his chest versus the working man made good, through hard laborious study and drudgery, Captain Bligh (Trevor Howard). Trevor's character takes an immediate dislike to Gable's character, seeing him as a nearly worthless woman of a man, to preoccupied with his fancy clothes and elevated societal station to be bothered with the day to day problems of the ship.This tension develops slowly, but clearly as the Bounty leaves England, bound for the West Indies. Fantastic character development, including the quick friendships established by Gable with the rough and tumble crew, in direct conflict with Bligh's management style of discipline in favor of praise.Clearly neither is entirely correct, and the effective officer of that time would have been the one capable of equitably balancing the two. This is where Frank LLoyd does an excellent job of allowing these two disparate shipmates, bump into each other, lock horns, and enter into lengthy intellectual debates over dinner. All of which is fueling the powder keg that will soon erupt.This excellently made and acted film, does not show its age, and stands up to its two descendants. Keep in mind that it was filmed in 1935, and was truly the first of its kind.Heroism, Cowardess, Fear, Lust, Rage, Vengeance, Anguish and world class seamanship worthy of the Navy's highest award, combine in this maritime flick, surrounding a very long trip to the grocery store to but a large quantity of vegetables that nobody wants to eat.For those who enjoy the Bounty series of films, I highly recommend you visit the Pitcarine Island website, to learn more about Fletcher Christian's descendants, as well as those of several of the other mutineer.http//www.nic.pn/ The Island currently has approximately 75 year round residents, most of which are direct descendants of the mutineers, Fletcher Christian, John Adams, Edward Young, William McCoy, and Matthew Quintal. You can get there, but its VERY, VERY hard. You'll need to come via New Zealand, and wait for a passing cargo ship, with plans to stop at Pitcairn Island. The vessel Bounty was burned at anchor in Bounty Bay on Pitcairn (to avoid detection), bits and pieces of charred wood remain as keepsakes. "}{"Title":"Great sets, costumes, cinematography, and acting, but the writing is okay","Date":"4 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" During the earliest years in Oscar history, the Academy began to slowly discover its identity, especially as the organization was birthed just as cinema was going through the transitions into talkies. And those early years were, to say the least, brutal. It Happened One Night helped establish a simplistic medium on how to properly direct, write, and act in a talkie picture, and as a result, the film one all 5 of the top honors imaginable. Mutiny on the Bounty, on the other hand, did everything else and more, and served as an important contributor to the evolution of cinema.Now because this film was a triumph in every other element in cinema that It Happened One Night did not exceed in (except sound, which continued to improve over the years), I'll start off with the cinematography and art direction, which is incredible. While films like Cavalcade had some fairly lazy stage designs and static imagery, every element of this film felt believable. It actually looked like they were sailing through the seven seas on the bounty. Even the acting was very good all around (the only film to date to receive 3 Lead Acting nominations!), which just added a sense of peril when worse comes to worse.Now where do I fault it? Well, the directing and the writing hasn't aged terribly well. Granted, it isn't horrible and it holds up okay, but the plot of the story just felt too much like 1954's The Caine Mutiny (though Bounty has it's own advantages that barely saves it). What is the film about? Well, it's adapted from the novel of the same name which was loosely based on a true story. Well, a young man named Roger Byam decides to join the Bounty which turned out to be run by the abusive villain, Captain Bligh, played by Charles Laughton. One of the crew members, Clark Gable's fine performance as Fletcher Christian, decides to lead a mutiny against their Captain. And the rest of the story bears strong resemblances to the later released Caine Mutiny, right down to the court-martial (with a few differences here and there). It's an unfortunate fate to an otherwise fine film, but it is what it is.Overall, it is a rather fine Best Picture winner. Which is very weird because it was the only Oscar it took home that night, and it remains the 3rd and final film to win Best Picture and nothing else. I'm actually quite curious as to the film's competition that year, because from what I've heard, 1935 was a seriously contested year. I say, even with some of it's problems, I personally wouldn't blame the film for them. I would recommend a this film to anyone, especially film buffs. I would give this film a rating of 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The clash of a sea-man and a sea-devil.","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Charles Nordhoff's and James Norman Hall's novel give to the director Frank Lloyd the opportunity to describe this clash of two titans Captain William Bligh (Charles Naughton) and Lt. Fletcher Christian (Clark Gable), his second in command.  The movie is more than a historical account of a mutiny it delivers us an insight into the daily-life of seamen of His Majesty's Fleet.  Most sailors were enrolled by force in Portsmouth or out of prisons (so they could easily be accused of theft when something disappeared on board)) and were not voluntary.  Fletcher Christian even proposes to Captain Bligh to take them a week in custody for learning them discipline.  The same for the aspirant-commanders they must still learn their job.  The British fleet devastated the French and Spanish combined fleets at the battles of Trafalgar and Aboukir a decade later due to the flexibility of the commanding structure.  Most commanders were supposed to be the only chief on board for voyages in the Pacific f.i., which could last for three years or more. When Christian discovers that the storage-list of cheese has been defrauded, his warns Captain Bligh that he will ask for the installment of a Commission of Inquiry on his return home, which is the beginning of the hate of Captain Bligh for his Master's Mate. Captain Bligh goes so far that he even asks him the two pearls which were given to Christian by an inmate claiming that it is His Majesty's Property. The harsh punishments, the dead-toll of the seamen gives this movie an idea why they became so hostile to their commander Captain Bligh.  The start of the openly declaration of hostilities is the dead of the Ship's Surgeon Dr. Bacchus (an admirative Dudley Digges). The Admiralty had a complete trust in her commanders which made it so difficult for one of the returning aspirants to convince the Court of Admiralty that he was willingly to support his commander and that he did not take part in the mutiny.  The commanders had a long experience and they had to combine authoritative seamanship and an equilibrated personality to be apt to command a ship so far and so long from the home-basements; this was not the case with Captain William Bligh. "},{"Title":"Gable misplaced, Laughton et. al. carries the film","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I'll never understand why Clark Gable was cast as a British naval officer. Wait, I take that back.  I know why he was cast - to sell the film to American audiences.  That's the only reason I can think of.  Now, Gable is a fine actor in his own right and does a very capable job in the role of Fletcher Christian, but only if Fletcher Christian is an American on an American ship.  Mel Gibson did a better job in the most recent remake of this tale.Charles Laughton as the despicable Captain Bligh gives a tremendous performance, one that other actors will be hard-pressed to match in later films.  The supporting actors also do a very good job in their roles and manage to inject at least a pretense of authenticity to the film.  Even the two actresses that play the love interests to Gable and the other British midshipman do a decent job, although they are hampered by the 1930's movie censorship in more than one scene.  (Again, I must reference Mel Gibson's remake as doing a better job of depicting a tropical paradise, if for no other reason than its attention to authenticity due to new censorship standards in the movie industry).The sailing scenes and deck scenes are fabulous by 1930's standards, due in part to the construction of a full-size sailing replica of the H.M.S. Bounty, which still sails today and can be seen at The Pier in St. Petersburg, Florida.  Even by today's standard for demanding attention to detail in sailing films, these shots have held up well.  Anyone who is a fan of the Horatio Hornblower miniseries will enjoy the boat scenes of this film.Overall, a film that is guaranteed to be a classic film, though it is starting to show its age. "},{"Title":"Hollywood Propaganda at its Finest","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Who can argue with the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences for bestowing this film with its highest honor? This is a fine depiction of the classic confrontational character development. You want to cheer for Fletcher Christian (a dashing Clark Gable) and the good crew of the Bounty, and jeer Captain Bligh (Charles Laughton in his best performance) as the antihero. If you ignore the actual history of this tale, you will be drawn into a fair depiction of the life of a British tar aboard one of His Majesty's Ships in the late eighteenth century, when Britian RULED THE WAVES. This particular historical event did indeed bring about reforms for the common sailor and marine of The Royal Navy, with the Admiralty rewriting the King's Regulations. But Hollywood turns this story into a recruiting film for the Royal Navy, and bombards us with pro-British sentiments, romanticizing the sea and vilifying a great sailor (Bligh) who sailed with Captain cook and charted much of the Pacific Ocean.I digress, suffice it to say this is an excellent film with noteworthy performances.  "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Travesty Of History","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  If Mutiny On The Bounty were a fictional story about people who never existed, I could appreciate its merits as a gripping action film filled with colorful heroes and wicked villains, and brilliantly acted.  Unfortunately, if anyone ever bothers to read about the real story of the Bounty mutiny after seeing this movie they'd be in for a shock.  Most historians now concede that far from being a cruel sadist, William Bligh was one of the most humane captains in the British navy (but with a penchant for losing his temper and exploding into profanity on numerous occasions) and that the mutiny was caused because Fletcher Christian and his lackeys got a severe case of too much Tahiti after being given free rein during the Bounty's entire stay there.  History now properly records Christian's casting Bligh adrift as the real act of cruelty that took place during the whole affair. The 1984 movie The Bounty tells these events far better by sticking to the general facts. "},{"Title":"We all know what it is...","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" It's classic. A classic novel made into a classic film with great classic actors.What more do you want?A 'big budget' film for it's time, this one helped solidify Clark Gable as the 'King of Hollywood' and as a long range actor, not just some gangster or quick-witted romantic lead. The film, like the book, isn't paced the quickest, but it's true to the original work. If you can look beyond the clock, you'll follow along just fine and be entertained in the process. With an excellent and talented cast of top tier and supporting actors, this film definitely is worthy of the viewing.Epic. Old school epic. "},{"Title":"The best version of all Bounty movies...","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Of the three films about the famous Bounty ship, this version with Clark Gable and Charles Laughton I liked the best. In this version my feelings never swayed as to whom I liked (Gable and the ship mates) and whom I despised (Laughton).Clakr Gable's Fletcher Christian was a light hearted man who was a friend to all. His shipmates looked highly upon him, even though many had been forced to join the long voyage. He was sympathetic with the crew's plight and often times tried his best to protect them from the many vast punishments. When Christian is fully fed up with the majorly unfair antics of Bligh and his mission, he finally decides to take command the Bounty. Christian, once he is in command, never looks back and takes his followers back to paradise on an unknown and uncharted island to live the rest of his days.Captain Bligh is a military man to the bone who demands respect from all, and achieves it through his rough tactics, stern discipline and often times uncaring ways. He leads his ship with the Navy War Rules Book in one hand and a whip in the other. His actions can most certainly be deemed unfair, unjust and most of all harsh. Bligh feels that fear in one's Captain is the only way to lead and earn respect. In a way he almost seems to relish finding ways to push a man's buttons so he can then take out his Navy Rules War Book and give reason for punishment. His sole reason of mission first, duty second no matter the cost to ones health or life leads to the eventual infamous mutiny.Unlike the other 2 Bounty films whose Capt. Bligh's at times came across as too sympathetic; Charles Laughton's portrayal of Capt. Bligh came off more aggressive, uncaring and unlikeable. It was easy to hate him and cheer his eventual downfall. A great performance.The other Bounty films are good and definitely worth watching (especially Marlon Brando), but the best of the lot is this great black and white 1935 version with Gable and Laughton. "},{"Title":"As good as they get","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie shows just how good a film can be. No one can do better than Gable as Fletcher Christian. No one will ever be as good as Laughton was as William Bligh. One little vignette wherein Bligh is explaining to Midshipman Byam the way of things in the British navy said all that needs to be said. Well, understand this, Mr. Byam. A captain is a captain and a seaman is a seaman, but a midshipman is the lowest form of animal life in the British navy.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Although the movie has a well written plot , the hat goes off to the acting. I mean Charles Laughton really shines with his great rola as Captain Bligh. Also Clark Gable gives a very good characterization of Bligh´s Nemesis. "},{"Title":"Middling Mutiny","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" An epic adaptation of the celebrated novel about a mutiny, this Best Pictue Oscar winner is a lavish production featuring top-notch cinematography. Gable is in top form as the second in command while Tone delivers a winning performance as a new member of the ship's crew. However, the usually terrific Laughton is disappointing. He gives a one-note performance as Captain Bligh, often speaking so rapidly that it is difficult to understand what he's saying. Although generally exciting, Director Lloyd's action sequences lack punch; he has a tendency to intersperse the action with fleeting facial closeups, which is somewhat distracting. "}{"Title":"Early Best Picture Winner Disappoints Somewhat","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The 1935 Academy Award for Best Picture. The AFI list of best 100 films of the century (the 20th, that is). With this pedigree, I expected great things from Mutiny on the Bounty. But this film for me, while never less than entertaining, fell far short of greatness. It's a solid action film with a script more literate than your average action movie to be sure, but I was still left somewhat cold by it. Much of the adoration of this film seems to spring from a love of the central performances, namely those of Charles Laughton and Clark Gable. Both of course are good, but Laughton's character suffers from a silent movie villain's one-noteness. He does sadistic well, but that's about all he's required to do. Clark Gable impressed me more, and made me think that maybe he's a better actor than I ever gave him credit for. But for me, the standout performer (and the one I hear the least about) is Franchot Tone, playing a young idealist, enamored with the romance of life at sea and not prepared for the petty brutalities and politics. Tone is forced to give the most nuanced performance, as he straddles the line between loyalty to upper command and humanity for his fellow shipmates. In contrast to Laughton and Gable's showy roles, Tone's is quiet and thoughtful, except for a last-minute soliloquy that he handles well.The production is never less than impressive, especially for 1935. The special effects are solid, as is the attention paid to period detail. But for some reason, despite the good things I have to say about the film, I just never got that into it. It's like any number of solidly crafted films released today competent, fairly intelligent and well done, but not especially artistic or unique. One gets the feeling that it achieves what it sets out to do; one just wished it had set out to do a little more than it does.Grade B "},{"Title":"Musings for the movie museum?","Date":"18 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Having seen this original all those decades ago, and recalling little if anything of it, other than Laughton's Puckish performance, after all, the observer who noted that Gable was Gable uttered a no-brainer. That said, what bemuses this still-breathing, if barely, onlooker is the hoohah over subsequent versions of the yarn. Especially that of the Brando retake. Sight unseen, Brando at the very least had to be one take closer to an acting performance than Gable, who was, well, just one more of those over-hyped Gollywood dreamboats of yore. Yes, he was rather charming vis-a-vis Claudette in that Columbia throwaway, It Happened One Night? But, for all his excesses of baggage AND Group Theater mumblings, Brando should be excoriated for his disrespect of Milestone, even as he may be excused for his pant-ripping appetites. He too was, simply, like James Dean as well, just one more overblown staple of the Hollywood mills that ground exceeding fine, chiefly in the perceptions, not to mention the ratings and rankings, of generations to come. I count myself among those few who found Brando's bellowings in Streetcar less than convincing, and his motorbikings not all that much more persuasive. He did, finally, achieve a degree of dignity as the Don in The Godfather, but that is as much due to the casting as it was to the portrayal. Brando, like Gable and Dean, was a paean to the promotions of the Hollywood fraternity of praise singers, apologies to the author of The Charioteer. That millions, both in dollars and in the audience, continue to pay serious homage is a tribute to the efficacy of the entertainment Machiavellis and Tsun-tzus and Goebbelses. Consider who is not convinced that both Gone with the Afflatus and that shameless Titanic are both classic cinema? Well, so they are, as popcorn merchants. But as works of art? Finally, again, sight unseen, the Brit Bounty with its weighty cast, would HAVE to be an improvement on BOTH Yankee versions. And, as an irreverent, yet one more, observation?, I find it rich that Richard Harris found Brando er, ah, overripe. "},{"Title":"Maudlin","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" According to the opening script, this movie is based on actual events which changed the approach to mutiny in the English navy henceforth, and with a quick nod to nationalism. I don't really know the veracity of that claim, I assume it's loosely based on a like event, but I do know that whatever the reality of the event, the filmmakers took great liberties on their imagining of it.By great liberties, I mean that its already ham-handed acting, relatively unsympathetic characters, and maintained focus on Clark Gable's broad shoulders and slightly opened shirt become nothing to the completely unreal and vaguely racist look at Tahiti, and all of the maudlin drama that follows afterwards. This movie is a movie of three images, Charles Laughton being small and mean as Charles Laughton can do well, Clark Gable being heroistic and empathetic, and terribly scoffable images of the virgin native in her softly lit love closeup... continuously.Which is a shame because some of the more interesting imagery and story lines get lost behind such demeaning narrative. There are actually some quite effective feelings of sea-sickness and confinement, or freedom and productivity, as per its use, on the ship, and the overall theme of the story of authoritarian control is pretty gripping. It just loses itself in stardom and moonshine, a story people go for for the actors, not the story or the meaning, and a lot of underhanded tricky things slips in the midst. It's kind of a disgusting movie, really.It's a Classics-classic. So old it's good, hailing back to the days when By Golly! people knew how to make movies. And for what it's worth it will stay that way for a while. It's just not very good.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"A Star, an inferior director and a bad performance","Date":"21 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Star is Gable. Cannot plays a British seaman.Looks stupid The is the worst film I saw where Charles Laughton cannot act. Probably because the Stupid director Frank (?) Whats's is name cannot direct.. The story is abridged. The Historical fact that Bligh tried and failed to pass Cape Horn, is omitted. Zero for the screenplay.Marlon Brando's version of 1962 is overall superior, not for Marlon that play his usual vanity, but because Lewis Milestones knew what he was doing, Trevor Howard is a more credible Bligh. Above all a film that takes place mostly at sea, must be in color.This one is for anacrophiles.. "},{"Title":"Blustery, forced, hammy Laughton role and generally not so great.","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The famous story of the mutiny on His Majesty's Ship The Bounty is given (unjustly) its most famous treatment here. The source material, a book by two authors, may be the cause of the historical inaccuracy displayed in this very overblown, maudlin movie.Charles Laughton as Capt. Bly is sadly wasted in a cardboard role while a miscast Clark Gable impresses as being as British as baseball. Laughton's performance is of the vaudevillian Oil-Can Harry type, complete with paste-on bushy eyebrows and a constant scowl. He orders so many contemptible punishments -which are NOT on the historical record- it's as if the condescending producers pushed the screenwriter to pad the film with Bly's laughable over-the-top parade of brutalities so the simple audience gets Bly is a maniac.The secondary cast of deck hands are a bunch of grandfathers! The movie is slanted pitilessly against Bly, whose reputation has since been rehabilitated among scholars and naval buffs. The movie may have impressed 1930s audiences but even the less than stellar modern remakes are better than this dated and flawed production. "}]