[{"Title":"Show me an actor of Walter Huston's caliber working today.","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"97 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dodsworth has been on my short list of must-see films for decades, and I finally had my chance to see it last night. I'm still in awe. (Others have made cogent observations about the acting of the other principals in the cast, so I will confine my comments specifically to Walter Huston.) There are people who will complain that this film is slow, that it is boring, that nothing ever happens in it. Too bad for them, because this is a master class in acting of the highest order.It is difficult to pull off a film like Dodsworth without betraying its stage origins, but this one feels and moves like a movie, not a play. (Of course, its genesis is a lengthy Sinclair Lewis novel, but the contributions of the gifted Sidney Howard -- who adapted the novel for the stage and the screen -- cannot be overlooked.) Walter Huston, who also played Sam Dodsworth in the Broadway play, was that rarest of actors, equally adept at playing to the back row of the balcony and giving a quiet wink to another 20-foot-tall face on a movie screen.Anyone can buff up and wield a sword or tumble from a parking garage after being shot eleven times. But it takes a truly gifted screen actor to make the mundane seem utterly real; to shade a line just so, to achieve perfect pitch with every gesture, every glance. Huston was just such an actor, who, if he is remembered at all today it as John Huston's father, or the old guy in The Treasure of the Sierra Madre. Too bad again, because Huston was one of the finest actors in the history of American movies. He was not a movie star, but he totally embodied every role he ever played, and never gave a poor performance.The narrative of Dodsworth is mature, intelligently handled material. It is impeccably directed by William Wyler. No one has ever remade it, though remakes have been considered. There are directors working today who could handle Dodsworth, but it really merits more sophisticated treatment than the extensive nudity and profusion of strong language that would inevitably be written into a new script. It's much better left alone, and it deserves a far larger audience than it has ever had in the 68 years since its release. "},{"Title":"A Minor Classic","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"67 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dodsworth is a disarmingly honest and frank depiction of a failed marriage, based on the Sinclair Lewis novel. Its naturalistic acting and its refusal to make its characters anything less than full-bodied human beings make it feel way ahead of its time. It's never mentioned along with other classic films of the period--probably because it doesn't have an epic scope--but it should be.Walter Huston gives an absolutely flawless performance in the title role. His type is so recognizable, even today the successful American business man who values the simplest and most traditional of American values, and who comes across as provincial and crass to the rest of the world. Ruth Chatterton meets Huston's performance every step of the way as Dodsworth's wife, glad of the material comfort her husband can provide, but embarrassed by him and aware that he will prevent her from joining the world of high culture to which she wants to belong. It is to the movie's distinct credit that neither of these characters is either hero or villain. Dodsworth is crass and unsophisticated; yet at the same time he's honest and never misleads his wife into thinking he's something that he's not. Mrs. Dodsworth has a right to be bored by the kind of life Dodsworth is content with, but she might have thought of that before so readily accepting his financial success.I don't really know for sure, but I have a feeling this movie might have made people very uncomfortable in 1936. I doubt married couples were encouraged to turn too critical an eye on their own marriages back then, and I suspect that more people than not decided to stick it out in unhappy marriages rather than violate a sense of social propriety. Before the days when people dated for a few years before getting married, many people probably learned about the kind of person they were marrying only after the wedding day. Dodsworth beautifully captures the sad, melancholy feeling of waking up one morning and realizing you're not married to the person you thought you were.Grade A "},{"Title":"Three Great Performances","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"59 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dodsworth is one of the best dramas of the 1930s. Walter Huston stars as Dodsworth, a middle-aged auto tycoon who looks forward to retirement. His wife--Ruth Chatterton--is not quite ready for the rocking chair. They embark on a grad tour of Europe. From the start Chatterton falls for the cosmopolitan airs of Europe and the attentions of the debonair men. More and more she leaves Dodsaworth alone as she flits among the cafe society. By accident he runs into a lonely American widow (Mary Astor) living in Italy. As the husband and wife drift farther apart, he moves closer to Astor. Yes it sounds like soap opera, but the acting is so good and the characters so real you forget the plot mechanics.Huston has one of his very best film roles as the floundering Dodsworth who needs an anchor. Chatterton is excellent as the foolish wife (this was her last film), and Astor is a wonder as the American widow. The three stars turn in towering performances.The rest of the cast includes Maria Ouspenskaya and the old countess, Spring Byington and Harlan Briggs as the best friends, John Payne as the son in law, David Niven as a gigolo, Gregory Gaye as the suitor, Paul Lukas as Arnold, and Odette Myrtil as the social leach.There was talk in the mid-90s that Harrison Ford would star in a new version of Dodsworth but he never followed through because he wanted to continue his action roles. Too bad. Ford has certain qualities that would have made him (or Warren Beatty) ideal for the part. But Ford and Beatty are too old now. Oddly only Huston and Ouspenskaya earned Oscar nominations. Hard to see how Chatterton and Astor got bypassed.This is a great American film. "},{"Title":"They don't make such adult films anymore.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"52 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you're tired of the actual Hollywood teenager productions, you have a chance to see some maturity watching Dodsworth. The relationship of the Dodsworths are amazingly realistic, and the wonderful performances by Walter Huston and Ruth Chatterton only improve the reality of the situation. He is amazing as a retired middle-aged industrialist and she is faultless as his futile, snob and frustrated wife. This film also got me some extra points because of Mary Astor, at the highest point of her beauty. It's  masterly directed by William Wyler, and the cinematography is wonderful. One of the greatest films from the first decade of the sounded films. "},{"Title":"National Tycoon's European Vacation","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"57 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" DODSWORTH (United Artists, 1936), directed by William Wyler, stars Walter Huston (1884-1950) in what is rightfully acclaimed to be his best screen performance in a motion picture career that spanned from 1929 until his death in 1950. Recreating the role he originated on Broadway in 1934, and based on the novel by Sinclair Lewis, this Samuel Goldwyn production is a perfectly transferred masterpiece.The story revolves around Samuel Dodsworth (Walter Huston), a millionaire industrialist of Zenith, Ohio, president and founder of Dodsworth Motor Company, who, after twenty years of building up his automobile establishment, sells it over to Union Motors, and leaves the factory with fond memories of hard work behind him. Now retired, he finds that he must succumb to his wife Fran (Ruth Chatterton), whose main goal is to enjoy life starting with an extensive six month European vacation from London to Paris. While on their continental tour on the Queen Mary, Sam excites himself by seeing the world for the first time while his wife, yearning for a more sophisticated existence, tries to recapture her youth by winning admiration with younger or sophisticated men Captain Clyde Lockert (David Niven), and Arnold Iselin (Paul Lukas), a suave international banker, each becoming short-lived affairs. As Fran entertains herself without Sam, Sam finds good company with Edith Cortright (Mary Astor) a American divorcée traveling alone. What was originally intended to be a sort of second honeymoon for this middle-aged couple, Sam and Fran find that, after years of marriage, they have become strangers, drifting apart. Fran becomes even more bitter when she learns that her now grown married daughter (Kathryn Marlowe) is expecting a child, making Fran to realize that she is to become a grandmother. Still deeply in love with Fran, Sam is unwilling to profess to himself that she is a selfish woman trying to hold on to her youth but reluctantly consents to Fran's request to get a divorce. Traveling around the world alone, Sam reacquaints himself with Edith Cortright. As for Fran, she finds love with the impoverished Kurt Von Obersdorf (Gregory Gaye), with whom she plans to marry. After meeting Kurt's aristocratic but strong-willed mother (Maria Ouspenskaya), who is totally against this marriage, Fran becomes mortified when she's asked, Have you ever thought what it would be like to be the old wife of a young husband? As for Sam, his life has become a renewed experience with Edith at her Italian villa until Fran informs him she wants to come back into his life again. Walter Huston, more an actor than star, makes a perfect Dodsworth. He even delivers the film's most memorable line, Love has to stop someplace short of suicide. Ruth Chatterton, a capable actress whose career by then was then on the wane, gives one of her best on-screen performances, in fact, her last great performance ever recorded on film. Her classic moment is telling her husband, Sam, You're rushing at old age. I'm not ready for that yet! Sadly, many of her previous screen efforts are overlooked and forgotten today. Years before cable television dominated the airwaves, DODSWORTH appeared to be the only Ruth Chatterton movie in circulation on commercial or late night television. While Fay Bainter, who co-starred opposite Huston in the stage version of DODSWORTH, would have been equally excellent in the role of Fran, Chatterton's performance nearly dominates without taking away from Huston's performance. At times she could become annoying, but that's the essence to her character. Nominated for eight Academy Awards, Huston did get recognized for his performance as Best Actor as did the movie for Best Picture. Curiously, Ruth Chatterton performance was overlooked by the judges of the academy. What's even more ironic is that Maria Ouspenskaya, making her movie debut, in a performance that takes up no more than five minutes, earned an award for Best Supporting Actress, the nomination that should have been offered to Mary Astor, who not only has more screen time, but is more essential to the story. Aside from that, Astor, who was playing a woman some years older than her true age, is strikingly beautiful and shares the film's now many classic scenes, including the one where she looks eye to eye at Fran (who claims to be 35), and telling her, Don't. Her one word says it all. What also makes the movie succeed, even after all these years, is the frankness and very adult-minded theme dealing with realities of mid-life crisis. Next to Paramount's MAKE WAY FOR TOMORROW (1937), DODSWORTH is the only known major motion picture of that time to bring out the realities of old age openly and honestly. The Alfred Newman underscoring which sets the mood and dramatic appeal is also an added plus as well as part of the Samuel Goldwyn trademark.Supporting players include Spring Byington, Odette Myrtil, and John Payne, billed as John Howard Payne, making his movie debut, as Harry, Emily Dodsworth's husband.DODSWORTH became one of many Samuel Goldwyn features to be distributed to video cassette. Aside from its many revivals on commercial television since the 1970s, DODSWORTH did enjoy frequent showings on cable television's American Movie Classics in 1993, and more than a decade later, premiered March 1, 2004, on Turner Classic Movies. DODSWORTH, winner of one Academy Award, for which best art direction by Richard Day, is the type of movie once seen, it's hard to forget, and improves itself with repeated viewing. Producer Samuel Goldwyn accomplished in transporting a stage play into a cinematic achievement. Not once during its presentation did DODSWORTH have the appearance of a filmed stage play. In spite that DODSWORTH in not becoming as better known as it deserves to be, it still ranks one of the finest and most adult stories ever to be produced in the 1930s. Huston, Chatterton and Astor, all deliver excellent performances under William Wyler's superb direction. (****) "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films of the thirties.","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"42 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some years ago, I read a short piece in TV Guide by the critic and screenwriter Jay Cocks, in which he listed ten 'great, underrated films'. One which I had never heard of before was Dodsworth.I trust Jays taste in films, so i decided to  take a lot at  it. I promptly saw it on Video and was enthralled.Once more, William Wyler reveals why he has to be ranked among the great Hollywood directors. Dodsworth is  that rarity, a film for adult people. In addition, it boasts a literate script, fine acting by an superb cast, and an very fine design. One of the favorite themes of the fiction of Henry James,. the conflict between  American innocence and European sophistication, is here explored with a concision and an empathy James only occasionally  managed. In addition, the film is a profoundly moving love story. One can only wonder why this exquisite movie was not even nominated  for the AFI list of great American films. "},{"Title":"Superb classic","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"34 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's impossible to do justice to this work, which chronicles the complex breakdown of a long and successful marriage that cannot adjust to new challenges. Unlike many movies of the 1930s with high production values and a feel for old, glamorous Hollywood, the drama remains focused and disciplined. Aside from its subtle analysis of the end of a relationship, the movie does a superb job of contrasting the differences between the new, powerful go-getter culture of 20th-Century America and the more restrained, skeptical traditions of Old Europe. The movie in some ways represents a dialogue between these two cultures, which at time clash, most poignantly when an old Austrian baroness speaks frankly to the wife of an American industrialist. A great overlooked classic. "},{"Title":"Possibly the Greatest Movie You've Never Heard of","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"33 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dodsworth is one of those Hollywood treasures that the insiders and historians worship but that the general public knows nothing about. There are more famous classic films from the 1930's but not one is any better than Dodsworth. Dodsworth belongs in the class of Lost Horizon, Mutiny on the Bounty, Gone With the Wind, etc. as one of the greatest films of the thirties. It also deserves to be recognized as an old movie that plays well today. This movie does not seem nearly as dated as so many other 70 year old movies. Much of the credit goes to the great novel by Sinclair Lewis, but many great books have been turned into inferior films. The screenplay, direction, acting, photography are all outstanding. The cast is simply extraordinary, one of the best ensembles ever assembled. Just look at the number of soon to be major stars in the supporting cast. Watch it! "},{"Title":"Sweet Bird of Youth","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"29 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  We're taught to take kindly to the counsel of the years, gracefully surrendering the things of youth. Desiderata. While most people allow maturation to occur naturally and be at peace with their physical evolvement, some do not. Like Sinclair Lewis' heroine, people who doggedly resist change may end up disappointed and bitter.  Such resistance is the basis for this perceptive adult drama on marital strife.Ruth Chatterton is ideally cast, looking young while obviously no longer in her early thirties.  Her frivolous banter provides a dramatic clash with Walter Hutson's aging hero.  While I find Dodsworth strangely depressing, it's a personal reaction, for this is a very well conceived and produced film, securely directed by William Wyler, and solidly scripted by Sidney Howard.Mary Astor shows warmth as the other woman and Spring Byington offers an emotional balance to the proceedings. With excellent cinematography and art direction, Dodsworth remains a telling adult drama of the dangers which may transpire by not surrendering youthful matters to advancing years. "},{"Title":"Great Moviemaking","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is hard to believe that this film is 64 years old. Walter Huston gives a performance of depth and understanding. He is matched by Mary Astor. The acting seems much more 'modern' than other films from that era, and the story will definitely hold comtemporary audiences. One of my choices for one of the greatest films of the 1930s. "}{"Title":"One of the best movies of Hollywood's Golden Age","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Simply outstanding.  An adult, intelligent film which is not to be missed. Walter Huston is magnificent as the title character, a man who sees his carefully crafted life slipping away from him.  As the vain, selfish Fran Dodsworth, Ruth Chatterton gives the best performance of her career.  And Mary Astor--one of the best actresses ever to grace the screen--is both moving and beautiful as the warm divorcee who falls in love with Huston. Superbly directed by William Wyler.  A truly great film. "},{"Title":"Back To Zenith Or Stay in Gay Paree","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sinclair Lewis's novel of American morals and mores Dodsworth was first adapted for the stage by Sidney Howard. It provided Walter Huston with one of his best known parts, he appeared in the play on Broadway for 315 performances for the 1934-35 season. Samuel Goldwyn was smart enough to both buy the play and make sure to sign Walter Huston to repeat his performance for the film. At least his performance in this role is preserved unlike Knickerbocker Holiday.The plot concerns Samuel Dodsworth, successful automobile industrialist who sells out his firm to a conglomerate like General Motors and at 50 decides to get a bit more out of life, starting with a trip to Europe with wife Ruth Chatterton. Huston's a hick tourist and he knows it, so to him it's see the sights and get back home to his daughter Kathryn Marlowe and her husband John Payne who are planning to put him into the grandfather business.But the thought of being a grandmother frightens the dickens out of Chatterton. And when she hits Europe you can hear the refrain of that song of the returning dough-boys, How Ya Gonna Keep 'Em Down On The Farm After They've Seen Paree. Their middle America town of Zenith, the location of so many Sinclair Lewis stories just ain't good enough for her any more.She goes through a succession of men, David Niven, Paul Lukas, and Gregory Gaye who flatter her vanity with affairs. She's ready to divorce Huston for Gaye once she can get clearance from his formidable mother Maria Ouspenskaya. In the meantime Huston's found a widow in Mary Astor who likes him just as he is.For the usually rosy cinema of 1936 Dodsworth is a remarkably mature and sophisticated story given its time. The film received several Academy Award nominations and won for Best Art&Set Direction, but strangely enough Ruth Chatterton was overlooked for Best Actress. I was more impressed with her performance than Huston's and he was at the top of his game.Dodsworth was up for Best Picture, Best Actor for Walter Huston, Best Supporting Actress for Maria Ouspenskaya, Best Director for William Wyler and Best Screenplay Adaption by Sidney Howard. Goldwyn was smart enough to get Howard to adapt his own work for the screen.After 71 years the film holds up as well as in 1936 and will be enjoyed by today's audience just as much as in 1936. "},{"Title":"Major Discovery!","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The experience of watching movies has got to be one of the great original adventures of the 20th century. What luck when we come across a movie that we may have only slightly heard of, if at all, and then happen to bump into one evening - which changes your perspective on life or adds just that little bit more of enjoyment into a life spent thinking one has seen everything! Such was my experience tonight with DODSWORTH. What an innocuous, if not, nondescript title for a movie which held so many delights within the walls of its celluloid chamber!How could I have known that this silly title would open up new vistas for me? I am not saying this movie changed my life. But how unexpected to have found ONE MORE GEM amongst the thousands of movies that I have already known and loved! Walter Huston was a major surprise for me. I had seen him before. But never like this. The same with Ruth Chatterton. The scenes with Mary Astor near the end are almost priceless. Talking about those scenes...one can only wonder how such simple dialog could elicit so many feelings from us? I say that Sinclair Lewis had something to do with its success. But let's not leave out the master - William Wyler! "},{"Title":"a quietly acted masterpiece","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Having known Huston as the ornery prospector in The Treasure of Sierra Madre, seeing him here as a straight-speaking businessman is a revelation. All of the performances here are honest--I even had sympathy for the Ruth Chatterton character.The movie demands your attention as much of the feelings and intents of the characters are shown in the lowering of eyelids, the hand gently brushed or the defeated posture of a formerly powerful tycoon. So watch it in a quiet setting with the phone turned off and a do not disturb sign on your door. TCM showed this as an Essential, and I hope they show it again soon. "},{"Title":"William Wyler's finest hour","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie deserves a broader audience, for its originality and its superior value as entertainment. Written with great care and sensitivity, it chronicles the growing estrangement between a long-married American couple, who embark on a European tour as a sort of reward for their success and an attempt to begin life anew. This plan goes unpredictably awry, as husband and wife find in the Old World very different lives awaiting them. Walter Huston gives a tremendous performance as the industrialist everyman whose affability and boyish enthusiasm seem to know no bounds. He is grumpy and honest and amusing, and yet his character comes across as a very real human being. It's a very endearing performance, with moments of depth, sensitivity and darkness not found much anywhere, in any film drama. Ruth Chatterton is remarkable as well. She turns the thankless role of the shallow and vain aging wife into a tour de force. Her flirtatiousness has a tinge of desperation, and her social pretensions are both funny and pathetic. This is a complex role, as difficult in its way as Hustons, and Chatterton brings a remarkable force to it. She may be crass and unforgivable, but she's unforgettable, as well. This is one of most complete successes of William Wyler's career, and also that rarest of Hollywood specimens a film for grownups. Not to be missed. "},{"Title":"The Modernity Of A Vintage Classic","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It is astonishing to think that this Sinclar Lewis film adaptation was made in 1936! Walter Huston is sensational as the retiring tycoon. He is married to Fran, played deliciously by Ruth Chatterton (a character who seems an early version of Meryl Streep's in Death Becomes Her) Her fear of aging is beautifully drawn and embarrassing to witness. The rich American hicks in Europe are described with humor and compassion but above all with an uncanny understanding of the subject. I loved the structure of the phone calls from Vienna to Naples at a crucial moment in the protagonists future lives. Mary Astor is another standout in a performance of such modernity that one has to remind oneself that this was in fact shot in 1936. The director, William Wyler, was yet to give us some other milestones from Jezabel and The Littlle Foxes to Roman Holiday, Funny Girl and Ben Hur For film lovers this is a must! "},{"Title":"This movie is perfect. It's one of the greatest movies ever made","Date":"16 January 2012","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't know how to review this movie, because there's no one aspect I can comment on without looking like I'm singling them out over the others. Every part of this movie adds up to something so much greater than the sum of its parts. Ultimately, I suppose the credit goes to the director, William Wyler, though in 1936 I'm not sure he would have had the same kind of control a director can have now with casting a movie, deciding on a screenwriter, crew, and that sort of thing. But it all comes together for something so perfectly conceived, that I can't really just mention the story, or the performances by Walter Huston and Ruth Chatterton; the writing, the cinematography, or set design.A description of the movie or even the type of film or genre it's in wouldn't do it justice in the way that I could at least describe some of my other favorite movies. It does everything right-it's so sophisticated, sensitive, mature, in dealing with the marriage of a middle aged couple going on their first vacation in twenty years together.Minor spoiler-it deals with so much, but if you were to describe the story, it's about how Dodsworth (Walter Huston) and his wife, Fran (Ruth Chatterton) leave America and really try to enjoy themselves and each other for once. But Fran is insecure about her age and her older husband, and this insecurity begins to push her away from him and towards, well, not necessarily even other men, but away from anyone.And yet, that doesn't come close to describing what this movie is really like or what it's about. It's every moment that's played so sensitively. It's got lots of emotion, but it's not sentimental. It's got a ruthless efficiency in building each scene upon the last, clearly giving each character different motivations and showing how their relationships change.I haven't seen this movie show up in many discussions or top lists, but it doesn't matter. It doesn't affect anything about the movie, whether it's under seen or under respected. TCM showed it one evening as one of their Essentials, which gave me some exposure to it. Then I read David Mamet's book, Bambi vs. Godzilla, which keeps referring to Dodsworth. In it, he says that it's one of a few perfect movies. So I finally bought the DVD and watched it in earnest, and it was a singular experience.For all the words like mature and sensitive or grown up that get used to describe it because of just how realistically it shows the dynamic of a marriage that is unraveling, those don't really describe what the movie is about. Yes, it is all of those things, and it is refreshingly realistic and attentive to the details of the relationships in it. More than most movies, and perhaps surprisingly so for any movie of its period. Or today.Dodsworth is more than those things because it's like an event that transcends movies. This isn't really even a review. I just feel like someone has to add, for anyone curious, what an incredible experience this is. It's a jewel of a movie. Whenever I see a movie like this, and see how most people regard movies today and see them mostly on their opening weekends (not to be elitist, because there's a lot of reasons for that, and I'm not using my interest in movies to leverage myself as having better taste-and I know people would love this movie if they saw it), I feel like I've found this secret. A movie like this is subversive to me, and that may be peculiar because of how much I love movies and want to make them, but I feel like it's an alternative to a life of working a regular or corporate job and having what I would (though I'm overstating it for lack of better words) call a mundane life.Movies in general, and especially singular movies like Dodsworth, are like secrets to me of how incredible a single experience can be. I have been thinking about it constantly since I saw it, and whenever I see a movie that even approaches it's greatness, my mood is lifted, my problems seem to go away, and a movie like this can seem like all I need or care about, because it's like an experience in another dimension. And it's so quotable-the dialogue comes so densely in pace and meaning, and it's got lines that will stun you.To borrow a line from the movie, if you watch it, you may become fascinated by it. "},{"Title":"Reflections on Aging","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" We've all done it, looked at our reflection in the shining surface of a new car. I can still remember seeing myself and making funny faces as I leaned into the chrome bumpers on my father's car as I polished it as a little boy. But those reflections and those cars grow old I don't need to do anything funny to make my nose look large or my face look funny anymore. That car has rotted past rust by now. And this movie is a study in aging and our reaction to it.Mr. Dodsworth is a solid citizen, an okay, straight-arrow kind of man who isn't an angel and isn't a devil, just a plain good man with his strengths and failures. He has pulled himself up by his bootstraps and done better than most, building a powerful automobile manufacturing business and a strong family and bonds with friends. Upon retirement he listens to his wife who has never been satisfied in their little home town but wants to go to Europe where she visited briefly and which she now considers her rightful place. The movie is the story of this fickle, foolish woman trying to flee inevitable age by trying to be what she is not while her husband supports her time and again with the kind of faithfulness born of his own needs and habits as much as old-fashioned morality.Ironically, when his opportunity comes to find youth and romance again, you long for him to take it while you've been crying for the wife to wake up through the entire film. It is that balance between running from old age, embracing the accomplishments of a lifetime, and finding youth in love no matter what your chronological age, that drives the picture.You know a great film when you lose yourself in it and start thinking about your own issues. What have you accomplished in life? What is awaiting you? What are you living for, what is worth dying for, and what would you do if you could, even at this point...and why aren't you doing it now? You will find yourself asking and struggling with all of these issues in the course of this film. You will see your own reflection in the shining surface, a mirror to examine an aging face, or a window, to examine the world.And speaking of shining things, this cast is made up of some of the greatest names to ever work in film. This film shows why. Even across the decades, even across faded black and white, their voices, their expressions, still gleam. And in their smiles and tears you will be able to see what is important about the life you've lived, the life you could have lived, and the life and love you can still find, if you want it. "},{"Title":"One of the great ones...","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is truly a remarkable movie.It is staged beautifully. Acted superbly. And the directing, shooting and cutting is nearly flawless.Certain scenes stay with me most vividly...- Mary Astor warning Ruth Chatterton off of Paul Lucas with nothing more than a brief line and a quick look.- Huston and Chatterton undressing while their marriage starts to crumble.- Huston getting the wire from Europe, just after being so much of a blowhard with his family.- Walter Huston connecting with Mary Astor in Italy.It is a movie that could not, would not be made today. There is no violence, no overt sex. It is, as other posters have noted, an adult movie, made for the sensibilities of adults.And Mary Astor is just radiant and beautiful throughout...MMG "},{"Title":"Outstanding drama of long-term relationship","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the best written, acted and directed films of the 1930s. It brought Wyler his first directorial nomination plus one for Walter Huston as best actor. Seven noms in all including Best Film, and one win for Best Interior Decoration (Art Direction).One has to take issue with the Academy's selection of Maria Ouspenskaya however with its Best Supporting Actress nomination - She has only one scene, not five minutes long, and is in no way memorable. Simply a cameo. In the same film is Mary Astor's truly memorable supporting performance of nine exceptionally acted scenes. She is the true heart of the film. It was also a crime that Ruth Chatterton's performance as the immature Mrs. Dodsworth did not receive a nomination - it was probably her best work on screen.Wyler's direction is never better than in the one scene where Astor at dinner notices the growing relationship between Chatterton and the gigolo played by Paul Lukas. Taking her aside for a private moment, she utters Oh, my Dear, then shooting a glance towards Lukas, continues Don't. An exquisite moment of sophistication and kindness on the part of the Astor character, told with an absolute minimum of words and expression, but decidedly getting the point across.The film is amazingly mature for 1936. Highly recommended on all levels. "}{"Title":"Love for Grownups","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A perceptive film about a middle-aged marriage. Sam Dodsworth, a thoughtful but rigid man, is married to Fran, a younger woman terrified of growing old. When their daughter marries, they go to Europe where Fran has an affair. Sam goes back to the US alone and waits for his wife to come back. He complains to his family about the fact that she's not there to put out his whiskey and soda every night. Is it any wonder his wife wants to stay in Europe and hang around with playboys? Finally, Sam realizes the marriage is over and finds himself stuck in Europe waiting for the divorce to come through. He meets the bohemian Mrs. Cartwright (wonderfully played by Mary Astor), moves into her villa and falls in love. Finally, Sam has the capacity to grow and change. His wife did him a huge favor by breaking up the marriage. But after Fran is dumped by a young German aristocrat whose mother disapproves of their engagement, Fran is the one who wants to go back to the old routines. It's not fair! she cries when her fiancée rejects her, and she's right. There's a double-standard for women. Sam reluctantly books tickets on an ocean liner to take Fran back to America; but after being with Edith, he finally sees Fran for the childish and superficial person she is and he hops off the boat. You're not going back to that washed-up expatriate? cries Fran, as Sam is now the one to do the ditching. Edith, moping in her gorgeous Italian villa, looks out to see Sam sailing into the bay. Sam, Fran and Edith's points of view are all presented sympathetically in this film. There are no villains and that's what makes this film truly adult. "},{"Title":"He's gone ashore! He's gone ashore!","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dodsworth like so many of the movies made in the thirties, just gets better with age. Made almost seventy years ago, the story still resonates strong.  It's messages about selfishness, self-delusion,and taking hold of your own life are just as relevant today.  This would have been a great candidate for a remake in the '80's or '90's.****Spoilers****Dodsworth tells the story of a self-made man, who revolutionized the auto industry, and then retired to spend more quiet time with his wife.  He has promised her that they will travel to Europe and become educated in the finer things in life.His wife is an attractive woman who cringes at the possibility of getting older. She often lies, more than just a little bit, about her age, and finds her husband to be too willing to grow older.While he spends his time trying to gain knowledge and marvels at all that Europe offers, while still settling in at a reasonable hour, she spends her days and nights gaily being shown around town by men who are primarily interested in her money.I won't give anymore away, but suffice to say that the movie settles into a story about a man who loves his wife and doesn't care about her affairs, as long as she comes home to him at night, and a selfish woman afraid that she will be too old before her time.The acting in this movie is terrific. Walter Huston, one of Hollywood's underappreciated leading actors in the '30's, is sensational as Dodsworth. You believe that he is at the same time, a business magnate, a man of humble origins, someone who is easily out of his element, and someone who loves his family.  It is a multi-dimensional performance that is nothing short of brilliant.Ruth Chatterton is excellent as his wife, David Niven is very good in one of his early roles, and of course, the incomparable Maria Ouspenskaya nearly steals the film in her brief scene (When I first saw this movie at the old Regency theatre in Manhattan, the audience went wild when the door opened, and there was little Maria).Dodsworth may not be as well known as other films by William Wyler, but it is a fascinating, poignant film that should not be missed.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant Today, Imagine in 1936!","Date":"26 September 2003","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Released during an era of censorship, of traditional values and about a long-ago America (or is it?), this rare piece of film art remains a milestone of the 1930's.Kudos to the studio for filming this one, it would be nice to see a remake... but could they lavish the style, literate script and superb acting (where are you now William Wyler's heirs?)on a 2004 version?As adult and rewarding a film as you might imagine.  SPOILER!!How did they allow that ending (our hero goes unpunished, bravo!) "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dodsworth is another outstanding work by Sinclair Lewis adapted for the screen, and played to perfection by Walter Huston.It is striking that this film was made in 1936.  I personally consider most films made before 1939 melodramatic, unrealistic, and unintelligent, even the ones I like.  This film is completely the opposite of these things.  It is timeless in many ways, particularly the problems that face a couple that has been married for a long time that is struggling to keep the marriage together.  Dodsworth could easily be updated for a modern remake.  Hmmm, that's an idea...At an hour and 40 minutes, the film plays very quickly.  Perhaps a little too quickly, and that is my only problem with it.  (SPOILERS)  The film spends an hour and 25 minutes setting up the demise of the Dodsworth marriage, and setting up Dodsworth to become enamored of someone else.  Then, in a span of about 10 minutes of screen time, he meets Edith again, moves in with her, and they express to one another that they can't live without each other.  Slow down, Mr. Wyler!  These characters and actors are so great, why not take your time and show us how they come to such a pass so quickly?  In the day of the assembly line film production, MGM (and the other studios) cranked out melodramas like they were Model T's, and a lot of them justified a mercifully quick conclusion.  But in this case, they should have realized what they had on their hands and given it some longer legs.  Oh, well.  It doesn't detract from what did make it onscreen.Dodsworth also provided the first of two Best Supporting Actress nominations for Maria Ouspenskaya in the 30's.  In Love Affair (1939), her nomination was given for the one scene she had that only lasted about 10 minutes.  In Dodsworth, she beats even that, with another nomination for only one scene that lasts only about 4 minutes.  Again, Walter Huston is superb in the title role.  No one has ever played the kind of dumb, but not stupid role better than him.  Ruth Chatterton, as Fran, is just young and just attractive enough to be believable as a woman who's somewhat understandably not quite ready for old age.  She's also old enough and unattractive enough to be believable as the hideously annoying, self-centered, shallow and pretentious woman she really is.  Mary Astor plays the perfect woman, and we should all be so lucky to end up with someone like her.It's a cliche, and one that's been used by several others commenting on this film, but it's worth repeating.  They don't make them like this anymore. "},{"Title":"They Don't Make Great Character Studies Like This Anymore","Date":"11 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've probably seen Dodsworth 25 times in the last 35 years, and it never has grown old. There's not a missed mark or a bad performance in the whole film. As a character study of a man whose comfortable, happy retirement has suddenly become a nightmare, it's a jaw-dropper.I won't waste time summarizing the action since others have done so and quite competently. I will observe that Fran Dodsworth's flings (played by David Niven, Paul Lukas, and Gregory Gaye) are in various degrees of seriousness with varying degrees of slimy characters. Fran is a silly woman, carried away with pretentious notions of what is and isn't cultured, and accepts no responsibility for her own actions. It is amazing that she and Sam had such a lasting marriage, unless she had simply never had the opportunity to become such a social butterfly before. Ruth Chatterton's portrayal of her as a status-seeking woman, vain about her looks and terrified of growing older, is dead-on.Walter Huston was a brilliant actor; I've never seen him in a bad performance. It's a shame he is largely forgotten today by the younger crowd who cut their teeth on action flicks and can't comprehend that black and white movies are just as good as (and often better than) their full-color counterparts. Huston played the Dodsworth role on stage and radio as well as film, and in the movie he brings to life the simple yet multi-layered Sam Dodsworth, who could give Job lessons in patience.And what can one say about Mary Astor? I've seen her as vamps and mothers and she's always good. Here she is no vamp or mother, but a woman on her own, alone but not necessarily lonely. She is independent, quietly confident, and she open's Sam's eyes, not only to the fact that there is life after a crushing blow, but to the folly of hanging on to something that will only kill you in the end.When Sam Dodsworth utters his final line in the movie, I have always cheered. Many lines have been written about love, but his well-delivered Parthian shot covers worlds that are to this day unexplored. "},{"Title":"Ruth Chatterton's finest performance","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was Ruth Chatterton's finest performance and proof that there wasn't a genre she couldn't do superbly. First she conquered Broadway, then in the early days of sound she was bought to Hollywood where she starred in a couple of sparkling comedies before finding popularity in sudsy mother love films such as Sarah and Son and Anybody's Woman etc. She then starred in Female (1933) about a woman in a man's world - also The Rich are Always With Us put her in a contemporary setting. Who would have thought that her best remembered role, (and according to Mary Astor a part she loathed) would be as vain, frivolous, trying to hold on to vanishing youth Fran - her least typical role. It did not have the makings of hot box office - it dealt with marital problems associated with middle age, but it was made with taste and integrity and excellent work from the three principals.Sam Dodsworth (Walter Huston), general manager and founder of Dodsworth Motors in Zenith City, is retiring. He has many regrets but has bowed under the pressure of his wife's demands. She wants to see the world and experience life - she feels she has been a perfect wife, mother and hostess for too many years. They take a cruise to Europe and at first their small town origins (or hickness as Sam says) shines through - dressing too formally for dinner etc, but they find they have different interests. Fran fits straight into the ship's social life, Sam wants to learn how to enjoy leisure.One night, on deck, Sam meets Edith (Mary Astor) an American divorcée expat living in Italy. He finds her a sympathetic and intelligent woman who understands his dreams. Fran is in the middle of a shipboard romance with Captain Lockhart (David Niven) - he wants to take it further but Fran is confused about her emotions. She then demands to go to Paris - she feels she has made a fool of herself about the British Captain and can't face England. While in Paris Sam becomes reacquainted with Edith. She meets Fran and tries to advise her against her friend- ship with financier, Arnold Iselin (Paul Lukas), her next conquest.You're simply rushing at old age Sam and I'm not ready for that yet!!! Sam decides to go back to Zenith - Fran has already signed a lease to a chalet in Switzerland (she has neglected to tell Sam) but back home Sam finds it hard to function without Fran. The cable he sends her asking her to return home is answered in the negative. He decides to have Iselin tailed and goes to France for a showdown. Although Fran begs his forgiveness, she cannot reconcile herself to growing old. They become grandparents but Fran refuses to accept it - after all she has told her European friends that she is 35!!!!This is an extraordinary film about aging and trying to cling onto lost youth. Ruth Chatterton is amazing as the dizzy, shallow and ultimately tragic Fran. Walter Huston is absolutely flawless as Sam Dodsworth and Mary Astor brings tranquility and dignity to her role as the understanding Edith. John Payne is also in the cast as Sam's son-in-law Harry McKee.Highly, Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"Reconciliation.","Date":"28 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a great multi-layered drama, from director William Wyler, in which the story takes several directions. It's about reconciliation and true happiness in life and love, with added to that some wonderful acting performances.The movie features some great and wonderful looking cinematography from Polish born director of photography Rudolph Maté, who was at the top of his game in the '30's and '40's mostly, though he also did some memorable stuff in the '20's already. The cinematography is quite fresh and original (for '30's drama standards at least). Rudolph Maté received a total of 5 Oscar nominations in his career, all in the '40's, so this movie not included, but he won none of them.Also the subtle little genre musical score from Alfred Newman is great and gets used in all of the right places.It's a great written movie with some wonderful dialog. Additional dialog for this movie was being written by the older brother of director William Wyler, Robert Wyler. It really paid off. Like all great '30's drama's it hasn't got a formulaic and over-dramatic story. It isn't afraid to show life as it is with all of its imperfections. Normally these type of '30's movies always show a fairytale like love story, of which this movie is the quite opposite of this all.The movie of course also gets effective thanks to its acting performances. Walter Huston and Ruth Chatterton perhaps aren't among the best known '30's actors but they are absolutely great in the movie. Besides playing their roles dramatic they also know to throw in some subtle comical acting as well. The supporting cast features actors such as Mary Astor and David Niven in it. Needless to say that the acting of the movie is really one of the stronger elements. There are several multiple Oscar nominated and winning actors in this movie, sometimes even in some really small roles. Maria Ouspenskaya who has about a 5 minutes role in this movie even actually received an Oscar nominated for her role in this.Funny thing about most '30's and also '40's movies is that no matter how great the first halve is, the second halve is always an amazing lot better. In the second halve of this movie the movie it's drama takes its best and most effective shape. It's a real humane movie with realistic events and situations. Surely parts of the movie should be recognizable to all of us in one way or another.It's a cliché but they really don't make them like this anymore.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Mr. and Mrs. Dodsworth at Odds","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Walter Huston (as Sam Dodsworth) and Ruth Chatterton (as his wife, Fran) are beginning their wedded golden years by taking a trip to Europe, as their daughter begins her own marriage. It's fairly obvious, early on, that Mr. Dodsworth loves Mrs. Dodsworth; and, probably, he feels the European trip will enable the married couple to renew their relationship - and grow closer, before growing old, together. It is also very clear, early on, that Mrs. Dodsworth is not on board; in fact, her behavior is startlingly selfish and destructive.Mr. Huston and Ms. Chatterton perform very well as the Dodsworths. Dodsworth is a film to watch for performances, and they are very effective. Their characterizations are full enough for viewers to get an ever clearer picture of the Dodsworth marriage, as the film progresses. Chatterton, of course, participates in the unraveling, while Huston works for preserving of their marriage.Fran Dodsworth is a complicated part; and, it is certainly a most unflattering choice of role for an actress in the 1930s - this is probably a courageous role for Ruth Chatterton to accept, for the time. Of the supporting players, Mary Astor stands out as Mr. Huston's potential other woman - the scene where Chatterton and Ms. Astor meet should not be missed; watch the two actress' faces and listen to the tone of their voices, for an extremely well-acted scene. William Wyler expertly directed the drama. ********* Dodsworth (9/23/36) William Wyler ~ Walter Huston, Ruth Chatterton, Mary Astor, David Niven "},{"Title":"Superb character piece","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When people use that old catch phrase They don't make 'em like they used to, it is usually a bunch of hooey. In this case, it would be correct. I am hard-pressed to remember a character-driven drama from the last 20-30 years that falls within the same purview as Dodsworth.Dodsworth is played by Walter Huston and is an American automobile tycoon, who has managed to retain his down-to-earth outlook and continue to find new wonders to experience in life as he gets older. He embarks on a second honeymoon to Europe with his frivolous wife Ruth Chatterton. The journey shines a rather harsh light on their marriage and leads to an estrangement, as the vainglorious Chatterton hares around in a desperate attempt to hang on to her vanishing youth by encouraging the attentions of younger suitors and empty-headed socialites. By contrast, Dodsworth is unafraid to grow old and still finds new things to keep him going. While attempting to maintain his foundering marriage as it heads into estrangement, he meets and falls in love with ex-patriot divorcée Mary Astor, who embodies the maturity and genuine love that his own wife fails to possess.There are no action pieces and no great comedic moments in Dodsworth, but the film is always entertaining thanks to great writing and acting. The film is never heavy and always seem vaguely pleasant, even when dealing with some harsh realities and character defects. Much of that is due to how interesting the characters that populate the landscape are and how emotionally invested we have become in their exploits. It is hard to imagine such a film being made today - especially without some big emotional moment where someone is allowed to hit every note from A to Z in order to rouse the audience. This is old-time storytelling at its peak.Huston contributes a performance of amazing depth and versatility. His Dodsworth is a sympathetic figure and we root for him to find the degree of happiness that he deserves. From the moment on a luxury liner deck where he conveys a child-like wonder at a far-off light in the night (which is characteristically dismissed as uninteresting by his wife) to the latter moments in the film where he comes to accept how things must be and takes action to move on for the best, Huston's performance holds the viewer in the palm of his hand. He never seems to be acting, so much as existing.Chatterton is quite effective as his shallow wife. Her character could have been one-note, but Chatterton (especially in the film's latter moments) conveys the desperation and fright of a vain woman fearing the approach of her maturity and fighting tooth and nail against it. By contrast, Mary Astor has never been more appealing in a performance of warmth and charm. We have no doubt that she is the better match for Dodsworth and wonder whether Dodsworth will start anew with her or continue to pine for the wife that only loves herself. Another scene-stealing performance is contributed by the grand character actress Maria Ouspenskaya, as a member of European nobility who puts the kibosh on a romance between Chatterton and her younger son, and provides a much needed comeuppance character assessment in the process. It is a most satisfying screen moment that is well-acted by both women.Despite being made in the 1930s, it is amazing how contemporary the film feels to the modern day viewer. The film has aged exceedingly well and remains a jewel in the crown from Hollywood's most glorious period. The fact that so many modern viewers have never heard of it is a true shame. "},{"Title":"Girls just want to have fun, even if the term girl no longer applies","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cinema in the '30s was blessed by the presence of some great actors George Arliss, Frederic March, Jean Hersholt, Paul Muni, John Barrymore, Walter Huston and perhaps a couple of others.Dodsworth stars arguably the greatest of them all, Walter Huston, as a retired automobile manufacturer who wants to enjoy his retirement by traveling the world with his adored wife, Fran (Ruth Chatterton). Fran, however, has become obsessed with youth, which she holds onto ferociously. Once overseas, she flirts, dances and parties (with David Niven and Paul Lukas as willing suitors), refusing to return to the states when the trip has come to an end. Panicked when she learns she's about to become a grandmother, she dyes her hair blonde and takes up with a young German (Gregory Gaye), finally announcing to Sam that she wants a divorce. Dodsworth has to stay in Europe while the divorce is in the works, so he travels alone, eventually running into a woman he and Fran met earlier, Edith (Mary Astor). With Edith, he finds the companionship, the conversation, the easy life, and the kindred spirit he has been missing. When Fran's life predictably is in shambles, she turns to Sam. Can he resist her? Perfectly directed by William Wyler, Dodsworth, is a magnificent film and timely today as baby boomers chase youth with a determination Fran herself would envy. Just think of the surgeries, the face peels, the liposuctions she could have now! One of the best scenes occurs when Fran meets Edith. When Edith confesses to being 35, Fran replies, I hope I look as good as you do when I'm 35. Astor is brilliant. She keeps her same lovely smile but registers shock by pausing just a millisecond before saying, I'm sure you will. Chatterton was about 43 at the time the film was made; Astor was 30. At the end of her leading lady days, Chatterton would return to her stage roots, eventually appear on television and then embark on a very successful writing career. Astor's star was on the ascent. Later on, she would continue in films as a character actress.Walter Huston gives a straightforward performance as Dodsworth, saying his lines so naturally that you forget you're watching a movie. He IS Dodsworth, and just as he did with the miner in Treasure of the Sierra Madre - about as opposite a part as you can get - he slips into the soul of the character and makes us understand him. He doesn't tolerate phonies and isn't interested in pretense. For all of his wealth and worldly achievements, Dodsworth is a simple man who enjoys family, new sites and interests, and the company of his wife, a woman he now realizes is not the person he married. As the vain and self-absorbed Fran, Ruth Chatterton is wonderful. Toward the end of the film, by more than appearance, she relays the impression that Fran is trying too hard and coming off as cheap. In the scene with Kurt's mother (Maria Ouspenskaya, in her film debut), Fran seems to wither before our very eyes as the Baroness talks about Kurt's need for children and the difficulties of an older woman with a young husband. It's a reality check Fran can't bear.Beautiful Mary Astor is a sublime Edith - classy, warm, and so comfortable in her own shoes. She sees through Fran and knows that she is willing to throw away what Edith herself wants. Her one-word warning to the older woman - Don't - is another highlight of the meeting scene. It's a warning Fran doesn't heed.Dodsworth has many themes which still hold up - love, acceptance, relationships, aging with grace - and one which is a little dated, the idea of European sophistication versus American naiveté. This is pointed out by Clyde (Niven) when he makes a pass at Fran and she's insulted. For all her faux sophistication, Fran has the worldliness of a country farmer. Unfortunately for her, she learns to be worldly quickly. Sam, however, holds onto to a bigger worldliness - the need for love, truth, and real substance. "}{"Title":"the best of the most underrated films of the 1930s","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's amazing that nowadays, so few people have heard of this movie. Dodsworth is probably one of the very best films of the 1930s but has somehow remained in obscurity. So why is the film so great? Well, the bottom line is acting and writing--you just can't get much better. Walter Huston is simply at his best and Sinclair Lewis' story is solid and engaging throughout and really seems to be about real people--not 1930s Hollywood's vision of reality.The story begins with our title character selling off his company and retiring to a life of wealth and relaxation. What makes the story so interesting is that while despite his lifetime of hard work, he has remained a very decent man. And, despite his decency, his family (especially his wife) has chosen to run wild with this new affluence--forgetting their values along the way. I particularly liked how Dodsworth tried so hard to understand his wife throughout the movie until he ultimately must accept that she is beyond redemption. This entire plot is truly unique and adult, and I appreciate the risks it takes. "},{"Title":"A Film about choosing the wrong person to be married to","Date":"7 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a towering film even for 1936. It's very painful to watch this marriage crumble. Especially when one person loves the other and the other is just...indifferent.They just don't make enough films like this. Films about real life. This is one about a husband who loves a younger wife and after he retires she wants to spend time away in Europe to...find herself. She's just selfish, vain and ungrateful til the end. I mean what mother wouldn't want to see the birth of her first grandchild? These 2 performances by Ruth Chatterton and Walter Huston are just stunning. Totally believable in every way. It was good to see the Walter Huston character find some semblance of happiness in the end. Totally made my day. "},{"Title":"Sophisticated, cutting, knowledgeable...a triumph for Wyler and his cast","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sinclair Lewis story about how time affects a long-term marriage comes to the screen with still-relevant talk weighing the issues behind a union which doesn't have the same spark as before. Retired, wealthy American businessman and his wife finally take that trip to Europe they've been dreaming about--but, on the ship going over to England, the wife finds that men still find her desirable in a way that her older husband perhaps takes for granted. Worse, their daughter has just made them grandparents for the first time, something the Mrs. doesn't want to share with anyone for fear of being out of her league with the flirtatious men in her path. William Wyler directs with a knowing eye and ear, and leads Walter Huston (Oscar-nominated) and Ruth Chatterton click immediately with these (not always likable) characters. Huston racks his spirit trying to come up with ways of entertaining--and keeping a hold on--his selfish spouse, unable to reconcile the fact that maybe she's just a fixture in his life, no longer a great love. Excellent support from Mary Astor, an extremely young David Niven (as a shipboard gigolo), and Maria Ouspenskaya (also Oscar-nominated) adds to the immense pleasure of watching this classic drama. A knockout. ***1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Scared of growing old","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While the romance genre may first call to mind the wild and passionate embraces of young lovers, it is usually the more tentative, less glamorous love stories that are the most effective. Dodsworth belongs to a tradition of simple yet deeply poignant romances that includes Brief Encounter, The African Queen and Remains of the Day. Thanks to some great acting performances under the guidance of William Wyler it is one of the best in the field.This is Wyler's first truly excellent picture, in which his unique approach seems to have fully matured. Wyler famously (or perhaps not so famously) directed more Oscar-nominated acting performances than anyone else. It wasn't reportedly through great coaching, although his demand for repeated takes surely helped. What Wyler seems to have understood better than anyone else is that a performance is made up of different components - vocal delivery, facial expression, physical presence and so forth - and part of a director's job is to decide which of these to capture at any given moment. For Wyler, getting the right angle on the action was paramount even if it meant violating cinematic convention. Dodsworth is brimming with examples of this.Take the opening scene, where we first meet Sam Dodsworth. As the camera tracks in Walter Huston has his back to us - we know from the context that this is an emotional time for him, but we are not shown his face. This stops the moment from seeming forced, and allows the emergence of the character to happen gradually. Huston communicates his feelings through posture alone. Wyler then shows him leaving via the most tentative and indirect method possible - a few lines of dialogue offscreen, after which we see his shadow cross the newspaper headline. It is an incredibly tender and respectful introduction to the character, and pays off as his story continues. Throughout the picture the camera tends to be kept at a distance, which emphasises that bittersweet sense of loneliness and also gives those intense facial close-ups at the end (the only ones in the whole picture) all the more impact.Sometimes Wyler's method of showing (or not showing) a facet of a performance could be highly elaborate. In a key scene between Ruth Chatterton and Gregory Gaye, he needs to have Chatterton in the foreground and Gaye in the background, but it is Gaye's expression that we need to focus on. Wyler solves the problem by placing a lampshade in the foreground which actually obscures Chatterton's head, whilst at the same time framing Gaye. Later in the same scene he shows Gaye (in the foreground this time) watching Chatterton walk away offscreen, although she is reflected in the mirror behind him. Unlike the swooping camera moves or bewildering close-ups that some directors favour, these deceptively simple tactics are rarely distracting because they allow us to become totally absorbed in the performances and the scene.And what performances... This was probably Walter Huston's career best. What's remarkable is that on paper Sam Dodsworth is not an entirely sympathetic character - shouting at his daughter, sending a spy out after his wife - but as played by Huston he is amazingly likable, and audience members will genuinely care about what happens to him. The other Oscar nominee was Maria Ouspenskaya. Her performance is expressive and certainly memorable so I can see why it got the nod, but Ruth Chatterton and Mary Astor would have been more worthy nominees for Best Actress and Best Supporting Actress respectively. It's also somewhat unfortunate that Ouspenskaya's performance distracts us from Gregroy Gaye, who hovers in the background doing what is probably the best bit of emotional acting of his career.Also worthy of special mention is Alfred Newman's musical score. Normally a highly emotive score like this weakens a dramatic picture - music shouldn't be there to tell the audience how to feel - but in this case the melody is so beautiful and so perfectly captures the tone that it doesn't matter. The letter burning scene also makes great use of diagetic music, which is rather rare for this period. Again I'm surprised Newman didn't get an Oscar nomination, but perhaps the score was judged too sparse and simple for that.For such gems as Dodsworth, we have to thank directors who had no ego, and no agenda other than to get the most out of a screenplay. This is one of the most mature and deeply affecting dramas of its era, and still has great resonance today. "},{"Title":"Not simply about morals....","Date":"21 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marriage and its disappointments, this is a surprisingly mature film, dealing with real subject matter.Ruth Chatterton is very believable as Walter Huston's (Dodsworth's) frivolous and irritating wife. While her age is not mentioned, she is ostensibly younger than Dodsworth, and appalled at the idea of becoming a grandmother. Her youth will no longer be an accepted delusion amongst her friends and lovers. Dodsworth, a wealthy industrialist, is a sympathetic enough character, he attempts reconciliation with his foolish wife, while she falls for yet another beau in Vienna (This liaison does not work out, in a scene with Maria Ouspenskaya as Countess, she does not approve of her son marrying an older woman, who cannot bear him children).Dodsworth meets Mary Astor, an ex-patriot living in Naples, who helps him to rediscover happiness and his life, as he can reinvent himself with her. The final scenes with Chatterton are amusing as he finally sees her disagreeable and annoying self for what she is. He leaves her stranded on a cruise ship headed for America.Some films made in this era were annoying comedies of manners, artificial and isolated, upper-crust nonsense which today is un- relatable to the audience. Not so with this film. A worthy drama with good performances all around. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Mature drama from Sinclair Lewis novel is faithfully transferred to screen...","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" DODSWORTH is the story of a failed marriage and, at the end, a new direction for the unhappy husband who has to contend with a frivolous wife who is afraid of aging and doesn't share the same values. He's a retired automobile executive with a much simpler view of life than his wife, who fancies herself a life abroad still seeking adventure and romance.It's the conflict between WALTER HUSTON, his honest, low-key performance quite a contrast to RUTH CHATTERTON's more actressy portrayal of the shallow wife. This was to be Chatterton's last screen performance. Although often appearing in roles worthy of her abilities, she never clicked as a big star the way someone who played similar roles did--BETTE DAVIS.The graceful screenplay is by that excellent writer, Sidney Howard, and it captures all the fine points of the novel. MARY ASTOR is the woman on a cruise ship who encounters Huston by chance, and then meets him at a later time when they become involved in an affair. She gives a sterling performance as the other woman, in this case a more preferable choice to be Huston's partner. There's a wonderful reunion scene at the finale with Huston having left his wife and returning to start a new life with Astor.Highly recommended, still relevant today as a study of failed relationships, impeccably directed by William Wyler.Trivia note David NIVEN has a small role and JOHN PAYNE makes his film debut. "},{"Title":"A 1936 movie that has held up well into present times, good story and fine performances.","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie opens with lone Sam Dodsworth (Walter Huston) in his large office looking through a picture window at the 'Dodsworth Motors' displayed in large letters on the building. That day, he officially transferred ownership of the automobile manufacturing business he built over the past 20 years, and decided to retire in his early 50s, turning down a job as a highly paid executive with the new owners. As he was walking out towards the gate, crowded with blue collar workers, it was clear that they all liked and respected Sam, who was a fair and honest man above all.Sam's wife is Fran (Ruth Chatterton), who we quickly find is a vain and selfish person, tired of their small Midwestern existence, and clearly wanting everyone to think she was much younger than her early 40s age. She and Sam are to go off on an extended cruise and travels to England and much of Europe. Sam clearly loves Fran and is devoted to her, but in one scene in Europe when Sam tells Fran that he loves her dearly, Fran's answer is that she is grateful for everything that Sam has done for her. When their newly married daughter back in the States becomes pregnant, and Sam mentions that they will soon be 'grandparents', that thought clearly disturbs Fran. She wants to look beautiful and have people think she is 30. Sam is not at all like that, he is a realist and puts on no airs. All this creates friction in their relationship while in Europe.Mary Astor is great as Mrs. Cortright (Edith), a recent widow, who meets the Dodsworths on the cruise ship, but they go their separate ways. Later, after Sam and Fran end up in different parts of Europe, Sam and Edith meet up again and become friends.SPOILERS FOLLOW. Fran, seeking more excitement than Sam can offer, cavorts all over Europe while Sam just wants his wife back. Even after she has an affair with a French man, he forgives her and seeks to reconcile. Still, she goes off with a German Baron who says he loves her, they plan to marry, and Fran tells Sam they need a divorce. But the Baron seeks permission of his mother, who doesn't like Fran at all. She will have been divorced, she was older than the Baron, she probably wouldn't be willing to give him children for an heir, so the old woman did not approve of the wedding. The Baron would not go against his mother's wishes. About that time Sam and Edith had been getting along real well, fishing and boating, and making plans to explore some travel together. Edith had fallen in love with this fine man, but Fran called and told Sam she wanted him back, again. Being unable to break 20+ years of habit, he joined her on the ship, but after a few minutes of listening to her bad, selfish attitude again, got off the ship telling Fran he was finally fed up with her, and the movie ends as Sam is on a small sail boat, approaching Edith's home in Italy, she with a big smile. The movie was Sam's quest for happiness. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Randian","Date":"11 October 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not going to talk about the great performances or the great movie making, or the thoughtful, adult level of the film. Everybody's already done all that, and I agree with all of it. Instead I'm going to focus on one interesting way in which the movie struck me personally.Dodsworth originated as a Sinclair Lewis novel. I've never read Lewis, but I had the vague notion that he was an anti-capitalist, and a little internet research seems to confirm this. So I must confess some considerable surprise that, having just finished watching Dodsworth, I was struck by how much it made me think of Ayn Rand.I'm perhaps the only one to see it this way, but I don't think I'm out in left field. ) In many ways, Sam Dodsworth comes across as a Randian hero. A brilliant industrialist, an up-by-his-own-bootstraps self-made-man type, he clearly loved his work and is lost without it. Lacking airs and vanity, he has no interest in his wife's aspirations to the upper ranks of social society, he's more interested in basic, simple pleasures-- the precise sort his wife disdains. Perhaps the quintessential scene is when he exhibits childlike delight in seeing the Bishop's Light, while his wife's only concern is for her mussed hair.He trudges miserably through the film, trying to placate his wife and put up with her shenanigans, ostensibly because he loves her so much. But one senses he loves *the idea* of her more than the actual woman. Again, the actual woman is so obviously wrong for him; his friend Tubby points that out at the very outset of the film.And then when he finally settles in with Edith, what is it that makes him happy again? Aside from finally being with a woman who's right for him, it's being productive again. In the tiny way of setting up a motor on a boat, and in making big future business plans. Extremely Randian.In short, Sam Dodsworth reminded me of Hank Rearden, and his wife reminded me a bit of Hank's wife, Lillian. And while the film doesn't wrestle with the vast philosophical themes of an Atlas Shrugged, the key moral dilemma is also very Randian. And this gets to the core of why I enjoyed the film so much.The key moral dilemma is duty to others versus one's own happiness. At the end Sam must choose between the new life he sees before him with Edith, or going back with Fran. And he chooses Fran, out of a sense of duty, of obligation. And if you're at all like me, you were anguished by that decision. It's not surprising he makes that decision, but it's devastating. By this point in the movie I despised Fran and wanted him to have nothing to do with her. So the movie's final resolution struck just the right triumphant chord with me. In the end, he does finally wise up and choose his own happiness. A very Randian issue, a very Randian resolution. A movie that stresses man's right to live for his own happiness, rather than a duty to live for others, is always going to score big points with me. "},{"Title":"A Truly Adult Classic","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film, based on a novel turned into a play by Sinclair Lewis, is a remarkably grown-up look at the collapse of a marriage in middle age. Sam Dodsworth is a millionaire auto manufacturer who has just sold his company to a General Motors type group. He is now going to take the vacation of a lifetime to Europe with his wife Fran. Sam has been looking forward to this for some time, as has Fran, but while Sam's excitement is to see something of the countries that his forbears came from (especially England), Fran's is her conviction that she was meant for a more sophisticated lifestyle than life in the mid-western town of Zenith that she and Sam dominated the social life of for so many years. Fran's role in this film is similar to Mary Boland's in RUGGLES OF RED GAP. Both women aspire to being great social leaders, but look quite provincial when all is said and done. They try to hard Ms Boland mispronouncing French terms she barely understands, and Fran aspiring to being seen as ten or fifteen years younger than she actually is. Fran is younger by a decade than Sam, but that only means that she is 40 while he is 50. So as the trip continues, Fran keeps stumbling, increasingly badly, in a series of extra-marital affairs that she cannot win or break even in. Sam (who does adore her) tries to come to grips with this situation, but finds it harder and harder. At the end he no longer cares.Walter Huston was a first rated actor throughout his stage and film career, and plays Dodsworth as a man who is friendly and straightforward normally, but can (at least once) be willing to be unscrupulous if necessary. Ruth Chatterton is the self-centered and short-sighted Fran, who in the end can only watch as she loses everything and just summarize the loss as an escapade (pronouncing it as escapod). Mary Astor has a nice supporting role as an expatriate who proves to understand Huston's real worth. In early roles in this film are John Payne and future Oscar winners Paul Lukas and David Niven. "},{"Title":"Wonderful film and portrayal by Walter Huston","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film seems more dated than some made around this time, but despite that it is a favorite of mine, and one that I much admire. Deservedly, it was seen as one of the ten best films of the year and was successful at the box office. More recently, it was named one of the 100 best films of the past 80 years.Sometimes I'm disappointed when a star from a Broadway production is not carried over into the film version. Walter Huston was, here, but the wonderful Fay Bainter was not...and I'm glad, because she was such a wonderful actress I would hate to see her as such an awful wife! The story is a simple one -- the late middle-aged Sam Dodsworth (the wonderful Walter Huston), the head of his own automobile manufacturing firm, sells out for his wife's (Ruth Chatterton) desires. She is shallow and vain, and doesn't appreciate her husband or his life, which of course, has made her relatively wealthy. She pressures him to take her to Europe, which only allows her to take on airs as a sophisticated world traveler who flirts with European men (the first being a young David Niven, while Sam studies a light house; Niven popularity soared in a series of films that included this one). She decides to leave him for a questionable member of the nobility (Paul Lukas). Then an AUstrian. Meanwhile, in Naples, Sam reunites with a divorcée he met on the trip over (Mary Astor). They fall in love and spend some wonderful days in a seaside villa. Sam's wife's plan to marry falls through and Sam agrees to return to America with her. At the last minute...in a delightful scene...well, you can guess what happens.Walter Huston is simply wonderful here. Most people know him as more a character actor, but he was also a star in his own right. You'll probably despise Ruth Chatterton here, but she's good as being disgusting. Mary Astor had somewhat an up and down career, but she's very appealing here...probably one of her best roles.The supporting cast is interesting, as well. Maria Ouspenskaya has a key role as the old Austrian mother who says no to the marriage and tells Huston's wife she is old. A young John Payne has a small part as Huston's on-in-law. Spring Byington and Harlan Briggs play a slightly eccentric (charmingly so) couple that is friends with Huston and his wife.I struggled with giving this a rare 8, and I did. I so like this movie, and it easily earned a spot on my DVD shelf. "}{"Title":"Would you like to enjoy life for a while?","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dodsworth is directed by William Wyler, produced by Samuel Goldwyn and Merritt Hulberd,has a screenplay by Sidney Howard, is based on the novel by Sinclair Lewis and stars Walter Huston,Ruth Chatterton,Mary Astor,David Niven and Maria Ouspenskaya.Dodsworth is an intelligent tale about the dissolution of a marriage.Sam Dodsworth(Walter Huston)is a wealthy Automobile mogul,who after selling his company,faces the challenges of his retirement.One of those challenges comes in the form of his much younger wife Fran(Ruth Chatterton).Fran loves Sam mostly for his position and wealth, she is embarrassed by his personality and the blunt way he says what he thinks.She want's culture and sophistication,they take a cruise to France where(practically upon arrival)Fran's beauty brings her many male admirers.Dodsworth soon discovers she has begun an affair and leaves her.He meets American expatriate Edith Cortwright(Mary Astor)who has put behind her the American way of life and just enjoys the simple joys of life at her own pace.The two fall in love and Dodsworth, for the first time in his life starts to learn how to live and in fact be his own person.However their happiness seems to be short lived as a jilted and frightened Fran begs Dodsworth to reconcile with her.The beauty of this film unlike others with similar stories is the fact that neither Dodsworth or Fran is painted as the villain.We feel Dodsworth's pain at her infidelity's,however we understand and sympathise with Fran for committing them. We can also all surely relate to some extent to her deepest fear,loss of youth and physical attraction.The entire cast is superb with particular praise going to Huston for what is one of his greatest performances.Dodsworth is a refreshing change from the so called relationship dramas of todays cinema. "},{"Title":"Dodsworth-Decadence and Redemption;Questions Family Values ****","Date":"16 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a quite a departure for films of 1936. It really depicts decadence in American society and possibly showing that family values sometimes need to be changed for lives to proceed normally.As the wealthy tycoon, John Huston etched an unforgettable character, but he is equally matched by his movie wife Ruth Chatterton, turning in a fabulous performance as his wife, longing for youth and therefore joining a jet-set group for her times. In his anger and frustration, Huston meets Mary Astor and the two begin a time honored affair.Maria Ouspenskaya is memorable as the wealthy-dowager mother reminding Chatterton that she is not for her son.The film so beautifully captures the grand American spirit and justifies that things have to be turned around if happiness is to be achieved. To respond to a fellow reviewer, Ruth Chatterton was nominated for best actress here as well as Oscar nominations for Huston and Ms. Ouspenskaya. "},{"Title":"what a trip!","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've really enjoyed this film. The whole idea about how a 20 years relationship between two persons ain't the proof you know someone and that the simple fact that a (big) change in their daily routine would jeopardise everything, is amazing. All this because a woman can't understand her age, and down know how to grow up older. This causes her 'promiscuous' behaviour regarding her male friends, with the distant presence of her husband. Sam Dodsworth's reaction to this isn't the more natural (for me), he lets her wife 'playing' with her temptations, being sure of her dedication to him. In the beginning she show us a control over this dangerous game, but some issues will come from them later.The appearance of Mrs. Cortright in this story is very interesting. She's the person that show to Sam how different he is from his wife. A natural osmoses between this two souls shows us a deeper perspective of the Dodsworth's couple divergences.This film is a life lesson. It's really my kind of film, and that's the reason I'm more into old films (30's to 60's) than the nowadays.The story conclusion in this film is very well done, giving us the idea that the it goes one way, but in the end...The end, A. "},{"Title":"forgotten classic","Date":"27 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is a forgotten classic. Shamelessly ignored probably because of the age of the film and not being an action film. This is a drama about a failed marriage. Its pedigree is Sinclair Lewis's novel,transferred to Broadway by the writing adaptation of Sidney Howard. This helps make it a classic although it feel s like a film and not a stage adaptation.William Wyler gets the perfect performances from his actors. Walter Huston has the perfect pitch of the subtle performance that makes the everyday seem significant. This film was so successful in its art work that it won Best Actor and BEst Film. "},{"Title":"This is a movie you need to watch","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was nominated for Best Picture, Best Director, and Best Actor (Walter Huston). That's because it's one very impressive movie.Of a different sort.Like the novel, Sinclair Lewis' Dodsworth, this is the story of an older man who has arrived at retirement but discovers that he has no identity other than his work. His wife, a thankless role taken by Ruth Chatterton, can't deal with growing older, and destroys their marriage by flirting with men in an effort to convince herself that she can still pass for young.But that isn't Dodsworth's issue. After 20 years of being a very successful business executive, he only knows how to define himself in terms of business deals. When he has no deals to arrange, he has no feeling of accomplishment or self-worth.It takes a major readjustment for him to discover that he can also be someone else, and find fulfillment in something else. It doesn't come easily to him, but he does finally find it.Like Lewis' novel, this is a story particularly suited to American men who are themselves arriving at retirement and will need to find another way of seeing themselves. The novel is even better, but this is one very fine movie. Do something else during the first 50 or so years of your life. But then, as retirement starts to loom, read the book and watch this movie. It will give you something to think about as you start your second life - so that it is, indeed, a life.--------------------------------After another viewing If you take a great script, have it performed by uniformly first-rate actors under the helm of a first-rate director, you might, if you're lucky, get a film as good as Dodsworth. You might, if you're lucky. This is really one first-rate movie. If you've never seen it, treat yourself. "},{"Title":"Retired US industrialist endures wife undergoing mid-life crisis.","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dodsworth is the story of a pretentious middle western woman (Ruth Chatterton) undergoing the terrors of aging, and her retired industrialist husband (Walter Huston). The situations and characters are as true today as they were in 1936. Bowing to her request, her husband gives up his life's work and takes his wife to Europe. There he puts up with her endless ridicule of him in front of worldly Europeans and, worse, with her blatant flirtations and affairs. Long suffering, he is finally pushed into the arms of an expatriate American (Mary Astor) who is a true woman and who sharply contrasts with his spoiled wife. A love develops between them just as the wife is rebuffed for matrimony with an Austrian noble. Not for the first time the wife asks her husband for forgiveness. He takes her back. In the process the wife shows all the signs of the same selfishness she had shown before and actually blames her husband for her straying. Seeing she has learned nothing, the husband leaves her, leaving in place the divorce proceedings they had begun earlier. He returns to the American woman and to a new life of adventure with her. The film is exquisitely acted by all hands. The dialog is intelligent and real. The characters are vivid and true. The story is universally recognizable for its take on aging and on loyalty. Wyler gets performances out of his actors that are all the more potent for their naturalism. There's not a single performance in this film that doesn't ring true. Not one.One of the best films ever made. "},{"Title":"Classic Theme","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Quite possibly the best of all New World meets Old World stories of the period in which the USA was coming into its own. The film appeared a few years after the novel, in the same year that saw the publication of Nobel laureate Sinclair Lewis's most political work It Can't Happen Here.While Dodsworth is more personal than political, it reflects the novelist's broad view that American life represented at once a welcome departure from accepted social norms as well as a nagging reaction to those same changes. From Main Street (1920) to Arrowsmith (1925) to Dodsworth (1929), Lewis explored popular themes as no other writer of his time. His contemporaries like Hemingway and Faulkner may have been greater stylists, but Lewis had his finger on the pulse of America.As to the film itself, I am in awe of the director's polish and the technicians' innovative use of light, sets, and sound. This was indeed a revolutionary period in Hollywood, and reviewers are quite right in praising the production as did contemporaneous critics. A very worthy recipient of the Oscar, and still entirely watchable for its script as well as its acting. I find its naysayers overly precious in their recitals of any of its minor flaws. "},{"Title":"Fascinating Story of Selfishness","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hello, I watched Dodsworth on TCM this morning. I absolutely loved the film. The book must be even more wonderful. The perfect story of a good man married to a very social concious, selfish womam who ruins so many lives with her attitude. The good thing is to see the wonderful film actors in their early film experiences. David Niven; John Payne; Walter Huston; Ruth Chatterton; Mary Astor. John Huston is an extremely handsome and talented actor. I just wanted to say something good about this fabulous and romantic movie.Thanks for listening. Florence Stockton Reno, Nevada "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  William Wyler's first film that began his classic period starting with this film in 1936 and ending with the best years of our lives in 1946. This film stars Walter Huston and Ruth Chatterton as a married couple who go over to Europe when he retires and they start to have marriage difficulties when she wants to have a fling. Walter Huston is great and Mary Astor is also good as a woman Huston meets and falls in love with. David Niven is also in a small role.  "},{"Title":"A William Wyler treasure, with fantastic performances","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" William Wyler has been responsible for a number of great films, of which Dodsworth is one of my favourites from him and from the 30s too.The film looks great, gleamingly shot with beautiful art direction which secured a well-deserved Oscar for Best Art Direction. Alfred Newman's score is melancholic, haunting and orchestrated with such richness, considering the story this approach could have been inappropriate but the story here is written in such a way that the approach is ideal and it is a great score in its own right. Dodsworth is a brilliantly written film, with a nuanced and remarkably honest screenplay that was ahead of its time for back then and still holds much relevance now. The story is full-blown poignant romance with a refreshing honesty and an intensely dark edge, despite how it sounds it's written and constructed in a way that avoids becoming too much of a soap opera.Dodsworth's characters are remarkably compelling in their realism, all having their likable traits and their bad traits. Fran especially could easily have been a character with no redeeming qualities but is written with dimension and played with nuance that you kind of understand what she's going through while never condoning her actions. Wyler directs with elegant class and a good deal of narrative tension. The performances are fantastic from all involved, especially a possible career best from Walter Huston and a quietly dignified Mary Astor. Ruth Chatterton even manages to bring nuance and pathos to a rather snobbish and self-centred role, David Niven is his usual charismatic self and Maria Ouspenskaya makes her short screen time memorable. Nice to see Spring Byinton in a dramatic supporting role after seeing her in more comedic roles.All in all, a William Wyler treasure and a must see. 10/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Huston and Astor are great","Date":"11 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have limited experience with the works of Walter Huston and Mary Astor, both of whom sell this one for me. Notwithstanding its 8.3 rating, this is certainly not among my favorite William Wyler films. I like it about as much as The Little Foxes (a low 7/10).Ruth Chatterton's Fran is her husband's inferior mentally and morally. For me, the low points are when this pretentious woman is rather oddly gallivanting around with other guys in order to stave off old age. Her husband Samuel, who happens to 'adore' her, is no curmudgeon. It annoys me when a character I like is so committed to one I don't like for reasons that don't cut it for me. Fortunately, Mr. Dodsworth exhausted his tolerance by the very satisfying ending.I would have much preferred more on the relationship between Huston's Samuel and Astor's Edith, two very endearing characters. I'll be sure to prioritize my films to see list with them in mind. "},{"Title":"An early triumph for Wyler","Date":"9 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" William Wyler's Dodsworth is an adaptation of the novel of the same name by Pulitzer Prize winning author Sinclair Lewis. The story tells of a retired auto tycoon faced with estrangement from his wife when she embarks on a series of flings in the hopes of maintaining the illusion of youth.Walter Huston played Sam Dodsworth and the Oscar nomination that he received was well deserved. He had performed the role on Broadway and here he shows himself well suited to portraying the character's complexities. Ruth Chatterton, as Sam's wife Fran, was left out of Oscar contention but I feel that hers was a standout performance as well. The supporting cast is also strong, including Maria Ouspenkaya, who only needed one scene to secure an Oscar nomination.The film's single Oscar win was for art direction, which I can't say I particularly noticed; however, I must say that I was impressed with Wyler's direction. The Sidney Howard script received a nomination as well for providing the film with ample drama and a refreshing frankness.In conclusion, Dodsworth is a penetrating chronicle of the disintegration of a marriage. The bold direction, credible script & solid performances make for a fine film that has aged well. "},{"Title":"For grownups","Date":"7 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Amazingly adult for 1936, this Samuel Goldwyn/William Wyler adaptation of Sinclair Lewis's novel actually suggests that a decent man with an awful wife would do well to run off with an attractive divorcée. How un-Hays Code of it! The film reeks of prestige yet doesn't feel stuffy, and, Henry James-style, is firmly on the side of American unpretentiousness and hard work vs. European highfalutin-ness. There are flaws--scenes that end inconclusively or at the wrong moment, an intrusive Alfred Newman score, a Ruth Chatterton performance that might have been toned down a bit by Mr. Wyler--but they fade into insignificance against the resounding adultness of the themes and treatment. Walter Huston, probably the best actor we ever had, is at the top of his game here Watch him in the scene halfway through, where he's rattling about his large antiseptic Midwestern home, miserable without the Mrs.--and Mary Astor is warm, assured, and utterly delightful as the realistic, straight-shooting woman who's his real match. And Spring Byington, whom I usually find annoying, sensitively underplays a Midwestern matron and makes a large impression in a small role. With an essentially soap opera plot, it manages to make larger points about aging, overcoming regret, and Old World vs. New World. Sinclair Lewis is not as well remembered as he should be, and this, the best screen adaptation of his work, is an excellent introduction. "},{"Title":"Til Paris Do They Part","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dodsworth is an out-of-time experience to watch, as a 1930s Hays Code-era domestic comedy turns into a shockingly modern exploration of how people can change, for better and worse, after marriage, and how til death do you part can become an unreasonably extreme position.Sam Dodsworth (Walter Huston) is a forthright man of industry, an auto magnate who recently retired at the insistence of his wife Fran (Ruth Chatterton). She wants Sam to take her around Europe, and doting Sam obliges. Fran's wealth attracts a variety of aristocratic suitors. Beguiled by their youth and charm, she begins to think life could be better with Sam far away.Dodsworth scores points with a riveting screenplay by Sidney Howard; seamless, fast-paced direction by William Wyler; and strong melodramatic turns by the two leads. Like many a high-end feature from the 1930s, the sets are beautiful, the patter perfect.She I can't go on liking the same things forever and ever...In Europe, a woman at my age is just getting to the point where men begin to take a serious interest in her!He Did I remember to tell you today that I adore you?Does it still resonate? Not so much. Sinclair Lewis's original story, contrasting American naiveté with European cynicism, feels overly mannered and out-of-date. We've grown up a lot in the last 70 years. Trophy wives aren't exactly a thing of the past, though Fran's snobbery and open flirtations alienate her from today's audience more than was probably intended.But as a period piece representing Hollywood's Golden Age, Dodsworth still carries a lot of punch, bathing you in opulence as it propels you along a soapy but affecting series of episodes in which a man struggles to see how he's failed to live up to his wife's impossible standards.Chatterton's especially strong with the way she limns Fran's narcissism with attempts at playacting, batting her eyes in a way that suggests the woman has no real emotional content at all, just what she remembers from bad theater pieces in her youth. Chatterton makes sure Fran gets more affected as the film draws on, using words like Biarritz and Kurt as an excuse to affect a phony British accent. A lesser actress would work toward earning some sympathy from the audience, at the expense of the film's dramatic design. Chatterton burns her bridges well.Huston is also exceptional as the take-charge ex-tycoon, gaping with child-like wonder (and earning some early scorn from Fran) at the sight of Bishop's Light as his ocean liner reaches England. Before he became a gruff old prospector, Huston worked in this vein often His character in Frank Capra's American Madness was also a responsible business leader having problems with his spouse. He had a way of playing captains of industry that a Depression-weary nation could look up to, and Sam Dodsworth is one of his best roles, delivered with ample humor and verve.So what if you are being manipulated from beginning to end, if there is only one side to take, if the ending feels clichéd and rushed? Okay, that is something against Dodsworth, but overall it's a fine, atypically mature entertainment anchored by old-fashioned values, both of the matrimonial and of the Hollywood kind. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Film Classic","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film held my interest from the very beginning to the very end with great actors like Walter Houston,(Sam Dodsworth) who played the role as a very wealthy man who owned a automobile factory and had just recently sold his business and decided to spend time with his wife, Fran, (Ruth Chatterton) and travel around the world and just enjoy each other. After twenty years of marriage this couple were both living in their own world and they never realized their actual marriage had completely fallen apart until they had to spend an entire day with each other. Fran and Sam fought constantly with each other when they were in Europe and Fran seemed to be flirting with all kinds of men and Sam just over looked these various situations until Fran became quite interested in a younger man and wanted a divorce. Paul Lukas, David Niven and Mary Astor all gave great supporting roles and you will be very surprised how this film really turns out. Great film and please do not miss this great fantastic classic from 1936. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"a must - see movie!","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie! It seems complex, the hard-working automotive factory owner, who finally decides to sell, and appease his wife who has always wanted to travel, who is bored with the live of staying in town, in the house all the time. She feels life is passing her by, and she is stagnating. He wants to make his wife happy, but has to deal with her having an affair, and can he trust her now? At what point does he say that divorce is the answer? I like that fact that this movie ends on fairly positive note, with out both people hating each other - which is how I believe relationships should be able to end, with neither party hating the other.Also, the woman who wants to be the other woman in the mans life gives a spectacular performance - you quickly warm to her as a wonderful person. "},{"Title":"24-carat tearjerker","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on the novel by Sinclair Lewis, Walter Huston is Sam Dodsworth, a small town, Midwestern millionaire, who retires to enjoy his middle age at the prompting of his wife Fran (Ruth Chatterton). She persuades him to take her on a grand tour of Europe, where the two have very opposite reactions to the Continental milieu while Sam soon gets bored, Fran aspires to become a woman of the world. Soon, she deserts him for a romantic but penniless baron. Sam, meanwhile, meets an understanding young widow (Mary Astor) who arouses in him passions he never thought he had, but the longtime romance of Sam and Fran must be dealt with first.The film is a bit stagy and Wyler simply registers, but what he gives the audience is an example of adult storytelling of the highest order. There's really not a false note in the entire film. Walter Huston gives a remarkable performance, but the whole cast shines. Now, complaining about the current output of Hollywood is something I usually do not take part in, but this kind of drama, addressing issues like adultery and divorce and a cast largely over 50 years old, really seems something of the past, which is a shame. Camera Obscura --- 9/10 "},{"Title":"Mixed reaction","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I appreciated this serious, insightful drama looking into a marriage that has grown to an end, and it is well worth watching. But there are some problems with the characterizations that keep this from being a truly great film.1. The wife is very believable as a woman dissatisfied with mid-western life and with her dull husband, and being resistant to getting older, and it's distasteful that she deceives her husband and has so little respect for him. But the problem with her character is that there's nothing shown to us to explain what there is about her that makes two cultured European men want to spend a lot of time with her. Neither man is motivated by her money; the first is wealthy himself and the second clearly is in love with her. Her character needed to have some explanation of how, growing up in the mid-west in 1900-1930, she learned interests and tastes and manners that would attract these men, and needed to have some elements of personality that were attractive. 2. The husband is very believable as a man fixed in his mid-western ways, and largely unappreciative of European culture -- a man who has been a focused hard worker but not very adventurous. It is also believable that he would try to keep his wife in his world despite the fact that they don't really have a life back home that she finds of any value. It is he, not she, who wants to be with their daughter when their first grandchild is born. But when he has finally accepted that he's going to be divorced, and then he takes up with the younger, financially well-off American expatriate woman, suddenly we see him come to life -- boating, fishing, planning an expedition across Asia. Of course, he has to be transformed, because the audience would never believe that the new woman would want him if he was his same old original self. But there was no hint of this interesting, adventurous aspect of the man at any point earlier in the film. The writers have given him a dose of attractive character, but not his wife. 3. The character of the American expatriate woman is very fine, and I liked her a lot. But it wasn't very believable at the end when she says she's waited her whole life to do something exciting, and the husband is the one who is going to make this possible. But she is well-off, and somehow she managed to get herself from wherever she was in America to a beautiful villa in Naples. This is a woman who not only is able to make exciting times for herself, it looks like she already has. It isn't believable that she would need the character of this husband to bring excitement into her life. To the contrary, she is the one bringing excitement into his. 4. When the old duchess comes on, she delivers a piece of news that causes the wife to start to grow up the duchess asks her to think about what life will be like for her, the older woman married to a younger man, as time goes on and she loses her looks. Basically the duchess is saying that her son will cheat on the wife as they both get older. But when it comes to the husband deciding to marry the younger new woman, there is no character to deliver a similar warning to him, about how his new wife may cheat on him as he gets older. The film never shows any of the possible adverse consequences to him of leaving his wife it doesn't ask him to think about what it will mean to his daughter and grandchild, or the fact that he will be living in Italy, not back home, in the days before easy air travel, when it was hard to go visit back and forth, so he isn't going to see his daughter and grandchild very much. The husband is abandoning the life that in the whole rest of the movie he supposedly likes the most. The movie should show him realizing that this is a consequence of what he's doing. So what we really have here is a story in which a mid-western couple comes to Europe because the wife is unhappy and wants to find a new life with a new man in Europe, and the husband wants to stay at home; but at the end, the wife fails to find a new man but the husband does find a new woman, so the wife goes home to the old life and the husband stays in his wonderful new life. Thus the film is a kind of male fantasy in which the cheating wife suffers, while the cheated-on husband gets an unexpected reward. I think the film would have been much better if both husband and wife are shown from the very beginning as having attractive, interesting parts to their characters, and if the husband had to confront some of the same issues the wife is forced to confront. "},{"Title":"Mature and timeless film about love, happiness and life","Date":"28 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dodsworth doesn't fit into a genre. It's just about real people, relationships, emotions, problems, conflicts, love. Specifically it's about Samuel Dodsworth (Walter Huston) who has just retired after 20 years of owning a successful car manufacturing company. He goes on a cruise with his younger wife Fran (Ruth Chatterton), planning to explore Europe for some time before returning to America where he feels he belongs. It's a chance to spend quality time with his wife and to get to know himself. But it doesn't go perfectly and there is tension and problems arise.Perhaps their marriage was never ideal but they never spent enough time together to find out. She wants to stay up late, flirt with other men. She says she doesn't like the way he goes on about business. But it's not really true. He has a lot of energy for his age and his love for her is unconditional.Even though this movie is about a rich American retiree traveling in Europe, the themes and issues should resonate with most people. It's about life and happiness. What do we really want? What's life really about, what was the point? Where do we belong? I think a lot of people find meaning in their soul mates. They strive to keep a marriage going if only to have a companion going into old age. Many must fear loneliness or isolation especially as an elderly person. So it can be scary if a marriage falters after decades.Dodsworth meets Mrs. Edith Cortwright (Mary Astor) who is immediately endearing and friendly. She livens him, brings a spark to his eye. And she enjoys his company as well, sees the kindness and love in him. Apparently Chatterton wanted Fran to be clearly a villain while the director (William Wyler) felt her character should be more sympathetic and flawed. It seems he won out, her character is selfish but human. She has to do what makes her happy and she's not nearly as appreciative of Dodsworth as she should be. But I don't think she realises how selfish she is being. It might dawn on her as she grows up.It's interesting that Fran is paranoid about aging or looking old. That's part of what makes her uncomfortable being too close to Dodsworth in public. It seems Chatterton herself was in a similar situation and this was actually one of her last movies. One of the best scenes is where she meets a Baroness (Maria Ouspenskaya) who touches a nerve with her. It's such a quiet, calm scene but devastating in its impact. The polite manners makes it all the worse.Movies like Dodsworth are rare. It's not necessarily a directorial tour de force or some major artistic breakthrough. It's got solid directing and some great acting. And nice music as well (including a Ravel piece I really like). But most importantly, it stares straight down at life's big questions and doesn't veer away. It's like a very good soap opera. I was invested completely in these characters, hoping things would turn out well for them. I feel like it gave me new insights on life and love. For example, I think you can love more than one person (in different ways) and find happiness without compromising your desire to be kind to everyone. "},{"Title":"Edgy, Ahead of its Time","Date":"25 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A retired auto manufacturer (Walter Huston) and his wife (Ruth Chatterton) take a long-planned European vacation only to find that they want very different things from life.This William Wyler classic has an interesting fate in hindsight the two leads are now relatively unknown, while the supporting cast (such as Mary Astor) are more well-remembered. Actually, the film as a whole has been forgotten by many. Another reviewer pointed out that critics and historians love it, but the average viewer has never heard of Dodsworth.The movie received many Oscar nominations, but only one win Richard Day for Best Art Direction (not one of the celebrated awards). I may be mistaken, but I feel like the film should be praised for its subject matter. Divorce and international affairs in the 1930s? Seems like the sort of topic the censors would really frown on. "}{"Title":"Americans in Paris","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The material could easily have slipped into sudsy soap. Thanks mainly to restrained performances and direction, however, the end result doesn't. Nonetheless, the ping-ponging between husband, wife and lovers is none too convincing despite the skillful approach, especially in Dodsworth's case. No need to limn the plot since it's done in detail by others.What I like most is Dodsworth, the can-do American, who puts on no European airs no matter where he is. On the other hand, wife (Chatterton) sees Europe as liberating. Its loose mores, refined manners, and posh surroundings are a new world, awaiting her reverse-Columbus discovery. Naturally, the rustic in the retired tycoon can't wait to get back home, while she's found a playground for what's left of her youth. There's a culture clash here that's often overlooked. The movie's not only about character qualities, but about how the married couple responds to sudden change in cultural surroundings.Viewers looking for something commanding may be disappointed. Drama is downplayed in favor of more restrained naturalistic approach. Still, it's fun watching Hollywood play footsie with adultery in the face of new Production Code censorship. All in all, however, I can see the end result as more of a critic's favorite than a crowd-pleaser's. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film with a Thoughtful Story","Date":"23 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dodsworth is an adaptation of a novel by Sinclair Lewis. I have not read the novel, but every film should stand on its own anyway.The film follows the marriage of a couple who decide to retire and travel abroad. The husband, Sam Dodsworth (Walter Huston), is dedicated to his wife and her wishes. His primary character trait is duty. The wife, Fran Dodsworth (Ruth Chatterton), wishes to get away from her routine life. Her primary character trait is vanity.While on their excursion, they quickly drift apart. To quell her fear of aging, Fran seeks the attentions of other men. Sam--a man of action and industry--finds himself lost in the inaction of leisure.The acting in this film is wonderful. The photography is beautiful. All of the production values--from sets to music--are first class.In my opinion, the story challenges the conception that marriage is about self-sacrifice. It shows the damage that is wrought when one person dedicates his existence to the happiness of another with no regard for his own. It's an important message that gives Dodsworth consequence. "},{"Title":"Love has got to stop someplace short of suicide.","Date":"7 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Successful auto manufacturer Sam Dodsworth (Walter Huston) retires at the urging of his wife (Ruth Chatterton). He takes her on a European vacation she desperately wants. Unfortunately poor dumb Dodsworth doesn't realize his vain, shallow wife has already emotionally checked out of their marriage and is looking for something more exciting.Wonderful lead turns by Huston and Chatterton. The rest of the cast is about as good as it gets Mary Astor, Paul Lukas, David Niven, Spring Byington, John Payne, and the great Maria Ouspenskaya. Classic based on Sinclair Lewis' novel and beautifully-directed by William Wyler. It's a very sophisticated and mature film for the time. Highly underrated. "},{"Title":"It doesn't end with the last scene","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Does the story really end with the last scene of this movie? It almost ends with a riddle. For it is merely Mr. Dodsworth's turn to stay abroad with a lover, something his unfaithful wife had already done. For some reason, we expect the Dodsworths to find their way back together and stay together. Viewers will think Mary Astor's character is the more sympathetic woman and that Walter Huston's Mr. Dodsworth has at last found true happiness, but what has happened is that the narrative has switched so that we are watching infidelity from the reverse angle. When you think about it, the filmmakers are presenting a rather tortured love story that is complicated by the new choices that are being presented abroad. "},{"Title":"Doddsworth is Loyal to a Fault -- and What a Fault She Is!!","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This old guy and his wife are deeply in love. Then she's not. Old guy puts up with it until she files for divorce. Then he gets a younger woman. Then his wife says come back, so he does. But she treats him like crap, and he ditches her for the young stuff. Young stuff doesn't mind that he dumped her for the snotty wife, and she takes him back. The end.Great movie, but it's not a love story. It's the tale of a strong man who faced a failing marriage.Some have questioned why Maria Ouspenskaya got an Oscar nomination over Mary Astor. Ms. Ouspenskaya's role is critical. Wifey needs a reason to run back to hubby. Ms. Ouspenskaya's role provides that reason.But why no nomination for Astor? Because her role is not needed. This movie is about the growth and change of Huston. With or without Astor, Huston would have gotten off that boat.Some have questioned why Astor and Huston didn't get more screen time to develop their romance. Again, that is because this is not a love story. This is about the growth of Doddsworth. He stayed loyal to his wife up to the very end, and when the end came, that's when he started messing with Astor's character.I like Astor, but Doddsworth could have taken up fishing, and the movie would have been the same.I think Sinclair Lewis was being tricky. Wifey leaves hubby. Wifey says come back. Hubby drops new love and runs back. Now new love stays true. Hubby runs back to new love. Now that he is back, will their new relationship last any longer than when hubby ran back to wifey just a few scenes back? Personally, if I was a woman, I would not welcome back a man who had just dumped me to run back to his wife and then dumped his wife to run back to me. If this is a love story, it is part of the women-with-low-self-esteem genre.Rarely is a movie so well written and well acted. Everyone associated with the film was outstanding, but Huston stands high above everyone else.Small criticisms 1, Doddsworth could have knocked a few guys down. 2, Doddsworth could have improved wifey's disposition with a grapefruit and a few words of advice from Cagney. 3, Why does Astor constantly look like somebody ran over her kitty? I give this movie a strong 10 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Your class is showing","Date":"23 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** With his beloved company-Dodsworth Motors- swallowed up in a hostile takeover by the UMC-United Motors Corp- Sam Dodsworth, Walter Huston, decided it was time for him to retire and enjoy whatever time he still has left on earth.At his nagging wife's Fran, Ruth Chatterton, insistence Sam decides to take a Trans Atlantic cruse to Europe to see the old world sights only to end up getting a deeper insight in Fran's high and grand obsession about herself and her place in society. As Sam was working his butt off all these years at his auto company back in Zenith Mich. he never realized that Fran never for once appreciated all that the did for her. Fran wanted something that no amount of money could buy her; Acceptance among the highest crust of Europe's snobbish royal & high society!Sam being the salt of the earth, or working man, that he is becomes very disenchanted with Fran's new found importance but still tries to make, his marriage to Fran, a go of it if just for his and Fran's daughter Emily's, Kathryn Marlow, sake. Becoming estranged from Fran who feels that he's not up to snuff in the local high society register Sam soon becomes involved with the sweet and caring American divorcées Edith Cartwright, Mary Astor, whom he met on the ocean cruse to Europe.It's when Fran's, who's been carrying on with other men behind her husband Sam's back, plans to marry the bluest of European blue-bloods but dirt poor, he lost it all in the war, Austrian Baron Kurt Von Obersdorf, Gregory Gayle, fell through that she finally-from the dizzying heights of Mount Olympus-landed back on earth with a thud! It wasn't the Baron but his old and wise mama Baroness Von Obersdorf, Maria Ouspenskay, who broke up Fran's planned marriage to her son by refusing to give her consent to it. Hitting a shocked Fran where it hurts the Baroness brought out that not only is she not up to snuff-or class-to marry her royally bred son but, and this is what hurts the conceded Fran most of all, she's far to old for him!Meanwhile Sam now a free and unattached man was shackling up with the lovely and delightful Edith Cartwright at her seaside estate on the Italian coast. Just when Sam and Edith were about to tie the knot a tearful and apologetic Fran called in, long distance from Paris, begging Sam to take her back! ***SPOILERS*** Just when everything was going in Fran's favor she characteristically screwed things up by showing her true feelings in what she thought about Sam and his class, the common man and woman, of people. Sam realizing what a cheap social climber that his wife is even when he was ready to take her back left her twisting in the wind, or on the Queen Mary, and went back to his true love Edith Cartwright, who had always warned Sam about what a fake Fran was, who's waiting for him back in sunny Venice Italy. "},{"Title":"Doesn't Quite Work","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dodsworth (1936) ** 1/2 (out of 4) After retiring, a man (Walter Huston) takes his wife (Ruth Chatterton) on a trip around the world but their marriage soon starts to fall apart because he wants to settle down while she wants to experience life. William Wyler directed this film but the screenplay had a few week points that really bothered me. I'm not sure if I could overlook these spots with another viewing but I might give the film one at a later date. What really bothered me is that both the husband and wife came off very stupid in my opinion. Huston throws a fit when his wife stays overseas while he returns home but I kept asking myself why on Earth he'd let her go out with various men like he did. I guess you could say he trusted her but he also knew that she was restless so letting her go out might not have been the brightest idea. I also found Chatterton's character to be quite annoying at times but these two problems are due to the screenplay and not the performances, which are all great. Huston, one of the greatest character actors of all time, brings a lot of fire and desperation to his character and really makes him a full character and not just some throw away. Chatterton is equally good pulling off her desperation of staying young and not wanting to get old. Both Paul Lukas and Mary Astor do splendid jobs as does David Niven but I wish Astor had more scenes with Huston because when they're together the film really shines. I was shocked to see future The Wolf Man star Maria Ouspenskaya got an Oscar nomination here considering she doesn't have that big of a role. "},{"Title":"Crabbed Age.","Date":"3 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In the opening scene, retiring tycoon Walter Huston bids farewell to his staff and leaves for home, taking a lingering last sentimental glance at his automobile factory and the choking effluential plumes of flue gas spewing out carbon monoxide and other contaminants and I thought, uh-oh, a gloomy story of a man dealing with role loss. As in, I no longer work, so what do I do NOW, Ma? Wrong, though. Huston is tickled pink to have time enough at last to do all the things he's been putting off, beginning with a trip to the capitals of Europe. He's happy as a clam on the Queen Mary. It's his wife, Ruth Chatterton, that's having the problem.It's not having a retired man lying around the house all the time either. That's Problem Number Two. She's suffering from Problem Number One. If my husband is now retired, that must mean I'm growing old.Her spirits are buoyed on the Continent though because she attracts the attention of a number of younger men, beginning with the debonair David Niven and extending in time to the suave, hand-kissing Paul Lukas, showering every woman with his pheromones the way Dodsworth's factories bathe their surroundings is particulate waste.Huston notices all this going on and when he's ready to return to his Midwest mansion, Chatterton wants to stay on for a while in Europe. She stays on for a while. Huston sullenly returns home to find his son-in-law and daughter have taken over the place, moving things around in his den, using his cigar humidor to plant bulbs in, and whatnot.So he returns to Europe where he finds his wife and Lukas sharing a vacation in Biarritz. A bit of friction, there, exalted in magnitude when Chatterton learns that she is now, gasp, a grandmother! Man, is she having a tough time accepting time. Huston meets Mary Astor and there is an electric arc. Gallop apace, you fiery-footed steeds.So far I guess I've made it sound as if Huston is the good guy and Chatterton the mephitic slut but that would be the wrong impression. It's an adult movie. Huston's character may be a bit too much the man of principle, but Chatterton's character has a touch of pathos. She's considerably younger than Huston and isn't ready for the kind of role discontinuity that's being forced on her. Huston has gotten his kicks out of Europe and he wants to settle down and breathe the cold contaminated air of his home town. But what has she got to look forward to? Stretch marks, cellulite, Botox, and a man who shortly will show as much sexual interest in her as in a manatee. It's not a simple-minded flick. Even Lukas, whose role is that of the seducer, is given his due. She invites him into her flat while her husband sleeps in another room and he hesitates because he believes it to be wrong, though he confesses his love for her.But neither does much happen outside these family dynamics and rather routine romantic flings. I found the acting stiff. I like Walter Huston but in these kinds of films he's kind of hard to take seriously -- those sly, knowing, sideways glances; the stern and business-like tone of voice that varies so little. Chatterton's performance is professional but no more than that.I'd like to give it a better recommendation because it has ambition and reach, but it's a little dull and talky for me. Others might enjoy it more. "},{"Title":"Just A Gigolo, Everywhere You Go . . .","Date":"27 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In Dodsworth, the title auto magnate embarks on a European tour with his wife, who takes up with a series of penniless but titled men. To modern ears, the plot sounds a tad soapy, but in 1936, social-climbing American divorcées were the destroyers of dynasties, not dowagers out of Danielle Steele, so this Sinclair Lewis novel gets a very tasteful, respectful film treatment with an A-list cast (Walter Huston, Ruth Chatterton, Mary Astor) and director (William Wyler, master of middlebrow, middle-class drama -- see The Best Years of Our Lives). The results are uneven, thanks to an awesome performance by Huston and an awful one by Chatterton, but generally entertaining, thanks to genuine suspense about the survival of the Dodsworth's marriage.Craggy Hollywood legend Huston plays craggy American archetype Sam Dodsworth, a man of humble origins who claws his way to the top through brains and industriousness. After he sells his automobile company to a huge competitor(quite realistic for the time --young audience members will be shocked to learn that there were once more than three car companies in America), his American archetype wife, the vaguely ditzy and dissatisfied Fran (Chatterton), convinces him to enjoy his new leisure by sailing for Europe since she's never been happy in her home town of Zenith (had she read more Lewis novels, she'd realize no one is, not even George Babbitt). Innocents (or idiots) abroad is another shopworn American theme, and here, Europe doesn't get an especially sympathetic treatment since the whole continent is portrayed as swarming with well-dressed smoothies looking for any chance to sponge off of rich, gullible American women. Ruth throws herself at tux after tux, one of which encases a young David Niven (who bears a striking resemblance to a middle-aged David Niven and an old David Niven), until Walter finally has enough and succumbs to the charms of lovely Edith Cortright (Astor), a sad-eyed, charming American divorcée living in Naples. Astor is good, she's very good, as lovely Edith, and I wonder if more traditionalist audiences in the 1930s were rooting for the end of the Dodsworth marriage (as I was) or the reconciliation of Sam and Fran. Wyler and the screenwriters try to build some sympathy for dear Mrs. Dodsworth by subjecting her to a humiliating dressing-down by a slow-talking European countess (the wonderfully named Madame Maria Ouspenskaya) whose son Fran aspires to marry. But since the character of Fran is so shrill and annoying, thanks in part to the script and thanks in part to Ruth Chatterton's inability to convey any real feeling (the character makes about three transitions in every scene, none of which ol' Ruth bothers to register), you kind of wish that the good Madame will pull a pearl-handled revolver from the folds of her gown and put Ruth and the audience out of their collective misery.Once you ignore Ruthie, though, Dodsworth is a pretty good time. Between the epic score and the epic scenery, it's a fantastically lush production, and there's some clever filmmaking going on between the economical dialogue (entire relationships are established in three lines) and smart cinematography (every time you see a character standing in a doorway, something major is about to happen). And Huston excels as the kind of homespun hero that Spencer Tracy or Jimmy Stewart were too young to play in 1936, and to his great credit, he doesn't shy from Sam D's darker side -- the scene in which he returns, cuckolded, to Zenith and starts yelling at everyone in his house is fantastically uncomfortable. Angelica inherited her talent from him and her looks, blessedly, from somewhere else. "},{"Title":"I need to revisit this film after seeing it long ago (on VHS!)","Date":"14 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sinclair Lewis' novel receives the red-carpet Hollywood screen treatment, becoming a well-made (but glorified) soap opera complete with marital break-ups and transatlantic shipboard romances. The idea of a well-to-do matron abandoning her comfortable marriage for the more exhilarating pleasures of worldly-wise Europe must have seemed daring in its day, but William Wyler tiptoes his way through the scenario with what looks on screen more like respect than enthusiasm, leaving his veteran cast to pick up the slack, which is probably just as well. Not all the characters fare entirely well by the film's conclusion, and the lack of a conventional happy ending to this otherwise straightforward melodrama provides one of the few surviving reasons to recommend it today. ...a belated postscript after fulfilling my promise to revisit the film, in this case some twenty years after being underwhelmed by my first exposure to it, I'm convinced some movies shouldn't be wasted on kids. The subtlety and craftsmanship displayed on both sides of the camera were lost on me at the time, and the story itself was obviously beyond my experience. My rating has been adjusted accordingly, but the original review I'll let stand as a lesson in humility. Older, wiser, so forth...  "}{"Title":"Maria Ouspenskaya Is At the Boiling Cauldron Again","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It seems that in all the horror films of the '30s,'40s and '50s, Maria, the little old sweet lady with the evilest intentions, is somehow incorporated into the films to cast a spell or to tend to a boiling cauldron in some European caves or doing something else that has dark clouds over it. When I found out that she had been nominated for Best Supporting Actress for Dodsworth, I knew the fix had to be in in the Academy of Arts and Sciences in Hollywood. Why? Because the sweet little old lady was on the screen for about seven minutes. Did she put on an acting performance so noteworthy as to warrant the Oscar? Absolutely not; she was no different than the Maria whipping up love potion #9 in so many caves in so many movies. YET, the somewhat cameo appearance MADE this specific film. How? Won't tell you. I spoil nothing.Actually I found the TCM film very interesting and very enjoyable because of the hook in it. We have a rather vanilla story of a middle aged auto tycoon, Sam Dodsworth played by Walter Huston, who's quite happy sitting home married to a younger woman,Fran, played by Ruth Chatterton. Ruth has the itch to see Europe and prods Sam to go along and then the fun begins on the ship when she discovers how much she's been missing by being married to a middle aged millionaire who likes to lead a rather quiet life at home. Mary Astor plays a fine role in this film and so does Paul Lukas but to go any further into the elements of it would more or less give away the hook I mentioned. All in all I gave it an eight out of ten; it was a lot better than a lot of the movies I saw in '06. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"12 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In spite of seeing this movie lauded as one of the best of the thirties, I found it just passably interesting.  Since there's not much in the way of story the movie has to be character driven, yet the characters have little depth; Huston is decent and loyal, his wife is fearful and flighty.  There is little more to that than either of them.  Back then movies had no notion of the concept of codependency, so it's simply Huston good, wife bad, rather than how did these two people arrive here and what keeps them this way.  The complexity of actual people is entirely missing.  Yes, it's adult and fairly well acted, but it's neither interesting nor insightful.  It's kind of dull, actually.  There were far better films made in the 1930s, like A Star is Born and Sylvia Scarlet.  This isn't even in the same class. "},{"Title":"Annoying","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"19 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A critics' favorite, I found this a very annoying film. Annoying primarily because of Ruth Chatterton's character - an extremely vain, obnoxious person who cheats on her husband left and right and sees nothing wrong with doing so! Almost everything about this woman is annoying, including Chatterton's acting ability. However, some people like to watch annoying, nasty women, which is one reason soap operas have always been fairly popular. I am just not one of them, so this film is not one I would want to watch again.The husband, played by Walter Huston, is a good guy, but not too good. I doubt if any man would put up with all the baloney he did, until the end when he finds a good woman, played by a very attractive Mary Astor. I only wish the bad woman was shown getting her comeuppance more than what was shown. Huston, meanwhile, as he always was, is fun to watch a great actor of his day.Being a story of a lot of people with loose morals, it's no wonder the critics all rave about this. They embrace the dark side, almost every time. "},{"Title":"Run Away","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.There are several branches on the film family tree, the least interesting of which contains the films that are uncinematic that are simply filmed plays. Many of these have collected the shorthand of `character studies' but that's not quite accurate. They are plays that define characters which then define or find their situations. Though uninteresting as films, they can still find an audience if the characters have traction of some sort. (Yes, Wyler had long shots and deep focus, but those are in the service of preserving the stage, not enhancing our eye.)The only thing this film has to offer is that the dynamics of the relationship between the two main characters (and only them) is not cartoonish. We have on the one hand a seemingly perfect man a Midwestern tinkerer whose attention to quality and honesty built a relatively rich manufacturing firm. He retires to spend time with his wife. She on the other hand is a vile creature; a small person with money, someone whose only asset was some charm which she equates with youth, a newly rich bumpkin who aspires to aristocracy. In short, someone not worth air.We gamely watch as she jerks her husband to Europe, cheats on him, is forgiven and cheats again, only to be rejected by the mother of the slick baron, himself an opportunist. Other than some grace on Huston's part (partly invested in Mary Astor's straightforwardness), this is completely without interest. And that same grace is found better elsewhere (see; `Red Beard' for a more nuanced and cinematic treatment). Those who celebrate this film do so not for what it is, but what it represents. In that way, the film itself becomes like the wife something that points to something else, something okay for a short while but in the long run to be avoided.I did find Edith's house interesting. It is remarkably similar to Grandmother Janou's house in `Affair to Remember' of twenty years later. By that time, Hollywood was making `character studies' that celebrated the promiscuous, opportunistic players in this game. Grandmother Janou, you will remember, played the exact complement of Edith Cortwright. Where Edith provides a moral `white space' Granny Janou (even from the grave!) prompts the romance of the male and female sexual opportunists.Same house, or a copy I think.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Didn't care for the ending","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The leads in this movie do a great job, but Dodsworth is ultimately not worth it. I was just very disappointed with the story's ending due to its non-Thirties-ish flavor - and the moral content of the ending. As the final credits ran, I definitely felt as though I'd just wasted 101 minutes. Ruth Chatterton was perfectly cast, as was Walter Huston, Maria Ouspenskaya, etc. Mary Astor was fine in a role smaller than she was... I'm not going to give away the ending; I'm just going to say that it left me with a bad taste. I'd always heard about how Dodsworth was a great movie, and Leonard Maltin's 4-star rating was an inducement to see it. Now I'm sorry I did. What a disappointment! "}]