[{"Title":"Excellent Adaptation of Childhood Classic","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"23 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  The Earl of Dorincourt, lonely in his great castle, has grown old. Now, with the death of both of his sons, he sends for his only grandchild to be with him. This is an innocent boy living in New York City with his American mother. Sweet-tempered and beloved, the earnest young child knows nothing of the crusty, fierce old lord in England, or of the wonderful changes about to happen in his own life, now that he is LITTLE LORD FAUNTLEROY.This is David O. Selznick's wonderful & lavish retelling of the classic children's story by Frances Hodgson Burnett. Much effort was put into getting the details just right. Sentimental? Yes, but honest sentiment, with emotions straight from the heart. Freddie Bartholomew & marvelous Sir C. Aubrey Smith are picture perfect in their roles as young Fauntleroy & his grandfather.  There may never be a finer male child actor than Master Bartholomew and Sir C. was the epitome of the English aristocratic tradition. Two champion scene-stealers, they work together beautifully.The rest of the cast is both extensive & uniformly excellent Dolores Costello Barrymore, Henry Stephenson, Guy Kibbee, Jessie Ralph, Una O'Connor, Constance Collier, E. E. Clive, Lionel Belmore, Eily Maylon & Mickey Rooney. Film mavens will spot uncredited appearances by Mary Gordon as a churchgoing villager & Leonard Kibrick as one of Fauntleroy's Brooklyn tormentors.Sir Hugh Walpole, the celebrated English novelist, wrote the screen adaptation. "},{"Title":"The vintage adaptation of the famous novel with two sensational boys,Bartholomew and Rooney","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" 1880 , Brooklyn , New York , a poor and fatherless boy ( Freddie Bartholomew ) is living with his mum ( Dolores Costello ). A messenger ( Henry Stephenson ) communicate them which he turns out to be the only heir state to the earl of Dorincourt ( Sir C. Aubrey Smith ) . He then leaves his friends ( Mickey Rooney and Guy Kibbee ) and set out for England as heir to his grandpa and a British dukedom . But the grandfather is a grumpy and crusty nobleman and the problems are always cropping up .Classic and the best version based on known novel by Frances Burnett with elitist and sincere interpretations from Bartholomew , Aubrey Smith , Rooney , enough to make the creaky ancient tale actually works . Freddie Bartholomew had starred ¨Anna Karenina¨ and ¨David Copperfield¨ but his great success resulted out to be this film . Dolores Costello, married to John Barrymore , plays the lovable mummy in an affected and forced acting . Sir C. Aubrey Smith is magnificent as the bitter-grumbler and grouchy count . Una O'Connor ,as always, plays a maid with her habituals gestures and grimaces . For comic relief ,as usual, appears Mickey Rooney making a hilarious and sympathetic acting . This was originally made in black and white with an excellent cinematography by Charles Rosher but there is also available in computer-colorized version and the musical score is composed by the classical musician Max Steiner . Director John Cromwell worked a lot with the great and powerful producer David O. Selznick and seems largely to have been content to follow his instructions , though he was always loath to allow too much sentimentality as happens on the sometimes heavily relationship between mother-son and grandfather-grandson . The picture was remade for television in 1980 by Jack Gold with Alec Guinness and Rick Schroder and in 1976 by Paul Annett and 1995 with George Baker . The motion picture was immensely successful in America and around the world , it is actually an authentic and charming classic movie . "},{"Title":"Exquisite!","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" They just don't make 'em like this anymore. You can take all your Culkins and Woods and Osments and roll them into one, and they still couldn't shine the shoes of Freddie Bartholemew (as Mickey Rooney does in this film). The difference, I believe, is that these contemporary performers think of themselves as CHILD actors, where Bartholemew and his contemporary Shirley Temple thought of themselves as ACTORS -- just as Rooney's character thought of himself as a BUSINESSMAN. The effect is palpable you just can't fake being a real person. This of course is the familiar story of an American boy in the 1880's who learns he is the heir to an English earl and must go live with the old bloke, who parenthetically hates his mother, in an old castle. Needless to say, it is the earl who is transformed by the strength and purity of the boy's character, and not the intended reverse. Every scene and every line in this film is perfect, and if it is a period piece, then I say we'd be so much better off if we could return to that period. "},{"Title":"Opinion of the current condition of a Selznick classic","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This altogether lovely, exquisite period piece represents Hollywood filming at its height, no doubt. But what almost destroys its timelessness is the terribly bad condition of the film, reportedly taken from a television showing some years ago, complete with some of the worst damage I have ever seen in an old Hollywood classic. The memory of David O. Selznick deserves better than this shoddy monument to his great vision of the Burnett book. It is simply unforgivable that various discount houses continue to offer this and so many other dreadful copies of great films to a gullible and unsuspecting public. The complete restoration of this film is LONG overdue. And the various slashing of scenery, dialogue, for whatever greedy reason, is appalling, just appalling. After having seen so very many films on VHS and now DVD over many years, I submit that this is the most heartbreaking kind of butchery of a great, noble effort of any of the great directors and producers in the long history of American filming. Please, won't someone - the AFI, TCM, restoration companies, ANYONE - step up and lovingly bring this lovingly created film back into the sunshine of clarity, wholeness and beauty???!!! I have little faith in our rapidly decaying culture as we enter the new century, especially when such travesties occur. Once again, there is absolutely NO valid, logical excuse for this. Sorry for popping off so much, but I have watched it all too many times before. To use an offensive word appropriate for my feelings - it's bullshit... "},{"Title":"Great British/American partnership---once again.","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Two great 1930's child actors, Freddie Bartholomew and Mickey Rooney, play Little Lord Fauntleroy--Cedric Errol, and streetwise American friend Dick Tipton respectively. (Part British Ceddie fights the bullies--and Dick Tipton runs to help...they fight together. A preview of what a lot of Brits & Americans did in WWII a few years after this film!!!)Also watch for Sir C. Aubrey Smith as the definitive hostile old Lord Dorincourt, who is charmed and warmed by his newly-met half American grandson's unconditional love. Character actor Guy Kibbee also seems made to play staunch anti-aristocrat American Silas Hobbs. If you read the book (free online), the movie fits it well! Did you know the book LITTLE LORD FAUNTLEROY was an incredible late 19th century hit? Some statesmen actually credit this tale of reconciliation between an old Earl and his half American grandson with improving the then-strained 19th century British-American relationship.Drew Barrymore's grandmother Dolores Costello Barrymore plays Cedric's charming American Mother.While this film needs a sound and picture cleanup, it is still worth the watch!(TO YOU FILM PEOPLE--LOTS OF PEOPLE LIKE THIS OLD FILM. CAN'T SOMEONE CLEAN UP THE PICTURE & SOUND?) "},{"Title":"Much better than I expected.","Date":"6 March 2008","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" A nine year old Brooklyn boy nicknamed Ceddie (Freddie Bartholomew), beloved by all who know him due to his kindly nature, finds himself in for a most unexpected change of lifestyle when he learns he's to be heir to the estate of his grandfather (C. Aubrey Smith), a British Earl and has to move in with him. A bigger challenge for the boy to overcome though is to bring down the barrier between his stubborn, set in his ways grandfather and Ceddie's mother Dearest (Dolores Costello), who the Earl resents his son marrying as she's an American.This one really grabs you by the heartstrings and doesn't let up. Freddie Bartholomew is simply wonderful as Ceddie, wonderfully capturing his character and winning over the viewing audience's hearts in fairly short time, no easy feat for a child star. C. Aubrey Smith too is just marvelous as the crotchety old grandfather who finds his stubborn, hard-hearted, icy exterior being worn away just by being in the presence of such a terrific young lad who loves him unconditionally. Dolores Costello too was nicely cast and delivers the goods when she's called upon to do so. It's the likable performances given by these stars that make this a real winner in that we're truly made to care about these characters and what happens to them. "},{"Title":"Good Adaptation With A Very Good Cast","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This is a good adaptation of the story of Little Lord Fauntleroy, with a very good cast that brings the characters to life in a believable and entertaining fashion. Besides telling the enjoyably old-fashioned family story, the movie adds some nice scenes that simply emphasize the relationships among the characters.This is one of Freddie Bartholomew's best roles, and he seems pretty natural in the part of Fauntleroy. The adult cast features some very good performances. Dolores Costello is a good choice as the gentle 'Dearest', Henry Stephenson is well-cast as the faithful Haversham, and C. Aubrey Smith seems the very embodiment of a bad-tempered Earl.But perhaps the best performances come from Guy Kibbee and a young Mickey Rooney, as Cedric's American friends. Their camaraderie in their scenes with Bartholomew works particularly well, and they figure in some of the movie's best moments.The story is just the familiar old tale, with young Cedric leaving his humble but cozy existence in Brooklyn to go to England, where he must contend with his grandfather's coldness towards his mother and with other challenges. But it's the kind of story that's easy to watch over again when it is told the right way. "},{"Title":"Shameless but expert heartwarmer","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  Break out the insulin! This antique heartwarmer, awash in tears and goodness, is risibly sentimental, but David Selznick made it an expert entertainment as well. Plucky Freddie Bartholomew is just about irresistible as the Brooklyn boy who becomes an earl. Melting hearts left and right, he wins over his crusty grandfather, becomes a philanthropist in a sailor suit, and fights the local toughs to prove he is NOT a sissy! C.Aubrey Smith seemed born to play the venerable old gentleman, although he relies a bit too much on acting with his monocle. Mickey Rooney stands out as the loyal Brooklyn shoeshine boy. This is the film to watch if you've never actually heard anyone say, Cheezit, the cops! "},{"Title":"An excellent adaptation, a bit too sentimental, but. . .  ah well.","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" John Cromwell gets a lot of credit for this Selznick Studio release. It is only the second time (at that time) the story had been filmed. The first was a poor silent version. Although Cromwell could have developed the story a bit more, it is well cast. Bartholomew is excellent as young Cedrick and Smith is fine as the crusty old Earl who learns to love his grandson, additionally Rooney as Dick the bootblack, and Kibbee as storekeeper Hobbs are also outstanding.Although heavy with sentimentality, Cromwell has done an excellent job of cutting out all the terrible wordiness of the novel. (Burnett writes as though she is being paid by the word and puts in way to many adjectives.) The story is well told and the scenic effects are good for their time. Unfortunately the film has not aged well and some scenes have darkened with time. Perhaps an enterprising admirer will trouble to restore this film. IF they do, hopefully they will also restore the missing scenes so the film runs its full length.A discount film hawker (Front Row Video, Canada) has the nerve to sell copies of the film (claiming a running time of 142) that are so butchered, that two conversations are cut right in the middle with a change of scene. Digiview Productions who states on the front cover Sometimes the price we pay is too high and charges only a dollar for their DVD version, has been caught with their foot in their mouth. They only charge a buck, but even that is too much for the hacked up 92 minute version of the film they sell.For purists, I urge you to find a complete copy of this well done film. THe only way you can enjoy something is to see all of it. "},{"Title":"Old-fashioned, quaint and mushy - but it works.","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This is an example of the type of film where I reckon all the characters act like they know they're in a famous novel. The style and delivery is VERY self-conscious and prosaic, with everyone declaiming their lines in a very noble fashion (sort of like the traditional delivery of Shakespeare).C Aubrey Smith is by far the most interesting performer in this story, his irascible nature adding some much-needed bite to the movie. Mickey Rooney is also very memorable, showing once again he was a very dynamic and versatile child actor, handling comic and dramatic scenes very well - even in the same film. The mark of a true consummate performer.I would rank him as a definite child prodigy. (You should also check him out in YOUNG TOM EDISON for another example of this)I actually think the 80s tele-movie with Ricky Shroder and Alec Guiness worked slightly better than this version does; the characters are a lot more casual in their delivery, and the story flows better. But this is a pretty good version on its own terms any rate. "}{"Title":"Little Lord Fauntleroy 1936 Edition","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" My sister and I just finished watching the movie again. It is one of our favorites.Not only do I give it a #10 rating - I also give a rating to infinity.I grew up on the 'edge' of earlier, more sane days of our country and world - at least the first few years were more sane, even though it was after WWII.I saw enough of the kind of family life that Cedric had with his Mom, and the love and kindness shown, to gratefully remember it. My Mom continued to show me and my siblings, and others, the same kind of love and caring that Ced's mother showed him and others, with such love, kindness, and gentleness, this present world knows little, if anything, about - and today's world is really missing a lot.All generations has it's good and bad sides, and good and bad people. The kind of morals and love which this movie showed, shows what the majority of society believed and lived, which made life more sane, not perfectly so, but more so. What today's world is missing out on. "},{"Title":"A priceless Gem...","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This GEM of a film should be digitally remastered to preserve its cinematic integrity. The audio seems a bit washed and scratchy and some video portions skip and flutter a bit. This is a shame considering the quality of this fine production. Freddie Bartholomew is precious in this role and was a fine actor in his own right. There is an immediate chemistry generated between him and C. Aubrey Smith. From the outset there was no clash of generations, in fact quite the contrary, they got along swimmingly! It's just too bad that the Earl shunned Dearest right off, but I guess living alone and being lonely would take its toll on anyone, especially since his son married against his wishes. In any event, there should be more movies with actors of this caliber, especially nowadays when the world could really use a great G rated film without all the animation and special effects. This should be required reading in schools, if for nothing else, for the lesson in humility. GREAT FILM!!! "},{"Title":"A very good film, but a little aged, of course","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Just a brief comment for now, of all the versions that I watched of Little lord Fauntleroy filmatisations, this one in my opinion features the best fitting actors if you compare with the book. And shining gloriously at the top is Sir C. Aubrey Smith (the old Earl - Cedric's grandfather). No other actor that I have seen so far comes closer to portraying the old Earl as gruff and cantankerous as he comes across in the beginning of the book. A slight minus is the low technical quality of the film, but being made in 1936 it is not bad all things considered. I might add that this was the first filmatisation that I watched and thus my opinion might be a little biased but I think that this film is still on the top shelf in terms of overall quality, a true classic. Don't miss it if you have the opportunity to watch it. "},{"Title":"  Freddie Bartholomew Excels In His Best Role ","Date":"29 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" If you would like to watch the most humblest, kindest, generous child ever on screen, then this 1936 adaption of the classic  Little Lord Fauntleroy  is perfect for you. Freddie Bartholomew is absolutely irresistible as the impeccably polite Cedric, a role that seems tailored made just for him. C. Aubrey Smith's performance is strong and convincing, and even a little scene stealing as the cantankerous grandfather, The Earl Of Dorincourt. Dolores Costello is lovely playing the gentle Dearest. Even the Lord's brusque Great Dane gives in to the charms of Ceddie. Add Mickey Rooney, Guy Kibbee, along with a host of superb supporting actors all perfectly portraying their parts and the results are a first class, outstanding film of a classic story. A very delightful and heartwarming picture for all ages to enjoy. A must see for your list of early classic movies. "},{"Title":"Worldwide current interest in FAUNTLEROY! Do a TECH CLEANUP!","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" The above reviewers and this site summarize this great retelling of the still-read Little Lord Fauntleroy book. So I won't summarize, but just briefly add my cheers & jeers.Why does this tale (awash in sentimentality in Francis Hodgson's book of the same name) - yet LIVE ON? Anime and even a Russian version are recent. It's still a great tale!The 1936 LITTLE LORD FAUNTLEROY movie is basically like the 1930's movie HEIDI in one key way...i.e. the GRANDFATHER connection A prodigal people-hating even life-hating old grandfather is brought back to the human race and to his God - by the love of a kind and good grandchild.In this great (but technically damaged) David O. SELZNICK quality family film, ....The old prodigal GRANDFATHER (the great Sir C. Aubrey Smith as the Earl) is brought back to the human race by his kind and good grandchild Cedric Errol (Freddie Bartholomew, the top male 1930's child star). ************** Wade thru the second-rate copy of this movie ...and hope that - the studio does a quality restoration of this great film.NOTE the current worldwide interest in LITTLE LORD FAUNTLEROY should make it worth the studio's while to issue a QUALITY restored edition of 1936 LITTLE LORD FAUNTLEROY. Just make sure to dub it in Russian, Japanese and many other languages! "},{"Title":"Expert rendering of a classic sentimental tale...","Date":"28 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Freddie Bartholomew, the little British lad with the face of an angel and a sweet disposition, is the title character in this classic David O. Selznick version of the famous story. He steals your heart as he plays wonderfully touching scenes with C. Aubrey Smith whereby his character charms the gruff old man and softens his heart forever.The plot has Smith resenting the lad because he thinks so little of the boy's mother, through a misunderstanding of her true character. All of these things are swept aside by the time the story reaches its conclusion, with boy, mother and grandfather all reunited for a happy ending.I have to say that C. Aubrey Smith, the venerable old actor who stole scenes in many a British film, is at his finest in this particular role. Using his bushy eyebrows and monocle for great effect, his expressions of anger, joy, surprise or stern contempt are beautifully executed. What an actor! I don't think he ever showed such range in any other of his memorable character roles.Never for a moment intimidated by his gruff grandfather, Freddie stands up to him in scene after scene, matching him for pure professionalism. He too delivers a standout performance as the polite but resolute lad who worships his loving mother (Dolores Costello) whom he calls Dearest. Mickey Rooney and Guy Kibbe are excellent in good supporting roles.John Cromwell's detailed direction is superb for this charming, if old-fashioned tale played to perfection by Freddie Bartholomew and C. Aubrey Smith.Notice how Cromwell even fleshes out background scenes with a single paper boy working hard to attract buyers while adding reality to a street scene focused on two other characters in the forefront. "},{"Title":"Charming precious film of the 30's","Date":"11 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This film, although almost unbelievably dated, is a work of fine quality and utterly charming. It certainly is something special when it comes to the plot.This is the story of a little boy with a normal life who could have never imagined he was a heir of the title Earl of Dorincourt. Dutty calls this boy. Make no mistake this is an endearing story. This fine-mannered curly-haired little lord captivates the Earl so much that the austere old man has a change of heart. He truly cares for this boy in a way he never though he could care about a child.Freddie Bartholomew's special acting as the Little Lord Fauntleroy is simply divine. Dolores Costello too is divine as Dearest. As for C. Aubrey Smith, his acting as the old Earl is captivating. Mickey Rooney is hilarious as Dick Tipton.This should definitely be on Top 250. "},{"Title":"Sweet 30's classic","Date":"11 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This film is like a little box of surprises. True, it looks and feels as aged as it is, but that's exactly this old-fashioned quality that makes it charming.The plot is an unexpected surprise in the positive sense. This plot is certainly original, unique and unusual, different from other films regardless of the era.The plot concerns a widowed mother and her son Ceddie living in America in the 1880's. Ceddie likes to call her Dearest. That is another surprise. I've never seen a movie with someone calling their mother Dearest before. I find that quite cute. Ceddie seems popular where he lives, everybody likes him (except the bullies, of course) and he is very nice to everyone. Meanwhile, Ceddie's grandfather, the Earl of Dorincourt, wants the boy to be brought to England to be his heir, as he has no more living sons.However, the Earl does not allow his mother to live in his castle. Ceddie gets devastated but Dearest does everything she can to convince him that the man is a very generous person, not touching on subjects that could be traumatic for the kid.The Earl, although reluctant at first, gets deeply impressed with the boy from the start. He, a bitter and cranky old man who always hated children, never thought he could be so fond of a child. Ceddie believes in the Earl's generosity so much that the stern old man really becomes generous. He couldn't have found a better heir. Ceddie is so delicate, so polite and has such aristocratic manners. This cute curly-haired boy has the face of an angel and the posture and manners of a little prince... or lord. He definitely conquers the old man's heart. They have a perfect chemistry from the very start.Even when an information that tells that Ceddie is not the real heir, the Earl is so proud of him that he doesn't want anyone else as his heir. He even gets to see the supposed real heir but dislikes him and thinks he is annoying. His wish is granted and he even allows Ceddie's mother to live in the castle in the ending.Freddie Bartholomew is noble as Ceddie, Dolores Costello is wonderful as Dearest, C. Aubrey Smith has dignity as the Earl of Dorincourt and it's fun to see a very young Mickey Rooney as the bootblack and Ceddie's friend Dick Tipton. Mickey Rooney is like a comic relief, to which the actor's hilarious accent and charismatic acting contribute greatly. Guy Kibbee is fine as Mr. Hobbs... This precious little film should be properly restored to improve its slight audio flaws, as well as its many image scratches and bounces, characteristic flaws in very old movies.Title in Portugal 'O Pequeno Lorde'. "},{"Title":"A thoroughly enjoyable classic.","Date":"31 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Little Lord Fauntleroy is a tale about a lonely but extremely gruff old English Lord discovering that his estranged grandson in America is a wonderful child. It also includes the boy teaching the man humility and gentleness along the way.This is the third version of this story that I have seen and the second one I've seen recently. While I am sure there are other versions of this classic tale out there as well, I can't imagine any of them being better than this lovely 1936 version.Even with the ridiculous casting of the very English-sounding Freddie Bartholomew in the lead (he's supposed to be an American), the film is just wonderful. C. Aubry Smith is delightful as Bartholomew's gruff grandfather, but everyone else in the film also seemed so well-cast. This, combined with great sets, direction and the full David O. Selznick touch make this a terrific film for all ages. One not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Selznick International Pictures Takes Off First Class","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" In 1880s Brooklyn, prissy Freddie Bartholomew (as Cedric Ceddie Erroll) celebrates his birthday by receiving a beautiful highwheeler from widowed mother Dolores Costello (as Dearest Erroll). When young Mr. Bartholomew takes the bicycle out for a ride, he is roughed-up by local bullies. But, Bartholomew fights back; and, he receives help from a swell pal, shoeshine boy Mickey Rooney (as Dick Tipton).Dusting themselves off, the lads listen to grocer Guy Kibbee (as Silas Hobbs) rail against British aristocracy, after learning of their arrival in town. The British are coming, ironically, to take Bartholomew home to England. As it turns out, Ms. Costello's once denounced late husband fathered the only heir to the title Little Lord Fauntleroy. And, Bartholomew must prepare to inherit grandfather C. Aubrey Smith's Earlship.In England, young Bartholomew (representing American idealism) clashes with gruff Earl Smith (representing British aristocracy). While that storyline reaches an obvious conclusion, there are others that make this film significantly more interesting than expected. Based on the classic story by (underrated) writer Frances Hodgson Burnett, it conveys some of the novel's nuances well, cleverly intertwining class, sex, and politics.In the 1930s, nobody could put a production together like David O. Selznick, and this is one of his best. As usual, they start with a perfectly cast lead. In one of his best parts, Bartholomew fits Little Lord Fauntleroy like a glove; he's even better suited to the role than was Mary Pickford (in 1921's version). Bartholomew was riding high after supporting Greta Garbo in Selznick's masterfully realized Anna Karenina (1935).Mr. Selznick liked to lure legends back before the camera, and succeeds with Ms. Costello; certainly, film-goers in 1936 couldn't help but be impressed with her billing - Dolores (a star on her own) Costello (as in Maurice) Barrymore (as in John) - the latter was used despite the fact that Dolores had recently divorced John Barrymore. Times change; nowadays, C. Aubrey Smith will raise more critics' bushy eyebrows.You also get Mr. Kibbee, providing seasoned counterpoint for the upper-crusted Mr. Smith, and similarly dignified Henry Stephenson (as Havisham). Kibbee's last words reveal the story's one real downer, but he handles the role expertly (and, you see the seeds of Bartholomew's likely post-pubescent rebellion). Watching old/young soul-mates Kibbee and Mr. Rooney perform together is a delight; and, Rooney is likewise marvelous.By the way, note director John Cromwell's simple, but stately, direction; smoothly tracking, he moves the story perfectly. Mr. Cromwell and the Selznick crew make the film into one of the era's better-looking productions. With photography by no less than Charles Rosher and music by Max Steiner, it's unfortunate this lost Best Picture received no award notices. If Selznick produced it at MGM, there'd have been nominations.The well-staged street scenes and beautiful sets are obviously highlights, with the opening sequences most impressive - but also noteworthy are simpler scenes. For example, later in the production, as Rooney and Kibbee shine each other's shoes, a singular paperboy is added to the background. Note the horse-drawn carriages, storefronts, and passersby throughout - this film is richly detailed, but never over-decorated.Taking a trip further down the credits, watch for great expressions from maid Una O'Connor (as Mary); the extraordinary Constance Collier (as Constanzia Lorridale), who inspired Joan Crawford and other legends; bratty Jackie Searl (as Tom Tipton), who gave Bartholomew a run for his money; lovable scene-enhancing Jessie Ralph (selling apples); and, listen for Helen Flint (as Minna Tipton) to exclaim, What a hole! ********* Little Lord Fauntleroy (4/2/36) John Cromwell ~ Freddie Bartholomew, Dolores Costello, Mickey Rooney, Guy Kibbee "}{"Title":"A great though sentimental classic","Date":"16 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Little Lord Fauntleroy was originally a wildly successful children's novel written in the 1880s by Frances Hodgson Burnett. It's the story of a fatherless New York lad, Ceddie, who lives with his widowed mother after the death of his English father, who came from an aristocratic family. Unexpected deaths in that family result in Ceddie being designated the heir apparent to an Earldom, and he and his mother go to England so he can begin preparations to assume his inheritance. Plot complications arise from the prejudice of the old Earl, Ceddie's grandfather, against Ceddie's American mother, and the appearance of a pretender who seems to have a better claim to the Earldom. Both complications are resolved, the latter albeit by an egregiously unlikely coincidence, and a happy ending is granted to all concerned.The book's success led to over a century of film, television, and theater versions, of which the 1936 film directed by John Cromwell is undoubtedly the best known. This is a classic Hollywood Golden Age sentimental favorite, with a cast of old movie stalwarts you will have seen often before, including Freddie Bartholomew, Mickey Rooney, Dolores Costello, Guy Kibbee (in perhaps his best role,) C. Aubrey Smith, Una O'Connor, and others -- some of the names may be unfamiliar to you, but if you watch many classic Hollywood films, you'll recognize all the faces.Until recently, this film has been available only in very inferior versions on TV, VHS, and DVD, but in 2012 Kino/Lorber issued a Blu- Ray DVD (I think there may also be a standard one issued) which is advertised as an Authorized edition from the estate of David O. Selznick from the collection of George Eastman House, mastered in HD from a original nitrate 35 mm print. At 101 minutes, I assume it's uncut. That print isn't pristine though resolution and contrast are fine, there are some streaks and many specks, and the sound track is definitely tinny, not enough so to obscure the dialog, but the fine Max Steiner score does sound a bit distorted. All in all, this is probably the vehicle of choice now to watch this film on.If you've seen this film before only on a probably poor quality and incomplete TV version and liked it, you'll enjoy seeing it properly on the Kino DVD. And if you haven't seen it, I'm sure you'll find it worth watching if you like classic Hollywood films, or if you're just in the mood for an old fashioned, outrageously sentimental movie which will leave you grinning through your tears. "},{"Title":"Lovely story--","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Little Lord Fauntleroy (1936) Freddie Bartholomew, C. Aubrey Smith, Delores Costello, Guy Kibbee. Made from an 1880's novel by Frances Hodgson Burnett, this is a loving, sweet story of a fatherless boy and his mother and how they come into their own. The grandfather is gruff and unforgiving of his son for marrying a foreigner and going off to America. But all is put right by the sweet grandson, who loves his father's dearest as he calls his mother. Called back to England to take his rightful place at the manor, little Lord Fauntleroy is the pride and joy of everyone on the estate in short order. A wonderful film to this day for all who have a heart and are willing to go along with a world of make believe. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Freddie Gets A Title","Date":"9 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" The famous children's novel later made into a play is a vehicle that is perfectly suited for MGM's British born child star Freddie Bartholomew. Little Lord Fauntleroy can well be said to be his perfect role during his childhood years with Leo the Lion.Little Lord Fauntleroy was first published in 1885 and it concerns young Cedric Erroll who is living in Brooklyn in reduced circumstances with his mother due to the recent death of his father. Who as it turns out was the last surviving heir to an earldom back across the pond. Which brings Henry Stephenson over from the United Kingdom to tell Dolores Costello and her son Freddie Bartholomew that the young lad is now the new Earl to be of Dorrincourt once the old Earl, C. Aubrey Smith has passed on.Smith is one crusty old dude, but if you had lived as long as he had and seen all your sons predecease you, you might be bitter as well. And set in your ways and prejudices. One of the conditions is that Dolores Costello can come over as well, but she has to live separate and apart from her child as the Earl of Dorrincourt does not like those rebellious colonials and never forgave his son for marrying one. But cute and mannered young Freddie charms the old guy as only Freddie Bartholomew could back in those days and Smith warms up to the lad. However then another claimant comes on the horizon, Helen Flint says that she was the wife of an older deceased son and she's got a son by him played by Jackie Searl.Rounding out the principal players are Guy Kibbee who is the local grocer where Costello and Bartholomew live, in Brooklyn of all places and Mickey Rooney a pal from those mean streets who actually hold the key to the inheritance problem.Little Lord Fauntleroy was old fashioned even for 1936, it is set perfectly during the time of 1885. With the UK and USA going through two hot World Wars and one Cold War, the prejudices shown by Smith and Kibbee who starts out as a big Anglophobe despite liking Bartholomew are quaint to say the least. But the film does have a nostalgic charm about it though I daresay the play made from the original novel hasn't been too much revived. Probably the novel itself is still on a reading list in some public schools. The film is a great example of why both Freddie Bartholomew and Mickey Rooney were held in such esteem by the movie going public. MGM teamed them in a few films during these years, Captains Courageous and The Devil Is A Sissy also made good money for the coffers of Louis B. Mayer. One can still enjoy this film today. "},{"Title":"Not For The Tough Minded.","Date":"25 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" The book by Frances Hodgson Burnett was published in the 1880s and carried a simple message humanitarianism is better than arrogance. This is William James' distinction between the tough minded and the tender minded. I must be one of the former because I found it a nonpareil of sentimental and inelegant pap. Pardon me while I light an expensive cigar and stomp the cat.Sheesh, how triumph follows tragedy and vice versa. Freddy Bartholomew is a nine-year-old boy living in genteel poverty with his loving mother (Dearest) in a crummy neighborhood in Brooklyn. But not the real Brooklyn of the 1880s. This is a fairyland Brooklyn where there is no garbage or horse manure on the streets, and where Freddy's pal, Mickey Rooney, only betrays his lack of breeding by saying erl instead of oil and never busts Freddy in the snot locker. Freddy loves his pals, who include the greengrocer, and everybody loves Freddy, just as love loves to love love.I almost burst into sobs when a lawyer arrives from England and informs Freddy that, since he is the only surviving grandson of the Earl of Dorincourt, he's invited to come to England, join his grandfather in the family mansion, and be inculcated into the aristoi. The present Earl is a bilious and bushy old man who knows no pity except for himself. He hates Freddy's mother and she must live elsewhere, not in the mansion. He treats his tenant farmers the way they treat their dirt.Freddy, though, is a winsome little lad, naive and generous. To a fault, one might say. And before you know it, Freddy has the crotchety old curmudgeon learning how to be generous and kind -- in an old fashioned way, of course. He's not going to give the family silverware to the poor. He's just not going to berate the servants quite as much.Then tragedy strikes, and just when it seems things are going so well. Another woman shows up with a lollipop-sucking son who is older than Freddy, and SHE claims to be the first wife of the son of the current Earl. And, believe me, this babe is a real wasp. She laughs and taunts the white-haired old man who has grown to love Freddy, just as everyone else loves Freddy.Do things turn out all right? Is there a happy ending? Doesn't it prompt you to weep when you hear Auld Lang Syne played adagio? On a solo violin? Well, Freddy Bartholomew is unquestionably cute in appearance, speech, and demeanor although, to be sure, a little fist fight in the schoolyard might have done him a power of good. Actually, the illustrations in Hodgson's book started a sartorial fad and kids began to dress like Little Lord Fauntleroy in outfits that resembled little sailor suits with lace collars. The fad lasted for years. I believe there's a photo of young Ernest Hemingway floating around out there somewhere in the ether. The character of Little Lord Fauntleroy is winning, precisely because it's so improbable. The whole movie is as fantastic as The Wizard of Oz. C. Aubrey Smith is great as the grumbling old Earl, only reluctantly won over by his new grandson. Dolores Costello as Dearest always looks as if she's wearing a brave smile to keep from breaking into sobs of some sort, grief or gratitude -- it doesn't matter.Like so much sentimental material it has its charm. But that's about all it has, sentiment and charm. There's not a laugh in it, and there's no edginess to it. We know at once that the mistaken people will realize their errors, that the bad people will be punished or thwarted, and that the good people will be rewarded. A bit of edge might not have hurt. Have Freddy sneak a few puffs on a corn silk cigarette or something. "},{"Title":"LITTLE LORD FAUNTLEROY (John Cromwell, 1936) **1/2","Date":"22 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" I was familiar with the well-regarded 1980 made-for-TV remake with Alec Guinness and Ricky Schroder of this children's classic. I wasn't expecting this much earlier version to be inferior &#150; especially given that it was a David O. Selznick production &#150; but, as a matter of fact, I think it was just that! The cast is typically well-chosen &#150; Freddie Bartholomew, C. Aubrey Smith, Dolores Costello, Guy Kibbee, Mickey Rooney, Una O'Connor &#150; but the film as a whole fails to rise to the level of contemporary Selznick titles in a similar vein, like David COPPERFIELD (1935) and THE ADVENTURES OF TOM SAWYER (1938). Bartolomew was the top male child actor of his time (before he was superseded by co-star Rooney!) in such contemporary film adaptations of children's classics as the afore-mentioned David COPPERFIELD, CAPTAINS COURAGEOUS (1937), KIDNAPPED (1938), SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON (1940) and TOM BROWN'S SCHOOLDAYS (1940).The main problem here is that the story of a young New Yorker at the turn of the century who finds himself living with his aristocratic (and tyrannical) English grandfather &#150; where his position as heir to the title is questioned by another child, subsequently exposed as an impostor &#150; just isn't all that interesting, and frankly quite corny (especially Freddie's penchant for constantly calling his mother Dearest and the way the English-hating Kibbee eventually learns to tolerate them). Even so, I would still be interested in catching the Silent 1921 version with Mary Pickford playing both mother and child!Ultimately, producer Selznick, director Cromwell and actor C. Aubrey Smith would, thankfully, fare much better on their next collaboration &#150; the definitive screen version of another classic story, THE PRISONER OF ZENDA (1937; with which I intend to re-acquaint myself in the coming days). "}]