[{"Title":"It's like dancing on air...","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"49 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  TOP HAT is the quintessential Fred Astaire/Ginger Rogers film--it might be the first of their nine pairings together that I've seen, but already I can tell just what it is that makes 'Fred & Ginger' almost a brand-name everywhere. Neither Fred Astaire nor Ginger Rogers wanted to get too stereotyped as being the other's partner (Rogers especially took roles specifically to get away from being typecast as one half of a dancing team), but watching them dance, you really couldn't imagine their names coming apart in conversation. It will always have to be 'Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers', because their dancing takes your breath away. The fact that it is incredibly technically complicated is itself astounding... what makes it all the better is that they make it look so darn easy and natural.Astaire plays Jerry Travers, a professional dancer who meets and falls in love with Dale Tremont (Rogers). He tries very hard to woo her, by filling her room with flowers and singing her through a storm (the beautiful Isn't This A Lovely Day). Dale, unfortunately, mistakes him for her friend Madge's husband, Horace Hardwick (played with acerbic relish by Edward Everett Horton). The comedy of errors continues for most of the film, since Dale continually mistakes Jerry for Horace (regaling Madge with 'Horace's' attempts at romancing her), and her costume designer Alberto Beddini is therefore convinced that Horace is the one he must 'kill'--so as to avenge Ms. Tremont.The plotline itself is slightly fantastical, littered with just enough eccentric characters to have you falling off your seat laughing at some of the things they do and say. Erik Rhodes as Beddini, for example, has some of the best lines in the film--I'm a-rich and a-pretty... He practically steals the show, which is hard given the presence of veteran scene-stealers like Horton and Helen Broderick as Madge Hardwick. Although the comedy of errors arising from the mistaken identity wears a bit thin after a while, it *does* provide some absolutely top-notch comic moments. Take the scene when Madge urges Dale to dance with Jerry--the look of utter *un*comprehension on Dale's face when Madge keeps urging them to dance closer is most certainly one for the DVD pause button. ;)Aside from the dancing (which is sublime, and undescribable--'Fred & Ginger' is something you have to see in action for yourself to believe), the score is brilliant. Irving Berlin has penned some of the most beautiful songs ever, and here we have just a small but certainly representative sampling of them, with Isn't This A Lovely Day, Top Hat, White Tie, and Tails, and, of course, Cheek To Cheek... a classic by any standard.What Fred & Ginger lack in palpable, explosive chemistry (along the lines of that shared by Tracy and Hepburn, or Bogart and Bacall), however, they more than make up for in their perfect synchronicity with each other--they're perfectly in tune through every dance sequence, and that's a delight, and amazing, to see. Overall the film is a bit uneven, coasting along on the charm of its dancing leads. But it's most certainly one that's worth watching, quite simply so you can finally say that you've seen a Fred/Ginger movie, and now know what all that fuss was about. Because, goodness, there really is nothing quite so magical as when Astaire takes Rogers in his arms and spins her around a dance floor, defying gravity and all laws of motion. Physics means nothing when it comes to these two... "},{"Title":"Fred and Ginger at their very best","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"35 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Top Hat has everything to make a perfect musical - great leading stars in Astaire and Rogers, good character support from Edward Everett Horton, Helen Broderick, and Eric Blore, fabulous numbers (Top Hat, White Tie and Tails, Isn't it a Lovely Day, The Picolina, and Cheek to Cheek), an hilarious plot of mistaken identity, and breathtaking designs which transport you into a Hollywood fantasy of Venice.  This was the stars' greatest teaming and the film packs a great deal of energy, fun, and sex all these years later.  A true musical classic and one of RKO's finest. "},{"Title":"Simply Reeks With Class","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The stage star, Jerry Travers, disturbs a young woman's sleep by tap-dancing on the floor of a hotel room directly above hers.  The young woman is Dale Tremont, a beautiful fashion model.  In the course of the movie plot, by way of London, Venice and the usual snags of mistaken identity, the two youngsters flirt, dance and fall in love.Fred Astaire was a huge Broadway star and social lion long before he ever saw the inside of a film studio.  A lucky pairing with Ginger Rogers (a film star in her own right) in Flying Down To Rio (1933) led on to a series of smash hits throughout the 1930's.  Top Hat was the third film the couple made together, and for this one RKO Radio started getting serious, bringing in the legendary Irving Berlin to write the sparkling songs.This picture was preceded a year earlier by The Gay Divorcee, and is a repeat prescription of that successful formula - wealthy, elegant characters, frivolous lifestyles, light-hearted love and sumptuous dance numbers.  It is not merely the storyline of 'Divorcee' that is repeated here - alongside Fred and Ginger, several of the cast members reappear. Edward Everett Horton was the lawyer Egbert in the earlier film, and here he is Horace the impresario, but is still Fred's bumbling buddy.  Eric Blore was the wisecracking waiter, now he is the sarcastic valet Erik Rhodes plays Italian buffoons in both films - Tonetti in 'Divorcee', Beddini here. Watch out for the girl florist ... it's Lucille Ball, two years into a very long and busy showbiz career.The film's first number is Fancy Free, an amiable little ditty which sets the prevailing tone of easy gaiety.  Fred leads into it very nicely, his speech becoming more and more rhythmic until he lifts off into song.It's A Lovely Day has a great tune, witty choreography, a thunderstorm and a superb bandstand set.  Yet the song everyone associates with this movie is Top Hat, White Tie And Tails it doesn't involve Ginger at all, but Fred makes up for that by being in breathtaking form, his performance exuding athleticism, grace, poise and assurance.Ginger gets her turn to sing with The Piccolino, a song designed to accord with the plot's Venetian setting.  It is the weakest number in the movie, and Ginger sings it without conviction.In order for the plot knots to unravel, it is necessary for Horace to be kept apart from his wife Madge for 24 hours, even though they haven't met for weeks and they are staying in the same hotel.  This is highly artificial, but such flaws are rendered negligible by the sweeping climax of Cheek To Cheek, the splendid finale in which Fred and Ginger get to dance as lovers.Verdict - Immortal stylish music and dance. "},{"Title":"You can't help but smile watching this movie.","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I'm only just now beginning to realize how silly the plot and some of the comedy was in this movie.  When I watched it, it was perfectly wonderful, and I smiled all the way through.  Fred and Ginger, of course, are perfect, whether dancing so memorably to the likes of Isn't It a Lovely Day and Cheek to Cheek or pitching woo.  Edward Everett Horton, Eric Blore, and Helen Broderick kept it moving with their throughly entertaining comedy relief.  Even almost 65 years after its premeire, it's still in tip-top condition, both in the print and in its impact, on first viewing, at least.  (I'm afraid to watch it again, for fear the impact will be destroyed.)I've seen almost all of Fred and Ginger's pictures since viewing this.  Some are good, some less so, and all have their moments of excellence.  But none of them matched this one in my mind for sheer feel-goodness.  The ones that came closest were Swing Time, Shall We Dance, and The Story of Vernon and Irene Castle and The Barkleys of Broadway, the last two because they had quite plausible stories, (and in the case of Castle, one based on real life).  But still, Top Hat is Fred and Ginger at their best, and hopefully will always stay that way in my mind. "},{"Title":"As light as the feathers on Ginger's dress...","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" If you're a fan of FRED ASTAIRE and GINGER ROGERS and their predictable screwball comedies of the '30s, you'll find this one is easy to take. First of all, the score by Irving Berlin has a variety of catchy tunes although I can't say it's his greatest, and all of the mistaken identity plot is performed with such grace by the famous dancing duo and their marvelous supporting cast that it's all as light as the feathers on Ginger's Cheek to Cheek dress.Speaking of which--for me, the Cheek to Cheek number is worth watching just to see how skillful the two dance the number although fully aware that Astaire objected strenuously to Ginger's feathered dress. Nevertheless, it's the dancing highlight of the film, much better than the Piccolino number that is used for the finale.Eric Blore and Erik Rhodes outdo themselves in great comic support. Blore we almost take for granted at this point, but Rhodes with his silly Italian accent is a scene-stealer too. His Bettini, the dressmaker, offers some of the heartiest chuckles.Astaire is top flight here--graceful, athletic, and young enough to be seen as a dancing Cary Grant--and Ginger matches him every dancing step of the way. She's particularly delightful in the rainy park sequence for Isn't It A Lovely Day? And for the Cheek to Cheek sequence she has a braided hairdo that gives her an ultra-sophisticated, princess-like look. When she and Astaire dance, they can do no wrong.He, of course, is more skillful with a song than she is, his voice perfectly able to deliver all the Irving Berlin numbers assigned to him, while she barely gets by with her rendition of the Piccolino.Great fun to watch--rainy day or not. And those art deco backgrounds for hotel rooms and Venice are a knockout. The pristine print of the film shown on TCM recently really made them stand out in glowing splendor. "},{"Title":"Fine Entertainment, With Everything But A Plot","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This classic is fine entertainment with plenty of everything - humor, singing & dancing, good writing, and lavish sets and costumes.  The only thing missing is a plot, but too much story might have taken attention away from everything else that makes Top Hat enjoyable to watch.Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers are talented and charming as a somewhat star-crossed couple.  The whole story line is that Ginger thinks Fred is someone else (who is married instead of single) and thus misinterprets and rejects his advances.  Their many abilities and a fine script make this paper-thin plot seem not only acceptable but amusing.  Edward Everett Horton is both funny and indispensable as Fred's friend (and the man whom Ginger thinks Fred is), and the rest of the supporting players are also quite good.This is the kind of carefully produced classic that offers many reasons for watching - see it if you have the chance, whether or not you usually like musicals.  "},{"Title":"Fancy Free","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" TOP HAT (RKO Radio, 1935), directed by Mark Sandrich, marks the fourth teaming of Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers, and considered by many to be their best collaboration. A reworking in plot from their earlier outing of The Gay Divorcée (1934), TOP HAT, in fact, the most admired of the two, could easily pass as a partial remake, rehash or possibly a sequel, mainly due to the sameness in the casting of Edward Everett Horton, Erik Rhodes and Eric Blore from The Gay Divorcée also directed by Mark Sandrich. Stepping in for Alice Brady is Helen Broderick, whose deadpan humor and dry-wit personality proved more amusing than Brady's dim-witted character. Also similar to The Gay Divorcée is Ginger Rogers singing one song near its conclusion while Astaire provides most of the vocalization.The story opens in London. Jerry Travers (Fred Astaire) is an American dancer (what else!) who is to perform in one of Horace Hardwick's (Edward Everett Horton) upcoming musical shows. They share a hotel suite together where Jerry has an urge to sing and dance. His tap dancing disturbs a sleeping patron in the room below. Dale Tremont (Ginger Rogers), the upset hotel guest in question, comes up to the room above to register her complaint. After Jerry meets his complainer, he immediately falls in love with her, and decides to soft-shoe her to sleep by dancing on sand after she returns to her room. During his stay in London, he pursues Dale whenever he can, and sweeps her off her feet by dancing with her in the gazebo in the park during a rain storm. Because she doesn't know his name, she affectionately calls him Adam. Dale, who is to later meet with her best friend, Madge Hardwick (Helen Broderick) in Venice, Italy, discovers she's playing matchmaker, hoping to pair her with her husband's friend, Jerry, while, in turn, Dale believes Jerry to be Horace. Things get really complex as Dale mistakingly believes Made to be pushing her husband over to her while poor Horace, the innocent bystander, is being being threatened by Dale's dressmaker, Alberto Bedini (Erik Rhodes) and given a black eye by Madge for no apparent reason. Also adding to the confusion is Bates (Eric Blore), Horace's faithful servant, assigned by him to follow Dale Tremont and find out more about this gold digger out to trap Jerry, and ....Aside from TOP HAT being long on laughs and complications becoming more confusing and the story moves on, the film takes time for five classic dance numbers composed by the legendary Irving Berlin No Strings, I'm Fancy Free (sung and danced by Fred Astaire); Isn't It a Lovely Day to be Caught in the Rain (sung by Astaire/ danced by Astaire and Ginger Rogers); Top Hat (sung by Astaire); Cheek to Cheek (sung by Astaire/ danced by Astaire and Rogers); and The Piccolino (sung by Ginger Rogers and chorus/ danced by Astaire and Rogers); and The Piccolino (reprise, finale). Of those numbers, Cheek to Cheek remains a true highlight, a scene clipped in many documentaries pertaining to movie musicals or Astaire and Rogers themselves. Cheek to Cheek was nominated for best song of 1935. Although it didn't win, it remains as memorable as the Astaire and Rogers dance itself.Any similarities between THE GAY Divorcée and TOP HAT are purely coincidental, but in many ways an improvement. Both films are not only the most famous and televised of the Astaire and Rogers musicals, but each presents itself like a stage play. The only twist here is that TOP HAT, which borrows from The Gay Divorcée is actually an original screenplay (by Dwight Taylor), written especially for the leading pair. Other than the horse and buggy ride on the London streets, the focal point remains mostly in the hotel suites, lobbies, dining areas and a brief ride on the gondola. TOP HAT gives the impression to be the most lavishly scaled musical ever released by RKO. It does. Even Ginger Rogers' dresses are glittering and rich in appearance, right down to her sleeping attire. A musical fantasy by way of costumes (how many women sleep with nightgowns flashier than a dinner dress?), TOP HAT has Astaire singing and dancing during portions of the plot, a common practice musical stage shows, though the title tune, Top Hat, White Tie and Tails is the only one given the production number treatment played to a theater audience on screen.TOP HAT, available on video cassette and/or DVD, and formerly shown on American Movie Classics, most commonly found on Turner Classic Movies, is fortunate to have certain cut scenes restored. During the years of commercial television back in the 1960s, '70s and '80s, the sequence involving Bates (Eric Blore) insulting an Italian police official whom he believes doesn't speak a word of English, leading to his arrest, was among the missing. Whether seeing TOP HAT at 100 minutes, or in shorter reissue 93 minute prints, the movie itself is entertaining from start to finish. And if the blonde flower clerk in the London sequence early in the story looks familiar, look again. That's Lucille Ball, the future queen of television. (****) "},{"Title":"Flying down to Venice","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Top Hat is one of the best films Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers made together. Jay Sandrich, the director of most of their films knew what to bring to the story to make it perfect. It also helps the genial Irving Berlin was on hand to write some of his most beautiful songs to be sung in Fred Astaire's usual impeccable style. The sets were designed by Van Nest Polglase, who is equally at home showing Manhattan interiors as well as the Venetian fantasy sets.Much has been said in this forum about the film, so we'll only add that Fred Astaire's Jerry was one of his best creations. Ginger Rogers as Dale Tremont, the high fashion model, shows an exquisite figure and is fine in keeping pace with Fred Astaire's dancing cheek to cheek. The other best thing about Top Hat are Edward Everett Horton, Helen Broderick, and Eric Blore. These three character actors are at their finest in the film. They make everything work because they are always there to lend a hand for the stars to shine without being on the way.Top Hat is a happy film that keeps delighting viewers any time one is lucky enough to fall under its spell. "},{"Title":"Sublime Soufflé","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Top Hat is a terrific musical about mistaken identity that pushes the joke to the limit but never takes it self very seriously. Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers are perfect as actors, dancers, and pals in this engaging comedy with several great dance numbers.Astaire does a great solo (with male chorus line) to Top Hat and teams with Rogers in The Piccolino, Isn't It a Lovely Day, and Cheek to Cheek. All excellent. During The Piccolino number they seem to be having so much fun it's contagious and it seems like the entire number is done in ONE TAKE! Co-starring are 4 great actors who all turn in splendid performances. Helen Broderick is Madge, the frustrated and wise-cracking wife. Edward Everett Horton is Horace, the henpecked but conniving husband. Eric Blore is the valet, and Erik Rhodes is Beddini. Each gets his/her turn in the spotlight. Broderick was the perfect older woman as sidekick, Horton and Blore are a great comedy team of scene stealers, and Rhodes has a ball fracturing English. Lucille Ball has a bit part as the florist's assistant.Central of course are Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire. The Cheek to Cheek number is a classic and is fun to watch the feathers fly off Ginger's dress. My favorite is The Piccolino, especially when it breaks into a swing number and the dancers can really cut loose. Great fun.One drawback is the UGLY set decorations that are in the same style no matter where they are. It's all that white-on-white stuff with hideous Greek decals and floral sprays everywhere. Even the scenes in Venice are all white right down to the gondolas. And just why are people swimming in the canals? "},{"Title":"The real star of the movie","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  When whipping up the froth of a musical comedy most creators and commentators forget that fateful second word . . . COMEDY.  Not to take away from Astaire & Rogers' beautiful balletic grace, but no one ever gave more comedy more modestly yet more professionally than Edward Everett Horton.  His triple-barreled name alone suggests haughty dignity and sniffing puritanism, and his role in this film, as in so many others, gives him ample scope to screw up his mouth in petty disdain, look aghast at social blunders, and sputter in disbelief over the foibles of others while generously ignoring his own idiocies.  Horton is a reactor, one which boosts a fairly pedestrian plot to the Moon & beyond.  Like Margret DuMont with the Marx Brothers, there is something about the pernickity Horton that begs us to tilt his top hat and fling a banana peel his way just for the delightful reaction we are sure of getting.  Perplexed or chagrined, the hatchet-faced Horton is a monument to the lost art of supporting clown -- those dumb bunnies and prissy busybodies that used to inhabit movies and give them life & breath even when the big-shot stars were off the screen.  Horton had impeccable timing in delivering a line or flashing a double-take -- you feel he could just as easily count the nano-seconds between the neutron pulses of an atom.  If he seems to intrude too much into the musical numbers of this movie it's simply because the director/editor must have been overly fond of his coy mugging.  I recommend that music lovers rewatch this film and concentrate on Edward Everett Horton.  Your attention will be well-rewarded with deep chuckles and an abiding affection for this New England zany. "}{"Title":"Blues-chasing Musical","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Treat yourself to a dandy funfest, called, Top Hat. Fred and Ginger are on in one of their all-time smash hits, dancing superbly, singing up a storm, and acting the heck out of their fluffy, delightful roles. The double-take master, Edward Everett Horton is Fred's rich-pal producer; sardonic Helen Broderick is Ginger's best friend, Madge; and persnickety Eric Blore is Everett's manservant, Bates.  But it's the fantistic Erik Rhodes as the Italiano dressmaker, Alberto Beddini, who steals the show.Mark Sandrich's direction, Astaire and Hermes Pan's choreography, Thomas Little's set decoration, and Irving Berlin's score, are faultless.It all adds up to a laugh-a-minute, eye-popping bouquet from RKO Radio Pictures.  See it in a full theatrical house with an audience who appreciates the period, the style, and the message (Just sit back, relax, and enjoy) and you're in for special treat.  Raise you glass of vino, and sing the Piccolino.   "},{"Title":"A Very Entertaining Astaire and Rogers Showcase","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Of the ten films Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers made together Top Hat is the one that best demonstrates their many talents and which presents a memorable impression of their unique, inspiring partnership. Although they were great dancers, they were really so much more Their work represented a standard of excellence, it conveyed an image of exciting, beautiful romance, and they made it seem as though the fantasy world of Hollywood was accessible to everyone.The story lines for all ten films are weak. Some have more credibility than others, but even the pseudo-biographical films made later in their partnership are contrived, overly sentimental, and trite. RKO cranked-out a script like Top Hat simply to accommodate the hot team of Astaire and Rodgers. They didn't allow time to do better. In addition to the stars, good direction and fine work from both the supporting actors and the various technical people transformed the lean script into satisfying entertainment.Ginger Rogers brings a great deal to the shallow women she is asked to portray. Her acting accounts for much of the success of the Astaire and Rogers movies because she approaches every line, every idiotic incident, every emotion with the same professional integrity she would give to the finest material. She is a hard working, disciplined actress, always completely in character, and in turn, completely believable. In great part, we believe the stories simply because of her.Her singing and dancing skills are excellent, although not as dynamic as her acting ability. Fred is definitely the lead in singing and dancing. That she is able to follow Fred's dancing with both technical and artistic agility attests to her talent and even more to her professionalism. She earned a reputation as Fred's greatest partner because, on many levels, she can approach his greatness. They work as one toward a common goal.Fred Astaire was an established Broadway star when he began working in Hollywood. He had already defined his artistic persona and had concentrated on three major areas Demeanor, Musicianship, and Dancing. Fred is a most unlikely romantic lead. He has comely, but ordinary looks that diminish under close examination; too high a forehead, too large features, too pale and small-framed. Yet, on the screen, he projects a charming, elite image that more than compensates for the banality of his physical person. These qualities derive from Fred having developed the most exquisite manners. He is the most poised, the most polite, the most confident of men. Those fine traits, combined with his everyday looks, make him a romantic lead anyone can believe in, by association as well as by example.He also developed an exceptional ability to interpret music. He finds everything the composer has written. It's not just a matter of reading the notes or of keeping the right tempo. He finds the essence of the song, its deepest meaning. He has a pleasant, small voice with which he sings splendidly. Every word is given full value, both musically and literally. The music is fully appreciated and fully communicated. In Top Hat his excellent musical talent is beautifully demonstrated in the song, Cheek to Cheek. Written in a high register, Fred scales the music with impressive virtuosity, never failing to convey the full meaning of the song.His gift with music extends with perfect appropriateness to dance. As a choreographer and dancer his work is one hundred percent original. His ability to find the very core of the music creates interpretation that is never obvious, never expected, and seeded with a genius that is unparalleled, highly aesthetic, and always inspiring. It is unfortunate that he has been labeled a perfectionist because it is a misunderstanding of his objectives. The word perfectionist tends to have an underlying negativism. It suggests triviality, fanaticism, rigidity. None of those factors exist in the work of Fred Astaire. His objective was, perhaps to some degree unconsciously, to achieve a level of quality that equaled his genius. In order to get to that point, it was necessary to rehearse and rehearse, to make everything just right, in the same way that all the stokes of a Matisse are as they need to be, or all the chisel strikes of a Michelangelo create a unified artistic achievement.In Top Hat, when Fred finishes singing the lyrics in the Cheek to Cheek scene he and Ginger segue to an open area where they perform a beautiful, fascinating dance. It is a highly romantic sequence, performed with impressive technical skill. At the end, Ginger's reaction clearly shows how it wasn't just dancing, but a type of love-making that satisfied the mind and the soul. It is notable how much they were able to communicate symbolically through movement.For me, Top Hat showcases the many talents of Fred and Ginger more fully than the other nine films they made together. It also has excellent production values. However, it should be noted that the other films also have exceptional dance numbers of equal, and sometimes, even greater merit than those in Top Hat. It is definitely worth seeing all ten of the Astaire and Rogers films, preferably in chronological order. "},{"Title":"Delightful Confusion and Musical Numbers","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The dancer Jerry Travers (Fred Astaire) meets his friend and producer Horace Hardwick (Edward Everett Horton) at the conservative Thackeray Club in London and Horace invites Jerry to spend the night in his hotel. Jerry is excited with the show and has a dance attack, tap dancing in the room and disturbing the guest Dale Tremont (Ginger Rogers) that is lodged in the room below. Dale goes upstairs to complain against the noise and meets Jerry and they flirt with each other.On the next morning, Dale mistakes the single Jerry for the married Horace and becomes upset with her flirtation. When she learns that Horace is the husband of her friend Helen Broderick (Madge Hardwick), there are many complications and confusions in the lives of the two friends.Top Hat is another wonderful film from the Golden Age of Hollywood, with delightful confusion and musical numbers. The gags are very funny and the song Cheek to Cheek was nominated to the 1936 Oscar in the category Best Music, Original Song. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) O Picolino "},{"Title":"Top Hat Tops in Movie Musicals!","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I do not watch musicals to hear music. For a musical to be enjoyable, the music should be an embellishment of a story that is otherwise fun to watch. Dancing is the same thing. Beginning sometime in the 50's most musicals leave me flat - precisely because they don't have a good storyline, because they emphasize music to the detriment of the story, and because they routinely interrupt the flow of the film to just burst into song. There are some wonderful, notable exceptions, of course - Singing in the Rain, 7 Brides for 7 Brothers, My Fair Lady, The Sound of Music... But give me the musicals of the Golden Age of Hollywood any time; the story always seems to come first - just think of The Wizard of Oz (the musical that nobody ever thinks of as a musical).Give me a musical that features Fred and Ginger. In fact give me almost any film with EITHER Fred or Ginger - especially Ginger! And if the story is predictable, who cares? It is the journey (the telling) not arriving at the destination (the predictable ending) that counts. This is the key to storytelling - cinematic and otherwise - that both film makers and movie goers understood and appreciated when Hollywood was the Dream Factory. A film entertains by the deftness with which a story is told - the cleverness of dialog, the development of characters and their interaction. It is not necessarily a bad thing that the outcome is predictable.Neither is it necessarily a good thing that a story is unpredictable; Hollywood has since produced a lot of original, unpredictable garbage.This is Fred and Ginger at their very best. Their chemistry was never better. The dialog, musical numbers, dances, costumes and sets are all tops. This film is like a fabulous screwball comedy with song and dance, featuring two of the very brightest stars in the history of Hollywood in peak form. My favorite Fred and Ginger routine of all time - dancing and singing the immortal Cheek to Cheek will delight you. Let Top Hat take you on this delightful journey as an illustration of Golden Age musical-making at its finest! Top Hat is Tops! "},{"Title":"Isn't this a lovely day to be caught in the rain?","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" 'Top Hat' is a classic 1930s dance musical. The film positively reeks with class, and the winning partnership of Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers is impossible to overlook. The two stars had performed together three times previously Flying Down to Rio (1933), The Gay Divorcée (1934), Roberta (1935) and would later do so on a total of ten occasions. As of this moment, I've only seen one of these films, but if 'Top Hat' is anything to go by, I have a lot of great titles to track down. It's rather peculiar that until recently I would actively avoid anything that features characters suddenly bursting into song for no particular reason, but classics such as this one and 'Singin' in the Rain' are gradually overcoming my aversion towards the musical genre. Mark Sandrich, who would direct five of the dancing team's outings, presents the audience with a glittering world of wealth, class and elegance, helped along by the potent chemistry of the two leads and a memorable selection of musical numbers written by Irving Berlin.The storyline in 'Top Hat' is relatively basic, a lightweight screwball comedy with an assortment of misunderstandings and mistaken identities, but it's very entertaining. Of course, some of the plotpoints are rather contrived and require a bit of suspension of disbelief, but try and find me somebody who gives a damn. Jerry Travers (Astaire) is an American Broadway dancer making his London debut for producer Horace Hardwick (Edward Everett Horton). Following an uncontrollable late-night urge to start tappin' in his hotel room, Jerry comes to meet Dale Tremont (Rogers), who is initially repulsed by him but is later won over by Astaire's boyish enthusiasm and charm, not to mention some well-executed dance moves. However, an assortment of unlikely scenarios leads Dale to believe that Jerry is the husband of her good friend Marge (Helen Broderick), and his perceived infidelity leads her to seek somebody else's hand in marriage, namely the pompous Italian dress designer Alberto Beddini (Erik Rhodes).Of course, the story is entertaining to watch, but the film's main assets are its remarkable dance numbers. As opposed to many other musicals, the sequences in 'Top Hat' have a certain intimacy about them. There is no quick editing or unusual shooting angles, but instead the camera is settled at enough of a distance for us to fully see both performers, and then it just sits back and allows the two stars to do what they do so well. Additionally, because each of the songs is integrated almost perfectly into the plot except for The Piccolino, which seemed a bit out-of-place, the musical interludes complement the storyline, and vice versa. Choosing a favourite song would be next to impossible, so I'll just declare that No Strings, Isn't This a Lovely Day (To Be Caught in the Rain) and Top Hat, White Tie, and Tails are all massively enjoyable to watch. The film's most famous number, Cheek to Cheek, has since become one of American cinema's most beloved musical scenes, and subsequent directors have regularly employed it to add emotional resonance to their own works see Woody Allen's 'The Purple Rose of Cairo (1985)' and Frank Darabont's 'The Green Mile (1999)'. "},{"Title":"Smooth, a frappé delight.","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Fred and Ginger in one of their best at mid career, almost a remake of The Gay Divorcée. The music is by Irving Berlin and includes Isn't This a Lovely Day and Cheek to Cheek. I can't imagine how Fred and Ginger managed to grind out these demanding films. The actors showed up at the studio at 4AM. And Fred Astaire was a perfectionist. He used up thirteen canes while filming one number, Top Hat. He had his most notable argument with his partner over a feathery gown that Ginger Rogers had designed, since the feathers had a tendency to fly off during spins and stick to Astaire's dark evening clothes. And dancing itself, physical stamina aside, involves compelling self discipline. What looks so easy -- so IMPROVISED -- on the screen is actually worked out in minuscule detail beforehand, with each step, and each PART of each step, thoroughly memorized and rehearsed. Berlins' lyrics are above his usual standard I'm steppin out, my dear To breathe an atmosphere that simply reeks with class. And I trust that you'll excuse my dust when I step on the gas. (Reeks with class, pretty good.)Astaire made it even more difficult. Before him (and after him, for that matter) there had been Busby Berkeley, he of the overhead camera shot and the unfolding flower imagery. Astair had proclaimed either the camera dances or I dance, so his numbers were shot with as few cuts as possible, and from eye level only. An exception occurs here during the climactic Piccolino, although Astaire isn't in the shot, and it was the last time a Berkeleyesque shot was to appear in one of his films. These ensemble dances were organized by Astaire's colleague, Hermes Pan, a name that suggests its owner had just waltzed out of Andy Warhol's Factory but that, in fact, was the real name of an ordinary mid-Westerner who just happened to dance well.I don't know how Irving Berlin could pump out songs as if they were hamburgers at a Sonic Drive-in either -- and winners, too, like White Christmas and dozens of others. The guy couldn't read music any better than you or I can. And he could play the piano in only one key, and only on the black keys. He had a custom piano built that mechanically transposed the melodies into other keys. It's like a chimpanzee picking up a paintbrush and producing The Last Supper, followed by Three Musicians, and so on, with scarcely a Big Eye painting among them.You've got to see this thing if only for the art deco sets, blindingly white, huge, accented with black. The Greek keys and sinuous French curves follow one another sequaciously. The walls are white, the furniture is white, the telephones are white. Only the glossy floors and some of the wardrobe are black. Venice here looks like an expensive and sterile two-story set in an RKO studio. The dialog has more cutting witicisms than usual. Talking about a carriage horse, Astaire tells Rogers that his sire was Man O' War. Who was his dame?, asks Rogers. I don't know. He didn't give a (Rogers slams trap door). And Rogers What is this power you have over horses? Astaire Horse power.And the supporting players like Eric Blore, Eric Rhodes, Edward Everett Horton, Lucille Ball, and Helen Broderick. They were all typecast, of course. The men tended to be effete, which served to emphasize Astaire's genuine, everyman quality. It must have been reassuring to see the same actors play variations on the same themes. Their descendants are the TV actors we've come to know in supporting parts -- the Ted Baxters and the Fred Mertzes and the -- well, the Fred Dalton Thompsons? Can I say that here? In the 1930s the audience had to wait for a year to see their favorite character actors. Now we get them once a week.What gets me about this series is that the people we see are all so terribly rich. They all wear gowns and tuxedos and fly around from London to Venice to Paris and stay in the fanciest of hotels -- and this is 1935, with the world in the grip of a depression. It seems far too glib to claim the audience wanted an escape from the dreariness of their real worlds, too facile. Warner Brothers at the same time was producing films that reflected the dilemmas of the working-class audience. It would be interesting to know if Top Hat and its clones attracted a somewhat different audience from, say, I Was a Fugitive From a Chain Gang. Too late to know.Alas, though, the movie ends tragically, with everyone in Venice dying of cholera.Just kidding. "},{"Title":"Great Dances, Crazy story","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Top Hat, although the most successful of all the Astaire/Rogers movies of the 1930's, is however the most hard to swallow.The songs and dances are as wonderful as ever, especially when provided by the great Irving Berlin, and executed by such consummate performers as Fred and Ginger, but it's the storyline that lets this one down. In short, it's entertaining enough but it's just not believable enough.Fred and Ginger are Jerry Travers and Dale Tremont who as ever, meet under acrimonious circumstances and as ever, put down their weapons, kiss and make up and fall in love. That's before a case of mistaken identity makes Dale believe Jerry is actually Horace Hardwick, erring husband of her very best friend Madge played as brilliantly as ever by Helen Broderick.Here is the plot down point as I find it hard to accept that after falling in love after dancing together in a rain soaked bandstand to Irving Berlins 'Isn't it a Lovely Day' that they didn't deem it necessary to introduce each other. Apparently the unimportant matter of somebodies name means nothing when it comes to true love. They obviously believe their romance can survive with the occasional 'Hey you' or a far from personal grunt.Jerry is determined to woo her and put right any wrongs, and in true stalker style follows her all the way the Venice resort to which the ever elusive Miss Tremont has escaped too.Again despite the fact that Jerry, Dale and Madge all meet at a poolside café and have a rather long conversation, Madge under the impression that this is Jerry and Dales' first meeting also neglects the preliminary introductions, with Jerry instead fanning the flames of the fire by declaring his love and respect for Madge and the impact she has on his life, which the rest of the film goes on to show as none whatsoever.In fact the only person who goes out of his way to ask who anybody is Alberto Beddini (Erik Rhodes) Dale Tremont's fashion designer and would-be boyfriend who unfortunately finds and threatens to kill the real and completely innocent Horace Hardwick played by the ever watchable Edward Everett Horton.See what I mean, I practically pulled my hair out by the roots in pure desperation the first time I saw this movie, but as ever it is the dances that really make up the missing magic.Fred delights us with two wonderful solo numbers, 'Fancy Free' an energetic tap number around a spacious London apartment and 'Top Hat' a song that has over the years become Fred's signature tune and a routine where he made the ensemble of top hat, white tie and tails his very own brand name of swelegance (although many have said in real life, he hated wearing the outfit)With Ginger he performs the aforementioned 'Isn't it a Lovely Day' and the films finale the The Piccolino, which was again an attempt to recreate both The Carioca, and The Continental, a concept that was later dropped from future movies.But without doubt the highlight of this musical is the Cheek to Cheek number in which Fred and Ginger perform one of their best routines around a deserted Italian veranda, falling in love all over again.Although the scene and the dancing is faultless, it was the routine that caused most of the off screen problems between the two. It is the now notorious ostrich feathers incident. These feathers can be seen quite clearly floating from Ginger's self designed evening gown onto Fred's suit and no doubt up his nose. Despite the bad feeling it caused at the time, according to Ava Astaire it became a life-long joke that the two would laugh and reminisce about whenever they spoke.Forget the story, just watch the dances, they are great. "},{"Title":"Reaching the Highest Peak","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" A point not often raised by other reviewers of Top Hat is how much of a benchmark this film was in the career of Irving Berlin. Top Hat marked Berlin's return to Hollywood with a new appreciation for the business end of the motion picture industry.Berlin had been there in the first three years of sound and wrote a few songs for the screen. He didn't like writing and seeing his work integrated into the scores of other films, he didn't like seeing his work ending up on the cutting room floor as was the case in Reaching for the Moon and he didn't like just writing the songs and seeing them tossed every which way into a film.With Top Hat Berlin began a tradition of total control. After that it was extremely rare to hear a non-Berlin note in any score he wrote. He was as in on the creation of the film as he would have been on the Broadway stage. And he retained copyright control of his songs which was usually not the case, the studio did. The man was a first class businessman as well as our greatest songwriter.This was the fourth teaming of Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers. With these two, RKO started rivaling Warner Brothers and MGM for quality musicals. With Fred Astaire they had not only a great dancer, but a star who worked hard in the creation of those numbers. The Piccolino number that he and Ginger do at the finale certainly rivals any of the stuff Busby Berkeley was doing at Warner Brothers though it is not as surrealistic.Irving Berlin wrote and integrated five outstanding songs into Top Hat. The aforementioned Piccolino, No Strings, Isn't It a Lovely Day To Be Caught in the Rain and Cheek to Cheek. The last was one of Berlin's most popular songs, still done today by would be Astaires. It was nominated in the second year of the Best Song Oscar category, but lost to Lullaby of Broadway.My favorite number here is the free and easy Isn't It a Lovely Day To Be Caught in the Rain. Fred and Ginger make that informal number under a gazebo so natural, it's positively infectious. A whole lot of this cast was retained from the previous Astaire-Rogers outing, The Gay Divorcée. Edward Everett Horton, Edward Blore, Erik Rhodes, and Helen Broderick simply repeat their roles from the previous film.So when you're caught in the rain at home with your significant other, you could do worse than watch Top Hat. You'll be dancing cheek to cheek and soon. "},{"Title":"You can't help smiling when they're dancing.","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" When my parents use a metaphor for a film too old to watch, they say Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers are in it. Since I watch silent films with relish, Astaire and Rogers singing and danching cheek to cheek are positively contemporary from my point of view though there are many ways one is reminded these swingers were kicking about 15 years before my parents were born.'Top Hat' is great fun. The two dancers defy gravity in a way that looks improbable to eyes who have seent he making of Hong King wire-fu movies. There is a grace and ease that is not of this world. The smiling and cheering of dancers who should be sweating and panting from the physical exertion is as unreal as everything else about the story that is told. But this is really happen, for a 1935 camera without cuts and edits does not lie.Beyond the dancing there's very little to write home about. The plot is as silly as they come and probably would not pass the morning conference of script writers of a bad Argentinian soap. What's so dissonant to our post-war (post-several wars) eyes is that everyone seems so damn happy they have so much to smile and dance and sing about. Don't these people pay bills? In reality that is what this film is meant to do let us look into a world without worries. Those looking at it first time round in 1935 had much to worry about. They are the people of Grapes of Wrath and of Modern Times the depressees who lost everything and could afford no luxury but the movies every week.Musicals gave them a magical world they could escape to and if that magical world was anything like reality it would not be worth paying the ticket for.I suppose if you wanted to tell a story where people break into song and dance every few minutes, you could not really have much to do with reality even if you wanted to.Consider the set for what is meant to look like Venice in the second half of the film. It looks like something out of a Disney park an American interpretation of a long-ago seen post-card retold and magnified to seem even more otherworldly in children's eyes than Venice in any case really is.Though you'll raise your eye brows a few times at the sheer improbability of the plot turns and you won't laugh the second time the characters take a Stan Laurel double-take (today's humour is too fast to leave place for people who expect to be funny because they're slow on the uptake) you can't help smiling when they're dancing. The sheer joy of Astaire and Rogers in their art form is infectious. "},{"Title":"Very positive and spacious Astaire-Rogers entry; genial and quite well-done","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Top Hat was adapted from an Hungarian play, for which Sándor Faragao credited as Alexander Faragó and Aladar Laszlo deserve the credit. The serviceable but slight story-line was also worked on by Károly Nóti, Allan Scott and Dwight Taylor. The main plot may be told in a single paragraph A dancer comes to London to star in a new show. Annoying a young woman by tap dancing when she is trying to sleep, he meets her, falls in love with her and fails to win her despite her attraction to him because she believes him to be the husband of her best friend instead of only being the star of his show, a man working for him. Complicating the mix are a jealous count for whom the girl works and an opinionated butler working for the impresario, who is then paid by the dancer to spy for him instead. Mark Sandrich directed the goings on in sprightly fashion, with Pandro S. Berman credited as the attractive film's producer and Irving Berlin, with incidental music by Max Steiner, writing the film's above-average score of songs, including Dancing Cheek to Cheek, To Hat and The Piccolino, among others. Art Director Van Nest Polglase, Cinematographer David Abel, set dresser Thomas Little and designer of gowns Bernard Newman manage to give the entire production an airy and positive feeling, whether the scene is one set indoors or out. Hermes Pan and Fred Astaire devised the intelligent choreography and half a dozen fine arrangers helped to make the music work. The sunny disposition of the story, with its reliance on a simple misunderstanding, allows the smallish cast to develop their characters unusually fully for a musical. Fred Astaire is lively, young and likable, and his dancing has seldom been better. Ginger Rogers generally seems comfortable with her demanding role as dancer,. singer, confused lover, angry young woman and bewildered participant. Edward Everett Horton is very properly stuffy, Eric Blore as his butler successfully sarcastic, and Helen Broderick makes a delightful and able sarcastic wife in a role that only Eve Arden could have bettered. Eric Rhodes impersonates the irascible Italian count Alberto with power and ability throughout. But ultimately, the film's charm comes down to its simplicity, high style and characters. An intended musical climax to the film, the elaborate Piccolini, as written by Irving Berlin and sung by Ginger Roger, is a mistake despite its competent arrangement. However it is the only sour note in an otherwise expert trifle, one played winningly and presented beautifully, in my judgment. The opening comedic scene in a London Men's Club, Astaire's first meeting with the butler, the Italian sequences, the stage numbers and the hotel room and hansom scene are all memorable. This film was very popular in 1935 and because of its positive qualities remains a favorite Astaire-Rogers vehicle today. Its elements have often been imitated, but perhaps never bettered, "}{"Title":"At times feathery, and at times very witty.","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I'm experiencing something of an epiphany regarding this film. I've loved musicals- and just about any musical featuring Fred Astaire- for most of my life. With that said, this film used to frustrate me to no end because of its wafer-thin plot of mistaken identity. When I first reviewed it, I couldn't get past the plot- as if the plot should have carried the day. That was major impatience and intolerance on my part. Thanks to repeated showings of this one (as well as the entire RKO series) on TCM, I have recently viewed this again and allowed myself to just indulge. Indulge in the marvelous banter that Astaire and Ginger Rogers have- even when he's supposed to be annoying her in their first meetings. Quips that include, Buy yourself a new hat, I prefer being in distress, and perhaps my favorite line when Rogers- asking Astaire about the female pedigree of the horse he's driving- inquires with, who was his dam? he retorts with, I don't know miss, he didn't give a d--!! That is brilliant scripting, especially for an otherwise G-rated film. So even as he politely annoys her in their first exchanges, it's obvious that she's quite intrigued by him. And when they later dance in a gazebo in a glorious rainstorm as strangers who begin to fall in love, we fall in love right along with them. But then there is that 'mistaken identity' thing that goes on for the entirety of the film. And usually it's here that I write off the film- but if I did that then I could not acknowledge the brilliance of 'best friend' Helen Broderick- who, as the third member of this alleged triangle, tosses off some of the best dead-pan punchlines in the film. I could not acknowledge the two Eric(k)s- Blore and Rhodes, who make the roles of frustrated valet and would-be rogue absolutely hilarious. And I could definitely not acknowledge the stunning Irving Berlin music and routines, from the Top Hat shooting gallery of chorus boys to the sublime elegance of the feather-swathed Cheek to Cheek pas-de-deux. In retrospect, I can't get too worked up about the plot of this film, because it was 1935 and the middle of the Depression. Most films were light and decidedly cheeky during this sad period in history. If this film prompted some of the team's best box-office receipts in their 10-film history- and went on to garner an Oscar nomination as best picture- it must've been doing something right. I still prefer the plots of other A-R stories (like Swing Time or even Shall We Dance) a bit more, but, as a poster before me stated, I should acknowledge that in terms of the mistaken identity formula, it's quite brilliant. "},{"Title":"Heaven, I'm in heaven, let Fred and Ginger take you there as well.","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" While demonstrating his new dance sequences to producer Horace Hardwick, showman Jerry Travers (Fred Astaire) severely annoys the resting Dale Tremont (Ginger Rogers) in the room below. After Dale goes up to complain about the noise, both Dale and Jerry are very attracted to each other, but due to a case of mistaken identity the path of true love is far from being smooth.Top Hat is the first film from acclaimed duo Fred Astaire & Ginger Rogers that was specifically written for them. Working around the twin source material of The Gay Divorcée and The Girl Who Dared, the screenplay sparkles amidst the frothy nature of the plot. Standard (but lovely) fare here, the kind that would define all of the duo's films, silly plot, boy meets girl and it's not straight forward, and of course a simmering sexual undercurrent that comes with the chase between the sexes.Songs come courtesy of the magnificent Irving Berlin (aided by Max Steiner), belting show stoppers like Cheek to Cheek, Isn't It A Lovely Day and the sublime solo cane Astaire showcase that is Top Hat, White Tie and Tails. Gorgeous sets enhance the piece, such as an art deco Venice arrangement, but ultimately it's the charm and artistry of the leading pair that shines the brightest. Coming as it did during the Depression era, Top Hat, and the even better Swing Time a year later, really were (and still are) tonics for the people, I find it almost impossible to not lose myself in these types of pictures, and the audiences of the 30s clearly felt the same as me. Mussolini and his Italian countrymen may have been offended by Erik Rhodes comedy portrayal of Alberto Beddini, and Ginger's self styled gorgeous Ostrich feathered dress may have briefly caused a ripple in Fred and Ginger's working relationship (the feathers caused Fred no end of problems during the magnificent Cheek To Cheek sequence), but it all came good in the end with Top Hat taking over $3 million in takings and becoming RKO's biggest earner of the decade.Much like how the film can lift you, that is just as priceless. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Sophistication and gaiety in the Depression made us feel better. Might be time to watch this one again","Date":"30 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" With the nation in the midst of economic ruin, who were better at lifting our spirits and making us smile? Why, Fred and Ginger, of course. I've got a feeling we'd better start watching their old movies again. Is Top Hat better than Swing Time? People have been staking out their positions for years. Me, I think both represent the height of the Astaire-Rogers magic, all wrapped up in some of the greatest songs ever written for Hollywood movies and with incomparable choreography and dancing. So I just flip a coin to decide...but I make sure I always use the coin with a head on each side. The story in Top Hat is inconsequential. It's all about Jerry Travers (Fred Astaire) an American dancing star in London who meets Dale Tremont (Ginger Rogers), the girl who charms him. It's love at first sight for Jerry, but not for Dale. There are misunderstandings, reconciliation, comedy relief and...well, who cares? The point is that in Top Hat both Astaire and Rogers have classic Astaire and Rogers characters to play, he classy and without a major worry in the world, she down to earth and a little hard to get. The plot is light, sophisticated and moves quickly. The comedy relief, provided by Eric Blore, Edward Everett Horton, Erik Rhodes and Helen Broderick, often is genuinely amusing (We are Bates!) (I will never allow women to wear my dresses again!) and doesn't become tiresome. The songs by Irving Berlin are among the best he ever wrote, and are so spotted within the movie that it seems we keep moving from exhilaration to exhilaration. That said, the point of an Astaire-Rogers film is the dancing, and then the way things happen through the dances and the songs... No Strings introduces us to Jerry in one of those wonderful all white art deco hotel suites where sophisticated people hang out. He tells us in song just the kind of free-spirited guy he is...no strings and no connections, no ties to my affections... and then moves into a fast and complicated tap dance all over the room. Just watch how Astaire perfectly picks out a counter rhythm with hand slaps against a shelf while he taps. Isn't This a Lovely Day to Be Caught in the Rain is a total charmer. In a gazebo, Jerry tries to woo Dale. After singing the song, he does a few steps and she, hands in her pockets in her riding breeches, surprises him by taking him on. A little challenge dance starts...and then we're off into one of those great wooing dances that only Astaire could create. The longer they dance the more we see how taken with each other they're becoming. They move from an easy-going beginning into a mutual and happy recognition that something serious may be happening. Then the rain and the thunder start and we're off again. When the dance is over we all know something seriously happy really has taken place. I think this number also is a fine example of how Berlin could craft a great song where the lyrics are so conversational it's too easy to overlook the skill he had in placing them into the music Isn't this a lovely day to be caught in the rain? You were going on your way, now you've got to remain. Just as you were going, leaving me all at sea, the clouds broke, they broke, and oh what a break for me. I can see the sun up high, though we're caught in a storm. I can see where you and I could be cozy and warm. Let the rain pitter patter, but it really doesn't matter If the skies are grey. Long as I can be with you, it's a lovely day Top Hat, White Tie and Tails is a classic Astaire stage number, a marvelous song impeccably delivered. Watch how he gives his head a little shake of sheer joi de vivre as he gives us that inimitable Astaire walk. Then it's on to all those 20 chorus boys in tuxes being mowed down by Astaire and his cane. The dance shifts from light to dark to light again. And watch how Astaire slows down the dancing and, unexpectedly, strikes several poses in silhouette. Great stuff. Cheek to Cheek is simply, in my opinion, one of the finest love sequences set on film. Astaire sings the song, then the two of them launch into one of the great dance duets where the song, the dancers and the choreography come as close to romantic perfection as you're likely to see. Even the feathers on Rogers' gown cooperate. The Piccolino is the big production closer, an attempt to match the craze the Carioca, in Flying Down to Rio, set off. For sheer Hollywood sound stage spectacle -- a Berlin hit song, at least 30 dancing couples, a singing chorus, gondolas on canals, a dish of veal that rhymes with piccolino, and everyone in gowns and tuxes -- it's hard to beat. Fans of Astaire will find invaluable Arlene Croce's The Fred Astaire & Ginger Rogers Book and John Mueller's Astaire Dancing The Musical Films. "},{"Title":"The course of true love never did run smooth","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Watching TOP HAT again I found myself completely spellbound. I'd seen it years ago in college and forgotten about it, but seeing it again realized how much I love it. Any film that follows Shakespeare's formula - The course of true love never did run smooth - is really wish fulfillment in the literal sense for us all. It always seems that we had a clear shot at winning the heart of a lost love, if we had been a different kind of person, less given to the darker side of our nature. What strikes me about TOP HAT was Fred Astaire's persistence at wooing Ginger Rogers. It's done wonderfully as their dancing together, supposedly spontaneous, so graceful as to appear effortless, establishes that the two are made for one another, sharing in the same soul. When turmoil and mistaken identity befall the lovers and cause their separation, the anticipation of their ultimate reunion is almost unbearable. Boy meets girl. Boy loses girl. Boy fights to win girl back. Classic stuff - the most basic archetypal story of the myths the persist in every culture, apparently a story written into our genetic make-up. Has there ever been a lover as determined as Fred Astaire to win back his lost love? And yet his demeanor is almost careless, so strong is his faith in the ultimate undeniable nature of Love. True Love as a force of nature. Inevitable. Melting away any and all opposition - Erik Rhodes' hapless, ineffectual suitor, Rogers' moral outrage at what she assumes to be Astaire's philandering nature, even Rogers' loyalty and dedication to her best friend Madge (Helen Broderick), who she wrongly believes Astaire to be betraying. My favorite scene is when Astaire and Rogers are reunited in Venice, and Rogers, still believing Astaire to be betrothed to Madge, who sits only a few feet away from the couple, and despite all her righteous indignation at his presumed faithlessness, is nevertheless overcome by the ecstasy she feels as they dance in one another's arms. It is the most erotic, most impassioned love scene I have ever seen on film. She surrenders completely to the demands of love as we all must do or wish we had. Movies of course are not real life. Unlike the predetermined lives on the screen we mere mortals have a free choice that often betrays even our most innermost desires and needs, no matter how hard they pound on our stone cold hearts. "},{"Title":"Premium escapist fare","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" There's nothing like Depression-era escapism, especially the Astaire-Rogers brand of it. Devoid of unpleasantness and cynicism, these films are light as air and fun, untouched by silly things like plot. Top Hat (1935) is the most famous of the Astaire and Rogers collaborations. I'm not sure if it's the best, but it's certainly my favorite.Like I said before, the plot is of no consequence. It's the stuff of farce and isn't too memorable. What you're here for is witty dialogue, memorable music, and great dancing. Oh, and those gorgeous Art Deco sets and costumes.There are a lot of movies I wish I lived in and this is one of them. What I wouldn't give to live in such a glamorous world in shimmering black and white... "},{"Title":"The American Musical Screen's Peak","Date":"4 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Ginger Rogers glorious and gorgeous was said to have done everything her great co star Fred Astaire did but in high heels and dance backwards. Ginger in her later years hated that comparison but seeing Mark Sandrich's brilliant film Top Hat one sees two great artists Astaire and Rogers at their peak. I can rave forever re this film and the great performances of the two classic Stars and also the brilliant set design. Filmed at RKO, the sets are wondrous and set a peak for artistic and interior design not only in Films but in decors worldwide. The canals of water, a set on a sound stage are remarkable.Ginger Rogers flawlessly beautiful in some of the greatest gowns of the era is what being a movie star is all about. Sexy Great Star.Bravo to RKO, Sandwich, Astaire and Ms Rogers.David Barra "},{"Title":"Fop chat & Tap pap","Date":"8 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" It is hard not to compete with all the brainiacs (and pardon my use of an official IMDb junk word, for which the comment butler is threatening to ban my continued presence here) sharing their erudition above, but TOP HAT is pure froth and does not lend itself to cerebral dissection. Who cares if Ginger's taps were dubbed by some guy off camera (as they were)? Who cares if Fred Astaire broke 12 of his 13 prop canes in anger before the Top Hat, White Ties, & Tails title dance was in the can (as he did)? And what does it matter that a few Italian slurs caused Mussolini to ban the film in Italy (as HE did)? After all, you cannot get the last laugh hanging from a meat hook! I liked TOP HAT twice as much as Astaire's ROYAL WEDDING, and nearly as much as Astaire's EASTER PARADE (which were both Ginger-less, alas!). "},{"Title":"Silly & Sublime!","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" One of the earliest of the Astaire-Roger's films, this one set in London and on the Venetian Lido --but constructed entirely on the Hollywood sound stages of RKO in 1935-- has a non-stop American exuberance and charm rarely matched in the rest of the series. There's a delightful silly script by Scott and Taylor which the director, Mark Sandrich, keeps moving from one gag to another as the warring couple battle with each other, fall in love, fall, out of the love, fall ---well, you know the rest. Then, of course, there are immortal jazzy songs and romantic ballads by Irving Berlin which Astaire sings with such youthful energy and conviction that one quickly forgets that he hardly had a voice. The dances, particularly the feathery Cheek to Cheek, have never been equaled when it comes to old-fashioned cinema romance; you truly believe that all human differences and misunderstandings could be solved if only two people could get up and dance together as sublimely as do the two stars. The film is helped enormously by the rhythmic under-scoring and orchestrations of Max Steiner back in the days before he moved over to Warner Bros. and started pouring out the symphonic schmaltz. "},{"Title":"Charming fun film.","Date":"23 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This basically is one fine charming film, that you can just not hate watching. It's just too cheerful and fun for that.The movie features one fine story, specifically written for Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers together. It's a charming little romantic story, of course featuring also lots of dancing routines and singing. It nevertheless is not your standard average musical. It's a RKO Radio Pictures and not a MGM musical. It's more a story that gets driven by its story and actors, rather than by its dancing and signing routines. I also regard this movie more of a romantic-comedy than a full-blood musical. It's a story that gets also filled with lots of misunderstandings between characters, which leads up to some fine comical situations.The movie features lots of great fun comedy. It makes this a real pleasant, innocent movie to watch. Especially some of the dialog is also greatly fun written. It of course also helps to the movie that all the lines get delivered by some fine actors.Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers of course did lots of movies together and they were always great to watch together in any movie. This is one of their best pairings. Also Edward Everett Horton, who also starred in a couple of more Fred Astaire movies, makes one fine appearance.It's a great looking film, that also got professionally put together by director Mark Sandrich. It using some nice settings and costume designs. It's also a movie that got nominated for an Oscar for Best Art Direction, as well as actually Best Picture, which might be a bit too much credit though.The movie also features some fine musical numbers, composed by Irving Berlin, with Max Steiner serving as the movie its musical director. It features some fine classic numbers such as cheek to cheek, which got performed first into this movie and got re-recorded by many more in the later future.Some great cheerful and entertaining fun, even so if you aren't really into the genre.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Sumptuous Hollywood Escapism","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" If you are looking for a break from the grim realities of your depressing life into a fantasy world of glorious art-deco sets,unforgettable songs,dazzling dancing and lighter-than-light characters,then TOP HAT is the film which will fulfil those dreams.Sadly,it is the kind of film that Hollywood doesn't do anymore,or perhaps more truthfully,cannot do,because the talent required is no longer available.And when there is an attempt to try and replicate past glories like this,it usually ends in miserable and embarrassing failure.Embarrassing is never a word to associate with the talent involved with TOP HAT;the incomparable Fred Astaire,the ideal of style and elegance,maybe the greatest dancer ever witnessed on celluloid,a slightly inferior but still very effective and likable singer,and a decent light comedian to boot.His most celebrated partner Ginger Rogers,an accomplished comic and straight actress,talented dancer and singer,plus such inimitable comic performers like Edward Everett Horton,Eric Blore,Helen Broderick and Erik Rhodes,and near faultless direction from Mark Sandrich make this an experience to cherish;it still delights and entertains over 70 years after it's release.Yes,the plot is so thin and inconsequential as to not even exist,and the depiction of Venice (after a surprisingly realistic view of London) is fictitious to the point of absurdity,but does this matter with the witty dialogue,amusing incident,memorable songs and dances,and the company of Fred,Ginger and co? One of Hollywood's greatest musicals from it's golden age,and deservedly so.RATING9 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A plot that's only an excuse for some heavenly dancing","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers star in Top Hat, a 1935 musical that also stars Eric Blore, Edward Everett Horton, and Helen Broderick. It's classic Astaire and Rogers all the way, right down to the mistaken identity plot. But the storyline is only an excuse to get to the meat of the film - the wonderful dancing, beautiful music, and Ginger's gorgeous gowns.This is truly escapist entertainment with the dynamic duo dancing to Cheek to Cheek (further immortalized in The Green Mile), The Piccolino (done in one take), and Isn't It A Lovely Day while Fred sizzles in his Top Hat and No Strings solos.Broderick, Blore, and Horton are a riot. The character of Alberto Beddini (Erik Rhodes) is a dress designer whose confections are to be worn by Ginger in Italy. In reality, the gowns were designed by Bernard Newman, and they are fantastic, including the controversial ostrich feather one used in Cheek to Cheek that earned Rogers the nickname Feathers from Astaire. It was worth him getting a few feathers in his face to get that dress on camera. Rogers herself stated that, I wanted to wear it...and I did. Astaire and Rogers are perfect together in this and their other films. So few things in this life are certain. One thing is - watch Astaire and Rogers film, and you'll forget your troubles for a while. "},{"Title":"Isn't It A Lovely Day!!!","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This film is filled with great songs, with the exception of the big production number The Piccolino which is somewhat weak.  Of course the dancing of Astaire and Rogers is the main attraction of this film but there are other things that make Top Hat an all-round delight.  The supporting cast is impeccable and contains all those faces familiar from other Astaire/Rogers films....Edward Everett Horton, Eric Blore, Erik Rhodes,et al.  Helen Broderick (mother of Broderick Crawford) is a hoot as Roger's friend and Horton's wife...she was a gifted comedienne.  Eric Blore, as my manservant, Bates, is a good as it gets and enough can ever be said about Horton, once again the harried, blustering, bumbling friend.  Erik Rhodes simply replays his Tonetti part from the Gay Divorcee but it is priceless.  This movie is 66 years old and the humor still holds up very well.  The sets, so art deco, are unbelievably white and intricate.  Nothing really ever looked like that but we are in the land of make believe where complicated misunderstandings, coincidences and mistaken identites are commonplace and people sing and dance in public to no one's surprise. How charming!  There is nothing that hasn't already been said about Astaire and Rogers, their chemistry and perfection, so just see the movie and feel the magic! "},{"Title":"Delightfully insane","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Well, this is your standard musical with your standard screwball comedy plot. Astaire and Rogers are destined to be together, but they have to get beyond a series of mix-ups and interferences before they can truly be matched. What makes the film stand out is its confident madcap style.This is most evident in the first act, during our introduction to Astaire's character, in which he meets up with his friend Horace in his hotel room and for no apparent reason begins tap dancing on the floor. This goes on for quite some time, ad hilarity, due mainly to Astaire's grinning, fancy-free attitude during the whole event. Add to this his subsequent appearance as a horse carriage man in another effort to win the heart of Ginger Rogers' character, and his character's lack of experience commanding carriages, and you have another side-splitting sequence.The secondary character of Bendino is also a riot. His over-the-top narcissism is still sharp and incisive today. And this leads to my point that none of the humor in this film is dated, mainly because of the attitude of its presentation. It also seems to treat its musical side in a somewhat tongue-in-cheek manner; the filmmakers seem to acknowledge that people do not usually break out into song, and yet the characters here are doing it, so that it becomes part of the madcap backdrop of the film.Overall, the film is a timeless riot as far as its comedy, and it contains some impressive dance and musical numbers as well. "},{"Title":"Dancing in Heaven","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Heaven, I'm in Heaven/And my heart beats so that I can hardly speak,/And I seem to find the happiness I seek,/When we're out together dancing cheek to cheek... (Irving Berlin)The popularity of Irving Berlin's song is indeed astonishing, even after seventy years since it was written. It appeared in the repertoire of a plethora of soloists, starting with Frank Sinatra and Ella Fitzgerald; it featured in such great productions such as Spielberg's Artificial Intelligence AI and Minghella's The English Patient; it is quite a rarity for anybody in the Western World, (and not only), not to have caught its tune at least once in a lifetime. Its classic status has cemented over the years in what we may identify as American popular culture. Berlin wrote a good song, and was fortunate enough to have a young Fred Astaire to sing it. The year was 1935, the recording was done for Top Hat.When one indulges to assess the quality of a musical, a different approach seems imminent. The soundtrack is less of a supporting player, it becomes a lead in its own right. A great song score can secure a film immortality, despite certain weaknesses in plot, direction, or performance. Arguably, this is the case with Mark Sandrich's second collaboration with Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers. At least, this appears to be the common argument.In Top Hat we have a traditional drawing room comedy of errors. A famous American dancer, Jerry Travers (Fred Astaire), arrives in London 'incognito', to perform in a musical produced by Horace Hardwick, a rather conservative, affable, but rather nervous man, played to utter eccentricity by Edward Everett Horton. Traverse is a mischievous sort, and enjoys disturbing someone's peace with his dancing, particularly during the night. One victim is the lady occupying the room below Hardwick's one, the beautiful Dale Tremont (Ginger Rogers). Her misfortune, and Jerry's chance, is to go and have a chat with the dancing man, who obviously falls for her, and would force his luck to win her love whatever it takes. The errors start when Dale mistakes her 'Adam' for Horace, and the circumstances would not allow her to find the truth throughout the film. In a nut-shell, she thinks he's an obsessed womaniser, who happens to be married to her best friend, Madge (Helen Broderick); he, on the other hand, desires to take her to the altar.Criticising the film for its lack of plot is slightly unfair. The script is witty, and maintains the feeble misunderstanding ingeniously. After all, what is a girl supposed to think when the man occupying Horace's room sends her flowers and has an apparent close relationship with Madge, and then is suddenly pushed by the latter into her arms? Probably that the Hardwick's are having a rather special relationship. A rather special one indeed, as he offers to marry Miss Tremont, and the wife is not even given a notice for divorce.The comedy is top-notch, and the actors must take the credit for it. Astaire is callous, evading, and quite lecherous, delivering one of the greatest performances of his career. Rogers does appear in his shadow on this occasion, partly because of the irrationality of circumstances her character finds herself in, and yet she manages to create quiet moments of tenderness whenever she is in Fred's arms. However, it is the supporting cast that steals the scenes of confusion. Broderick is particularly well-cast, her matter of fact style and dead-pan humour create the film's loudest laughs. Eric Blore, in his turn as Horace's butler, deals hilariously in his multiple personalities farce. We are Bates!, he informs Travers, while offering help with his coat. And, of course, Horton excels in his part as the misinformed innocent lamb, threatened to be cut to pieces by Erik Rhodes. Rhodes plays a Narcissistic Italian designer, who supplies Miss Tremont with gowns and financial security, but his performance is arguably the most formulaic and dated, despite contributing to a number of laughs.When it comes to Top Hat the screenplay, despite its qualities, does step back though. The greatness of the film is found in some of the most lyrical dances ever caught on film. From the opening dance on sand in a room hotel under the tune of No Strings (I'm Fancy Free) we enter a world in which physical restraints cease to be a human condition. Astaire's legs and his entire body move with an eloquence compared to Beethoven's 5th Symphony virtuosity. He seems to embody a dream in which there are no barriers to what a man can do. By the time we reach Cheek to Cheek, one is indeed relaxing in Heaven. Bernard Newman's gown for Ginger Rogers creates the illusion of a flying angel, whenever she is lifted by her partner in crime. Rogers, like all of Astaire's ladies in dance, tends to gain a certain security that imposes a freedom of action, making the camera shiver with excitement. On this occasion, it is Fred that gains that little extra from Ginger, which ultimately ensures perfection. The Piccolino, sung by Rogers, is the closing song, which is accompanied by an immense production number, gaining the film the reputation of the most expensive affair for RKO at the time. Sandrich does a great job into ensuring a sense of the grandiose at the end of it all, but he cannot achieve the impossible. Top Hat is packed with smart dialogue and a number of exquisite dances, so a grand finale to top the mastery of Cheek to Cheek, but also Astaire's stage solo Top Hat, White Tie and Tails, does appear a hopeless enterprise. Smartly, the closing number is rather short, like a teasing dessert after a great dinner. So, lean back, and prepare, as Astaire promisesFor I'll be there/Puttin' down my top hat,/Mussin' up my white tie,/Dancin' in my tails... (Irving Berlin) "},{"Title":"In dealing with a girl or horse, one just lets nature take its course.","Date":"18 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Dancer Fred Astaire and model Ginger Rogers meet and immediately fall in love. But when Ginger mistakenly believes Fred is married to her friend, she wants nothing more to do with him. Okay, not the most original plot you'll ever see. Mistaken identity plots were pretty common then (and still show up today). But it's handled well and never feels contrived. This is my favorite Fred & Ginger movie. Both are in top form with wonderful timing and chemistry. Great comedic support from Edward Everett Horton, Eric Blore, Helen Broderick, and a scene-stealing Erik Rhodes (Never again will I allow women to wear my dresses!). Songs include the classic Cheek to Cheek and the underrated The Piccolino. The dance numbers are exceptional. Ginger's beautiful, even in that feather dress that Fred Astaire hated so much. Everything works in this one. The comedy, the romance, the songs, the dancing -- it's all perfect. "},{"Title":"Music, Dance and Comedy Combine to Create a Memorable Soufflé","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" TOP HAT's musical score contains a remarkable number of standards - a testament to Irving Berlin's genius as a songwriter. They include isn't This a Lovely Day?, Cheek to Cheek, No Strings, The Piccolino, and the title song Top Hat, White Tie and Tails. Just listening to the score is a joyful experience in itself.Mark Sandrich's film takes the elements that made THE GAY Divorcée of the year before so popular - a Hollywood English setting (to go with an Italian setting), a series of jokes at the expense of the stuffy Brits, and a supporting cast boasting Edward Everett Horton, Eric Blore and - and rehashes them into another memorable musical confection. The plot once again revolves around a comic misunderstanding involving Astaire, Everett Horton and Rogers, which leads to some amusing comic routines that normally end up with Everett Horton suffering in one way or another. He ends up with a black eye at one point. Yet the plot is not really significant what matters are the song-and- dance sequences involving the two stars. They ooze style as they glide across the dance-floor, no more so than in The Piccolino sequence towards the end of the film. David Abel's camera sweeps across the set in a series of slow pans, that dissolve into aerial shots of the dancers accompanying the stars, and dissolve back once again into close-ups of Astaire and Rogers. The sequence creates a dream-world in which dancing is the only thing that matters.TOP HAT gives plenty of opportunities for comic relief that prove just how good Blore and Everett Horton actually are. Everett Horton is especially adept at the double-take as he continues a conversation until he realizes just what his interlocutor has actually said. He pauses, stares for a moment and then tries to continue the conversation, albeit haltingly. Blore's eyework is especially memorable when engaged in one of his frequent arguments with Everett Horton, he has the habit of looking down at the ground and rolling his eyes, as if unable to fathom just what a chump his employer actually is. His most memorable moment comes in a sequence where he talks to an Italian police officer whom he thinks does not know English. He rolls his tongue round a series of gorgeous insults, but his mood abruptly changes when the officer replies to him in perfect English. He sighs, looks up at the sky, then from side to side, and reluctantly allows himself to be taken to prison.TOP HAT is perhaps the most shining example of a pre-1939 musical comedy, combining music, dance and routines in a wonderful soufflé. It is the kind of film that remains fresh and enjoyable even after repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"Plural personalities","Date":"28 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The partnership between Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers made sparks fly from their first appearance together in Flying Down to Rio, enough to spur RKO into funding a series of high profile movies for them to star in. But worthy as The Gay Divorcée (1934) and Roberta (Spring 1935) are, it was not until Top Hat that the pair reached their peak. The cast and crew are almost identical to that of The Gay Divorcée (the only significant change is the introduction of Irving Berlin as songwriter), and yet the earlier picture was like a mere dress rehearsal for this magnificent follow up.One thing that seems unusual about these Astaire-Rogers musicals is that, in almost all of them, you never once see the two of them kissing. The fact is they don't need to, because all the romantic interplay takes place through the dances. In spite of their age gap and general difference in background and temperament, what both Fred and Ginger had was an ability to put character into their dances, and an ability to seem in tune with each whatever the steps. Top Hat serves as a showcase for Astaire's tap dancing prowess, throwing some particularly elaborate moves in the title number, even working his cane into the routine as a third foot. Of the two, Rogers was actually the better at acting. Look at her face as Fred begins to sing Isn't it a Lovely Day. She is turned away from Astaire, but her expressions show her gradually softening feelings towards him, and when the two get up to dance it seems so natural.The ease with which the leads go into their dances is also enhanced by the direction of Mark Sandrich. Sandrich was really a master at finding ways of making a musical number segue neatly out of a scene. Astaire usually insisted on having his dancing exhibited in one unbroken take, but Sandrich goes one better than that and makes even the dialogue that precedes a dance part of that long take. For Isn't it a Lovely Day the shot begins with a wide view on the gazebo, but the camera moves in as Fred gets closer to Ginger, before pulling out again to give them room for the dance. And even outside the songs, Sandrich is adding a rhythmic, lyrical touch to proceedings. He makes frequent use of sweeping and swooping camera movements, from the dolly in on the word silence in the opening scene, to the through-the-floorboards scan when Ginger first enters the movie, to the final pan as the couple dance off into the sunset. It's as if the whole movie is part of one smooth trick This being a musical, we should not underestimate the contribution of the music itself. Irving Berlin had a marvellous quality that could make a simple song sound momentous. An example of his wonderful touch is that grand, sweeping minor key passage during the instrumental section of Cheek to Cheek. But let's also not forget the part played by arranger Max Steiner. These were still relatively early days for scoring of sound films. Up until about 1933 most movies just had a little music over the credits, a fanfare at the end, and nothing else. Steiner however weaves Berlin's melodies into a living, functioning soundtrack. Just like Sandrich, he helps to make the tunes part of the narrative, such as the way the No Strings melody comes and goes along with Astaire's dance attacks.So what is really clear about Top Hat is that everyone &#x96; writers, musicians, technical crew, supporting cast (honourable mentions to Edward Everett Horton, Eric Blore and Eric Rhodes; it's nice to see Blore and Horton as effectively a couple here, as they make a great double act themselves) and of course Fred and Ginger &#x96; are all in step with each other. This is Hollywood teamwork at its finest &#x96; creative professionals all giving their best for a common goal. It's wonderful. "},{"Title":"The best of the Astaire Rogers movies","Date":"25 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Of the ten films the duo made together, this is probably the best film in all categories of what made their movies great. First of all there is a wonderful supporting cast in the persons of four character actors, all of which had repeat performances in at least one other Astaire & Rogers movie. They all play essential roles in the film, and I can't imagine Top Hat with any one of them missing, yet none of them manages to get in the way. Also, the music of Irving Berlin adorns the film, and there is not one song that is less than 5/5 stars. Astaire & Rogers' movies tended to have fairly simple comedic plots, but this one is funnier than usual, with a series of misunderstandings that would have probably made this a good screwball comedy even without the musical numbers. The basic misunderstanding has to do with Ginger Rogers' character believing that Fred Astaire's character is actually the husband of one of her closest friends. Ginger is not only offended by the fact that she is being openly pursued by someone that she thinks is a married man, but she is confounded by her friend's seemingly casual attitude towards the entire situation. Last but not least, there is the enduring chemistry of Astaire and Rogers themselves and the beauty of their dance numbers. Ginger Rogers was a very good actress in her own right, and she knew that just because the music started the acting did not stop. She wasn't a great dancer, but she was good enough and got better as time went on. As for Astaire, he was probably the best individual dancer we'll ever see, plus he exuded pure class. Audiences flocked to these movies back in the 1930's for the music, for the chemistry of the lead duo, and for the pure escapism these films provided. I still recommend Top Hat for all of these same reasons today. "},{"Title":"the comedic dancing cast is back together again","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The same funny team from Gay Divorcée is back again- Fred Astaire, Ginger Rogers, Edward Everett Horton (the narrator voice from the Rocky & Bullwinkle Show), and eric blore in this not-quite-as-funny comedy based on mistaken identity. The inter-action between the players is strong, and helps keep the plot moving... clever banter between fred & ginger when he is chasing her, but she is playing hard to get (as usual!) Helen Broderick is the sarcastic but wise-to-everything Madge. Erik Rodes is the pompous Beddini, and almost as pompous as Eric Blore, the quintessential butler. Many plot similarities here to Gay Divorcée, almost the same musical numbers and dancing sets too. "},{"Title":"Silk","Date":"19 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Probably the best film you'll see this year. As a schoolkid I obsessed over the scene in the bandstand and used to rush to the local park when it rained, hoping to find a nice gal alone in the shelter. It never worked, but this scene in the film is still insanely romantic. I must have really been in the mood for watching this again I laughed out loud at every line. Everything was funny, especially the preposterous Italian, Beddini, who refers to himself by his own name and whose motto is For woman, ze kiss. For man, ze sword. Ginger and the support are all great - smooth, tongue-in-cheek and hilarious all round. And the really satisfying thing in watching the tap-tastic Fred Astaire is the absolute certainty that you are watching the most perfect master of this particular craft there has ever been and ever will be. Absolute class. "}{"Title":"It was written as he sat at his window in Brooklyn, and gazed at the stars...","Date":"17 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" It is possibly the silliest musical comedy that gains a 10 for it is a perfect musical.Except for an introductory set of scenes where Fred Astaire is wearing a tuxedos or evening suit, he appears in this film more frequently wearing tails and top hat (and even has a dance tune called Top Hat) in this film than any other he made - either with or without Ginger Rogers). He is one of the few actors (William Powell and Robert Montgomery come to mind) who could get away with that. It is possibly the silliest costume regimen in movies but it works here. In fact, the title Top Hat actually is worthy of consideration because most people don't realize that it is an explanation of the stupid plot peg at the center of the story. Astaire comes to London to do a musical for impresario Edward Everett Horton. He is showing off his dancing to Horton in the latter's apartment, while underneath Ginger Rogers is trying to sleep but finds it impossible due to Astaire's tapping. Horton goes downstairs after getting a call from the hotel manager, and Rogers comes upstairs. Of course Astaire falls for her, and she gradually falls for him. But the circumstances mislead her. While waiting for Astaire in the lobby she is informed that the man who rents the rooms she went to is Horton (whose wife, Helen Broderick, is a friend of Rogers). She is told he is the man on the distant second floor landing walking to the staircase carrying an attaché case and wearing a top hat. Rogers looks but the figure goes behind a large chandelier. She has noted the top hat though. We see Horton hand the attaché case to Astaire, also wearing a top hat. Astaire goes downstairs, holding the case and wearing the top hat. Rogers (naturally) jumps to the conclusion that Astaire is Horton, and she slaps him.Plot was not a major issue in most of the Astaire-Rogers films, except for the unraveling of the knots preventing Astaire and Rogers (or other pairs of lovers) from uniting. It is truly dumb here because if the two lovers would just talk the misunderstanding would be cleared. Instead it is spread to other characters. Rogers is being cared for (she is a model) by the couturier Alphonso Bedini (Eric Rhodes, as good as he was as Tonetti in Gay Divorcée), and he is very possessive of her and protective as well. Rhodes comes to believe Horton is a two-timing creep and challenges him to a duel. And Broderick, presented by chance evidence from Rogers, ends up showing her own displeasure to her husband.The music by Irving Berlin is first rate, culminating in The Piccolino number (which was the counterpart to The Continental in Gay Divorcée). Set in a hotel in Venice, Astaire and Rogers dance it when the misunderstanding is cleared up, and when Rhodes, Horton, and Broderick are not around. In the black and white moonlight of the scene, with the white gown of the Rogers against Astaire's black tails, the effect of their dancing is intoxicating - a dream sequence for the audience in the Great Depression. It suggested something more attractive than reality. And universal (I just love the reference in the lyrics to Brooklyn where the gondolier composer created his dance tune). The cast is amusing starting with Rhodes. His Bedini is not as accommodating as Tonetti was, but he has romantic standards. He also has a name rhyme (Alphonso Bedini...I'm just glad you're not skinny!, he says to his mirror image). Horton is in a trio of problem relationships Rhodes wants to kill him; he is hiding a secret from Broderick - though not exactly what she thinks; and he and his valet Bates (the immortal Eric Blore) have a running feud regarding proper dress and whatever. At one point Blore gets himself arrested by an Italian policeman (he outsmarts himself in insulting the man), and when Horton hears the bad news that Blore is in jail his look of joy is priceless. Broderick is controlled because she is married...and can guess what Horton secretly wants. The news from Rogers that her husband is possibly straying does not surprise her at all. Rogers is herself amazed when (at a dinner table where Astaire and Broderick and she are alone) she thinks that Broderick is willingly pushing Astaire and her together!! And the final joke on Rhodes, set up by Blore, is a cute one as well. A wonderful light musical comedy - again one of the best. "},{"Title":"Top Hat","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I knew of all the films starring the great dancing actor, this was the most critically acclaimed of all of them, so obviously I wasn't going to miss the opportunity, and it paid off brilliantly. Basically showman Jerry Travers (Fred Astaire) is working for producer Horace Hardwick (Edward Everett Horton) in London, and shows off some of his new skilled tap dancing steps to him in his hotel room. This however annoys Dale Tremont (Ginger Rogers) who in the room below is trying to get some sleep, and when she goes up to complain he sees her and is immediately attracted. As Jerry continues to pursue Dale all over London, and she does give into him with a roller skate dancer, but he doesn't realise that she thinks he is Horace, married to Marge (Helen Broderick). After a successful opening night in the London theatre, Dale travels to Venice with Jerry right behind her, and while modelling dresses for Italian fashion designer Alberto Beddini (Erik Rhodes) she visits Marge. The mistaken identity grows and grows and now Marge is convinced innocent husband Horace has been the one ca-noodling with Dale, and Jerry still isn't aware of the situation. It is when Jerry proposes to Dale that the big trouble sets in for him and Horace, Dale instead decides to marry Alberto in a quick ceremony, but Jerry may win her back as we see in a memorable dance together. When Alberto goes to deal with Jerry, he has already explained everything to Dale as they are on gondola, Horace is the one with the sword pointed at him. In the end it is revealed that Bates (Eric Blore) was the one who pretended to be a clergyman and married to Dale and Alberto, so it is unofficial, so Jerry and she get married for real to live happily. Astaire and Rogers together are a great presence, the dances are fantastic with impeccable choreography, the most memorable dance being to the infectious song Cheek to Cheek with inspired lyrics, Heaven, I'm in Heaven, and my heart beats so that I can hardly speak. Astaire and Rogers were in ten films together, and this is easily the greatest of their collaborations, maybe even the best old-fashioned dance movie, a wonderful classic musical comedy. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction, Best Dance Direction and Best Picture. Fred Astaire was number 81 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 5 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men, Ginger Rogers was number 14 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Women, the Oscar nominated Cheek to Cheek was number 15 on 100 Years, 100 Songs, the film was number 15 on 100 Years of Musicals, it was number 60 on The 100 Greatest Musicals, and it was number 75 on The 100 Greatest Films. Outstanding! "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the best mistaken identity flick ever","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I just love this movie. It's Fred and Ginger at their peek. Even if they had stopped working together after this, they probably would have still been considered the greatest song-and-dance team of all time. That's how wonderful they are.The plot is not complicated. Jerry Travers (Astaire) and Dale Tremont (Rogers) meet in a hotel and become wildly attractive to each other (though Dale tries to deny it). Soon, however, Dale, who has not yet learned his name, gains the impression that he is Horace Hardwick (who is actually Edward Everett Horton), a man she hadn't previously known from Adam, but knows he is married because she's good friends with his wife, Madge (Helen Broderick, mother of Broderick Crawford). Meanwhile a dashing suitor for Dale's hand, the flamboyant Alberto Beddini (played to perfection by Erik Rhoades) is enraged at the real Hardwick for trying to take his girl away from him. And Madge is even angrier at him for cheating on her and even gives him a black eye at one point. Eventually, the truth is discovered, and Hardwick's butler, Bates (Eric Blore) saves Dale from having to wed Alberto.This movie is funny and entertaining. Even my sister, who doesn't generally take to movies released as early 1935, didn't think it was bad at all. Directed by Mark Sandrich, it contains a most memorable score by the great Irving Berlin. Thew title song, Top Hat, White Tie, and Tails and Cheek to Cheek are among Fred's best known performances. He gives off a wonderful first impression with No Strings, he and Ginger dance under a bandstand away from the wretched weather in Isn't This a Lovely Day to be Caught in the Rain, and Ginger gets a moment of spotlight with The Piccolino. Nobody should go a lifetime without seeing this fantastic movie. So go out and rent it. And keep a sharp lookout for a young Lucille Ball in the flower shop.Famous Line We are Bates, sir. (Bates-who else?) "},{"Title":"Nobody does them anymore","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Yes nobody does musicals like these anymore and if someone did who'd care to see them? Seeing Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers again dancing like only they could do, looking like if they had been born to each other, talking with their feet and their whole bodies almost makes you cry with nostalgia. These were human beings expressing their feelings not machines or robots like those we see in most nowadays movies. When this fabulous pair of tap-dancers begin to move before our eyes we forget everything else and become enraptured. That's what this movie is about and nothing else. The story? Oh yes the story is weak but who cares? In these musicals the story is only the cement which brings music and dance numbers together. However a special mention of two secondary players who go very well Helen Broderick making the open minded wife of the theatrical manager and Eric Blore in the role of Bates the butler who presents us with a few hilarious gags. It's an old movie indeed but it still resists wear and tear of time. "},{"Title":"A tonic for Depression-era audiences...but today it seems an exceedingly thin star showcase","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The wife of a stage producer in London hopes to fix up the American song-and-dance man starring in her husband's latest show with an acquaintance, an American girl who makes her living modeling fashions in society circles. Unfortunately, the couple has already met on their own, with the girl thinking the guy is actually the show producer married to her friend (the fact he's not wearing a wedding ring should have discouraged any misunderstandings!). Wafty Fred Astaire-Ginger Rogers musical is eventually dragged back down to the earth by Dwight Taylor and Allan Scott's idiotic script, which is full of juvenile behavior. Astaire and Rogers don't just 'meet cute'--they meet ridiculously (he's tap-dancing like a madman in the hotel suite above hers and she complains). Audiences of 1935 probably didn't care how these two were going to get together--as long as they did so, and happily. Seen today, the central characters appear to have no motivation to end up in each other's arms he plies her with flowers (after telling his friend he wants to remain fancy free in the love department) and she gives him the brush-off. Nothing that a little dancing couldn't cure! This glamorous twosome are as deliberately unreal as are the London and Venice settings, but we watch simply because the leads are Fred and Ginger. It's a fantasy for have-nots...ones who don't mind the dumbed-down plot. The musical moments do break up the monotony of the contrived scenario, yet fail to transcend the surrounding silliness. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Isn't It A Lovely Day?","Date":"3 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" TOP HAT ranks high on practically everyone's 'Fred & Ginger' lists (including mine) probably because it's the most representative of their films. The audience gets everything it's expecting a fabulous musical score from Irving Berlin, brilliant dancing, witty lines delivered by an expert supporting cast, spectacular Art Deco sets that virtually define that architectural and decorative movement, beautiful dresses for Ginger to wear including the most famous of them all, and probably Fred's most famous solo number. You even get the not- so-good that you expect, the basic farcical plot that's spurred on by a silly misunderstanding which goes on forever. Yes, TOP HAT has it all. Yet somehow I never look forward to re-watching it as I do most of the others. That's not to say that TOP HAT's elegance ever fails to delight me once I do begin to see it again. It does, always. But I never have the yearning to put it back in the old DVD player. I wonder why? By my reckoning, TOP HAT qualifies as a remake of THE GAY Divorcée, not quite as funny as the original and with a mistaken identity twist that goes on about three times as long, and seems to go on about 300 times as long, as that original's. On the plus side, and a powerful plus it is, TOP HAT has one more duet for Fred and Ginger than does TGD. As charming as it is to watch the youthful Betty Grable and Edward Everett Horton hoof it about, the gazebo dance is simply overwhelming in its impact (by comparison, check out the parody of this duet done by Eleanor Powell and George Murphy in one of their movies. It's very nice, but emotionally it comes and it goes to no lasting effect). Likewise, the brilliant 'No Strings' number may have given movies their finest 'meet cute' scene ever. If Astaire's tap dancing there doesn't lift your spirits, I believe that you're probably dead already whether you realize it or not.The 'Cheek to Cheek' number is legendary, you don't need me going on about it. Our redheaded stepchild seems to be the poor Piccolino. True, its pseudo-Berkeley choral traipsing isn't much, and the song is just a bit of silly fun, but I find the celebratory dance done by Ginger and Fred to be perfect for the occasion. Not emotionally deep, the emotions having already been established, the Piccolino is simply joyous, just the sort of feeling that people ought to have at a wedding.TOP HAT was the peak of the ladder of Fred and Ginger's popularity. They'd gone from hit to big hit to huge hit to this mega hit. Now they would retrace those steps in practically the same order. It was a great climb up, and it's going to be a great climb down as well. "},{"Title":"Comedy, Style and Dancing!","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Released in 1935, Top Hat is the fourth pairing of Rogers and Astaire. Featuring music by Irving Berlin, the story is a simple case of mistaken identity. Ginger's character tries her hardest to resist the charms of Astaire's, but is powerless, though she gives him a run for his money. For his part, he is wild about the girl. Not even marriage can stand in the way.Backed by three great character actors--Helen Broderick, Eric Blore, and Edward Everett Horton--Rogers and Astaire are delightful in this light-hearted comedy that features some laugh out loud moments and, of course, some dramatic dancing.This very successful film also features amazing sets and some fashions that are beautiful to see. All together, this production is fabulously stylish and well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A Musical Classic","Date":"7 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" To attain musical perfection is a feat rarely mimicked in the grasp of the take-it-or-leave-it genre. A manicured finger playing the why wasn't the movie successful blame game could easily point at too much spectacle, not enough comedy, or too much comedy, not enough spectacle. But to have neither issue &#x97; to run harmoniously, to exist in a cloud of escapist contemplation &#x97; that is an exploit worthy of endless praise.This is why the films of Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers remain to tread on such sacred ground. They're miles away from the Technicolor escapades of Gene Kelly, Judy Garland, Betty Grable; they start champagne drenched fires in a luminous black-and-white where reality fades and cinematic exhilaration placates the area. They're simultaneously artificial and real; here, artificiality is real. While The Great Depression wore on and midwesterners were gagging on dust, film took a detour into the extravagant and invented worlds where ordinary folks were rich, dressed expensively, traveled to the most beautiful parts of the world, lounged in the most luxurious hotels, found love with someone just as wealthy as them. In these worlds, international problems don't exist &#x97; more important ones, such as romantic misunderstandings and how will they get out of this one comedic situations, act as quaint replacements.It's all a bit ironic (considering the plight of the 1930s), but the heightened determination to make life seem happy/joyful/hopeful/fun/adorable ended up causing an influx of delicious screwball comedies and a superiorly pristine, dressed-to-impressed batch of musicals. The worst of them are still decent, sitting pretty while tickling our senses. But the best, most noticeably the (cough cough) Rogers and Astaire partnerings, are overwhelming in their dedication to wow. Top Hat, the fourth pairing of the quick-footed legends, is their most famous, most acclaimed moment. (Though I'm not so sure I agree with its frequent best of the best placement &#x97; Swing Time and The Gay Divorcée are pretty damn spectacular.) A delirious blend of slapstick antics, tuneful Irving Berlin melodies (including the instantaneously classic Cheek to Cheek), and awe-inspiring choreography, the film pulls off a fluffy plot with its keen sense of wit and dizzying amount of artistic talent.Astaire portrays Jerry Travers, a dancer staying in London to prepare for his starring role in an upcoming musical. While practicing one of his complicated tap routines in his ritzy hotel suite, he awakens the beautiful Dale Tremont (Rogers), who immediately flies upstairs to complain. Dale is irritated, but Jerry is attracted, deciding to spend the rest of his stay attempting to win her heart.Enter Conflict Dale is under the impression that Jerry is Horace Hardwick (Edward Everett Horton), the producer of the show and the husband of her best friend, Madge (Helen Broderick). Figuring he's a pig, as he's cheating on his wife, Dale does everything she can to dissuade him from chasing after her, attempting to romance a flamboyant fashion designer Alberto Beddini (Erik Rhodes) to rid of him. But even tired mishaps can't stop them from unconsciously coupling.Roger Ebert called out Top Hat for its Idiot Plot and still deemed the film one of the Great Movies. It has a paint-by-numbers storyline, sure, but in a musical, a sound screenplay is the least of one's troubles. We want to be amazed, shocked, satisfied; Top Hat delivers more than we could expect. (Though for a Rogers and Astaire movie, it's everything we could hope for.) It's not that it does anything revolutionary &#x97; it's that it transitions from plot to song to dance so evenly that the popular notion of a musical (aka characters suddenly bursting into song!) is completely thrown away. Consider the famous Cheek to Cheek sequence. It begins with Astaire and Rogers in romantic conversation, continues into a sweet serenade, and delves into a flashy, unbroken ballroom dance that dares us to blink. Most scenes in Top Hat work like this; they range from scrambling to sentimental to hilarious, but never does something feel out of place, unwanted. Many musicals suffer from the ugh, another song? complex &#x97; Top Hat doesn't. But, once again, it isn't a normal musical. It's a parfait of genial entertainment, impossible to dislike. "},{"Title":"A pure tonic courtesy of the Great Depression era of filmmaking","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Once upon a time in the 1930's, a legendary pairing of two stars took place in the midst of the Great Depression. Keep in mind that this era was a trying time for America due to the fact that many people were either broke or starving to death. What made this pairing so special is that they helped many people forget for a brief period of time that they were living in such an era. That pairing is none other than that of Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers. Though Astaire would later star in other memorable musicals such as The Band Wagon (1953) and narrate the Christmas special Santa Claus Is Comin' To Town (1970), this team was probably best known by many for their collaboration on musical-comedies such as Swing Time (1936) and Top Hat (1935), the latter being the subject of this very review. Top Hat follows American dancer Jerry Travers (Fred Astaire) who travels to London to do a show for producer Horace Hardwick (Edward Everett Horton). One night when practicing his dance routine in Hardwick's hotel room, a lady named Dale Tremont (Ginger Rogers) from the room below comes up to complain about the noise he's making. Immediately falling in love with Dale on their first meeting, Jerry is determined to pursue her all over town to win her affections. But things get complicated when Dale mistakes Jerry for Hardwick, who is married to Dale's friend Madge (Helen Broderick), and Dale gets engaged to Italian fashion designer Alberto Beddini (Erik Rhodes). So Jerry gets Hardwick and his butler Bates (Eric Blore) to help him with winning back Dale. Basically, the plot centers on a new couple that must try to clear up a big misunderstanding that has come between them. To be brutally honest, the plots have never been the primary strength of the musicals Astaire and Rogers made during that time. In fact, I can see why this story in particular might annoy moviegoers today as it's the type of plot found in rom-coms that most people hate. Because of the fact that the story centers on a misunderstanding, the couple apparently have to be convinced that they hate each other throughout most of the film (Though to be fair, I don't think Astaire hated Rogers at all). And as a result, we have trouble being convinced that they'd be a happy couple. Given that the ability to be convinced that a couple is in love is a crucial ingredient to make a romantic story work, the negative comments regarding the plot to Top Hat are justified in that sense. The story is awkward to say the least. But in terms of its execution, it could have been a lot worse. The aspects that truly sell the musicals starring Astaire and Rogers, especially this one, are the musical numbers and the dancing. Film critic Roger Ebert really opened my eyes in his Great Movies review of Swing Time regarding what made Astaire and Rogers stand out. Ebert stated that Astaire believed every dance number should be filmed, as nearly as possible, in one unbroken take, always showing the full figures of the dancers from head to toes. There are no cutaways to an admiring audience--Astaire thought that was a distraction. No cuts, or very few, to different points of view. And no closeups of the dancer's faces, for that would deny us the movement of their bodies. When you see anyone--an athlete, a musician, a dancer, a craftsman--doing something difficult and making it look easy and a joy, you feel enhanced. It is a victory for the human side, over the enemies of clumsiness, timidity and exhaustion. To briefly summarize Ebert's brilliantly chosen words, Astaire and Rogers stood out from other talented dancers in Hollywood because they realized that little to no editing resulted in more convincing dancing. By using this minimal editing approach, we can truly appreciate the stamina and talent that Astaire and Rogers had as dancers and thus make the illusion seem more real to us. Remember the Isn't It A Lovely Day number early on in the film? The minimal editing used in that number captures the illusion that Rogers truly is progressing from a slow to fast dance alongside Astaire. As a result, the transformation of Rogers' character's opinion of Astaire's character during that song feels more complete. The dance sequences in the Cheek to Cheek and Piccolino musical numbers also obtain the illusion that they've been dancing for a certain period of time without interruptions. It's a smart strategy that Astaire and Rogers use for their dance sequences, so I give them full credit for that. Pet peeves with the narrative aside, Astaire and Rogers still have some likability to them. The exchange between them at the start of the picture (when Rogers complains about Astaire's noisy dancing) shows this teaming at their best and summarizes the chemistry between them in a nutshell. Rogers has some smart yet playful verbal jabs and Astaire always seems to maintain positivity even when the going gets tough (usually when certain people want him to go away). The songs by Irving Berlin stand the test of time, namely Isn't It A Lovely Day, Top Hat, Cheek to Cheek and Piccolino. The dancing between our two leads is amazing because of how they maintain pleasure even under pressing circumstances (wardrobe troubles, hours and hours of rehearsal, etc.). Top Hat is the type of picture you don't see being made today. I wouldn't say that it's going to be for everybody in today's world. But considering the time it was made, it's nothing short of a miracle. "},{"Title":"Great Mix of Romance, Dance and Comedy","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Top Hat (1935)**** (out of 4) Dancer Jerry Travers (Fred Astaire) arrives in the UK for a show and soon meets the beautiful Dale Tremont (Ginger Rogers). The two quickly fall in love but then Dale thinks that he's actually the husband of her best friend. Not realizing that she's making a mistake, Dale does everything she can to destroy the relationship. TOP HAT is perhaps one of the best known of the ten teamings between Astaire and Rogers and it's easy to see why so many people love it. The two stars are in great form, there are many great songs and dance sequences and we've also got a pretty simple but very funny story that actually works. The screenplay is quite good even though there's really not too much that happens when you think about it. The first thirty-minutes has Astaire and Rogers meeting, flirting, dancing and falling in love. Then we get the mix-up to where Rogers thinks Astaire is married and for the next hour plus we get them fighting and dragging other people into the mess. I thought the stuff dealing with Rogers making the mistake was handled quite well and it led to many laughs and especially when the real husband gets involved with another man who has a thing for Rogers. The performances by the two leads are certainly everything you'd expect them to be. The chemistry between the stars is what made these teamings legendary and every bit of praise that has been said about them is rightly deserved. The supporting players offer up nice performances from Edward Everett Horton, Helen Broderick and Erik Rhodes. The song Check to Check is perhaps the most memorable from any of the Astaire-Rogers musicals but we also get an excellent Isn't This a Lovely Day (to Be Caught in the Rain? and The Piccolino at the finale is just divine. TOP HAT certainly deserves its reputation as one of the best musicals out there but I think it's the comedy that really makes it stand out. "}{"Title":"Pure nostalgia","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Still very watchable. Fred Astaire is Fred Astaire even if he comes as too aware of his star status throughout the film. Ginger is an excellent actress but unfortunately her dancing steps are mostly criminally hidden by too long dresses. The dancing does not take over the whole film and has a measure of spontaneity in it, making it more natural. The sets are laughably prewar, rooms without ceilings - the bridal suite for example - but taken in stride. The characters are likable and the script is witty. Unfortunately the soundtrack quality is terrible by today's standards and while good enough to understand the dialog, renders the music to scratchy gramophone days. Nostalgic yes but cramps the style somewhat. "},{"Title":"one of the better Astaire Rogers movies","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Frankly, while Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers had wonderfully chemistry, I don't feel the Astaire/Rogers films were his best movies. Band Wagon, for one, was much better, and in terms of dance partners, Eleanor Powell was much more impressive than Rogers.Still, I watched all the Astaire/Rogers films when I was in college, and I enjoyed them, less for the dancing (I really like Astaire best in his novelty numbers, like dancing with a coat rack or firecrackers) than with the goofy comedy of supporting players like Edward Everett Horton.Top Hat is a very good example of the Astaire Rogers formula. Astaire and Rogers coo and snipe, supporting players are amusingly befuddled, the story is an amusing though remarkably dopey comedy of errors, and there is quite a lot of dancing. The songs by Irving Berlin are some of his best, and the dancing is, of course, excellent, even though I'm really more a fan of Gene Kelly's earthier approach.If you like Astaire/Rogers movies, you'll like this one. If you've never seen one, this is a good place to start. I don't consider it a great movie by any means, but it is consistently entertaining. "},{"Title":"Classic Fred and Ginger","Date":"14 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" If there was one film that comes to mind when thinking of Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers it would be Top Hat. And it is easy to see why because it is a wonderful film, whether as a musical, comedy or a timeless and unsurpassed partnership. The story isn't its strongest asset, some may argue that it's the story that they remember the least about Top Hat and a lot of Fred and Ginger's other outings. However that doesn't matter all that much, because it still has a fantastical fun element and told with a lot of charm and warmth. And because everything here just works amazingly well. The art-décor settings are very sumptuous, with costumes that are equally stunning(some of Ginger Rogers' dresses have to be seen to be believed) and handsome photography. Irving Berlin's score and songs are some of the best of any 30s-50s film musical, the witty lyrics, charming melodies and distinctive style is just a joy to listen to throughout. Top Hat, White Tie and Tails is a very catchy title number and really allows Fred Astaire to make it his own, while Isn't It a Lovely Day is one of Berlin's most beautiful songs and Cheek to Cheek has some of the best choreography of any single song of any Fred and Ginger film. Piccolino also comes across very well, Ginger's singing isn't a wow factor but the song itself and the lively choreography do win you over. The songs are helped by the choreography, which is glamorous, good-natured and looks so light-as-a-feather when Fred and Ginger do it. The dialogue is very witty and warm-hearted, the highlights were the hansom-cab scene and anything involving Beddini. The characters are eccentric but immensely likable, it's very easy to warm to and relate to Jerry. And there's no going wrong with the performances either, Fred and Ginger's dance partnership is deservedly iconic, you just admire and sometimes envy how poised and athletic they both are, and their individual performances are just as charming, especially Astaire. The supporting cast sparkle just as much, especially Erik Rhodes who steals every scene he's in and even at times the whole film. In conclusion, a Fred and Ginger classic. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Putting up my Top Hat, tying up my white tie...brushing off my tails!","Date":"1 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This film will leave you screaming and dancing with delight! This film seriously reeks with class. Fred Astaire's character and Ginger Rodger's character are both extremely likable and cool. The dancing is truly amazing, you will suddenly feel very jealous of Mr Astaire after watching this movie. He makes everything look so easy when he dances. His voice seems really silky and soft when he sings and there is one Tap Dancing scene which will leave your tongue hanging out from your mouth. I must say first that this film is light. Don't bring your notebook out and start writing notes on the themes and ideas expressed through the movie, because you won't enjoy it. The plot is slight and over all a bit of nonsense. But it seems to take itself super seriously, but that, I think, is all part of the fun. There are only a few characters, they seem to breakthrough the stereotypes which is good. The art Deco style of London and the beauty of Venice is captured perfectly and I do get distracted sometimes by the background! I must say this, that this film is old. So, the camera shots are simpler, the acting isn't in your face and the film may feel a little slow, but this is part of the charm. There are only a handful of songs, sung by Astaire and Ginger, but they a good songs, including Cheek to Cheek and Top Hat, White tie and Tails. Great popcorn movie to enjoy with a girl or a family member! "},{"Title":"Fred's invented madness","Date":"13 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Well, to get an impression of where I stand when I dismiss the musical aspects of this film, Fred and Ginger are, next to William Powell and Myrna Loy, the most watchable, most cinematic on-screen couple of the decade&#x97;urbane, witty, effortless. It is not their dancing together that impresses, not for me. Fred has done much better dancing in Easter Parade. The staging is most of the time uninteresting, spotlight on them, dull camera. And they are not what you would call superb actors by the contemporary sense of the term.It is the bubble of spontaneity and feigned amazement, the air of pleasant light friction they manage to sustain between them; a sense of soft clouds gliding against each other, the rain and lightning all for show.As said, the musical aspect doesn't touch me, it seems onedimensional&#x97; give me the self-reflexive dance in layers of something like Busby's Footlight Parade. What IS interesting about this, and their cinematic coupling in general, is that it is so much more than a cocktail party, that would be William and Myrna's charm (do see The Thin Man if you haven't). It will seem superficial at first, indeed most viewers have dismissed the story as a trifle rehash of their Gay Divorcée. It was probably seen as harmless at the time. The thing is basically a screwball with a few numbers.It probably excites me and not others, because my ongoing premise is that each film right down to the most crude, can be understood as a consciousness at the mercy of images it creates&#x97;the fun all in riding whims of perception as they enter the fray and stitch illusion.Let me unspool a bit of what goes on in the story to illustrate that. You have two lovers who curiously explore each other. We know they are destined, audiences knew then, it's as if they are already together and all this is being reflected back on. The place is Venice, the Hollywood studio version&#x97;the perfect scenery for embellishment and dreamlike digress, because it is so falsely idyllic. It really is an amazing set; imagine being a studio carpenter and going to work there every morning, what bliss..Now as fate would have it, there is the misunderstanding (mistaken identity) and all it kicks off. This is mirrored in a friendly couple, where imagined adultery is actually real and comes to the surface. You have the Italian dressmaker and annoying manservant as comic relief, both of whom act roles at one point or other, incidentally both are celibates so without anchor. On a third level, you have both lovers fabricating a supposed shared memory from the past, with Fred's, here's the magic of the couple in full effect, slyly improvised on the spot on top of Ginger's.Fateful changing of selves; splintered, older version of the reality of the characters; and third parallel mirror in obviously fabricated memory about veiled sex, which is at the core of everything. In Fred's story, he supposedly met Ginger years ago in Paris, who was going then by Madeleine&#x97;'Mad' in short as he calls her.How can anyone who has intimately known Vertigo see this and not sit back? Can't we say that some things enter the vocabulary with such power they transform in retrospect everything else?Oh, the abstraction is empty as we have it. This is a comedy, so we have too much control of the plot. There are whims in perception, but we are never lost. And all of it has been so deftly annotated since Vertigo and on, that there's nothing to take from it anymore, the next two or three steps have been taken. But there must have been a window, say no more than 10 years, when this really tickled the imagination and opened portals. "},{"Title":"The Tops!","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire were as important to the American Screen as any of their peers possibly more so. During the Depression these two great artists performed some of the greatest romantic sequences in movie history and did it with flair and honesty. Ms. Rogers deserves extra credit for her being as glamorously beautiful as any women of her era. These films were shot at RKO Studio and the fabled RKO Art Direction and Set Direction Departments invented Art Deco Interior Decoration worldwide. This is movie making at its finest and kudos to two legends, two stars who deserve all the praise they ever got, Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire. They are simply and will always be and totally The Tops! "},{"Title":"Backwards In High Heels...And Feathers!","Date":"31 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Ginger Rogers holds her own in this reunion with dancing partner Fred Astaire, with some help from a snazzy feather dress and a mean right hook. More than than the singing and dancing, Top Hat works for the comedy, and Ginger delivers with gusto.She's Dale Tremont, kept woman of a fussy dress designer named Beddini (Erik Rhodes). Dale finds love while caught in the rain with that guy who kept her up tapdancing the night before. It's Fred Astaire, of course, as a single guy named Jerry she mistakes for a married guy named Horace (Edward Everett Horton). Dale falls for him, then she falls out with him, and well, if you have seen one of these movies you know the rest already.It's not the clever plot that makes Top Hat worthwhile. It's not even the songs this time around. There's one classic, Cheek To Cheek, but the other songs Irving Berlin supplied are just solid to fair, except for a finale number called The Piccolino which is rather poor. You have some nice dancing, of course, but it's really Astaire and Rogers as actors, playing off each other and their fine supporting cast, who make this film work.Give director Mark Sandrich credit for keeping things so frothy you don't mind the introduction of what Roger Ebert would call an idiot plot. Instead, you enjoy the confusion when an unbelieving Dale watches Horace's wife Madge (Helen Broderick) push Jerry on her. She thinks he's Horace, you see.You two run and dance and don't give me another thought, Madge says innocently, giving Dale a sly look.Well, if she doesn't mind, I don't mind, Dale sighs.The two then go off to dance the signature number of the movie, and perhaps the whole Astaire-Rogers film series. Cheek To Cheek has Rogers wearing that remarkable feathered gown, but what's more remarkable is the expression of erotic abandon she carries as she allows this man she thinks is married to sweep her off her feet.Other films of this era were what were known as remarriage comedies. This is more of a demarriage comedy, in which the two principals struggle with each other's presumed matrimonial vows. It's surprisingly sophisticated in places, as when Horace tells Jerry about a woman he found himself comforting at a zoo It was the storks in particular that frightened her.The film comes up short at the end, overdoes the mistaken identity shtick, and relies too much on ridiculous coincidence. It also doesn't do enough by the best of the Astaire-Rogers supporting players, Eric Blore, though at least he's here glowering and coming through in the clutch.But I have fun watching this one, and that enjoyment grows as I see it again and pick up on the undeniable craft and love that went into making it. Sandrich knows how to accentuate the positive, and with Astaire and Rogers keeping on each other's toes, it's hard to walk away from Top Hat feeling low. "},{"Title":"Fred and Ginger make magic together","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Jerry Travers is an American dancer, who comes to London to star in a show produced by Horace Hardwick.While doing some tap dancing in his hotel bedroom, he awakes the beautiful Dale Tremont.He falls for her, and she hates him, at first, anyway.Dale mistakes Jerry for Horace, who happens to be married to her friend Madge.They all meet in Venice, Italy.Her dressmaker Alberto Beddini convinces they should get married.But the man who conducts the ceremony, happens to be Horace's valet Bates, as we learn in the end.That means Dale is available for Jerry.Top Hat (1935) is a musical comedy directed by Mark Sandrich.Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers make a terrific team, once again.Edward Everett Horton is very good as Horace.Helen Broderick is wonderful as Madge.Erik Rhodes gives a great performance as Beddini.Eric Blore is marvelous as Bates.Comedienne Lucille Ball plays Flower Clerk.The movie has many great musical moments.It's pretty amazing to see Fred doing his tap dancing routine, and making Ginger go crazy.It's a magical moment when Fred and Ginger dance together and Fred sings Cheek to Cheek.Together Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers made magic. "},{"Title":"Well made, corny, but fun!","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Why does this old cineaste bother with an old black-and-white movie that he would not have bothered to see when it was first released? Well, when an opportunity offers to see a 35mm print in a modern cinema you'd like to see what such a film meant to people towards the end of the Great Depression. It most certainly would have been a relief of the burdens of 1935. It's not quite Cosi Fan Tutti or Twelfth Night, but it does use the old trick of mistaken identities to add to the 'suspended disbelief' that so much drama depends on. And, of course, we tend to compare the techniques of the old 35mm film process with the apparent ease of modern digital technology. And the truth? You can look for the goofs, and you will find that in 1935, film makers had learned enough since the advent of sound to get it right. The giveaway is often the lip-synching. Well, here it cannot be faulted. Indeed, one can believe that Ginger Rogers is actually singing. Perhaps she was. OK, the orchestra was probably dubbed (the dance sounds had to be synched as well), but this is one close-to-perfect talkie. This particular showing did demonstrate that to-day's bio operators have had it too easy with their digital films. There was one missed cue. Perhaps the op was too busy watching the movie! And how did Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers manage to not tread on each others' toes? Yes, Fred did lift his feet very high, and Ginger hardly at all. I wish I had learned that at dance classes! "},{"Title":"This is a perfect movie!","Date":"14 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is a perfect movie! Not just an example of Fred and Ginger and Irving Berlin--though all of that goes toward it being perfect. The simple plot line--Dale (Ginger Rogers) thinks to the very end of the movie that Jerry (Fred Astarie) is Madge's husband--Dale thinks Jerry is a two timer. That simple but elegant plot moves the story along. Of course, if they spoke to each other, the whole mess could have been cleared up in 10 minutes--a very short movie and not especially interesting. But the ensemble cast pulls off the details and raises the movie to brilliance. Lines are delivered with a certain understated drollness that only Edward Everett Horton, Helen Brodrick, Eric Blore, Eric Rhodes could do. Not the heavy handedness of the Marx Brothers or the broadness of Max Sennet, or the sentimentality of Charlie Chaplin. The dancing, the singing, the songs, the story line, all contribute to its success. The last and lively number The Piccolino is a piece of silliness that makes the movie end on a high note, that forces the movie into that high note in a way that dialogue or situation could not. That song celebrates the conclusion after 100 minutes where everything comes together like a well crafted movie--which it is. Like Easter Parade ending on that song enlivens that movie and enshrines that movie into excellence, so too does 'The Piccolino'. Of all the Astaire and Rogers movies, this is the best, most excellent, and one that should be in every private library because it transcends itself as an Astaire/Rogers/Berlin vehicle. "}{"Title":"Top Astaire-Rogers","Date":"1 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is the best of the Astaire-Rogers musicals, a breezy affair featuring Irving Berlin song staples Isn't This a Lovely Day (To Be Caught in the Rain) and Cheek to Cheek. While other films by the duo include fine music and dancing, what puts this over the top is the delightful script based on the comic premise of mistaken identity, as Ginger mistakes Fred for a married man. The terrific supporting cast includes Horton as Astaire's harried manager, Blore as a sarcastic servant, Broderick as Horton's understanding wife, and Rhodes as an Italian dress designer who hilariously mangles the English language. Sandrich smoothly directs the second of his five Astaire-Rogers films. "},{"Title":"A Fine Musical, With Plenty of Romance","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Here's a fine film with Fred Astaire's manic tap-dancing, the lovely Ginger Rogers, and some classic songs (particularly Cheek to Cheek). Lucille Ball makes a small, uncredited appearance.There's also a screwball comedy element that is mixed with a case of mistaken identity. Ginger thinks Fred is his friend, which causes plenty of confusion, and gets Fred's friend (Horace) into plenty of trouble with his wife. It's fairly silly, and then you throw in an Italian fashion designer who wants to defend his lover's honor... all in all, a good example of the grand sets of the era.Astaire is probably the greatest dancer in film history, with the possible exception of Gene Kelly. His influence is impressive, both on other dancers and on the film industry... as recently as The Green Mile, this under-rated film has left a lasting impact on the cinema. "},{"Title":"Just Heavenly!","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Heavenly Fred & Ginger musical! After the film was over, I felt as if I was walking in air. Utterly gorgeous and full of great singing and dancing from the duo. While the plot is paper thin, there are heaps of fun lines, lovely comedic playing from Astaire & Rogers and the supporting characters are a hoot. Regarded by most critics as the greatest of the Astaire-Rogers musicals, this film certainly lives up to it's reputation. Containing such tunes as the (now) romantic standard Cheek to Cheek (complete with Ginger in her famous feathered dress), Isn't A Lovely Day and Fred singing the title number, this is an excellent musical. "},{"Title":"Fred and Ginger rule!","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is my first film with Fred Astaire - and my first for Ginger Rogers. I have to say I thought it was fabulous. There is amazing dancing and singing, good gags and the characters are very likable and entertaining.Before you watch this marvellous film, note not to pay too much attention to the plot, or otherwise you will most definitely not like this. This film is slightly farce and the film is very muxed ip. The gorgeous Jerry Travers (Fred Astaire) loves to dance. He enjoys tap dancing and does it absent-mindedly. When he tap dances in Horace's hotel (Horace is his boss), the woman on the floor below (Ginger Rogers) goes up to tell Jerry that she is trying to sleep and Jerry falls in love with her...I recommend this to anyone who loves classic films and to people who do not pay attention to plots. Enjoy! -) "},{"Title":"Top-Notch","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I've just checked out some of the previous comments and find there are exactly 49 so I'm especially pleased to add a 50th fully endorsing what most of the others (I didn't read them all) have said. This was the fourth of the nine black and white films Fred and Ginger made at RKO and I have a strong feeling that it's the one title that springs to mind whenever someone says Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers and I'd guess that even those unfortunates who've never seen an Astaire-Rogers movie will KNOW that Top Hat was one of their finest. It probably boasts the finest score of the three -Flying Down To Rio, The Gay Divorce, Roberta - that preceded it and when we remember the Composers of those first three - Vinnie Youmans, Cole Porter and Jerry Kern - that's saying something. The Gay Divorce might just have shaded this one in terms of score IF RKO had had the sense to leave Cole Porter's score from the Broadway show unmolested but that, of course, would have been too easy so they jettisoned everything except Night and Day. On the other hand there are those, myself included, who would argue that Night and Day is so great that it almost constitutes a score in itself but that's one for the Debating Societies to pick the bones out of. In addition to the first-rate Berlin score we have more than first-rate support in the shape of Helen Broderick, Edward Everett Horton, Eric Blore and Erik Rhodes so all the elements are in place ... well, NEARLY all. It wouldn't have harmed to have a believable script and sets but against that we have to remember that the movie was released in 1935 aka the heart of the Great Depression so laughable art-deco Venetian canals were unlikely to be laughed off the screen by people hungry for Escape from reality. Above all we have the Dancing, the Finest Male Dancer of the 20th century and a partner who could fake it expertly and just about get away with the few vocals she was alloted. All in all a Classic. "},{"Title":"Top Hat","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Top Hat was a very interesting movie. It wasn't the type I would go to blockbuster and rent. It didn't seem like the movie was fictional. The dance scenes in the movie connected to the mood of the dancer and what was going on in the story. You can tell that people thought hard about the dancing scenes before putting the movie out.In one of the dance numbers Fred dances with Ginger and sings to her about heaven. Her dress and the background symbolized the theme of heaven. When the two were dancing they moved together and it seemed very peaceful and quit heavenly.Another dance scene that I remember well is when the dancers were attached by a rope. In this scene Fred and Ginger were at a fancy restaurant eating and Ginger was singing about a man who was looking up in the sky at the stars. This foreshadowed the design the dancers would then create which was a star.I thought the movie Top Hat was very thought out. The cameras viewed the dancers at the best angles appropriate at that time. Towards the end of the movie Fred had a scene that was interesting and entertaining. He danced in a manor that looked like he was shooting down the rest of the dancers behind him.One thing that wasn't too fictional was when they were in one country one scene another country the next. Besides this bit of non-fiction it was a good movie that showed better dancing then the previous movie. Each scene had to do with the next. "},{"Title":"A mistaken identity romance","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This has to be the best musical film ever. The Irving Berlin score is faultless. The dancing unbelievable. The dresses, despite Miss Rogers feather dress problems in the routine Cheek to Cheek, are all fabulous. The dialogue is brilliant and funny and all the actors play their roles impeccably. The set designs are so art deco they are untrue. I cannot think of a nicer way to spend a lonely a wet afternoon than watching this gorgeous film. This is the film to lift you out of the blues, it's the best tonic around. Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers made other films together that are very much worth watching in particular Swing Time, but this is easily the best. The chemistry between them does work; its tart and acerbic and ultimately romantic when all the mistakes have been corrected. This is a DVD to own. "},{"Title":"A captivating and charming film.","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" No matter how many times I watch Fred and Ginger on screen, I never seem to grow tired of them. They have a perfect on screen chemistry, in fact, the whole (usual) cast seem to me, the perfect team. To me, this film is one of the best of its time. It's one of those films that leaves you with a warm feeling inside, just because its so delightful and truly romantic. The light and amusing comic complications are simply lovely and the songs and dances just charming! I don't think I will ever grow tired of the films and I'm sure others never will. It is a film that truly stands out, and will continue to do so for years to come. "},{"Title":"Heaven, you'll be in Heaven...","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  How can you elaborately describe the magnificence of Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers's trademark film? Top Hat is classic by any standard, and even though I'm only 20, I almost long for that era of more innocent and original movies. In order to properly enjoy Top Hat, one has to have patience and a sense of humor about the mistaken identity storyline. Fred and Ginger are in their finest form here, and the film helped carve out their images, that lead to their fortunes in the future. Fred is just excellent as performer Jerry Travers, and he strikes up several balances that are impossible for most men to achieve he's elegant without being effeminate, charming without seeming phony, and gentle without being a wuss. Ginger is also good as Dale Tremont a wealthy...hey, what does Dale do for a living? Who cares? It's just one of the film's many unanswered questions. Ginger was part of the 30s' trend of sassy and classy women (the best of the bunch had to have been Katherine Hepburn). Every musical number is just outstanding. I for one like The Piccolino number The scenery is beautiful (I want Heaven to look like that), the music sparkles, the dancing is great fun to watch, and Ginger wears what has to be her prettiest dress in the movie. The supporting cast is amazing, with Edward E. Horton as a blustering British manager, Helen Broderick as his sassy, no-nonsense wife, and Eric Blore as a sardonic butler. Best of all is Erik Rhoades, who is a scream as the ridiculous Italian, Alberto Bedini (don't watch this movie if you're overly politically correct). This movie does indeed simply reek with class. It's the ultimate mood-lifter, so musical fans, don't miss it! Suspend your cynicism and enjoy Top Hat, and you'll be in Heaven! "},{"Title":"Laughs a minute in the Astaire-Rogers classic!","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  There's a whole wealth of reasons as to why this is the defining Astaire and Rogers musical. Some of the best quips, songs and dances spawn from it. It lacks the elements that turned the series sour with later musicals like Carefree. The performances are perhaps the best of all Astaire and Rogers musical. Top Hat also boasts the classic number Cheek to Cheek, in which Ginger dances in a fabulous pale blue dress of ostrich feathers, which in turn, is a whole story in itself. On the other hand, it travels along lines obviously similar to that of its predecessor, The Gay Divorcee. Mistaken identity. Girl refusing guy troubles. Elegant costumes and tails. Erik Rhodes is back as 'The Italian Guy'. Edward Everett Horton is back as Fred's clumsy buddy. More screamingly painful controlled studio sets. In all, more ironic silliness, more crazy behaviour, and even more surprisingly, everyone seems to get away with it.It could have been the public couldn't simply get enough of Ginger and Fred, the reasons the execs at RKO decided to merely reinvent The Gay Divorcee. It certainly worked at the time. Preview audiences pains included working out whether they liked It's a lovely Day or Cheek to Cheek better. It even was nominated as a candidate for Best Picture of 1935. Clearly the ploy worked, The Gay Divorcee also receiving the nod the year before. Therefore, would this gimmick be fried the second upon re-release?It's been sixty five years. The classic magic that thrilled the audiences of its day is still there. The screenplay is frivolous once again, but that is where the brilliance lies. The performances still preserved have lost none of their charisma and humour. Dances and songs are sensational, and the class of the whole thing is just a faint reminder of days gone by, though not with such silliness.Despite its greatness and immortal appeal, the movie still has its flaws. Poor Ginger was passed The Piccolino the film's weakest number which was disguised with a lavish dance routine. Ginger received the numbers that Fred didn't like. Fred got the good ones again, It's a Lovely Day, Fancy Free and Cheek to Cheek. RKO probably comes in second for lousiest in the exterior set decoration department. The only studio worse in its days was FOX. They certainly did their indoor decors beautifully, but still couldn't get it right for the outdoors. A somewhat acceptable London is supported by a totally artifical Venice. It evokes an imagery of the Golden Hollywood ended. This was the first of the team's musicals I saw, although Swing Time remains my favourite.What makes it in all, so brilliant? Go and see it for yourself. If the time and place is right, you'll love it.Rating 8/10 "}{"Title":"Fred & Ginger at their finest!","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I could watch these two dance for hours. That's the main attraction where Fred Astaire & Ginger Rogers movies are concerned. The engaging plot and great original songs are just icing on the cake. "},{"Title":"Greatest of musicals","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This isn't just the best of the Astaire-Rogers musicals, but is by implication the best musical ever made. The dancing is, of course, superb, but the comedy is sharp and witty, the performances all round are flawless, and the romance is wonderful as well.This was the second-biggest grossing movie of 1935.  "},{"Title":"Heaven!","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Top Hot is a sheer delight.  When it's said that they don't make 'em like they used to, they could be talking about this film.  Astaire and Rogers are maybe the best duo in the history of American film, and certainly the best dance team.  Top Hat also boasts one of Irving Berlin's best film scores, with standards like Cheek to Cheek, Isn't This a Lovely Day?, and Astaire's show-stopping solo number Top Hat, White Tie, and Tails.  Then there are the comic antics of two of Hollywood's biggest scene-stealers, Edward Evert Horton and Eric Blore.  Top Hat is really one of those films where the whole is greater than the sum of its parts.  And nothing tops Fred and Ginger dancing cheek-t- cheek during Cheek to Cheek for romance and unutterable beauty.  A true classic, and testament to Astaire's timeless charm and grace.  "},{"Title":"Heaven, I'm in heaven...","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Why am I in heaven? Because I have just returned from seeing this wonderful, wonderful film on the big screen (for maybe the tenth time). But it was over a decade since I had that pleasure and I had forgotten the wonder, the thrill, the ecstasy of it. Am I a musicals nut? No. Am I an Astaire-Rogers super-fan? No. But this delirious romantic musical farce is one of the most precious jewels in the crown of the cinema.Whence cometh this wonder, I ask myself? Yes, many other of the Astaire Rogers films are enjoyable, and the dancing and even, perhaps, the songs in Swingtime or Carefree can match most of the numbers in Top Hat. But Top Hat stands like a beacon above and beyond anything that the duo, or RKO's musical division ever did before or after. I am coming to the conclusion that a lot of the credit belongs to Aladar Laszlo who was co-author of the play, but, more importantly had the same function on Lubitsch's masterpiece, Trouble in Paradise...So what if Aladar did light the spark in the film? Nearly everyone concerned is perfect. There is barely a line of dialogue that is not funny or barbed, and even the corny jokes Ginger'What is this strange power you have over horses?'. Fred 'Horse power.' add to the blinding sense of INNOCENCE that gives the film its power. And then there are the supporting roles. Edward Everett Horton makes a magnificent Horace, but is upstaged in every scene by Eric Blore as the incomparable Bates. Erik Rhodes is sensational as Beddini, uttering mangled English as though he imagined he was Shakespeare. And what of director Mark Sandrich? If Howard Hawks' definition of a good director ('Someone who doesn't annoy you.') is right, then Mark Sandrich is a good director! But this is not a film d'auteur but a magnificent product of the Hollywood studio system - one of the best.But I digress. I like thousands of films, and love hundreds of them, but this wondrous emotional masterpiece can take its place along with perhaps twenty or thirty films that I love to exasperation. That is alongside The Adventurer, 42nd Street, The General, Earth, Citizen Kane, El Dorado... OK, I won't bore you with the rest. And so that is why I'm in heaven. And if there is a heaven, then after I die, I will enter the world of Top Hat. "},{"Title":"Extremely Annoying Story","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This started off with a bang - a couple of good songs and some tremendous dancing by Fred Astaire. However, it bogs down with the standard storyline of mistaken identity which goes on and on and on. It just gets really annoying after awhile. Ginger Rogers and Helen Broderick continually mistreat and make accusations against their men. Then, when they find out their mistakes, they never apologize or act like they did anything wrong! At any rate, it's always a pleasure to watch Rogers and Astaire dance together, but these stories......yeech! At least Edward Edward Horton added something to the story. The dialog is very dated and, for the millionth time, you see marriage treated with no respect. Overall, you can find a lot better Astaire-Rogers movies than this overrated turkey. "},{"Title":"Here and there the shoulders of the dancers","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Top hat (1935) directed by Mark Sandrich is a musical movie whose cosmopolitanism give us a pair of dancers here and there, London and Venice at the time, with an energy from the body that anybody stand without move on each chair as movie goers. Even forty or seventy years after its stage acrobatics and choreography with tip tap shoes, in such a foolish concert visually beautiful and encouraging putting sadness for a while out of minds. Only when they were quiet and observing each other in silence, before others in a saloon of high society of the time, could their shoulders give some sign of apparently indifference from their own story as dancers with love affairs crossed by fake illusions. The choreography and the decoration of the stage in the main show, that justifies the title with the black sophisticated hats and the sticks for the compasses and equilibrium of this couple of dancers - on which is in itself the most famous example of a screening music-hall moment by its simplification and high contrast of brightness in black and white -, are much more important together in the main other scenes than the holes of the plot with the tricks of snubbing characters at the time almost as farcical inspiration. That means the way that the dancers keep in touch or abandon each other in scene are conventions of golden youth without any interest out of their feet and hands round the speed of the rhythm in their balance as an eternal turnabout over the clouds of imagination and the deck of inspiration for a first kiss as plenty conventionality of Hollywood happy end for the good of everybody. Like director Mark Sandrich helps to understand us in his escape for marvelous eternity of these foolish dancers, a couple of dreamers for ever in a Europe that already doesn't exist anymore between wars and loves, only the ghosts of shipwrecking. Otherwise, where the episodes of the story in between shows the dancers like human beings, such as a fair play for helping each other indeed, instead hearing the intriguing plot and competing each other against the level of either participation, in such a double show of supposed to be the own real life of the main characters, before the vassals as waiters of high life and old society, whose occupancy is nonetheless below as in snow condition, but like conserving ice on the rocks to drink and amazing in free times of travels. There is here in this musical movie the illusion of a couple of lovers in real life out of the fiction about dancers in Europe and far away of America, but it was only true on the stage for the marching of the same couple, dancing between moments of hate and loving each other forever when timeless separated by the conjuncture of a melodramatic but energetic plot at the time of gangsterism - with the scene of Fred Astaire simulating with his stick the choreography of the fall's shooting of each of the members of the orchestra -, in a magisterial evocation on stage decor of the rhythmic trepidation of the roar twenties from the dry law against booze... Almost nothing of eroticism but a fashionable way of showing elegance and somewhat sex-appeal as it was your sister brother fighting incest with fox-trot, tangos and waltz's. "},{"Title":"Top Hat","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Top Hat By definition, in film studies, formalism is a trait in film-making, which overtly uses the language of film, such as editing, shot composition, camera movement, set design, etc., so as to emphasize graphical (as opposed to deistic) qualities of the image. In the film Top Hat, one can see many traits of formalism such as the following. As the film begins, that camera shoots Jerry Travers in the apartment room, dancing, and singing. The camera moves along so that it follows every step Jerry performs. There was also a scene where the camera shoots Dale Tremont in the horse carriage while Jerry drives it, this scene demonstrates flirting.Another scene was when Dale and Jerry danced in the rain. The scene shows both of them dancing while it rain which gave it a happy mode even though it was raining, the camera also faced them in the center of the screen. A little after, Dale goes back to her room after dancing and the theater scene was demonstrated. They way they switched from the hotel to the theater was by the maid tapping on the vase and the instructor of the orchestra tapping on the stick. They switched space in the process of the tapping.This is where Jerry dance scene comes in. While watching the film, I noticed that Jerry's dance scene was not cut. As the film moved along, the whole scene was moved into a new location which was in Venice now. I observed that the scene for Venice was unreal. While the setting is in Venice, they performed the dance Cheek to Cheek. I observed that while they danced, they moved from the dance floor to a more secluded area. The camera mostly focused on Jerry and Dale while they danced away.These are some of the traits of formalism that I observed while watching Top Hat. Some include the camera movement, the set design, if its real or unreal, and etc. "},{"Title":"Top Hat Film Review","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Director Mark Sandrich produces Top Hat, one of the 1930's essential musicals of cinema, and arguably the best musical of its era. A capturing story of loves personal and interpersonal conflicts, combined with outstanding dancing and song. Top Hat immediately caught my attention and never let it stray away. Sandrich excellently portrays chemistry between main characters Fred Astaire, and Ginger Rogers. The movie conveys realistic acting styles, and camera angles. Each scene tends to end off with a joke and a punch line which I found quite amusing. The story line is real regardless of the hysterical conflicts involving the complete unawareness of Rogers character Dale towards love interest Jerry played by Astaire. The dramatic plot enables us to feed off the characters and their real feelings. I truly entered this world created by Sandrich, because of the set designs and costumes. This was a higher society of people presumably a fantasy for some lower class people in the 1930's. Sandrich style is present in the movie through many scenes for instance in one scene playing the song London Bridge to show the audience the characters were in London, as well as characters using accents.Sandrich controls sound, sight and our imagination with this film. An interesting scene using the control of sound was Astaire's soft shoe dance. Character Jerry is dancing for Horace Hardwick in a hotel room but is too loud and ultimately decided to throw sand on the floor to muffle the noise. The use of lighting on stage contributes greatly to keep us aware if it is night or day. The special effects in the gazebo scene really put me in the rain to sing and dance with Jerry and Dale. Sandrichs conversion from scene to scene including the punch lines is coincidental. This can be seen from the clinking on a vase in the hotel and then switching to the motion of the baton hitting the music stand to conduct the orchestra. This film is quintessential Fred and Ginger, from the initial verbal sparring and mistaken identities that keep them apart, to the wonderful tap and partner dances which reconcile their differences and establish their love and equality as a couple. Both quantity and quality are present throughout the movie. An all around great movie filled with energy and enthusiasm. "},{"Title":"Fred and Ginger together again doing what they do best","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Top Hat is directed by Mark Sandrich, has a screenplay by Dwight Taylor and Allan Scott, has music by Irving Berlin. The film stars Fred Astaire, Ginger Roger, Edward Everett Horton, Eric Blore, Helen Broderick and Erik Rhodes.Jerry Travers(Fred Astaire)is a famous tap dancer. He disturbs Dale Tremont(Ginger Rogers)when he dances for his friend Horace(Edward Everett Horton)in the hotel room above Dale's.Dale mistakes him for Horace and complications arise from this, especially after the two fall in love for one another. Horace's wife Madge (Helen Broderick)invites Dale to stay with her in Venice. Jerry and Horace arrive to stay and the comic mistaken identity continues. Dale tries to ward off Jerry thinking he is a married man, she takes up with fashion designer Alberto Beddini(Erik Rhodes)but this doesn't stop Jerry trying to make her realise they should be together.Astaire and Rogers are at their best here and there's fine support from Edward Everett Horton, Helen Broderick and Eric Blore as Horace's long suffering valet.The Venice hotel sets are stunning and Ginger's dress for the cheek to Cheek dance sequence is just gorgeous.Some of my favourite scenes are where Dale comes upstairs to complain about the tap dancing and Jerry sends her to sleep by dancing softly on some sand he puts on his floor. Jerry going to the gentleman's club to meet Horace and it's all quiet, he talks and causes a disturbance and when he sings Top Hat. The Piccolino dance scene at the end is fantastic too.An enchanting mix of romance, comedy and elegance. Top Hat is a film that will put a smile on your face and make you want to get up and dance. "},{"Title":"read my comment for my summary on this movie","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The musical comedy Top Hat was directed by, Mark Sandrich. It was very interesting and held the attention of its viewers'. The dance scenes in this movie were connected to the emotions and moods of that character and what was going on in the story. The viewer was able to tell that the producers thought out the dance scenes and wanted them to be parallel to their plot line. During one of the dance numbers Fred dances with Ginger and sings to her about heaven. Ginger's dress and the background both symbolized the idea of heaven. When the two were done dancing they moved together and it seemed very peaceful and almost heavenly, very happy and content, they way they were acting.Another scene that stood out was when the dancers were attached by rope. In this scene Fred and Ginger are at a very high-class restaurant. While they are eating Ginger was singing bout a man who was looking up in the sky at the stars. This foreshadowed the design the dancers would then create which was a star. The cameras viewed the dancers at the best angles that were appropriate at this time. Towards the end of the movie Fred had another scene that was interesting and equally entertaining. He danced in a way that made it look like he was shooting down the rest of the dancers behind him. Top Hat's plot line was believable. Traveling around and performing was very common during this time period. This movie had very extravagant dancing and grabbed the attention of the viewers. It was enjoyable to watch and wasn't hard to follow along with. Overall, it was a well thought out and enjoyable funny romantic musical. "}{"Title":"Heavenly!","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Perhaps one of the most famous musicals of all time (Ginger's dress!), this dreamlike film starring two of the best in the business is a joy to watch. The cinematography and choreography is amazing and fascinating to watch - pure movie magic! People criticize the film for it's weak plot, and it's valid. It's not much of a plot, but the dancing certainly makes up for what it is lacking. Then again, I suppose a movie like this doesn't really need an intricate plot - that would just complicate things. Jerry Travers (Fred Astaire) has ideas about starring in his own show and is meeting Horace Hardwick (Edward Everett Horton) at the Thackery Club to discuss it. Horace's wife, Madge (Helen Broderick), has plans to set up the single Jerry with her girlfriend Dale Tremont (Ginger Rogers). The meeting will be in Italy, but by chance, his dancing wakes up the pretty girl below Hardwick's suite, who just happens to be Dale. Then there is a case of mistaken identity. Predictable but lovely.If you don't like fluffy feel good movies, then you probably won't enjoy this. However, for these who do then you will no doubt enjoy the combination of wonderful songs and magical dances! Gorgeous film all around. "},{"Title":"Pleasant Surprise","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" First of all, I must make clear that, even though I have loved good cinema for quite some time, haven't really qualified as being a movie buff. This especially shows in my lacking knowledge of 'classic Hollywood' material, which is something I've started to work on lately.My pick for an introduction to the musical form ended up being 'Top Hat' (not that I've never watched a musical before, yet I never really payed much attention to them), and beyond all better judgement, I must say that I was entirely pleased with it. Dancing was excellent, songs were good & the script featuring 'mistaken identity' formula entertaining enough not to make a second of the film boring (& three characters bearing the burden of comedy - Blore, Rhodes & Horton were absolutely magnificent).Now, as a side note, watching such films makes me wonder 'what happened to US cinema?' and why modern Hollywood is incapable of producing such, if not masterworks of art, than at least examples of great craftmanship (which 'Top Hat' & say Frank Capra films - ie. Lost Horizont most definitely are)? Is this age of unpretentious little gems gone forever? "},{"Title":"Top Notch Astaire & Rodgers Film","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Wonderful Art Deco escapism from Astaire, Rodgers, Pandro Berman, & director Mark Sandrich. Funny, exuberant, & very, very, very, elegant; yet never takes itself seriously. Youthful Fred & Ginger shine all around dancing, singing, acting. They're at the top of their game, clearly having a lot of fun here. Supporting players Horton, Broderick, Blore, & Rhodes are almost perfect. Indeed, Blore's valet performance is a delightful turn, almost a one man show. Berlin's superlative score speaks for itself. Shimmering art direction, & fabulous costumes contribute enormously. Love the mini Venetian gondolas. Look carefully, & note a young, platinum, Lucille Ball in a small role as a Florist's assistant. Color would have ruined the experience. If you're blue, watch Top Hat! "},{"Title":"Astaire and Rogers in a popular musical comedy","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" One of the most popular musical comedies, Top Hat stars Fred Astaire as Jerry Travers a singer/dancer starring in a new show called Top Hat. He's staying in a hotel with his producer Horace Hardwick (Edward Everett Horton) and late one night shows him one of his new tap dance routines. This wakes up the lovely Dale Tremont (Ginger Rogers) who is trying to sleep in the room on the floor below. Thus begins a romance between them. But Dale mistakes Jerry for Horace and since Horace is married she slaps him in the face and tells him to get lost. Complication after complication between the lovers is added and in between there are solo Astaire dance numbers and a dance with Ginger. The most popular song from the film is Irving Berlin's Dancing Cheek to Cheek. Top Hat is a delightful mixture of song, dance and screwball comedy. Edward Everett Horton and Eric Blore as his huffy butler Bates provide some of the films best comic moments. If you don't mind old movies from the 1930s Top Hat is an enjoyable way to spend the time. "},{"Title":"Fred and Ginger at RKO...does it get any better than this?","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Mark Sandrich's masterful bit of kitsch, Top Hat (1935), has long-since been regarded as one of Astaire and Roger's best films. He's Jerry Travers, a hoofer signed with big time agent, Horace Hardwick (Edward Everett Horton). She's Dale Tremont, a guest in Horace's hotel who is awakened in the middle of the night by Astaire rehearsing a new dance step. They're attracted to one another immediately. But a case of mistaken identity, in which Dale believes Jerry is Horace, who is supposed to be happily married, leads to an implausible scenario where she becomes engaged to Alberto Beddini (Erik Rhodes). Word of warning to those seeking reality from their movies seek it elsewhere. Top Hat is a highly stylized bit of super kitsch sumptuously speckled in the timeless allure of 30s suspended disbelief. It's a lightweight confection of pure spun sugar. Dance highlights include the pas deux 'Cheek to Cheek' and the marvelous and enthralling 'Piccolino' finale.Transfer wise, 'Top Hat' appears to be the benefactor of considerable digital restoration. Although the image is still heavy on grain, contrast levels and fine detail have been greatly improved over previous VHS and LD incarnations. The gray scale exhibits a very robust tonality throughout. Age related artifacts are present but will not distract from the riotous comedy or marvelous set pieces of this 30s masterpiece. The audio has also been cleaned up. It's Mono but smooth and easy on the ears. Extras include an audio commentary, featurette, interviews and trailer gallery. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Musical, From The Duo Who This Term Was Made For.","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers!This in my opinion is the best of the Fred And Ginger vehicles in which there is a very amusing case of mistaken identity, though maybe not as clever as Swing Time their next feature.  It is more lovable, charming and enjoyable and shows all the qualities of a great early musical.One of the best things about the film is that there are so many amusing mishaps that while not all of them cracked me up, there were enough to keep me laughing a fair amount, especially when Eric Blore puts on a fake wedding and Edward Everett Horton's receptionist falls into the sea.Undoubtedly though, the best thing is the hilarious tension between the two leads.  Though not my favourite 30's musical, that would be 42nd Street (Incidentally a film where Rogers plays a small role).Although Top Hat slightly outstays it's welcome, it is a truly magical affair with a lovely ending.Superb, ****/**** "},{"Title":"One of the best musicals ever made","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  For God's sake just see this film. Everything about it is good, from Fred Astaire and Ginger Rodgers' dancing to Eric Blore's fantastic butler (not that he ever played anything else in any of his other films which include Sullivan's travels and another Astaire/Rodgers film called Swing time, another little gem). Top Hat has a fantastic score written by the great songwriter Irving Berlin that includes Cheek to Cheek (Heaven, I'm in heaven), Top Hat, White Tie and Tails and (my personal favourite) No Strings I'm Fancy Free. If you liked the score then I recommend that you see another film with an Irving Berlin score called The Easter Parade starring Astaire and Judy Garland. If you like musicals then you should see Top Hat, the king of all musicals. OK, maybe it has a bit of a weak story line but who cares. Don't worry about the story folks when you go and see this film, just marvel at the fantastic dancing and singing. For crying out loud just see the bloody film. Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Cute, cute movie","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Last year, my school drama club did Romeo & Juliet set in 1940's black and white. We were assigned to watch this movie and I ended up absolutely loving it. Fred Astaire is awesome! I found this movie both cute and hilarious. I loved all the songs and dances in it and even burned a CD with some songs from the movie. I would recommend this to anyone who loves old movies, musicals, and cute romantic comedies.  "},{"Title":"I just got an invitation through the mail...","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  What a wonderful, fantastic Venice Italy as envisioned by R.K.O.set designers.  Irving Berlin's songs, it's souffle light plot and Fred and Ginger, what a wonderful mix.  Even the opening credits with Fred and Ginger's feet taking a swirl (and a nod to composer Berlin by including Alexander's Ragtime Band in the titles music sountrack) bring pleasure. It was a silly, magnificent, entertainment in 1935 (when the ACADEMY AWARDS nominated it for Best Picture) and time has not dimmed it luster. Like the peerless comedies of the Brothers Marx, or Oscar Wilde it takes us to a wonderful place that never really was but should have been. "},{"Title":"Top Hat","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Top Hat is about how Jerry Travers, a showman, meets Dale Tremont. Somehow Dale comes to think that Jerry is married to her friend Madge Hardwick. Eventually things get worked out. The movie stars Fred Astaire as Jerry Travers, Ginger Rogers as Dale Tremont, Edward Everett Horton as Horace Hardwick, Erik Rhodes as Alberto Beddini, Eric Blore as Bates, and Helen Broderick as Madge Hardwick. The movie was directed by Mark Sandrich and was choreographed by Hermes Pan. The movie was released in 1935, by RKO Radio Pictures.The director of the film showed a world of money and elegance. He made everything look rich. The dance sequences in this film and every dance film fit into the story perfectly. It describes the plot and gives it a background. The song and dance Cheek to Cheek, was one of my favorite dances in the whole movie. This for me showed that Dale finally realized that she was in love with Horace who was actually Jerry Travers. The song fit perfectly into the plot. It was one of the high points in the movie. The scene was at a dinner and there was music playing. Madge tells Jerry and Dale to dance with each other. They begin dancing on the dance floor and seem to move out to a patio with a balcony. The type of dance that was used when they were moving away from the crowd was a normal fox-trot dance in medium shot (Dutton 66). When they get out to the balcony, they begin to do a dance of tap and ballroom combined. This is the scene where Jerry asks Dale to marry him. He slaps him across the face once again. This scene makes the plot move forward by making things more complicated for Dale she now realizes that she is in love with Horace but she can't do anything about it because she knows that he is married to her friend Madge. This leads her to marry Alfred Beddini, a clothing designer. But honestly she doesn't really love him. Jerry gets word that they are married and tries to win her back. In this scene the costumes were very extravagant and they were only at a dinner. The orchestra in this scene was seen.This movie was funny, dramatic, romantic, and overall very entertaining. This was your typical boy meets girl; girl falls in love with boy, with a few twists in the plot. Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers have great chemistry on screen. A happily ever after was exactly what they needed. Jerry and Dale finally straightened everything out and fell in love. "}{"Title":"Typical Class and style of the best","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Top hat with Fred Astaire and ginger's rogers is surprisingly enough a story of mistaken identity. However despite this its flaws are few. I find it really refreshing these days to watch a movie where you know the ending will be happy, all the characters will find out who each other really is and the two lovers will end up happily married and totally in love. The dancing is sheer class as is always Fred Astaires style and the supporting cast provide that extra little something you need in movies of this sort to keep the will they wont they suspense sustained. I enjoyed this movie a lot and have subsequently bought it on video. I would say 9 and three quarters out of ten. The last quarter is for a plot that has been done so many times. "},{"Title":"Practically perfect in every way","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Top hat was the first fred astaire movie I ever saw and It's still my favorite. The dancing is 10/10, and the movie is hilarious (well, for the 30's anyway.) If you need to see a fred astaire/ginger rogers movie this is the one that will give you the best impression. That and Swing time.  "},{"Title":"Magical!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  There was a time when I did not like musicals--last week.  I consider myself to have an open mind and since I had never seen a Fred Astaire/Ginger Rogers movie, I figured I would give it a try since it was showing on my local PBS station.  I was completely surprised at how wonderful this movie was.  Besides the obvious things such as the singing and dancing, the thing that really impressed me was how likeable all the characters were.  I really enjoyed the time I spent with this cast of personalities; something that I can not say about most movies.If you think you do not like musicals, check this one out.  This is one of those rare movies that could change your life. "},{"Title":"Fred Astaire dons his top hat to dance cheek to cheek!","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I adore this movie! It is the first movie I saw with Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers. Their chemistry is perfect and I can't believe how young Fred Astaire looks. This movie is about a young woman who mistakes Fred with her best friend's husband. The dances are wonderful and I love Top Hat sequence. Fred Astaire was a born soloist and this movie proves it. I highly suggest it to anybody who likes old musicals. "},{"Title":"Nonsense--But in a Good Way","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This was my introduction to the Fred and Ginger musical series of the '30s, though I'd seen each of them separately in other things, and if Top Hat is their best film together, as many seem to believe, I doubt I'm ever going to be a hard-core fan, though I found it entertaining enough.It's about what I expected, except that I thought I would be more wowed by the dancing. The plot is classic '30s screwball, revolving around mistaken identities, like an episode of Three's Company, but with even less realism and logic. Astaire plays Jerry Travers, famous song and dance man (of course, what else would he be?), and Rogers is Dale Tremont, friend of the wife of Jerry's producer, Horace Hardwick (great porn name by the way). Jerry and Dale meet cute, as meant-to-be lovers always do in these movies, until Dale decides she hates him because she thinks he's someone else, then decides she loves him when she realizes who he really is. In between, Astaire does a lot of dancing and warbling, Rogers wears a lot of god-awful gowns, and everyone throws out a bunch of one-liners, some of which land a laugh, others of which just land.I'm not surprised that Rogers fought so hard against being typecast as partner to Fred Astaire, as she certainly takes a back seat to him here. When he dances, his feet don't seem to touch the ground; when she dances, it's not exactly like she's chopped liver, but you can see the effort she's making to keep up. And she gets none of the laughs. What she does get is the dubious honor of flouncing around in one garish outfit after another. During the Cheek to Cheek dancing sequence, she wears a Princess Leia hairdo and a dress that looks like it's made from the back ends of several Pekingese (and every time she twirls she leaves strands of her dress all over the stage in a distracting but kind of refreshingly realistic detail), and late in the movie she enters a room in some sort of Japanese-style night dress that makes her look like one of the seven samurai.As is typical with films of this time period, a terrific ensemble of character actors appears in supporting roles, and they supply the movie with most of its humour and charm. Edward Everett Horton plays the dithery Horace and Helen Broderick plays his droll wife, Madge. Erik Rhodes plays a pompous Italian playboy who fusses over Dale and says everything in an exaggerated, silly Italian accent. He's also the one who supplies Dale with all of her clothes, which gives us reason to hope that she dumps him before the end of the movie. My favorite character was Horace's butler Bates, played by Eric Blore. It's a completely unnecessary role, but I got a kick out of the fact that he always refers to himself as we, which is funny, and some confusion over a steak and its intended use provides the film with one of its funniest scenes.In addition to the aforementioned Cheek to Cheek number, two other big set pieces stand out the Top Hat, White Tie and Tails number, which Jerry performs with a chorus of men in tuxes as part of the show in which he's starring, and inexplicably and alarmingly ends with Astaire pretending that his cane is a machine gun and mowing down the male chorus; and the Piccolino finale, a bolero-style jaw dropper that seems to have been guest directed by Busby Berkeley. Only once, when Fred and Ginger take center stage during this number, did I really get a glimpse of that electricity that made this duo so legendary. If you're one of those people that's going to pick a nonsensical plot apart, DO NOT see this movie, because you will hate it. You watch these movies for the music and the dancing and the escapism, and while I've seen better movies that provide all of the above, I still liked this one too.Grade B "},{"Title":"Great Dancing - Terrible Plot","Date":"11 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" It is always a pleasure to watch Fred Astairs at his best.Someone once compared the Martini cocktail as Fred Astair in a glass.. so I fixed myself one to match this movie, the first zips were great but it all turned flat soon afterward.The first scene is very promising as we recognize an energetic Fred Astair in a ¨silence¨ gentlemen room in London, those first 5 minutes were worth the ambiance of a Fred Astair/Martini fansuddenly we're taken to the hotel scene and the first impressive tap dancing and the fantastic 30's sounds flow over, one more zip to my drink is welcome...until we're flashed by this ¨3 stooges¨ plot of mis-identification and hide and seek over different rooms. completely disappointed till the point of putting the rest of the Dry Gin back in the bottle till I get another Fred Astair movie...The sets are ridiculousy repetitive, all handed in same boring-to-eye colour and over crafted Greek style, no matter it was London or Venice, you can tell the same manifacture...the hide and seek in between the misencounters were silly repetitive in the gaps of the few great dancing scenes.Dancing Scene great techniques and beautiful music arrangements, but would have worked more on separate film cuts for cinema pre-view entertainment, not a movie.Madge and Horace weird relationship is worthless to mention as props as any of the Greek decorations in the flat decorated rooms, almost annoyng.it is sad to acknowledge that this is just a pre-fab plot less long sketch to promote Fred Astaris and Ginger Rogers theatrical talents. not a real movie. "},{"Title":"this is probably the best Astaire-Rogers film","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers star in this film. Although their initial meeting goes badly, they soon fall in love. However, in a crazy mix-up, Ginger thinks Fred is already married--and their lives, and that of poor Edward Everett Horton, get VERY complicated!I love this old musical and this is saying something since I generally DON'T like musicals. So why do I like this one? The acting and supporting actors (such as Eric Blore, Helen Broderick and Edward Everett Horton, who were both very funny and endearing) are superb and the dialog is well-written. The music is also quite memorable and easy on the ears! I also like how the characters are more likable. Believe it or not, Irving Berlin was able to create a score even better than the Gershwins and Cole Porter in other Astaire-Rogers films---wow! Plus, instead of Ginger playing a cranky lady, here she is quite right to assume the worst and mistreat poor Fred--he is, at times, very annoying! And finally, the movie just seems to have incredible style and grace. You get some of this in the later movie The Gay Divorcée and a couple other of their films, though this one seems to feature Astaire and Rogers at the very top of their game--with great songs for their dance numbers. In fact, several of their movies look very similar, so I would say if you would watch only one, this is the one. As far as Astaire and Rogers go, this IS the closest they got to perfection. "},{"Title":"The Young Ginger Rogers","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The more experienced Ginger Rogers teams up with Fred Astaire in this musical, 'Top Hat'. It was probably more a Fred Astaire vehicle with the young Ginger Rogers playing the leading lady, than it was a buddy film. Already appearing in various films before she teamed up with Astaire, Rogers did not receive recognition until her alliance with Astaire. Astaire himself, less experienced than Rogers, received almost immediate success because of his alliance with Rogers which shows that they both have each other to thank for the success. "}]