[{"Title":"One Of Shirley's Most Touching Films","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":" Some people have said this is Shirley Temple's best film. It's not my favorite but I admit it is very, very good....and it has some of the most touching, wonderful moments of any of her films. In fact, there were several times in the first part of this film that produced tears in my eyes. Of course, I am an old sentimentalist. Nonetheless, this is wonderful stuff.The only reason I don't rank this among my favorite Temple films is the mean old lady, Fraulein Rottenmeier, played by Mary Nash, has too big a role in the second half of the movie making for a number of unpleasant scenes. I had gotten so involved with the story that I couldn't stand to see this mean woman so nasty to Heidi (Temple). Also, there was only one song-and-dance number and that's not enough for Shirley Temple movie.The other characters were fine. Arthur Treacher provides good humor; Jean Hersholt is great as the gruff-then-loving grandfather and Marcia Mae Jones is nice as the young invalid.This is a true classic story and ends with perhaps the most gorgeous and sweetest smile I've ever seen on Shirley's face. "},{"Title":"Childhood Classic Comes Alive","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":"  Little orphaned HEIDI is abandoned at the Alpine home of her stern Grandfather - only the beginning in a series of remarkable changes in both their lives.Shirley Temple had one of her greatest triumphs as the diminutive heroine of Johanna Spyri's classic children's novel. So well does she fill the role - eyes bright, tremendous smile & bouncing curls - that it is difficult to imagine any other young American actress of the era playing the part.Some might grumble at the various incongruities - the jumble of accents, the Dutch musical number - but that is beside the point. This was meant to be quality family entertainment and to earn Fox Studios a great deal of money. The film was a success on both scores. Director Allan Dwan ensured that the book's high points were included in the film & Fox gave HEIDI very good production values - note especially the scenes of village life in Dorfli - and a fine supporting cast gentle Jean Hersholt, perfect as the old Grandfather, gruff & lovable; droll Arthur Treacher, his comic English butler is definitely not in the original book, but he is hilarious nonetheless; Marcia Mae Jones as crippled Klara; Sidney Blackmer as her wealthy father; Sig Ruman as a police captain and elderly Helen Westley as the blind Grandmother.There are often she dragons in Shirley Temple films, bitter women who try to thwart the innocent joys of the Mighty Moppet and end up either converted or punished. HEIDI boasts two villainesses, Mady Christians as hardhearted Aunt Dete & imperious Mary Nash as the strangely evil Fräulein Rottenmeier. So well do these ladies play their parts that they are able to grab some of the attention of the audience away from Miss Temple.Movie mavens should recognize Greta Meyer as a Dorfli villager & Frank Reicher as a Frankfurt police lieutenant, both uncredited. "},{"Title":"The child star at her peak...one of Shirley's best films...","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":"  Heidi is a childhood classic. It was only natural that Darryl F. Zanuck should choose to have his number one star play the title role in what has become a classic Shirley Temple film. Watching it, one has to be aware of just why this girl was one of the most famous of all the child stars. She has more charisma than the law allows!While not completely faithful to the book, it is adapted to make it suitable to fit Shirley Temple's growing expertise as a child actress--and for good measure, a song sequence is included--My Little Dutch Shoes--to keep Shirley's fans happy. Jean Hersholt makes a perfect Grandfather, living in the Alps and at first resistant to Shirley's charm, stern and strict in behavior. Of course his heart soon melts and soon he's even attending church again. When Heidi is kidnapped, we see her in a rich man's household. Here she helps the crippled Klara to walk again and brightens up a gloomy household. In the end, of course, she is reunited with her grandfather for a teary reunion.Perfect entertainment for youngsters who will probably fall under Temple's spell by the time the movie is over. Mary Nash is a standout as Fraulein Rottenmeier--although even meaner to Shirley in The Little Princess. Too bad this one wasn't filmed in color. There is a colorized version available on video but I'm not partial to the colorization of black and white films. The colors are often distorted and unreal. "},{"Title":"Marvelous film.","Date":"5 December 2006","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":" One of my top 40 favorite films, of all time. Can watch this movie over and over again. My Grandson will watch the entire movie with me, and he is just four years old. From the moment Heidi arrives on the mountain to live with her Grandfather, the film captures ones imagination. The spirit of Heidi, the bond she develops with her Grandfather. Her finding a bed in the straw with the coverlet, milking the goat, carrying a load of firewood on her back, and my Grandson's favorite scene, sledding down the snow covered mountain on a sled, all show the child's perfect life with her Grandfather. When disrupted by her mean-spirited Aunt, and taken to live in the city, Heidi is instantly a favorite of Clara, the Butler and Clara's father. Once again, heart warming scenes capture the spirit of the girl. The monkey shines, the school lessons, the manners taught, all paint a vivid picture. None the less, Heidi and the Grandfather can not be kept apart, and each fights a mighty battle to be rejoined. Don't miss this fabulous film, a favorite around the holidays, when Heidi sings Silent Night, I challenge you to keep a tear from your eye. Beautiful film. "},{"Title":"Shirley Temple moves everyone to tears.","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":"  It is so hard to pick a favorite Shirley Temple flick.  All of hers are great.  However, the most moving ones to me are The Little Princess, and this one Heidi.  Little Miss Everything is usually known for making everyone happy.  She is still a charming little girl.  Heidi and her aunt go on a trek together.  Even though most think that her grandfather is cruel, Heidi knows what's true.  It is so perfect for Christmas.  The family can gather in the living room to watch, whenever it's on or someone like me watches it on video.  I enjoy these heartwarmers.  Heidi is definitely one of them.  As for the movie itself, Heidi teaches you to believe in everything.  She helps Klara with that.  That is a valuable lesson.  A funny part of this film is that Heidi receives a music box with her grandfather's house inside it.  She has fond memories of him.   "},{"Title":"Not true to the book, but oh Shirley!","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":" The story of Heidi is kind of hard to present to film-goers. As a book it's wonderful and engaging, but it's just not movie material. Thus we get versions like this, with kidnapping and gypsies and an evil witch of a Fraulein Rottenmeier who wants to keep Klara sick and bring Heidi down.But how can you not love Shirley Temple? She just takes any movie and makes it golden! And we also have the heart of the story a little girl who teaches a grumpy old man to open up his heart again. And those two things by themselves help the movie to shine.A wonderful classic, especially for young viewers, but also good for the young at heart! "},{"Title":"Lovely Movie!","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":"  These are one of the best movies I like for the rest of my life since I was little.  In that movie, Heidi (who was played by Shirley Temple) lived with her grandfather then has been kidnapped by her nasty Aunt Dete then been threatened by that stupid Frauline Rottenmeier. It has really great scenes that takes place in the Alps of Germany and then Frankfurt. Since when I saw that movie, I thought it wouldn't be interesting but, now it is. By the way, the video of the movie is now in a colorized version. "},{"Title":"Shirley's sweetest 'dramatic' performance","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":" Yes, another very good Shirley Temple movie. I must say I love all Shirley movies, I don't have a favorite one(except for the very first movie of hers I saw, which is very close to my heart), but Heidi is a great movie and I think everybody must see it.Heidi's an orphaned girl who lived with her aunt for six years. Then the aunt got a job and she had to live with her grandfather, a very unsociable man, who have a terrible humor and hates everyone. He lives in the mountains. Later, the aunt comes back to take Heidi to the big city to be the playmate of a girl that can't walk.I think this is one of the greatest(if it's not the best)Shirley's acting performances. In that movie she shows that she's not just a cute little girl that can tap dance and smile! She shows she's a good actress. A very good actress. I just think that only one sing-and-dance number's not enough for a Shirley Temple movie -- but the only sing-and-dance number in that film is great(In our little Wooden shoes).That story was adored by me when I was a kid. I saw an animated version, the 1970's movie version and I read the book. When I became a Shirley Temple fan and noticed that she'd played Heidi, I said WOW! Shirley played Heidi! and after I saw that movie I absolutely 'fell in love' with Shirley.There are some parts of the film that make me cry, like the Christmas scene and the ending scene(apart from Shirley's cute smile of course!).Anyway, a very good movie. Enjoyable, happy, and with the great Child-Star Shirley Temple starring in it. Anyone who wants to watch this film with the kids but think they won't like because it's black-and-white, just try. I'm sure they'll get into the story and that they'll love it! "},{"Title":"One of Shirley's best","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of all times.  Love of family, love of friends, interesting locations and people all make this a great family movie.  And to boot, it's one of Shirley's best, which puts it at the top.  Put your sophistication and thinking hat away, and sit back and enjoy the emotions this film evokes. "},{"Title":"Heidi (1937) ***","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":" (possible spoilers)Shirley Temple is perfectly cast in this touching version of the oft-told tale. As the uplifting Heidi, she is bounced around from relative to relative before her cruel aunt winds up giving her off to live in a shack in the Swiss mountains with her grumpy old grandfather (Jean Hersholt). Through Heidi's lovable nature, the grandfather eventually learns to abandon his bitterness and becomes a much more pleasant person who is liked by his fellow villagers who once shunned him. But just when things are looking up, the aunt returns to steal Heidi and sell her off to a wealthy family whose wheelchair-bound daughter needs a friend. A good film with a great deal of heart. *** out of **** "}{"Title":"My love of movies began with this one....","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":"  As my grandmother will tell you, when I was little I loved this movie. It basically started my love of movies, especially old ones. It also was why I idolized Shirley Temple when I was little.What's not to love about this movie? Although it is slightly cheesy, it's an incredibly sweet movie that, today, never fails to make me cry! It also has its funny points. I always loved the part where Heidi and Klara steal the organ grinder's monkey. The choas it causes in the house is incredible! "},{"Title":"Cute Movie","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":"  This was the first Shirley Temple film I had seen. Shirley plays Heidi, a little girl goes to live with her grandfather in the Swiss Alps. Her aunt Dede 'kidnaps' and takes her to Germany. A good movie with wonderful actors/actresses, and something the whole family can enjoy! 10 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Poor Little Swiss Girl","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":" HEIDI (20th Century-Fox, 1937), directed by Allan Dwan, features popular child star Shirley Temple in another one of her most movie roles. Released at the time when classic literature became the rage at the box office, it would be a matter of time before Temple would be taking part enacting the part of a literary character taken from book to screen. With so much to choose from, Anne of Green Gables or Little Red Riding Hood, perhaps, the one that seemed most fitting was of Heidi by Johanna Spyri. And what a logical choice that was considering how it remains one of the many true Temple classics.Starting off with its opening cast and credits presented through pages of an open book, followed by a forward passage In the beautiful Alps that lie south of the black forest of Germany, on a bright June morning, two figures traveling up the steep path that leads from Mayenfeld to the little village of Dorfli, the plot development begins. Heidi (Shirley Temple), an orphan child raised by the uncaring Aunt Dete (Mady Christians), leaves her under the care of her grandfather, Adolph Kramer (Jean Hersholt), the village's most feared man whose unhappy secret is known only by Blind Anna (Helen Westley). Kramer, who for many years, has lived a recluse life in a secluded mountain cabin, is even more bitter when Dete leaves Heidi and runs off. During the course of time, however, the bitter old bearded man slowly grows fond of this child, responsible for his transformation into a kind, gentle soul. Thanks to Heidi, Kramer is now happy, returns to church and is now a welcome member of the community. Now fully established, Heidi, becomes close friends with Peter, the Goat Boy (Delmar Watson) and his grandmother, Anna. Things all change when Aunt Dete returns to take Heidi on a train trip to Frankfurt on her birthday, where Dete once again abandons Heidi, this time in the exclusive home of Fraulein Rottenmeier (Mary Nash) for financial reasons. With Heidi now acting as companion to Klara (Marcia Mae Jones), a crippled teen-aged girl and daughter of her rich employer, Herr Sesseman (Sidney Blackmer), it now appears that Heidi will never be with her grandfather again. In the meantime, the old man journeys a hundred miles by foot searching for her. Grandfather. Grandfather. Where are you? With other members of the cast consisting of Thomas Beck (Pastor Schultz); Pauline Moore (Elsa); George Humbert (The Grinder); and Sig Rumann (The Prefect of Police), Arthur Treacher is a delightful presence for amusement purposes as the lovable manservant named Andrews whose catch phrase is My, word! As much as Temple has transformed cranky old men in previous motion pictures, notably Lionel Barrymore in THE LITTLE COLONEL (1935), and Claude Gillingwater Sr. on a few others, Danish actor, her transformation towards Hersholt's Kramer is heart rendering. Because the screen treatment in itself is divided into two separate stories, Hersholt's scenes, though wonderfully played, is off screen for long stretches. During its second half, the plot goes to Heidi's involvement with the evil Fraulein Rottemeier (Mary Nash). Briefly straying away from the usual Temple formula, the writers (scripted by Walter Perrin and Julian Josephson) include a well staged dance number, Inside the Wooden Shoes (sung by Temple as a little Dutch girl ) as part of her dream sequence. At 88 minutes, it appears the film in itself was initially longer, editing down many characters ranging, Helen Westley and Delmar Watson perhaps, in favor of more Temple. Though Temple never worked with Hersholt again, she did appear opposite Nash, Treacher and Jones again in another literary story transferred to the screen, this one being THE LITTLE PRINCESS (1939 by Frances Hodgeson Burnett. In later years on a talk show in the seventies, Temple would recall the strong paste or glue smell from Hersholt's beard during their embracing scenes.Available on video cassette both in black and white and colorized formats, HEIDI, with cable TV broadcasts including The Disney Channel (colorize, 1990s), American Movie Classics (black and white from 1996 to 2001), The Fox Movie Channel, and finally Turner Classic Movies (TCM premiere July 10, 2010), HEIDI, whether it be true or loosely based on the novel, makes great family viewing from start to finish. And beware of shorter 81 minute prints that have circulated during the broadcast television era intended to fit into 90 minute time slots with commercial breaks. Although there's been other Heidi screen adaptations in later years, there's only one Shirley Temple. (***) "},{"Title":" Heidi With Curls ","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":" Shirley Temple's version of Heidi, is another film I enjoy watching every Christmas season, and little children will find it delightful too. This is really one of Temple's best film's, added with her special charming touches. The underrated child actress, Marcia Mae Jones is also very lovely with her performance as Klara, the invalid girl who Heidi helps to walk. Jean Hersholt is marvellous as the grandfather, who is surly towards Heidi at first, but soon turns to love the precious child. The comical Arthur Treacher adds some humorous touches to this story. Mary Nash, Sidney Blackmer, and child actor Delmar Watson, all portray their characters perfectly, making this a very entertaining and heart-warming adaption of the classic child's story.Well worth a look during the Christmas holidays. "},{"Title":"Heidi is adorable!","Date":"15 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":" Shirley Temple was one little charmer! She had the necessary it and I've had fun watching her work that magic that gained her legions of fans. This is the third movie of hers that I have watched. I loved Heidi, but I was so taken by her in Little Miss Marker that it will always barely edge out Heidi and the others. Heidi works her way into her grandfather's heart, and when her circumstances change, she does it with her new family. Shirley's movies were meant to thoroughly entertain and that's what this film does from beginning to end. Loyalty is a wonderful theme I've seen stressed in 2 of her movies so far, and she's a gifted little actress that embodies love and loyalty. Of course her films are predictable, but that's the fun of them. Heidi doesn't disappoint and all is well that ends well. Enjoy) "},{"Title":"She Could Melt the Swiss Alps","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":" An unloving aunt deposits cute orphan Shirley Temple (as Heidi) with crusty old grandfather Jean Hersholt (as Adolph Kramer) in the Swiss Alps. People in the small town are concerned about Ms. Temple upbringing, because Mr. Hersholt has become a bitter hermit; he doesn't talk to townsfolk anymore, and has stopped going to church. Not to worry. Hersholt's heart melts as Ms. Temple sings and saunters around the house. She is impossible not to love. Thanks to Temple, Hersholt rediscovers his faith in Jesus Christ (who appears on a bookmark). Temple brings Hersholt to Church, leading the congregation to sing a beautiful hymn.Then, Temple's nasty aunt returns from Germany. She takes her niece away from Hersholt, having sold her as a companion for crippled young Marcia Mae Jones (as Klara Sesemann). Temple is placed in the care of reliably nasty Mary Nash (as Fräulein Rottenmeier, a name Mel Brooks most surely treasured). Temple befriends Ms. Jones, and inspires her to try to walk again. Of course, Hersholt is devastated. He asks God for help in finding Temple, and Temple prays hard, too&#x85; This interpretation of Johanna Spyri's novel Heidi makes its protagonist almost Christ-like, and omits much. But, Temple is at her best throughout.****** Heidi (10/15/37) Allan Dwan ~ Shirley Temple, Jean Hersholt, Mary Nash, Marcia Mae Jones "},{"Title":"Heidi starring Shirley Temple 1937","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":" I was born in 1951 and have loved this movie from the very first time I watched it when I was about 6 years old. I have watched this movie every single year since then. When shopping at Toys R Us one day, about 20 years ago, I noticed they sold movies on video tape. Among the stock was my very favorite movie, Heidi. Of course I purchased it and could not wait to get home so that I could watch it. I absolutely love this movie today as much as I did when I was six years old. I look forward every year around Christmas for it to be on TV, and I periodically during the year still watch my video tape. I love Shirley Temple and love all of her movies but this one to me is the absolute best. It takes you to a time when life and people were very different. I love the scenes in the Alps with the grandfather. I love the story, Heidi was just what the grandfather needed to make him realize that he was not alone and there was no need to shut himself off from the world even though his only son was no longer in it. I could go on and on about this movie because I love it so much, but I guess I'd better sign off for now. I'm actually watching the movie on TV as I type. December 24, 2007. "},{"Title":"Endearing in spite of that nonstop cheeriness.","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":" With all the Moppets running around in the mid-late 1930's, I bet none of their mothers could say that they never had a temper tantrum. On her movies, she only got mad when she needed to defend herself. Here, she must go up against a scheming aunt, a vindictive housekeeper and evil gypsies. She is able to charm embittered grandfather Jean Hersholt and win an entire Swiss mountain community over.Yet, in spite of all the sappiness, this is the best of Temple's movies and is both heart-warming and sweet. There are plenty of pathos and a bit of humor, especially the presence of an organ grinder's monkey who creates chaos in the Frankfurt house that Heidi is taken to against her will. It is obvious that depression era audiences needed someone like Shirley to brighten things up, so her talents can't be denied in that respect. If FDR hadn't been do popular, somebody might have endorsed Temple for president!As usual, there are evil grown-ups and in this case, it is Mary Nash as the nastiest housekeeper outside of Rebecca's Mrs. Danvers. Mady Christians is nasty as her self- serving aunt. On the good side, there is Helen Westley as a sweet blind mountain woman, Delmar Watson as her grandson who quickly befriends Heidi, Marcia Mae Jones as Clara, the Frankfurt girl whom Heidi is brought to serve as her companion, and Sidney Blackmer as Clara's kind father. Arthur Treachet offers some comical buttling and Thomas Beck is the kindly minister whom Temple tried to find a wife for.There's an unnecessarily cloying musical number that comes as part of a dream sequence rather than a plot device. It's fine for what it is bit perhaps one or two numbers in the course of the film would have served it better. Still, it is truly an enjoyable film and remains the best of the Heidi's. "},{"Title":"A sheer delight","Date":"22 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":" Heidi as a book was a childhood favourite and still is a timeless classic. This version with Shirley Temple was also a favourite as a child and is still a delight, whether you've read the book or not. It is true that it is not the truest to the book, with some darker elements that didn't feel shoe-horned and far from traumatising, but that really doesn't matter, you can still love the book and also love the film. There could have been more of the relationship between Heidi and her grandfather(but it is still really touching) and the musical number In Our Little Wooden Shoes while catchy, well-staged and cute didn't add a whole lot to the story, in fact really it was irrelevant. Everything else is fine, and I found it superior to the 1993 Noley Thornton version(which was still good), it doesn't feel over-dramatic even with the added darker parts, the characters are far more truthfully and sympathetically written with much more of a character journey with the grandfather and there's more heart. Heidi is a lovely film to look at, being crisply and lovingly filmed, scenery that makes you wish you were right there and the costumes give a genuine sense of time and place(they look good too, yes even Heidi's poor clothes). The music is whimsical and sparkling, the dialogue has a very good balance of funny and meaningful and the story essentially has every bit the charm, heart-warming sentiment and emotion that the book has, the ending is well and truly sweet and not tacky. The sled chase, any scene with Fraulein Rottenmeier and the monkey are standout scenes. Heidi is briskly directed with enough time for the story to resonate and for the actors to really go for it. Jean Hersholt plays grumpy and heartfelt beautifully, while reclusive there is a real sense that he cares for Heidi and she for him. Mary Nash is the very meaning of beastly- living aptly up to her character's name- and absolutely relishes it, while Arthur Treacher is hilarious as the butler Andrews and Marcia Mae Jones is an affecting Klara. But it's Shirley Temple's film, she's adorable and while she manages to be charming and have wonderful comic timing she is equally good at displaying an emotional side, her acting in the scene in the police station(another memorable scene) is just heart-breaking. While she is the main attraction of the film, the other characters and actors are just as believable to not make Heidi too much of a Shirley Temple show. All in all, delightful and a Shirley Temple classic, one of her best possibly. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A true gem","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":" The news came out today that Shirley Temple has died. And so, as is my custom when an actor I admire dies, I try to watch one of their films. And, for my money, Heidi is the best of the Temple childhood films. I loved it when I was a kid, and I still love...and I'm 64 years old now! And, despite the unrealness of it, I actually prefer the colorized version.This film is a treat for so many reasons. In the early scenes, much is seen, but not spoken...and it works very well. And then there are the classic scenes -- the breaking of the snow globe by the rotten Fraulein Rottenmeier (what a delicious name for her), the monkey, the sled chase...and so many more.Another treat, aside from Shirley Temple at her best, is the fine old actor Jean Hersholt as the grandfather; the Academy Award's Humanitarian Award is dedicated to him. Marcia Mae Jones was fine as the invalid rich girl, and this film was where I first noticed the fine character actor Sidney Blackmer as Herr Sesemann, Clara's doting father. Arthur Treacher is fun -- again here -- as (who else) the butler. And Mary Nash has her most memorable role as Fräulein Rottenmeier. Worth mentioning is Helen Westley as the old blind woman. Now to those who complain that the film doesn't follow the original story. So what? That was a book. This is a film. Two different mediums, each with its own talent of telling a story. Get over it.The film is a gem. "}{"Title":"Shirley Temple at her Finest?","Date":"27 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":" I did not know the story of Heidi and thought it would be boring. This movie proved me wrong. Although the descriptions of her grandfather as mean, grouchy or crotchety seem more than a bit exaggerated.I have some problems with the film -- first and foremost that the goal seems to be presenting Shirley Temple as adorable. Did the character of Heidi need to be so precious? What if she was a plain, average child? The point should be about the relationship between the grandfather and Heidi. Taking the focus off of them and putting it on her is a serious mistake.All in all, I was greatly entertained and for 1937 the film is of great quality. Whether or not it should be called a classic depends on your definition. "},{"Title":"HEIDI (Allan Dwan, 1937) **1/2","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":" This, along with several other Shirley Temple vehicles, has been an Italian TV perennial for years &#150; particularly over the Christmas period &#150; but I never bothered with it, despite the involvement of director Dwan. Just a couple of weeks ago, it turned up again and I even recorded it &#150; despite being both dubbed and colorized! However, since I managed to find it on DVD, I opted to watch HEIDI 'as intended'. Incidentally, not only have I recently acquired &#150; or watched &#150; a number of the director's later efforts, but I've even watched a later TV adaptation of the Johanna Spyri novel.As it turned out, the film is an utterly professional (and typically handsome) Darryl F. Zanuck production but I think that the story was tailored far too much to suit the ebullient child star's usual formula not only do we get Arthur Treacher (receiving unwarranted third billing!) as a typically bemused butler, but Temple is made to act as cupid between the new parson and the local schoolmarm; besides, we're treated to a totally irrelevant fantasy song-and-dance number, two separate antagonists in the shape of her aunt and jealous governess &#150; not to mention the apparently requisite corny final close-up! Among the differences I noticed from the 1968 version (which is probably more faithful to the source material) is the fact that Temple befriends the invalid child immediately and even gets to be the one who cures her psychosomatic ailment! Besides, the incidents which climax the later version i.e. Grandfather's religious redemption and Clara's 'cure' itself occur earlier here, whereas the highlight of the film is taken up by a sleigh-chase in the snow with the Police pursuing the hysterical Grandfather! The overly made-up Jean Hersholt is fine as the latter, while the supporting cast also includes Mary Nash as the overbearing Governess, Sidney Blackmer as Clara's father (whose role is much reduced here) and Sig Rumann in a bit part as a police official. All in all, then, I found the 1968 TV adaptation to be the superior effort. "},{"Title":"Heidi-Hi & Heidi-Ho!","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":" Yes. Of course, I do realize that this movie is now 80 years old (and, yes, times were definitely different back then) - But, hey, from my point of view - I thought it was actually pretty sad to see how Hollywood had typecast young actress Shirley Temple to the point where, at the age of 9 (in Heidi), she was still playing the exact same, cookie-cutter character that she had been continually playing since the age of 4.(Of course, Temple would continue to play this exact same character for yet another 4 years, until she started to develop breasts and make demands that her studio cast her in more demanding and age-appropriate roles) For the most part - (From an adult's perspective) - I found this 1937 picture (whose story was set in 1880) to be far too overly sentimental for its own good and way too heavy-handed when it came to its emphasis on the religious angle of its story.Yes. There were some OK moments in this picture - But, from where I was sitting, I just could not warm up to Shirley Temple's recycled-to-death screen-persona of chubby cheeks, golden ringlets and plucky demeanor, ad nauseam. "},{"Title":"Discover Shirley Temple, An Inspiration to Many in the 1930s...and Today on DVD","Date":"15 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":" Shirley Temple, arguably the world's greatest child star ever, stars in the beloved children's story, Heidi. I say the greatest child star, despite the fact that no one today can really understand the impact she made on moviegoers in the early days of the 1930s, when the depression hit; she was a bright spot in some very bleak days, when many maybe couldn't afford to go to the movies or decided they would find a way just to see their favorite stars. Miss Shirley Temple was one such star. Parents named their children after her, like Shirley Jones and Shirley MacLaine for example. And, she was honored with a special Juvenile Oscar Award in 1935 for her contribution to movies. But getting to Heidi, the movie. This is a good example of how sentimental her movies are, sometime being overly so and some would say manipulatively so, as they don't make movies like that anymore. But Heidi is taken to live with her grandfather, played by Jean Hersholt, who is reputed to be a mean old man, who disowned his son when he married a young lady he didn't like. When they died, she is then taken to her grandfather by an Aunt. Many an old heart can that little girl melt. But the plot doesn't stop there. She is then separated from him and goes to live with a sickly girl who is in need of friendship. But when the nanny, who doesn't want the sick girl to get well and has her own agenda, played wickedly good by Mary Nash, doesn't like Shirley's optimism and gaiety helping her girl to recover, things happen and with no holds barred. Oh, and Arthur Treacher is hilarious as the butler. Melodramatic stuff? Yes! Subtle? No! But this film has heart and you can't complain about Shirley Temple, who's as genuine as can be. Watch Heidi and see just how sweet Shirley Temple was and how she can captivate an audience and tug at your heart. "},{"Title":"Very different from the original tale.","Date":"16 December 2012","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":" I am no expert on Heidi. I know it's a super-famous book and I've seen a few of the movies. But what I do know is that this Twentieth Century-Fox version was FAR from the original tale. It's still entertaining, but it's not Heidi.The story begins in the German mountains. This is odd, as it was actually supposed to be Switzerland and I wonder why the studio changed this--especially in light of the rising oppression in Nazi Germany. It begins with Heidi's aunt bringing the girl to live with her Grandfather. He has no interest in the child or anyone else, as he long ago disowned his child and became a hermit. But, VERY quickly (much more quickly than it should), Heidi brings out the man's love and humanity and all is well. However, the aunt returns to kidnap the child (not in the original story) and the rest of the tale is set in Frankfurt--where Heidi becomes the companion of a disabled girl. This portion of the story is somewhat like the original, though there was no kidnapping and the housekeeper was NOTHING like the original--and instead of just being stuffy, she's evil and a criminal who eventually tries to sell Heidi to gypsies!!! Again, certainly NOT in the original story. But, in the end, all is finally well and Heidi is returned to her loving grandfather.If you have never read or seen a film based on the original story, the 1937 version is wonderful. As usual, Shirley Temple is great and I can even forgive the totally unnecessary song and dance number inexplicably inserted into the movie. Having watched the 1993 Noley Thornton version which closely follows the story, however, I know that the story can be a lot better. Decent but see the 1993 version instead...or in addition. "},{"Title":"Blast from the Past!?!","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":" ... Thank-you AMC for showing this memorable, childhood classic during Thanksgiving '07. Brought back many memories of the pre-10 yr. old days for me.- & what a treat seeing comic genius Arthur Treacher again!?! As the butler, he NEARLY stole-the-show. Recall him on Merve Griffin's early TV series. He was a riot as-a-guest. Shirley's not bad either, but that governess was EVIL!?! Surprised she didn't scare us more than Margaret Hamilton as the Wicked Witch of the West!!! Share this wonderful film with your children. Or enjoy it again-all-over for just YOU!!!... Forget all the remakes & stick with this ORIGINAL. You can't beat it! "},{"Title":"Not recommended for diabetics","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":" One of Temple's biggest hits for 20th Century Fox, this version of Johanna Spyri's much-filmed children's classic might provide suitable entertainment for young children but will prove far too saccharine-sweet for any adult whose critical facilities aren't compromised by watching the film through rose-coloured spectacles&#133;The little moppet plays the eponymous heroine, a spunky little madam with an infectious grin and an abundance of curls, who is foisted upon her grumpy Santa-look-alike Grandpa (Jean Hersholt) by her wicked Aunt Dete (Mady Christians) who has found work in Frankfurt. Of course, it's not long before Heidi has melted grumpy old Grandpa's heart, which is the cue for the wicked Aunt to snatch Heidi back and whisk her to Frankfurt to be companion to Klara (Marcia Mae Jones) the crippled daughter of her employer&#133; Nine-year-old Temple is cute as a button in this one, and has enough screen presence to carry even mediocre material. The story is decent enough, and the production values are good, but the heavy doses of sentimentality injected into the plot at regular intervals really get too much to stomach after a while and are wholly unnecessary. If you can overcome that however, the story does offer a fair measure of suspense as it reaches its inevitably happy ending, and any film with not one but two wicked witches has to be awarded points for originality. Arthur Treacher is also worth catching as an outwardly stiff butler who is really a big softie on the inside. It was a role he would repeat with Temple in the inferior The Little Princess a couple years later.Watch the black-and-white version if you get the chance, because the colourised version is an absolute horror (when are they anything else?). Everybody's lips and tongue are the same colour as their skin&#133; "},{"Title":"Lamentable vehicle for Shirley Temple","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Drama","Review":" The tale of Heidi is such a groaner that it manages to defeat any little, bright-eyed young actress who stars in it, yet they keep trying. Here, it's Shirley Temple's turn at the waterworks playing a spunky young orphan living with her kindly grandpa in a Swiss village, kidnapped by a scheming relative and taken off to live with a rich, unpleasant brood in Germany. Was there ever a more contemptible or manipulative kids' story than this? Treacly hokum is mixed with melodramatic hysteria, with enough story contrivances to fill up several pictures. Kids seem to get caught up in it; adults may go a little batty. *1/2 from **** "}]