[{"Title":"Good Earth, Good Show, One of the Best of its Era","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In the 30s and 40s, MGM had a penchant for (then) contemporary Chinese-oriented stories ('The Son-Daughter', 'Dragon Seed', 'Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo', etc.), and whether this was a preference, or whether there were just a lot of Chinese-design sets to keep occupied at the studio, the results were strangely moving. 'The Good Earth' is of course the finest of its genre, for any number of reasons.From the very beginning of the picture, right after the lion's roar, we see the poignant tribute to Irving Thalberg, and we know that we are embarking on an important viewing experience. The scope of the story is very wide, and the filmmakers are up for the task. I was always struck by the abruptness of the final scene, but its power and beauty form an excellent example of the art achieved within the often cynical Hollywood film factory. And Lotus - the strangeness of her, and her dance, contrasted with the goodness of O-lan!Aside from the oft-mentioned attributes of acting, photography and special effects, a major element in 'The Good Earth' is the score. Herbert Stothart may not be in the ranks of Hollywood's 'mighty handful' (Alfred Newman, Steiner, Tiomkin, Waxman, Herrmann), but his 'MGM-sound' scores regularly deliver the goods. True, Stothart had no hesitation in applying the syrup at first opportunity (one can imagine Louis B. Mayer positively ordering it), but in this picture, syrup gives way to sympathy. One of the pleasures of Hollywood's Golden Age films is that all the elements of a given film support each other, and great scores support not only the characters, but the entire film. Stothart's score is so sympathetic and so sincere, from the Main Title all the way through, and it enhances the story and the performances so naturally and at times transparently, that it must be considered a classic score. No great 'tunes' specifically, but plenty of effective mood, atmosphere and unabashed emotion. Many of today's audiences may find little to enjoy in such a combination, or they may be embarrassed by it, but I revel in it, as cinema such as this, which is delivered with such heart and good will is, especially in these times, nothing short of a gift.The issue of non-Chinese playing Chinese characters has already been discussed on these pages, but I can only add please, viewers, consider the film within the era that it was produced. The same kind of incongruity still happens today, perhaps not so much racially, but certainly culturally Brad Pitt in 'Seven Years in Tibet', Keanu Reeves in 'Little Buddha', and other Americans getting plum roles in British-originated stories that become Hollywoodized, etc. When making 'Bhowani Junction', George Cukor considered using Indian actors, but vetoed any candidates in favor of familiar Hollywood faces. Never mind that in the 50s, as today, India had a huge film industry. It's just that those actors didn't fit into the Hollywood scheme of things. That speaks of box office more than political incorrectness. There is no doubt that fine actors like Philip Ahn should have gotten lead roles in pictures like 'The Good Earth', but at least we can enjoy them in supporting roles which carry a lot of weight in their own right. As time goes on, the context of past eras fades, while the films themselves, the really good ones, live on. There's plenty of opportunity for revisionist theses about issues like racial inequality in 1930s Hollywood, but for 138 minutes, it is compelling and moving to absorb onesself in the story and the atmosphere of 'The Good Earth'. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie, with stellar performances","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Let's eliminate any discussion about the use of non-Asian actors playing Asian roles.  The movie is 67 years old. In 1937 studio chiefs believed that any actor could/should be able to play any role.  Actors were under contracts, and did not always have a choice about what role they played. End of story.This is a truly great epic story of love, individual rights, class strata, and men/women issues.  The centerpiece of the film is two brilliant performances by Luise Rainer and Paul Muni.  Muni plays Wang, a Chinese farmer, who is about to take a wife (Rainer). From the start, he treats her with respect, during a time when women were looked on as little more than hired help. Without giving too much of the movie away, they go through the highs and lows of all relationships, and even though the story may take place in late 19th/early 20th century,the story and much of their feelings, seems credible.Other than the fact that the movie is about 5-10 minutes longer than it needs to be, and the performances of Charley Grapewin and Walter Connolly are typical 1930's cartoon characters, this is a really wonderful movie that, unfortunately, has become a victim of political correctness.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Classic story given distinguished screen treatment and cast to perfection","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pearl Buck's story of the ups and downs of a Chinese peasant family is adapted for the screen in a stately and dignified manner.  Extreme respect is paid to the characters, who are given ample screen time to mature and develop.  The roles are filled by actors who are able to get inside their characters without ever giving the impression that they are `performing,' and their performances are all the richer for it.The story begins on the wedding day of Wang Lung (Paul Muni), a kind and gentle farmer.  His wife, O-Lan (Luise Rainer), bears his sons and quietly encourages him to pursue his dreams, no matter what sacrifices they entail from her.  The family lives through a famine and finally achieves prosperity and success.  However, with success comes greed and corruption, and soon Wang is buying large plots of land and the Great Hall at which O-Lan was a servant.  Eventually, he takes a second wife and breaks ties with all who were once close to him.  It takes a tragedy for him to see the error of his ways.All the while O-Lan stands behind him, supporting every decision he makes in her own tranquil way.  Rainer's Oscar winning portrayal, like O-Lan herself, is the glue that holds the story together.  Muni, often prone to hamminess in his work, shows restraint here and contributes a beautiful, multifaceted performance.  The cinematography, which also received an Oscar, is excellent, as are the special effects.  A sequence which involves locusts, invading the crops by the million, is nothing short of unforgettable.  It is storytelling in the grandest sense of the word, with strong characterizations, high production values, and an engrossing story which more than justifies `The Good Earth's status as a classic. "},{"Title":"A Blockbuster That Retains Its Magic","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"32 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sure, 65 years have passed since Thalberg's last production was filmed. But fellow IMDB members, come on, this movie is surely one of the masterpieces of the 30's!  It is a 10.This was the first movie I saw at New York's Museum of Modern Art, around 1970 (I was a teenager).  Expensive looking yet with scenes of such poverty, masterfully photographed, often thrilling, and always engaging, to me it was MGM movie-making at its best.  What did audiences feel when they glimpsed a locust attack, the person by person destruction of a mansion, the horrific poverty and then the splendor of wealth.Last week, those watching the Academy Awards had a glimpse of the senior Oscar winner in attendance, Luise Rainer.  How grand to see an actress who arguably delivered one of the most masterful, haunting performances in history electing to return for a celebration.Ok, so she should not have won the year before (Great Ziegfeld), but don't blame Luise.  Talkies were only a decade old when this was released, and her dialogue limited.  But as Olan, her use of visual and vocal is memorable.Large scale and touching, what more could a movie lover want!  "},{"Title":"O-Lan, You Are the Earth","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What Irving Thalberg did in making this film today would never be attempted again. Making a Chinese story with occidental players even if they are of the caliber of Paul Muni, Luise Rainer, Charley Grapewin, and Walter Connolly among others.Perhaps it's partly because the story was written by a westerner, Pearl Buck who got a Pulitzer Prize for her novel in 1932. Ms. Buck, daughter of Chinese missionaries, probably brought China closer to the consciousness of America than any other person. Not the political struggles of China, but the lives and toil of the every day people we find in The Good Earth. Unfortunately later on, Pearl Buck became an apologist for the Kuomintang China of Chiang Kai-Shek in all its virtues and excesses. The rest of her literary output never matched The Good Earth.In The Sundowners there is a great description of comparing China to Australia by Peter Ustinov. When asked the difference, Ustinov said China was very big and very full and Australia was very big and very empty. That's what you see in The Good Earth, China very big and very full of people, more than she can deal with at times.The Good Earth tells the story of Wang Lung (Paul Muni) as a young man who purchases a wife from a large house where she was a slave. The woman O-Lan (Luise Rainer) bears him two sons and sees him through all the good times and bad they have, drought, famine, revolution, and a climatic locust plague.Luise Rainer won the second of two consecutive Oscars for portraying O-Lan. She may have set some kind of record in that it has to be the leading player Oscar performance with the least amount of dialog. Everything she does practically is done with facial expressions, her performance could have been on a silent film with very minimal subtitles. I think only John Mills in Ryan's Daughter had fewer words and he was playing a mentally retarded man.Muni is not always appreciative of how supportive she is in that male dominated culture. Rainer helps in the field, bears and raises the kids, does the housework. When Muni becomes a man of property he takes a Chinese second trophy wife who causes him a lot of grief. Still Rainer stoically bears it all. Still Muni is not a bad man and it's a tribute to the film and his acting and Buck's writing that you don't hate him and the culture gap is bridged. We've got a group of oriental players now who do more than just Kung Fu movies. I'm surprised The Good Earth of all films has not been remade at this point. I'll bet the Chinese government would even let some American company do it on an actual location.Till then we've got this great classic to appreciate and enjoy. "},{"Title":"A good Hollywood epic","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie with some curiosity.  I wanted to see if 1) Paul Muni could play Chinese and 2) Luise Rainer deserved her Oscar.  I came away from the film thinking YES!  Having seen Muni in only one film where he was quite hammy, I expected the same type of performance here.  I was happily proved wrong.  Although some might criticize him as being too childlike and stereotypically simple in the Hollywood idea of Asians, I thought he was just right in the role.  Keye Luke, if he'd been given the chance to play a lead role, might have played him in much the same manner.I was particularly impressed by the camera work and the use of crowd scenes, especially during the sacking of the palace where O-Lan was once a slave. The graphic and grim atmosphere of the firing squad and the drought made this an epic quite unlike others of the same time where it was all glitz and glitter.  I watched this film from beginning to end enthralled.  I can't say the same for the epics of today. "},{"Title":"A great old Hollywood classic","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is where the term classic film comes from. This is a wonderful story of a woman's bravery, courage and extreme loyalty. Poor Olan got sold to her uncaring husband, who through the years learned to appreciate her. (Yeah right, A PEARL!!) Luise Rainer was the beautiful star who had won the Best Actress Oscar the year before for her small role (and what a waste of an oscar) in The Great Zigfield. It really didn't show what, if any, talent she had other than her exotic beauty. But in Good Earth she shows that she can really act! Her beauty was erased and she had no great costumes either. People say that she didn't show any real emotions in this film. Like hell. Her character Olan is a shy and timid woman, with inner strength. She is quiet during parts of the film with only her eyes and body to convey her emotions. Example those scenes during the fall of the city and when looters were being shot. If you people are saying that she doesn't act well in this film, you are NOT looking!Paul Muni shows that he can act as well. His character is not a likeable one to me. He never sees her for what she is, until the very end of the story. A sweet loving and dedicated wife and mother, with her own special beauty. The greatest one of all, the beauty from within, like a pearl.If you get a chance to see this film, watch it. You will see one of the best films that the golden age of Hollywood created. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was released the year I was born and will be, like me, 70 in 2007. I watched it again last night having not seen it since high school. While it was full of 30's sentiment and the acting was a bit stereotyped, nevertheless, it was superb. Pearl S. Buck's story did come alive through the magic of the chemistry of Luise Rainer and Paul Muni. The novel which earned Ms. Buck the Nobel Prize for literature comes alive under the baton of Sydney Franklin which along with an excellent script recounts the story of peasant farmer, Wang Lung, whose father obtains a bride for him, a slave girl from the kitchen of a local landlord. In Buck's story, Wang's success is underwritten by his willingness to listen to his wife, most of the time, and the love of the land. In the end he comes to realize that his wife, like the land, is the source of his wealth, happiness and immortality. Buck's stories always had strong women cast in a critical spot to influence the outcome of events in the pre-feminist world. The German-born Luise Rainer brings a tentative but determined Peasant Chinese woman to life in her portrayal of Olan. Muni likewise captures the naive but honorable Wang, eventually caught between the two worlds of the wealthy and the peasant. Other classic characters include Charlie Grapewin, Dorothy Gale's Kansan Uncle Henry from the Wizard of Oz, Walter Connelly as the mewing, conniving uncle and Keye Luke as Number One Son-- but this time, not Charlie Chan's.A classic might be defined as a movie you can watch time and again and never tire of. If that's indeed the case, this film is a classic, no doubt whatsoever. "},{"Title":"Good Stuff, Perhaps A Re-Make Some Day?","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"24 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a bit long (2 hours, 20 minutes) but it had a a lot of the famous Pearl Buck novel in it. In other words, a lot of ground to cover.It was soap-operish at times but had some visually dramatic moments, too, capped off by a locust attack at the end of the film. That was astounding to view. Considering this film is about 70 years old, the special-effects crew on this film did a spectacular job.Paul Muni and Luise Rainer were award-winning actors in their day and they don't disappoint here, both giving powerful performances. The only problem is credibility as all the Asians are played by Caucasions and some of them, like Walter Connolly, just don't look real. I'd like to see a re-make of this movie with all-Asian actors, not for PC reasons but to simply make the story look and sound more credible. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest epic movies of all time.","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Good Earth is a great movie that you don't hear much about anymore. There are a lot of big disasters and events, but it is also a non-passionate love story.  All of this happens in a little over two hours, which is short by today's standards.  The special effects and costumes are very good for the time period.I am surprised that Luise Rainer received an Oscar for such a limiting role. She basically only has three emotions submissive, hungry, and heart-broken.The performances by the Asian and Asian-American actors are terrific. "}{"Title":" The land is important, . . .a man is either its master or it's slave ","Date":"5 April 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" From the upper shelf of great Classic Books, comes this masterful story written by Pearl Buck. The book like the movie is called  The Good Earth. It relates the story of Wang Lung (Paul Muni) a simple Chinese farmer who begins his day with a trip to the 'Great House' where he has taken a slave woman called O-lan (Luise Rainer) and made her his wife. Almost from the beginning, she begins to adapt to his kindness by saving a small peach seed and planting it near her new home. During the following years, O-Lan proves her worth by steadfastly sharing her husband's toil, troubles and changing fortunes. Through the passing years, they raise a family and watch their simple household weather both feast and famine. Indeed, it's at the lowest point in their lives that each discovers the value of companionship, loyalty and Love. With the changing times, their growing family is both aided and threatened with friends and relatives, like their Uncle (Walter Connolly) who is a scoundrel and charlatan, but is compassionately tolerated. Wang has his 'Old Father' (Charley Grapewin) to advise and remind him of life's fragile and fickle nature. Two notable actors who make impressive appearances in this film are Keye Luke who plays Wang's Elder Son and Phillip Ahn who plays a Nationalist soldier. The film is in Black and White and is wonderfully adapted from the novel. Highly recommended for all audiences. **** "},{"Title":"By 1937 Standards Something of a Miracle.","Date":"4 September 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" THE GOOD EARTH is a difficult movie to assess today, more than seventy years after its initial release. I think in order to assess it properly, we have to make some distasteful concessions.There was really virtually no chance that the leads would be played by Asians in a Hollywood film in 1937. For starters, the book was a major bestseller, and it did not come cheap. Add to that an epic story line that involves at least one extended crowd scene (it is in fact the scene of a riot) and the locust invasion (God only KNOWS how they pulled that one off).So they were sinking serious money into this project, and the brutal truth was that they needed names. Paul Muni was at the top of his game in 1937, and Luise Rainer had won the Oscar the year before as Anna Held in THE GREAT ZIEGFELD. Some decisions are made with the eye firmly on the cash register.So it comes as a great surprise that this movie turned out to be so good. Yes, you have to overlook the fact that many of the actors are about as Asian as apple pie (though to be fair, the makeup department probably got them as close as anyone could to looking the part), but the funny thing is that the mixed bag of ethnicities in the cast quickly becomes lost in a grand, sweeping, brilliantly filmed and acted epic story of a Chinese peasant farmer and his family.Muni, who was in a sense the male Meryl Streep of his day, scores big as Wang Lung. He was too tall, and they could not do anything about that, but they wisely did not try, and before long, thanks to Muni's deeply committed performance, suspension of disbelief becomes that much easier.But at the end of the day, this film belongs to Luise Rainer. As O-Lan, she would become the first actress to win the Best Actress Oscar two years in a row. The first one was for THE GREAT ZIEGFELD, another splendid performance, though the role was so small that it really belonged in the supporting category. As O-Lan, she is triumphant. I read the book many years ago in high school, and loved it, so I sort of avoided a movie that contained so many Western actors in Asian roles. But Rainer plays the stolid, silent, and uncomplaining O-Lan exactly as she is written in Pearl S Buck's novel; it is almost at times as if she is channeling her. A good many people at the time thought Garbo was going to win for CAMILLE, but I've never been able to stand her; an old-guard over-actress if ever there was one, she chewed more scenery than Davis, Crawford, and the notorious Miriam Hopkins put together.The rest of the cast, thanks to Irving G Thalberg's taste and eye for quality, is equally good. This was to be Thalberg's final film before his premature death at thirty-seven, and it was dedicated to him as his last great achievement. Not without reason. Despite the slight awkwardness in the casting, and a script that toward the end veered into sentimentality (quite unlike the novel, but for a Hollywood movie it's a small deviation), this is a mesmerizing film that takes a good close look at the harshness of poverty. In that sense it can be considered a precursor to John Ford's THE GRAPES OF WRATH three years later. And while Ford's film is clearly superior to its predecessor, it is quite possible that without THE GOOD EARTH, THE GRAPES OF WRATH would never have been made. Hollywood in those days liked fluff and happy endings; it would be several more years before realism became more commonplace in American cinema, largely due to the film noir movement.I have to say it I love this movie. It captures the heart and soul of the book, and falters only slightly at the end, and despite the casting, has not dated nearly as badly as one would have thought. And for a Hollywood film with mostly non-Asian actors playing Chinese peasants, that really IS something of a miracle. "},{"Title":"...one of the best films I've ever seen...","Date":"17 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...of course, the problem IS everyone has become a movie-critic...For those people who thought The Good Earth was dull and not entertaining, I have nothing to say. They are entitled to their opinion, but they missed one of life's most important lesson's Humility and loyalty.I was fortunate to see this film when it was FIRST released - in 1939. It's wonderful story (Pearl S. Buck) written for film (Talbot Jennings) has stayed with me all through my long life. I saw it in a theater then; I found it in the garbage bin in Wal-Mart this year (2011) and bought it immediately....I had it in a huge collection I gave to a library in Los Angeles when I moved to Florida. The copy I have now was made from the original cut - there are black screens between big scenes. I don't remember that after all these years, but accept it was the way the early release looked. It doesn't bother me - it gives me more time to think of what I have just viewed and anxious to see what's next. To me, the story is so engrossing the length of the film doesn't even occur to me - I would have liked the ending to be longer, because Olan, you are the earth told the entire reason for the story of true love and devotion, to the extreme.....I'm not even bothered by the question so many people asked of why Paul Muni (Wang Lung) and Luise Rainer (Olan) were cast instead-of Asians - I had never seen Ms. Rainer in any film, and have no idea why her Hollywood career faded. She was considered to be a great beauty. Paul Muni I've seen in other films, but he wasn't one of my favorites. Yes, I have always wondered how Gone with the Wind - beat it out of an award actually, I thought The Good Earth was filmed in color. Now, I'm not even concerned about that - the STORY, the ultimate entirety of the film's huge scenes and huge cast dismisses any negative comment I could think of, or read.Walter Connolly (Uncle) and Charlie Grapewin (Old Father) were perfectly cast and played their roles with great skill. All of the cast were consummate in their roles; director Sidney Franklin held a strong grip of the totality of the film and got it all right. As time progressed into a more modern era, the characters became more modern except, Olan stayed the wonderful woman she was.However - Ms. Rainer stole the entire movie. A good actress does not always need words to say. I feel the story of a peasant-farmer and his ex-slave wife, all of the troubles they encountered (and defeated), the entire cast presented an accurate portrayal of the story in those days - China. It is hard for me to visualize any re-make could be better, and feel any CGIs would be completely unnecessary. It is also hard for me to realize China's last emperor was alive when I went to Hawai'i in 1969......living a peasant-life, just as did Wang Lung and Olan.Anyone who views The Good Earth and doesn't readily understand that life is bigger than any of us, haven't really lived. It gets a 20 from me - I recommend it to every living soul. "},{"Title":"Solid epic filmmaking and Luise Rainer","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Good Earth is an engrossing tale of the hardships endured by a family of Chinese farmers and their surrounding community.  When one hears the word epic, one knows to expect a story with various ups and downs over an extended period of time.  But these events are staged well by the director and interestingly shot by famous cinematographer Karl Freund.  The film achieves a certain amount of realism by using a large number of extras and by incorporating an effective scene of swarming locusts in the film's climax.  I also noticed several sequences of rapid montage scattered throughout that made me think of Eisenstein.  But the best part of the film is Louise Rainer's portrayal of O-Lan.  Although she doesn't cover an extended range of emotions, her performance is quite moving, perhaps because of its simplicity.  She has wonderfully expressive and soulful eyes that elicit the viewer's sympathy; something about them or her appearance is slightly reminiscent of Falconetti's Joan of Arc.  Of course, the performance and the film are not of that caliber, but if you enjoy Hollywood epic filmmaking, I don't think you'll be disappointed. "},{"Title":"universal contrasting themes of humbleness and humility and power and greed captured brilliantly in this classic film","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Faithful to the work of Pearl S. Buck whose years spent in China as a child of Missionary parents that provided her with deep insights into the Chinese culture and its philosophy, this film adaptation is brilliantly done, both in technically artistry and acting.Wang Lung is a humble farmer grateful for the basics of life to survive off of his land and to be newly wed to Olan, a servant to a rich and powerful family in the village area. Despite Wang Lung and Olan's best efforts to farm the land, raise kids, and build savings and wealth, a famine threatens to wipe out everything they have worked for. Choosing not to sell their land, a traditional Asian belief, they instead journey to a major city to wait out the famine. While in the city, they are reduced to begging and being just one of hundreds of other unfortunate homeless families. Although not a looter, Olan gets caught up in a mob looting at a rich man's house. She's summarily rounded up for execution by the army, but is saved at the last minute. Her good fortune, however, is that she found valuable jewels at the looting site that affords her and her family the opportunity to return to their farm to start over again. The newly found wealth transforms Wang Lung. He becomes selfish, self-centered and takes credit for the find. He becomes a very rich farmer but that only makes matters worse as he increasingly becomes more unappreciative, arrogant and difficult to reason with. He loses touch with the basic things in life that money can't buy loyalty, commitment, trust, fairness and honesty. As punishment, nature once again turns the table on Wang Lung by sending a plague of locust to destroy everything he has. Brought to his knees, Wang Lung enlists the aid of all friends, former friends, workers, and family. With all that help, he succeeds in saving the farm. From that experience, he once again is humbled and appreciative for the basics in life. "},{"Title":"An old film that has aged well.","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sidney Franklin's The Good Earth has achieved classic status thanks to a timeless story and superb acting, especially from Luis Ranier, who won an Oscar for her portrayal of O-Lan. Rainers performance is so complete, she is nearly unrecognizable. Having very little dialogue throughout the entire film (and it is a long one), Rainer relies instead on facial and body language. She looks and acts Chinese to the point that anyone unfamiliar with her work could easily mistake her as such.The film remains relevant today because it explores the rags to riches story and the universal themes that come with it. When Lung and wife O-Lan finally achieve financial success after years of famine and poverty, they find a life full of possessions but lacking in meaning. It is only when they return to the earth after fighting off a swarm of locusts (the special effects used to create them are still incredible and beautiful to watch) that they again find fulfillment. A common formula told with the unique perspective of a Chinese family (especially for 1937) makes the film a classic. Money isn't worth anything without friends and family, a point that the film drives home perfectly in it's last 10 minutes with an emotionally fulfilling conclusion. "},{"Title":"good film","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My main problem with the film is that it goes on too long. Other then that, it's pretty good. Paul Muni plays a poor Chinese farmer who is about to get married through an arranged marriage. Luise Rainer is a servant girl who gets married to Muni. They live with Muni's father on a farm and they are doing pretty bad. When he finally gets some money to buy some more land, a drought hits and nothing is growing. Everybody stars to head north by Muni stays behind at first. When they leave and arrive at town they find that their are no jobs and they are worse off than before. They even think about selling their youngest daughter as a slave for some money but decide against it. When a bunch of people start looting the town, the military show up and start executing people . Paul Muni does a good job and Luise Rainer won a second oscar for this movie.  "},{"Title":"The Good Earth.... The Great O-Lan","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Good Earth is a film about love, marriage, family, and the land that you live on. But more precisely its about faithfulness to those institutions and bedrocks of society as shown through O-Lan and her farming family in China.A wonderful story by Pearl Buck, Great direction by Sidney Franklin and Victor Fleming uncredited, very good acting headed by Paul Muni, great cinematography by Karl Freund, and special effects 20 years ahead of their time make this a classic.However as good as those elements to this film are the reason The Good Earth is one of the 100 greatest films of all time is O-Lan. O-Lan, O-Faithful O-Lan. How you linger in my memory. One of my two favorite female character-performances in film history. The other is Scarlett O'Hara. Two peas in a pod? No, more like night and day. Both beautiful in their own way. It amazes me that these two character-performances came from films directed by Victor Fleming within two years of each other. Louise Rainer as O-Lan gives a performance as subtle and subdued as the character she plays. While Vivien Leighs performance is as perky and over the top as the character she plays. O-Lan is discreet and selfless. Scarlett is brash and self-absorbed. O-What a double feature Gone With the Wind and The Good Earth would make. O-Lan and Scarlett. Ying and Yang.If you are a liberated woman than The Good Earth may not be for you. But as for me, O-Lan is the salt of the good earth. "},{"Title":"Beautifully made classic","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" An epic movie from Old Hollywood about Chinese farmer Wang (Paul Muni), his wife O-Lan (Luise Rainer), and their struggles with famine, locusts, and greed. Muni is terrific. He's a divisive actor for many. I think he's one of the best actors of his era. Others think he's hammy and over-the-top. Luise Rainer won an Oscar for her sensitive, quiet performance as O-Lan. Charley Grapewin brings his grizzled old-timer persona he used in many films to this one. He's great fun to watch whether he's in China or Oklahoma. Also winning an Oscar was the great cinematographer Karl Freund, possibly best known today for his Universal horror films. It's a beautiful-looking film. Obviously, the elephant in the room is the casting of white actors as some of the Chinese characters. That's going to be a deal-breaker for politically correct types. If you're one of them, just spare yourself the faux outrage and watch something else. For everybody else, check this out and enjoy a classic film with a lot to offer. "},{"Title":"A great film, from a classic book, about people of a distant land","Date":"23 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In the early days of movie making, actors of color were very scarce in Hollywood. At the time of making The Good Earth in 1937, Hollywood was just eight years into the modern day of sound movies, or talkies. So, to put a great book about China on film, MGM would have to use white actors in its lead roles. Thus, the cast of Paul Muni, Luise Rainer, Walter Connolly, and others in the major roles. Perhaps some reviewers who bemoan these choices weren't aware of the early history of the movies. Of course, today we are used to seeing people of all colors playing respective roles on film. Even then, we should remember that one of the earliest aspects of acting was the use of make-up and costuming in which white actors would play the roles of various nationalities and races. The early Greeks and Romans used masks to change faces, race and appearances. But, well before the time of Shakespeare, the use of makeup had become common. Today, makeup is used mostly for highlighting, aging, youthful looks, and facial alterations.Pearl Buck (1892-1973), wrote the novel this film is based on. She was one of the best-known published sources for information about China in the early 20th century. Buck spent most of the first 40 years of her life in China. She was the daughter of missionaries, and after she married, she and her husband lived there many more years. Their last several years were spent in university teaching positions. It was during this time that Buck began writing her stories about China. She won the Nobel Prize for literature in 1938. China and the Chinese people always remained home to Buck who lived her last three decades in England. She had a Chinese name &#x96; Sai Zhenzhu. According to accounts about the early planning and production of this film, some in Hollywood were worried. The U.S. and the world still were in a recession. Much of the U.S. was suffering from the Dust Bowl. Would the viewing public want to see a film about farmers in China? the producers wondered. Would people pay to see this movie? But Buck's book, The Good Earth, had been a best-seller in both 1931 and 1932, and earned the author the Pulitzer Prize for the novel in 1932. Hollywood gambled and the gamble paid off. MGM did a marvelous job creating the sets and filming the scenes of China as described by Buck in her book. The movie is a great picture of the land and living of the Chinese people in a society that was then predominantly rural. The acting was superb by the major leads and all the supporting cast. The direction and musical scores were excellent. And the special effects of the locust swarms and rainstorms were exceptional and very realistic. I doubt that the advanced technical tools and CGI we have today could make a film as impressive or real. The Good Earth film is a faithful presentation of a classic book. It is Pearl Buck's tale about family, love, wealth and poverty, hunger and plenty, pride and humility. It's themes and sub-themes are as applicable today as they were in the 1930s. They are as true for the U.S., Europe and any other place, as they were and are for China. And, The Good Earth is a tale about the land that bound the people together in times of want and times of plenty. It is a movie for all ages and all times. If you haven't seen it yet, don't miss it. A personal aside, that may be of interest. One year in the early 1960s, I was involved with four theater plays at a small Midwestern college. We had no students of color try out for roles, so we used makeup to change actors' races or colors. For the four-act Chinese Theater play, Lady Precious Stream, all of the cast were made up as Chinese. For Davy Crockett and His Coonskin Cap, a children's theater play, several of us were made up as Native American Indians. And, for Lillian Helmer's The Little Foxes, I was made up with black face paint, a hair permanent and powdered curly hair for the character of the elderly Black butler, Cal. We had one other one-act play in which sailors from a ghost ship were made up in a gray-greenish makeup to look like ghouls from the deep. Without the makeup, we couldn't have made the unreal seem so real. "}{"Title":"The Good Earth is Great Acreage ****","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Magnificent film with brilliant casting of Paul Muni and Luise Rainer as Chinese farmers based on the Pearl Buck classic.This masterpiece deals with the concept of the importance of land. Two years later, a similar theme was etched, with the equally epic Gone With the Wind.Despite being wholesome, encouraging her husband to keep his land and being the dutiful wife to the extreme, wealth changes all that when Muni takes a second wife, only to have scandal wreck his name with his youngest son and the woman.Rainer, who won her second Oscar for this movie, is phenomenal as O-Lan. Her face is etched in pain in an extremely moving performance. Muni again proved that he was a top actor of the 1930s for his performance as Wang Lung.The black and white cinematography is marvelously shown and the scene with the locust invasion will never be forgotten.This is certainly an enduring masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Well told account of farmers in China...","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 1st watched 8/29/2009 - 7 out of 10 (Dir-Sidney Franklin) Well told account of farmers in China and their rise to prominence and struggles with what Mother nature throws at them. This movie is based on an award winning novel and chronicles a family starting with the son's arranged marriage to a slave girl. The movie does a good job of keeping your interest despite a somewhat hammy performance by the lead played by Paul Muni. It chronicles , Wong Long(the character played by Muni) and how he works the land, buys more land, eventually becomes very rich but then returns to the land where he originally started. The relationship between him and his wife, played by Luise Rainer, is the main thread of the story(besides the land itself) and despite the obvious non-Chinese actors it does a pretty good job of displaying the country and it's people. It's obvious that MGM used it's money to create a really good epic with this one in an era where they could probably afford it. The scene with the locusts is done exceedingly well and the rest of th movie really looks good warranting the Best Cinematography award at the Oscars in that year. The definitive definition of an epic is what this story is and it's pulled off pretty well. "},{"Title":"Good piece of classic Hollywood","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was an interesting take by Hollywood on the novel by of the same name by Pearl S. Buck. While some today might think it is rife with racial stereotypes, for the time the very idea of Chinese protagonists was progressive in and of itself. I found that the white actors playing Chinese was not as bad as I expected, that it wasn't the Asian equivalent of blackface. Back then there were not really any Asian actors in America (not even George Takei was acting) and Rainer did a good job with her part. It wasn't the greatest performance I have ever seen but for old-school pre-method acting it was nice. The locust scene was very well shot and contained convincing special effects.I wonder that the timing of the release during the Great Depression sort of turns this film into an allegory. Especially the political upheaval bewildering the peasant farmers and how them seem to be left behind by all of it.The film had some parallels to the John Ford style, but I think the Eastern influence affected it as well. If this had been an western family, the locusts would have won at the end, punishing the farmer for his pride, lust, and gluttony. However here he learns his lesson, then wins. "},{"Title":"Epic+obvious message=oscar, yet this movie succeeds anyway!","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This old epic is, by one side of me,  an epic ala gone with the wind meets China. it is because of this, and this alone that it won any oscar/attention at all.On the other hand it cannot be denied that the acting is absolutely fabulous on the part of the wife. With only a few lines, or even a look she made me think/ everything i needed and just enough more. At some times during the film (like the post locus celebration), when others would overact i was reminded that i was watching an old movie from 37 and 'that's how old movies are.' However the acting of the wife was not like this, i saw her and i no longer felt i was watching a cheesy epic but that i was witness to an actor that can transcend time. second, because of the good acting on the part of the wife, the message of the movie was clear. the fact that The father switched back and forth over the course of the movie to show the audience that he had it right the first time seems trite, it's a trick that pulls the plot along but not the viewer, no surprises and we have seen it all before. on the other hand what is less trite, and this is what i think makes the message clear ultimately, is that the wife can pull off a humble-by-nature type person who shows us constantly that she actually is better off even when her husband is seemingly much more successful.Humble thyslef in the sight of the lord and love the land you have and it will love you. seems to be the sign hanging around the movie's neck, this sign is what makes it trite, it makes the message obvious and the viewer stupid. But in the hands of the wife this message is much more clear and poignant. it is something that the wife needs only a few lines to communicate. Because the sign/message is NOT hanging around her neck it's therefore something even more humble. and thus the movie can succeed despite its own flamboyant plot. "},{"Title":"Classic Hollywood","Date":"28 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is classic Hollywood. I first saw The Good Earth in my teens, half a century ago. I was mesmerized. Now, to mark the recent death of its extraordinary star, Luise Rainer, at the age 104, I watched it again but with a half of century of movie-going behind me. I was mesmerized again--but for different reasons, most of them having to do with the Hollywood conventions that make this classic such an oddity. First and most notable is the gaggle of Caucasians playing Chinese characters, with the lead, Paul Muni, least believable of all. But they all act up a storm and it's great entertainment. Luise Rainer is the best of the lot and, blessedly, says very little in the film. She does it all with her face and body language. But when she does open her mouth, her obviously German accent is a hoot. But what's the difference really? It's acting, it's entertaining, it's a tear-jerker, and its cinematically superb. "},{"Title":"A poor farmer takes a former slave girl for his wife, who repeatedly proves the salvation of his life.","Date":"12 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is a wonder to behold in view of its circumstances. It's an all-American film but tells a story of China which lacks nothing in its convincing realism. Most convincing of all are the actors with Paul Muni (Austrian) and Luise Rainer (German Jewess) in the leads. Even the music has successfully been given a convincing Chinese touch, although any musician will recognize some borrowings from Puccini's opera 'Turandot'. Without animation and computer possibilities, the realism still reaches staggering heights in visualizing the revolution scenes in the city and the horrors of the locust plague. There are scenes'here that will stay in your mind forever. So much praise has already been poured on this classical epic that it's difficult to find anything else to say, except to underline the marvelous acting by Paul Muni and Luise Rainer, a Chinese farmer and his wife, a former slave, humble peasant people but still totally convincing in their so thoroughly genuine characters. "},{"Title":"The Good Earth..... a Classic.......","Date":"14 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Good Earth is based on a Pulitzer Award winning novel and deals with the lives of Chinese peasants delving into the harrowing lives they go through. In the central, we have the family of Wang (Paul Muni) who marries a kitchen slave O-Lan (Luise Rainer who won Oscars for the Best Actress) from the Great Hall. Through the harvesting from their fields, they acquire land; but a famine forces them to move to the city with their children where they find the fortune.The story has layers and an in-depth character development (Perhaps a good adaptation of the original novel). Throughout, the film achieves a nostalgic feel and has a well balance of wittiness and sadness. Perhaps, it has been one of those rare movies which achieves a rawness in depicting the harrowing events in the history and the sufferings the people endured. Before this, I think Grapes of Wrath and Schindler's List achieved that level in film making. Whether the depiction of the great famine, or the plague of the locusts; the film leaves its impact. There is also much to applaud for the deserving performances from the leads. The only coda disappointments the film had were its length and somewhat a dragging pace at its middle. By the end, the film does leave its impact to consider it a classic.Rating 3 stars out of 4 "},{"Title":"Film 8/10; Transfer Quality 4/10","Date":"10 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like many others, I was transfixed and mesmerised when I first saw this old epic, which I saw on a TV channel quite a few years ago. Always a sucker for an epic, specially one a bit different to Hollywood's usual fare, I admired the breadth, scope and humanity of both its story and production.Smitten, indeed, by the epic scenes of storms over the wheat-fields, filled with all the stirring drama of a Russian propaganda film and of course, the swarm of locusts, which, at the time, really took my breath away. One usually associates such spectacles with much later films, with special effects or later still, CGI.A few tongue-in-cheek critics have nicknamed this adaptation (which I have not read) of Pearl S Buck's hefty novel, 'the lychees of Wrath' and the human condition set against nature and the landscape is every bit as dramatic as Steinbeck's dust-bowl classic, but, of course, here set in China, though the bulk of The Good Earth was actually shot in Utah and California.Whilst we are never left unsure that these are American actors playing Chinese people, it's done quite sympathetically and well, so it never intrudes, with actress Luise Reiner earning an Oscar, with cinematographer Karl Freund deservedly winner of the other award from the Academy.As far as I could tell, I couldn't buy this DVD as a normal region 2, or at least at a reasonable price, so mine is a Korean release. Going by what others have said, the poor picture quality is not unique to this import, either. Poor, flat, grey contrast and never actually sharp in detail, though the picture doesn't suffer too badly from marks or flicker. The sound also needs cranking up to levels where hiss is audible, and is still of poor quality then.True, 1937 makes it an old film but its quality of direction and, presumably, budget, would have allowed for the superior levels of production widely available from the big studios and that I'm sure it originally had.This minor Classic does need both reappraisal and re-release, using a fully restored print. Then, justice can finally be done to a film that has every reason and chance to be counted as one of the greats of Hollywood. "},{"Title":"We're Republicans, not bandits!","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The quote I used for my summary occurs about halfway through THE GOOD EARTH, as a captain of a Chinese revolutionary army (played by Philip Ahn) apologizes to a mob for not having time to shoot MORE of the looters among them, as his unit has just been called back to the front lines. Of course, the next looter about to be found out and shot is the main character of the film, the former kitchen slave girl O-Lan (for whose portrayal Luise Rainer, now 99-years-old, won her second consecutive best actress Oscar).The next scene finds O-Lan dutifully delivering her bag of looted jewels to her under-appreciative husband, farmer Wang Lung (Paul Muni), setting in motion that classic dichotomy of a man's upward financial mobility being the direct inverse of his moral decline.For a movie dealing with subject matter including slavery, false accusations, misogyny, starvation, home invasion, eating family pets, mental retardation, infanticide, exploited refugees, riots, civil war, summary mass street executions, bigamy, child-beating, adultery, incest, and insect plagues of biblical proportions, THE GOOD EARTH is a surprisingly heart-warming movie.My parting thought is in the form of another classic quote, from O-Lan herself (while putting the precious soup bone her son has just admitted stealing from an old woman back into the cooking pot after husband Wang Lung had angrily tossed it to the dirt floor on the other side of their hut) Meat is meat. "},{"Title":"A Chinese epic by American author","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Pearl S.Buck was a brilliant author that was a first American lady won Nobel prize in literature in 1938 and received her prize with Enrico Fermi an Italian Physit.She wrote this romance in 1931 which was a second one after her first novel (East wind and West wind) in 1930 and her beginning in literature was fantastic upon her premier novels.she won in 1935 (Pulitzer prize) in literature on her eternal novel (The good earth) which made a brilliant panorama on the life of Chinese peasant (Wung Lung) and his wife (O-Lane) and their efforts to face the hardness of hard positions in their earth to reach for their big fortune by their shoulders.Paul Muni succeeded in this role as Chinese peasant that he prepared himself in this role upon his sittings with Chinese people in San Francisco in their town to be Chinese exactly as a real and true.Shara Reiner succeeded in her role as (O-Lane) by this brilliant evidence that she won An Academy Awarded as a best actress in 1937. "}{"Title":"Providence Comes to the Faithfully Honest","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This timeless proverb reverberates in this movie and in my heart. So many years have I waited to see this eternal story! I was not ready, perhaps. It is possible that my sensibilities would not have appreciated its power. So I now gratefully welcome it into my soul with gladness.My respect and admiration for PAUL MUNI has been long. His is now a legendary luminescence. But now I have finally discovered the priceless gifts of LUISE RAINER's splendid talents. Oh, how many faces can speak as did hers? Some have said that it was wrought from her silent years, and this well might have been but her speech, is eloquent enough when it is given a chance. She amply deserved her Oscar.This movie is in an epic in the most classical proportions. All parts equal, necessary and perfect. Naysayers may walk away if they wish, but they would be shunning a storytelling which stays with one a lifetime.THE GOOD EARTH enriches one in ways that one does not expect. But all will not come from it with the joy that I did. But I can only hope that this film will be remembered for many years.Do not prod me with mere technicalities regarding the race of the principal players. These are expectations of modern times when we are obsessed with utter perfection. But I dare a million score of newer films to tell PEARL BUCK's story with such poignancy, power, conviction and grace.If any modern artist would dare to re-film this masterpiece, I warn them that they will never come close to the aromatic fragrance which still emanates from the core of this telling. Time will not diminish this effort nor will progress improve upon its greatness. "},{"Title":"Mixed feelings about this adaptation of Pearl Buck's The Good Earth...","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although there are faults, THE GOOD EARTH manages to hold the viewer's interest in a lengthy film because of George Sidney's smoothly competent direction and the performances of PAUL MUNI, as the naive farmer Wang Lung, and to a lesser extent, LUISE RAINER as O-Lan, his peasant wife. Helpful too is the fact that the film's atmosphere is artfully crafted with sets and costumes that look lived in. I've never been much of an admirer of Miss Rainer's acting style, but at least she seems credible in the role. However, her character is so passive that there are times when she appears to be sleep-walking through the part in an attempt to portray the completely submissive and meek nature of her lowly character. It gets tiresome after awhile and too one-note to stir much sympathy. She uses those big eyes and downcast expression to convey emotion but has very little to say about anything, which leaves Muni with a lot to do.By contrast, PAUL MUNI is almost a little too animated as the young Chinese farmer who takes a wife because in a male dominated culture she'll help him harvest his crop and bear his children. But he has much more acting to do than Rainer (and ten times the amount of dialog) and does it well. He too was deserving of an award but instead he was nominated that year for another film.CHARLEY GRAPEWIN and WALTER CONNOLLY are not exactly examples of good casting for the most prominent supporting roles as Asians. Both of them are hardly recognizable beneath their make-up, especially Connolly as the greedy, non-working uncle. I didn't know it was him until I read the credits. KEY Luke is fine as the eldest son and TILLY LOSCH makes an interesting, exotic creature as Lotus, the dancer.But the story itself is a bit depressing, since it deals more with the hardships and bitter struggle against nature that all farmers have to endure than it does with any reward they have for their efforts.The big crowd scene at a palace where Rainer almost gets shot as a looter is handled very effectively and, of course, the plague of locusts swarming across the fields is something spectacular to watch. These scenes have the sweep of an epic, but the story is more intimate and is really an examination of man's fortitude against nature.For all of its trials and tribulations and its simple story of a man and woman who depend on the earth for a living, this can be highly depressing rather than inspirational in that there are many more grim scenes of failure than brief moments of success. The story is structured in such a way that you can almost see the downbeat threat looming over every scene. In other words, the gloom and doom elements of the story are going to alienate some viewers.But serious movie-goers who love the classics of the '30s will probably be able to sit through this without too much trouble, although some cutting would have helped during the first hour where the pace is much too slow. "},{"Title":"Not Good","Date":"2 June 2009","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The classic Buck novel gets the epic Hollywood treatment. It features beautiful cinematography and includes an impressive scene of a locust invasion. However, the film is too melodramatic and the acting is hammy. The characters are not well developed and it turns into a soap opera and goes on much too long. Muni, certainly a capable actor when given a role suited to his talents, seems miscast here, looking silly in Chinese makeup. Rainer, looking like Meryl Streep in Sophie's Choice, plays Muni's wife as pathetic and depressed, almost shell-shocked, a one-note performance that won her a second consecutive Best Actress Oscar before she faded to obscurity. "},{"Title":"Great, Except For One Thing","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This adaptation of Pearl S. Buck's film is certainly a classic. A true Hollywood epic, it has all the things a great Hollywood film has Birth, death, happiness, sadness, exhilaration, despair, and so on. There is only one thing that irks me. I know it was a sign of the times, but neither of the two main characters are played by Asian actors. Paul Muni was a great actor, and he does an admirable job as Wang Lung, the owner of a farm in China. Luise Rainier plays Olan. She does not even look Chinese! I think she tried to get the role, but they should have put Anna May Wong in the role. I know why they didn't, and Ms. Rainier is very good in the film, but they hardly tried to make her look authentic. Stillm its a great film, especially if you read the book (I did in high school, decades ago). Its a must see, just look beyond the casting. I think you can. "},{"Title":"Tear-jerking and heart warming","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Good Earth is a great movie!!!Everybody must see...It is tear-jerking and very heart warming. It caters to the enhancement of values-formation on perseverance, humility and the love of family...The story can be related to our life today especially that poverty is at the threshold. The way on how we respond to such problem is very crucial and if a person is not strong enough to face such, he may be left defenseless and useless. I am very pleased on how the characters justified their roles even the young actors...Their emotions has captivated the audience. The movie may have been done in black and white, but the story is so captivating that you do not want to end. That makes it really great! There should be a re-make for this very nice movie. "},{"Title":"summary","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Good Earth is a 1937 film is about a family in China during the 1900s. The film follows this family through the early stages of China's revolution, through the drought period and the harvest. All but the two main actors are Asian. It is because of Paul Muni and Luise Rainer's superb performances that allow the audience to suspend their disbelief and accept these two actors as Asian without hindering the authenticity of the film.Paul Muni puts on another stunning performance, this time as a simple farmer, Wang Lung, who is trying to survive during a drought with his slave for a bride, O-Lan, and children. Paul Muni is so versatile that he can play almost any role, including someone of a different race. His character, Wang Lung, is a hard working man who only wants to create a better life for his family. He lives with his father and oppressed slave wife O-Lan. This character showed a kinder side to this type of marriage, he wanted her to feel comfortable. Wang represents a simple farmer who works hard to support his family. He gets greedy when he falls in possession of jewels and seems to forget all his simple and honorable morals. O-Lan gets frustrated when his morals seem to be placed on hold for temporary gratification. Conflict with his son arises when the second wife takes a liking to him, but the two put aside their differences and work together in order to survive the locusts.Oscar winner Luise Rainer plays O-Lan, a very quiet and docile slave wife. She has subtle hints of feminism in her character's demeanor, but more often than not she is portrayed as a slave to her husband. Empathy is established through her slight gestures and oppressed attitude. She bears her husband children and does anything else he wants without question. Though she has minimal dialogue, at times her actions and assertiveness give her a brief voice in the home. The Earth's best intentions are always O-Lan's focus, knowing that the Earth will determine whether or not the family is prosperous. She reminds Wang not to sell the farm when times get rough, for she knows it will be good to them in the future.Not only was the acting superb for its time, the cinematography and special effects made the film all the more beautiful. It has this strong sense of realism that really pulls the audience into the film allowing us to get emotionally attached when the hardships of the drought strike. As for special effects, they were spectacular and added another layer to the film. The locust scene in particular has no traces of computer animation because the locusts are real. This film was about family, hardships, spirituality and morals. It is the combination of actors, cinematography and special effects, that this film is able to show the clear distinction of all life on Earth and how they are affected in such polar opposite conditions such as a harvest and drought season. "},{"Title":"A review for those who have read the book","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on the 1931 novel of the same name by Nobel Prize-winning author Pearl S. Buck The Good Earth tells the story of a poor Chinese farmer's going from rags to riches.The poor farmer Wang Lung (Paul Muni) marries a spare slave,Olan (Luise Rainer)from the powerful local Hwang family. Olan, who is a stolid and uncomplaining woman, may be Pearl S. Buck's strongest character.Though she is a victim in the traditionalist Chinese lifestyle and she gets no rewards for her hard-work in the fields, her bearing many kids for her husband,her uncomplaining attitude in her long illness she gets the dignity in the readers' eyes. Wang Lung, who was a good man while he was just a simple farmer on the land, tends to show his bad sides with his acquisitiveness as he gets more and more land, his desire for more wealth and status and his lust for other women. Some of those who have both seen the movie and read the book may say that the movie is a fairly accurate representation of the book but I am one of those who disagrees with that point. In the book, Wang Lung repents his separation from the land he loves dearly but he can never rescind his any of his pleasures.For instance,in his senior years Wang Lung takes a nymphish slave, Pear Blossom, as a concubine which the movie never mentions. The movie,on the contrary, shows that Wang Lung redeems himself. After an impressive locust invasion scene, Wang Lung comes back to his senses and he reconciles with his sons, he even returns the pearls to his wife in hear death bed. Moreover, Olan who gets the whole dignity in the readers' eyes turns into a ghoulish,pathetic character with aid of that make-up which was supposed to make Western players look like Asians. An uncomplaining,a stolid, reticent but a strong-willed woman turns into a woman who wanders around with a smirk on her face. Everybody knows it's not easy to cinematize a classic book, especially under the technological conditions in 1930s but you could name other character deviations and major changes to the story-line. I guess if one reads the book and watches the movie right after that, he/she will know exactly what I mean.A whole classic can't be reduced to one impressive locust invasion scene! "},{"Title":"This movie is a must see if you want to learn anything about Chinese culture.","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie after I had read the book for English class. I really liked the book but I thought the movie was going to be awful. In some respects it was, on the other hand it was pretty good. It disappointed me that the director included the second daughters birth and murder, but did not include the birth of the twin son and daughter. I also thought Olan was a little more emotional than she was supposed to be, she also was very beautiful when in the book she was supposed to be ugly. It is a shame that the director left out the part about the uncle being in the band of robbers. I think the director could have made this movie a whole lot better than he did despite the year in which the movie was made. "},{"Title":"It has a little too much in common with fortune cookies.","Date":"26 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It is better to be the hammer than the anvil is a standard fortune that Irving Thalberg evidently took to heart.Thalberg hammered most of Pearl Buck's considerable knowledge of Chinese culture out of his adaption of her Pulitzer Prize-winner, The Good Earth. Along with three writers and four(!) directors, he reduced her novel to the skeleton of its rags-to-riches plot, and the result is an epic soap opera with some of the best makeup in Hollywood history, subtly creating creased eyelids for Western actors (though nothing was going to make audiences believe Muni or Rainer were Asians). There were no Oscars for makeup until 1981, but this film had five other nominations, and two richly deserved wins California's San Fernando Valley was the location, and Karl Freund's cinematography is superb. Unfortunately, it's certain he didn't participate in one of the most impressive sequences, and perhaps not in another First, the footage captured inside China--impressive, revelatory scenes in both city and countryside--was filmed by George W. Hill for another movie that was never made. Second, Freund may not have been with the crew dispatched to photograph the climax-- a locust plague, shot on location in the Dust Bowl, where locust were swarming. It's documentary-quality footage, starting with insects rising like black clouds on the horizon and extending to extreme close-ups of the bugs eating crops.For her splendidly subtle, all-but-silent performance, not enough can be said about Luise Rainer (how many Americans have even heard of her today? let alone know that she's alive, aged 99, living in London). Unfortunately, her character, as much as any, was sanitized, making The Good Earth more melodramatic than Asiatic. In Buck's text, O-lan murders her fourth newborn, a daughter she strangles, because the family is mid-famine and because girl children were not valued. What's more, in contrast to the movie, the novel's O-lan does not give her husband the jewels she found (or stole) to help their family, he discovers them, takes them and uses them to turn their fortunes around.Softening the character of O-lan probably made the film more successful at the box office, but also reduced the story to a concoction about as authentic and gratifying as a fortune cookie -- invented by an Asian-American, probably also in California. "},{"Title":"Good story but something overlooked","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Good Earth is based on an excellent story by an excellent author (Pearl S Buck) but what no one seems to notice or care about is that the film's stars were deliberately Caucasian. Epic story or not, one must realize that in 1937 society was different. One culture's story of perserverence in changing times is another culture's box office profits. There are vastly significant differences between the novel and the movie, and even if they are forgivable -- the film industry, after all, constantly changes history -- they should not be ignored. Recognize this film for everything it is both a powerful story and a profitable venture. "}{"Title":"Fighting a curse at countryside as never seen before","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Good Earth (1937) directed by Sidney Franklin is of course an unknown masterpiece and an unexpected jewel like a dream before wake up in homage to the sudden death of Irving Thalberg. And as movie also, it is with a curious strength, specially on the scene concerning the curse of grasshoppers, made by cinematographer Karl Freund. It was truly an epic movie, that it was for the time innovative and inspiring desire for understanding the fight for better lives on a given part of the Earth planet, Chinese desperate landscapes where the antiquity was born as matter of discoveries, namely in channel's field of practical activity with irrigation of water from the river, if not in dry weather for the rice. The problem of hungry is underestimated here by the officials of the time and people search by it, at any price of their surviving like human beings scaring by starvation as main result, as in one given scene where the character of a poor land owner, helped by some friends and occasional rural workers in stand-by for a job didn't have had food enough even for his children and family. But one of the rescuers of his safety, as new hope for a short development in his land, is not sure himself if he tells the truth ; these had decide to cope with some other mates, for verifying inside the home, at the kitchen, if it was true enough what the new democratic land owner told  in fact, overwhelming the insiders, in almost personal revolt for immediate payment in some concealed food. Instead, they saw only some roots of plants, where the substance of the meals it was as a kind of the poor's soap, from nowhere and even not enough for the established set in slowly growth. Simulating very well Chinese landscapes, during the long march against extermination by hungry, forcing peasants to unrest and, by social contrast, a repression from republicans against spelled bandits. This is a movie whose story is based on the novel of Pearl S. Buck, influenced also as plasticity from the animals and human beings together, exposed in the countryside in the style of Russian editing with much lyricism. The influence perhaps unknown by such a project, prepared since three years by a vast crew of artists in production continually, it seemed then was from Piscator theatrical way for leading with documentary style of cruelty and dirty details or with stills from moving pictures of social background, like this one with his conception near the didactic agitprop, during his exile in the thirties abroad, seemingly too like here by contagion of these proceedings as in the scene for a cooperative with a land owner inside the mandarin system on countryside. The banality, the clich and the melodrama are here well mingled and also there on the move of convulsions on strand, apparently in blockade by the strength of traditions against the march of progress, as in this specific oriental world in microcosm. Its ethnographic side amplified by shadows and lights in interiors with the costumes, meals and tricks of the group of cronies and in exteriors by such an editing way, for the buffalo's head or by no means the mill turnabout on water consumption, from a small river on the slope, irrigating all the landscape during the crops, before a windy and rain turmoil, just when the first pains from the pregnant wife is animating this epic. "},{"Title":"the demanding times of revolution","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Allowing the characters to live and breathe in The Good Earth are the social circumstances that affect the lives of the characters within the film, especially Luise Rainer. As a woman of feudal Japan, I assume it was anything but easy rising three children in a society dominated by males. Her performance as a submissive housewife dedicated to cooking, farming, and later becoming a second rate wife shows the perseverance of her character within the film. Playing on the film's theme was the social criticism of the surmounting ambiguity of the times. I felt it served to comment on the depression as well as the treatment of humanity within the ruling of a people that need land and specifically food just to survive. The parallels that the movie served to exemplify seemed to digress for me as the two leads of the film weren't even Asian, as this highlights the big business of Hollywood's bureaucratic star system of the thirties. While the film adheres to classical style of form and editing in its structure, the special effects for 1937 are exceptionally employed during the scene in which the locust invade the wheat fields. I was taken back in ways to the performance and overacting on Muni's performance of an Asian, as I saw many conventions of his style incorporated from his performance as Louis Pasteur in the film The Life of Louis Pasteur. "},{"Title":"Good Grief","Date":"29 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hard-working Chinese farmer Paul Muni (as Wang Lung) takes Chinese slave Luise Rainer (as O-Lan) for a wife, and the two undergo great success and even greater tragedy. Their family grows by two sons, one daughter, and an additional wife, dancer Tilly Losch (as Lotus). The children are appropriately named Elder Son (Keye Luke), Younger Son (Roland Lui), and Little Fool (Suzanna Kim). With Smilin' Through (1922) regulated to oblivion, this became director Sidney Franklin's career highlight.MGM spent a fortune bringing Pulitzer Prize-winning author Pearl S. Buck's well-read The Good Earth to the Big Screen, and it shows. They wisely chose to film in black-and-white, helping make the picture's cinematography, by Karl Freund, a most obvious strength. The Academy Awards understandably honored Mr. Freund's photography. Warner Brothers and MGM agreed Mr. Muni should receive his Best Actor nomination for The Life of Emile Zola (the year's Best Picture), instead of The Good Earth.This, and a sudden death at MGM, left Ms. Rainer holding the year's Best Actress prize. She and Muni are fine actors, but don't really fit the roles. Rainer plays it almost like a silent movie (where, with less talk and a softer focus, Caucasians playing Asians were much more effective); while Muni, to his credit, creates a character independent of his ethnicity. In featured roles, some of the Asian performers are oddly less convincing than the made-up stars. An oriental Walter Connolly (as Uncle) speaks for himself.MGM producer/overseer Irving G. Thalberg received special credit for The Good Earth as his last great achievement. That notation would have been more appropriately placed on Greta Garbo's recently released Camille (1936), as Garbo's profit matched this film's cost. Or, it could apply to widow Norma Shearer's withheld Marie Antoinette (1938). In any case, Mr. Thalberg unexpected death, on September 14, 1936, was irrevocably linked to the predetermined success of The Good Earth.***** The Good Earth (1/29/37) Sidney Franklin ~ Paul Muni, Luise Rainer, Walter Connolly, Keye Luke "},{"Title":"Read the Book!","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The story of a farmer in China a story of humility and bravery. His father gives Wang Lung a freed slave as wife. By diligence and frugality the two manage to enlarge their property. But then a famine forces them to leave their land and live in the town. However it turns out to be a blessing in disguise for them...I've read the book and yes, I was a bit disappointed by the ending, but wow, was the book really good. Now compared to the movie, which is based on the book, the book is so much better, although that's usually the case. However, the ending for this movie is so bad, so anti-climatic (if you've read the book) that I really did not like this movie!First of all, the movie starts off a little awkward. The movie has its shares of some really great and powerful scenes and had its own really awful scenes. During the middle of the film, I finally liked this movie. There were some great performances, mostly by Luise Rainer and sometimes by Paul Muni. He's an annoying character from some scenes, though. I was annoyed that they used American actors for Asian characters. It was a bad choice.Overall, the book is much better. The movie adaptation was great in the middle until the very, very, very, very bad ending. However, if you haven't read the book, you will probably like this. It's just disappointing. What a waste, I would say. "},{"Title":"Great story ruined by length","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Good Earth has some great acting in it, but the biggest problem with this film is that it seems to go on forever. and should have stopped an hour earlier.Paul Muni, the great chameleon actor of the 1930s, plays our hero Wang Lung in this film, a Chinese immigrant farmer who marries a former slave girl and would eventually have three children by her. His wife, played by Luise Rainier, gives a very touching performance as this former slave girl who learns to be a stronger person despite her beginnings and becomes a great asset for her husband.Where this film should have stopped was after O-lan found the jewels and they went on to start a new life. That felt like a natural ending for me. Instead they go on to a story about how Wang Lung's sudden success ruins him, and he eventually goes back to his roots. This wasn't really necessary, and it makes Wang Lung seem like a bad guy after all.Overall, the movie was just too, too, too long. Which is a shame because the performances were great. "},{"Title":"Well-made and utterly depressing","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Saying a film is depressing isn't necessarily a bad thing. I'm very willing to watch a depressing film if there is a point to be made and this one certainly has one. It's the often heartbreaking story of a Chinese man and his family as they experience many years of both hardship and plenty. BUT, I must warn you that this might just be about the most depressing film to come out of Hollywood in the 1930s--because peasant life in China was TOUGH to say the least. Be prepared to watch segments about famine, death and disease.About the only negative other than the persistent tone of misery is that the lead is played by Paul Muni. While he was an exceptionally talented man, it's just a real shame that Hollywood always cast people of European descent to play Asian leads during this era. If you are paying attention at all, it's pretty obvious that Muni is wrong for the part. "},{"Title":"Paul Muni, the pre-Charleton Heston","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While THE GOOD EARTH is largely an unsuccessful attempt at a semi-unconventional Hollywood epic, there is much about its creation to be admired. Paul Muni gives an adept performance as a Chinese farmer living off of the earth, even if by the end of the film the make-up artists decided to stop trying to make him look Asian at all. There is some solid photography here, particularly in one of the films numerous climaxes; the attack of the locusts. That, I would say, is the film's fatal flaw There are several climaxes, several beginnings and a handful of endings. Structurally, it is a house without a foundation which ultimately falls in upon itself. There is never one central concept, theme or dynamic to keep it upright or whole. It relies almost solely on its characters for balance, and to be blunt, the characters are generally unexceptional. This is a deeply flawed film, but offers enough that it is worthy of seeing for yourself. "},{"Title":"Great production value, little else","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Good Earth is perhaps the most boring film I've seen in my life. The plot is slow and lacking. The acting is borderline comical. While I love Paul Muni, I can now say i have seen a film that does not do his true ability justice. The only saving grace I found with this film is it's production value. The use of hundreds of extras throughout the film creates a very believable and interesting environment. Also, the beautiful effects used to create the illusion of millions of wasps sells easily and was revolutionary at the time. Other than the production value I can say little else that is good or entertaining about this film. "},{"Title":"What went wrong","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A couple of farmers struggle in life in a small village in China. Wang Lung (Paul Muni) buys O-Lan, his future wife, who becomes his slave (Luis Rainer). American stars appear in the leading roles, talking with fake accents and emphasizing old stereotypes and patriarchal ideology. A good wife, many children and land are the best things for men to have. They are seen as property and investment. Because it is a big budget movie, in which many extras cooperate, big sets are built and special effects take place, the movie makers could not take the risk of hiring less popular actors. Luise Rainer won an Academy Award for this performance, which is definitely the worst in the movie. Her immutable face builds a barrier between her and the audience. O-Lan is supposed to be the heart of the family and the best character to sympathize with. On the other hand Paul Muni gives a better performance, showing his talent ones again. Another problem with the movie is the ending. It seems like Franklin did not know when to end the picture. This film could be dangerous if it is taken as a truly example of Chinese culture and traditions. "},{"Title":"Too plain...","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Good Earth is not a great film by any means, it is way to ordinary. Maybe it was different in the 1930's but who would want to see the life of a farmer. It is not very interesting to me. Yes, Luis Rainer and Paul Muni do an excellent job acting but the film dragged on way too long. I could have told you the ending of this movie by the first act. In short Wang Lung (Muni) a small time farmer who does not want to be like his own father turns out exactly like him. Both falling in love with their wives just as they are on their death beds. The film does a complete 360 going from one generation to the next. Also this film did not have any good character actors or funny moments, it just was depressing stuff about lasting as a farmer during a time of crisis. "}{"Title":"Classic.....hmmm......I think not.","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Well I'm probably about to be lambasted by everyone on this site, but The Good Earth is one of the worst structured films I've seen in a long time. We have a 2 and a half hour film that feels like its three and a half because it has two films in one. The first film tells the story of a family that has to move form their home because of drought and famine. They have to travel south to the cities to find food or work of some kind. Conveniently they happen to find a bag of jewels and at the same time they find out that the drought has ended. Yeah OK. With this knowledge they return home with their riches and everything is fine and wonderful again. Well that takes about an hour and a half of film and while its incredibly lifeless at this point it does have a nice arc to it. You would think this would be a fantastic place to end the film. However, the film then continues on for a whole other hour. And in this remaining time, its takes a simple story about a family dealing with the hardships of the world and turns it into a sappy melodrama about betrayal and jealousy between lovers. Oh yea and the age old, money is the root of all evil blah blah blah. Just because you know your making an epic film doesn't mean that your story can go on needlessly for more than it has to. Also the main idea I would gather about this film is that the earth is good to this family and holds them together. Then why do we spend an hour telling a story about a rich man falling in love with another woman, and why is the final moment of the film dedicated to a wife that our main character hasn't even cared about through most of the film. Oh wait and the film isn't the only thing thats poorly written, the main characters wife makes absolutely no sense. She complains a lot about how she was a slave and she never wants to have a slave and yadda yadda yadda. Then why at the drop of a hat is she willing to sell her only daughter into slavery. Even if they are starving at the time of this idea, it still doesn't make sense when 20 minutes later in the film she is complaining about not wanting a slave again. There are other films from the thirties that should be paid attention to. The only thing this one has going for it is the cinematography. The land is shot beautifully, oh and the sequence with the locusts is quite impressive. Too bad that were in a film that had nothing to say. One last thing. I know that at this point in time Hollywood was focused mostly on stars and they figured that a good actor can portray anything. For most of the film Paul Muni does portray an Asian man to the best of his ability, but once it hits the half point where the film goes on for no reason he loses it and just becomes regular old Italian Paul, they even cut his hair so he looks like Tony from Scarface(also a better film than this). Of all the main characters in the film I think maybe three are actually Asian, the rest are just Americans being silly. Oh and please Ms. Rainer that was a really nice one note performance, not, if i could i rip the Oscar out of your hands, oh i would. The Good Earth is one epic waste of time. If you want something along this vain to watch on nice evening get The Grapes of Wrath, a film that truly deserves all the praise it gets. Mainly because it wasn't written by a monkey. "},{"Title":"Good story marred by early Hollywood racist policies","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Good Earth follows the life a slave girl and a poor farmer in China. The movie is based on the novel by Pearl S. Buck.  The story is great, but I hated that they decided to cast Anglos in the lead roles.  Walter Connolly is laughable as the farmer's father.  He has such a heavy American accent, as do most of the lead actors, that I could not bear listening to him speak.It is a shame that Hollywood could not get past their racist beliefs to cast Asians in the lead roles.  To take Anglos and make them look like Chinese is akin to Anglos putting shoe polish on their faces to play African-Americans. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever.","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Luise Rainer received an Oscar for her performance in The Good Earth. Unfortunately, her role required no. She did not say much and looked pale throughout the film. Luise's character was a slave then given away to marriage to Paul Muni's character (he did a fantastic job for his performance). Set in ancient Asia, both actors were not Asian, but were very convincing in their roles. I hope that Paul Muni received an Oscar for his performance, because that is what Luise must have gotten her Oscar for. She must have been a breakthrough actress, one of the first to method act. This seems like something that Hollywood does often. Al Pacino has played an Italian and Cuban. I felt Luise's performance to be lackluster throughout, and when she died, she did not change in expression from any previous scenes. She stayed the same throughout the film; she only changed her expression or emotion maybe twice. If her brilliant acting was so subtle, I suppose I did not see it. "}]