[{"Title":"I'm Agreeably Surprised!","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"36 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A young British army officer is 'killed off' on the Western Front so that he can assume a false identity and go to Switzerland on a secret mission.  Brody (or Ashenden, as he is now known) finds the dirty business of espionage distasteful, but is determined to see his mission through to a successful conclusion.In this early Hitchcock thriller, John Gielgud plays Ashenden as a cheerless snob.  His acting is wooden and unappealing, and his embraces with Elsa (Madeleine Carroll)are cold and unconvincing.  Peter Lorre is an over-the-top delight as 'the General', the exotic and nasty little assassin. His toilet-paper tantrum is great fun, and he moves the plot along with superb little nuances of gesture (as when he follows the progress of the chocolate-box note).There are some striking Hitchcockian moments.  Is that the Master himself, coming down the ship's gangway ahead of Ashenden?  The dead organist is 'playing' a constant discord alone in the Langenkirche, because his lifeless head is slumped on the organ keys.  In a classic piece of tension-building, Hitchcock makes the organ sound swell dramatically as Ashenden and the General, unsuspecting, approach the body.  Of course the corpse shouldn't be able to increase the organ's volume.  That doesn't matter.  The effect is great.The scene shifts from London in an air raid to the Swiss Alps (and as a postscript, to the Bulgarian-Greek border).  The main locations are attractively depicted, London's sky a lattice of searchlights, and Switzerland a mountain idyll.Hitchcock plays clever tricks with the button found in the dead man's hand.  It sets our heroes off in pursuit of Caypor, and then it comes back to haunt Elsa's conscience.  When the folk singers swirl coins in bowls, Elsa can see only the infernal button.  It does not bother the viewer that the coincidences surrounding the button are far-fetched, because the pace and confidence of the story-telling suppresses any incipient scepticism.The incident on the Langen Alp is in many ways the film's climax, with Hitchcock's trademark suspense-building very much to the fore.  As the much-dreaded moment draws near, the cuts to the polite German conversation class raise the viewer's anxiety to an unbearable pitch.  Caypor's frantic dog is a masterly touch the women and the pet know intuitively that the worst has happened.  Soon afterwards, Elsa sits silent in her misery between Ashenden and the General, who both chat blithely across her.  The camera closes in on her, explaining her feelings of guilt better than any dialogue could.Throughout his long career, Hitchcock pursued a specific ideal of feminine beauty.  Kim Novak and Tippi Hedren were its 1960's manifestation, and here in 1936 Madeleine Carroll is the fresh-faced girl with the fine bone structure and the blonde bob.The arbitrary deaths in the final reel are silly, and the crash of the model train even sillier, but by this stage the director has eschewed exposition and is hurrying to tie up the plot's loose ends.  Even if the viewer thinks hard, he is at a loss to explain what Ashenden was ever doing in Switzerland in the first place but the trick is not to think too hard. "},{"Title":"Classic early Hitchcock","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This, in my opinion, is one of the master's best early films, so good, in fact, that it begs for repeat viewing. That is the only way I know to absorb the subtle verbal repartees (observe the fascinating expressions and body language of Madeleine Carroll as she repeatedly defends herself from the blandishments of the affable American played by Robert Young); the hilarious malapropisms and convoluted syntax courtesy of the unpredictably eccentric Peter Lorre (there is good reason to believe this was unfeigned because Mr. Lorre, a Hungarian by birth who had achieved a well-deserved reputation as a chilling screen presence in German cinema before leaving for England following the National Socialist take-over, had not yet mastered the nuances of the English language); the classic understatement by that most aristocratic of all British actors, John Gielgud; and for those of us who never tire gazing at the incomparably beautiful Madeleine (Elsa) Carroll, the camera angles finally do justice to her divinely-wrought features (she also delivers her usual elegantly controlled performance). And, of course, there is all of the excitement and suspense one comes to expect from the great Alfred Hitchcock... Needless to say, I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Creative & Carefully Crafted Spy Story","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"24 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While not one of Hitchcock's most well-known films, Secret Agent is one of his most creative.  His version of the world of espionage is quite different from, and much richer than, the usual James Bond-type spy story.  This movie is also distinguished by large doses of good humor and by some creative uses of the story's setting in Switzerland.John Gielgud plays Ashenden, an English spy in World War I.  He is assigned to go to Switzerland, determine the identity of an important German agent, and then stop the enemy agent before he can carry out his mission.  Gielgud has two assistants a young agent posing as his wife (Madeleine Carroll) and an eccentric assassin (Peter Lorre).  What makes the film interesting is that Gielgud's character is not at all the stereotyped dashing movie spy, and he has a keen sense of the human cost involved in what he is doing.  By contrast, his two assistants are both excited about the mission, and look forward to the game of tracking down and eliminating their quarry.  As the story proceeds, it is the reluctant but responsible Ashenden who persists in continuing the mission in spite of some bad surprises, while the once enthusiastic Mrs. Ashenden quickly begins to lose heart when she realizes what espionage is really all about.  At the same time, the twists and turns of the mission itself lead to some interesting and tense developments.  This is all handled with Hitchcock's usual mastery of suspense and irony.Hitchcock also makes full use of the setting, and typical Swiss themes like mountain climbing, chocolate, and folk dancing are all part of the plot.  Hitchcock makes use of these elements in a natural way, not forcing them into the plot, and the whole production is nicely crafted.  There are some excellent scenes, including a scene in an old country church that combines humor and suspense, and a chase through a chocolate factory.Because its hero has a reluctance about his mission that we do not expect in our spy heroes, Secret Agent has never been one of Hitchcock's most popular films.  And the story does have some odd aspects to it.  But this is quite a good film, worthy of attention, and one that shows many aspects of the great director's skill and imagination. "},{"Title":"Creaky, but highly enjoyable.","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Secret Agent seems to be one of Hitchcock's most (unjustly) overlooked films. It may be flawed and technically creaky, but Hitchcock's talent is evident throughout. It's made with precision and has several first-rate sequences (the one involving a dog's howling is probably the greatest). Lorre overacts unnecessarily in this film, but the other actors are effective and convincing. Gielgud brings depth to a character whose motives aren't always clearly explained by the script. The plot, after the first big twist, gets quite predictable but still sustains the viewer's interest. Overall, this is an absorbing film and the director's fans will definitely appreciate it. "},{"Title":"Good, but not classic, Hitchcock","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When the topic of spy movies comes up, James Bond is usually one of the first names to arise. But even spy movies had a beginning, and sure enough, in the first couple decades of cinema, who was there making spy movies? Alfred Hitchcock.Like the other spy movies he did, (Take Torn Curtain and Topaz for instance, two of his later works. How much later? Nearly 40 years later), Secret Agent is a spy movie without lots of explosions or car chases or shootouts. Instead it is about a man who goes undercover to break up a potentially disastrous international agenda of some kind, and along the way falls in love with his partner and realizes that he's not up to the task of murdering someone. This 1936 movie is another in Hitchcock's decade-long run of British talkies highly-contrasted black and white, under 90 minutes generally, and devoid of major stars (except for Peter Lorre, who appears in this movie two years after he did The Man Who Knew Too Much).But unlike many of the movies surrounding it (Young and Innocent, The 39 Steps), this one isn't quite as good. Not that Secret Agent is a bad movie, far from itThe directing is fine, and the church-murder scene is a beautiful mix of sound and picture. Lorre is much like the male version of Bette Davis - overacting and proud of it. His role as the womanizing yet clever General is much lighter than his usual horror-laced stuff, and he still pulls it off with ease. The leads are equally good. And the humor laced throughout is genuinely funny. (Note that, even in 1936, it is obvious that Hitchcock was already looking for the actress that would be fulfilled in Grace Kelly - the strong, feisty, beautiful blonde leading lady.)But there's nothing here to just make the jaw drop and the eyes widen. It is a good movie, and from a director that has had whole decades worth of *great* movies, it just seems subpar. A previous commentor was right This was the movie for Hitchcock to remake in the 1950s (with color and Cary Grant and Grace Kelly - heck, maybe even a minor role for Jimmy Stewart), not The Man Who Knew Too Much, which was one of his best British films.Overall, it is good and worth the watch - especially for Hitchcock fans, but it's just not quite *there*. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Moral Ambiguity of Sanctioned Murder and Other Humorous Anecdotes.","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Despite the abject absurdity of Hitchcock's Secret Agent, I adored it.The film starts off as a farcical story following John Gielgud and Madeline Carroll - two novice British spies - hunting down a German agent with the help of a more experienced man - The General - a Mexican hilariously played by Peter Lorre. With these principal players, it should be no surprise that the performances are top-notch. However, given the fact that Lorre was, at the time, at one of the lowest points in his tumultuous but brilliant career, it is possible that his over-the-top and uncharacteristically comedic performance at least began unintentionally (and was exploited by the great director as a last-ditch effort to complete the film successfully). The story is based rather loosely on a Somerset Maugham story translated for theater by Campbell Dixon then adapted by Hitchcock favorite Charles Bennett. Quite a bit, as you can well imagine, changes as a result of the translations from medium to medium.The drama turns on a developing romance between Gielgud and Carroll's characters - and the burgeoning consciences which accompany it. Will they be able to carry out their patriotic duty if and when they finally track down their opponent, or will they fail? Furthermore, what will the zealous and perhaps a little psychotic General do if his co-conspirators drop out of the spy business at the last instant? Typical Hitchcock plot devices (i.e. trains, quirky romantic relationships, European ethnic stereotypes) make cameo appearances at appropriate points in the story, and enhance the experience for Hitchcock aficionados.The script and general story-line is not one of the best Hitchcock would have access to throughout his career, but it is quite rich compared to some of the plots he worked with earlier in his career, and the director develops the comedy, suspense, and human drama economically and affectively, if not fully. The camera-work is, of course, good, but not nearly as experimental or interesting as many of Hitchcock's earlier and later films. This is generally true of most of Hitchcock's excellent efforts for Gaumont British Pictures of America during the 1930s (I.e. Sabotage, 39 Steps, etc) - very British films made with American/British casts and production for an international audience.Though less suspenseful than many of Hitchcock's contemporaneous efforts, Secret Agent remains a good and entertaining example of Hitchcock in the 1930s. "},{"Title":"Spy story with suspense and romance by the master of  thriller","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This espionage film concerns about Ashenden (John Gielgud), a secret agent is sent Switzerland to kill an unknown enemy spy . There he deals with various characters , as a quirky Mexican general (Peter Lorre), a smart gentleman (Robert Young) and a gorgeous woman (Madeleine Carrol) who poses as his wife , causing the classic loving triangle (Gielgud , Carrol , Young). The movie is based on Somerset Maughan's novels titled  Ashenden , taken from ¨The Traitor and The Hairless Mexican spy stories. This enjoyable picture blends action , a love story , comedy , adventures , thriller , suspense and results to be quite entertaining . Hitchcock said about this film being well developed in Switzerland , it's plenty of typical elements , such as  folkloric dances , Swiss Alps , lagoons and a chocolate factory . Alfred Hitchcock convinced John Gielgud to play the lead by describing the hero as a modern day Hamlet ; Gielgud, however, ended up hating that his character was an enigma and felt Hitchcock made the villain more charming than the hero . Besides , it contains the usual Hitch's touches and the elegant as well as intelligent baddie (repeating in posterior films as James Mason at ¨North by Northwest¨) , the enticing blonde (as later happened with Grace Kelly and Kim Novak) , the filming on the train (a very agreeable vehicle for the director) . It's an uneven movie and Hitch wasn't proud but it had excessive irony as he said in the famous interview with Francois Truffaut . Rating  Good , well worth watching . The motion picture will appeal to Hitchcock fans . Essential and indispensable seeing for Hitch lovers . "},{"Title":"John Gielgud as you've never seen him before","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Actually Gielgud is not bad at all as the novelist turned soldier turned spy. He has a fine, brittle way with a one-liner. Madeleine Carroll is excellent. This being Hitch, there are some tense scenes, like the one where the alleged baddie's wife is giving Madeleine a German lesson. As she stumbles over Was kostet es...? she can't help thinking about what's happening to the woman's husband. So the gossip is that Gielgud was persuaded to play the role because it was Shakespearean, and his disappointment shows through? What an incredibly silly theory. Next you'll be telling me that you can see ghostly figures in the net curtains. But I can believe Hitch told Gielgud the character was like Hamlet. What happened to Hamlet? (Now listen carefully, this could help with your English essay.) He was told by a mysterious figure that it was absolutely necessary for him to kill a man. He spends a lot of the play wondering if he should, and wondering about the moral implications, and incidentally kills an innocent bystander. Now d'you get it? "},{"Title":"Brisk, well-acted thriller","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A super film with probably the ideal balance of Hitchcockian control and cast contribution. The story is told at a good, brisk pace, slowed only to incorporate the three to four exemplary tension-ratcheting sequences. There's also ingenious use of the camera the pick of the aforementioned suspense set-pieces involves intercutting between two characters on the Alps and a hotel room. Hitchcock's manoeuvre to the eye piece of the Alpine telescope and thence to the climbers would tickle the David Fincher of Panic Room.The acting is solid gold. A young, terse John Gielgud cannot fail to capture (Hitchcock blonde) Madeleine Carroll's heart. Opposite this requisite lovematch are Robert Young's Yank charmer Marvin (his character manages to give the picture much needed sveltesse and glamour) but above all the unique contribution of Peter Lorre. Everyone knows Lorre from Casablanca; here he is a much more rounded, entertaining but no less interesting character.A half-fumbled ending is symptomatic of the trust placed by the cast in the 'process', so this as other bumpy moments can be put down to Hitchcock and, in their turn, to contemporaneous technical limitations. It's a great matinée. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The oddest Hitchcock","Date":"12 July 2011","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Hitchcock was an extremely visual film-maker as a rule and this film took an entirely different direction. What I remember most are the sounds - or more specifically, the noises. The discordant sound of the organ, for example, stands out. It isn't pretty and why should it be? The organist's dead after all. The noise in the chocolate factory is a continuous din relieved only by a fire alarm! Then, two of the main characters are caught in the bell-tower of a church when the bells begin to ring. Again, the sound isn't pleasant at all but quite annoying. A musical scene with yodelers ends up with coins being swirled around plates and is almost overbearing. The dog's howling in its psychic moment is long and unnerving. In all, these sound effects set the audience on edge which I think was part of the original plan. The two central characters are uneasy with their task and we are made to suffer too. This is an unusual film for Hitch and well worth the time.Curtis Stotlar "}{"Title":"Hitch should have remade this exciting, overlooked gem","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One of the more ignored early Hitchcock thrillers, and unjustly so.  In 1916 Switzerland, Bookworm John Gielguld, Beautiful Maddeline Carroll and and Pesky, over sexed Peter Lorre are three very unlikely enlisted civilians made to assassinate an unknown foreign agent. One right after another fall superb Hitichcock scenes, high on visuals, in no need of dialog. Such scenes include Gielguld and Lorre discovering a murdered agent in a noisy Swiss church, an assassination seen through a telescope while the victim's dog howls mournfully,  a chase through a chocolate factory.  What hurts the film is Lorre's shameless overacting, and the too neat ending.  It's as if Hitchcock decided This is beginning to ramble, let's have an explosion here.  Don't be put off by co-star Robert Young's comic relief, there's a reason for it. I could picture a 1950's remake, in Vistavision in color with Cary Grant, Grace Kelly and a more restrained Peter Lorre. "},{"Title":"A Good Early Hitchcock Film","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" During the 1930s, the Master of Suspense Alfred Hitchcock was still developing the film-making skills that would inevitably lead him towards cinematic greatness. 'Secret Agent' is one of two films he released in 1936 (the other being the surprisingly suspenseful 'Sabotage') and it is a worthy effort.John Gielgud plays Edgar Brodie, a young British army officer whose faked death is orchestrated in order to assume a new identity as Richard Ashenden to aid in the assassination of a German spy. Madeleine Carroll is the young woman masquerading as Mrs. Ashenden, and she is very enthusiastic about her task, and dying to see some action. Peter Lorre (a favourite actor of mine) plays a fellow British spy known affectionately as The General, who is playful and ardent womanizer, but, at the same time, a cold and ruthless killer when his job calls for it.The acting performances are generally very good. Some have criticised Lorre for overplaying his role, but I enjoyed his reckless enthusiasm, a side of his character which contrasts starkly with the side he would later reveal.The beginnings of the genius of director Alfred Hitchcock shine through in several parts of the film, most notably the scene involving a hike up the mountain with a suspected German spy, and the howling of the doomed man's dog. Though it is perhaps a bit slow-moving, 'Secret Agent' is a good film - most especially for curious Hitchcock fans - and I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Decent Hitchcock Movie, With a Confusion in Early Titles","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" SECRET AGENT is notable for being the only Hitchcock film with John Guilgud in it - and a young, dapper looking Guilgud at that. But most people recall it rather for the second (and, regrettably, last appearance) of Peter Lorre under Hitch's direction. It is also the only film by Hitch with Robert Young and Lili Palmer in it and the second with Madeleine Carroll in it.Those cast notes being noted, let us now look at a confusion of titles in Hitch's movies of the 1930s.THE THIRTY-NINE STEPS is okay - John Buchan's novel (one of several with Richard Hannay as the hero - another is PRESTER JOHN) has a similar plot to the movie. But SABOTAGE is based on a Joseph Conrad novel, THE SECRET AGENT. SECRET AGENT is based on W. Somerset Maugham's novel (somewhat based on his experiences as a spy in World War I) entitled, ASHENDEN, THE SECRET AGENT. Maugham would use the character of Ashenden in some of his later fiction, as a peace time writer. YOUNG AND INNOCENT is based on A SHILLING FOR CANDLES by Josephine Tey. THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH is the title of a novel by G.K.CHESTERTON about a socially well-connected man who knows where all the skeletons of the upper crust are buried, but helps keep them buried. It has nothing to do with the plot of the 1934 Hitchcock film.Just why most of his movies changed titles is hard to pinpoint. Obviously box office attraction is involved. SECRET AGENT begins with word (during World War I) that Willie Ashenden, the well known writer, is dead. We see a closed coffin wake for the man, and when everyone leaves we discover the coffin is empty. Ashenden has gone undercover to do some espionage for the British military during the First World War. He is assisted by Lorre, nicknamed The General or the Mad Mexican (Lorre is not Mexican in the story). They make an odd pair, with Guilgud stiff and proper, and Lorre definitely odd looking. They head for Switzerland, where they meet several people Carroll, Young, and Percy Marmont (travelling with is wife and dog). Marmont soon appears to be the dangerous German agent that Ashenden and Lorre are to do in. And they do, in the most memorable portion of the film - only to discover subsequently that Marmont was not the spy.Of course, barring Carroll, that leaves only one possibility, so the degree of surprise in the plot is less than desirable. Hitch overcomes this by taking our agents into the territories of the Central Powers after Young, and here Palmer enters the story (briefly - it was an early bit part). The conclusion is an exciting confrontation on a passenger train and a disaster. And Guilgud and Carroll are together for the romantic conclusion (not as good a romantic teaming as those of THE THIRTY-NINE STEPS or THE LADY VANISHES). Of the major Hitchcock films from 1934 to 1939, SECRET AGENT is not one of the greatest. Guilgud was far too reserved in his part - good enough to watch but one would hardly think he was (at that time) the leading stage star in Britain. Lorre is better because of his eccentricity, and his blending of the sinister and comical (he is an assassin after all). Young, for the first time, played a villain - but nothing like his later performances in THE MORTAL STORM and THEY WON'T BELIEVE ME. Carroll is adequate, but her role opposite Robert Donat a year before was more interesting. A slightly better than average Hitchcock movie, but not a dull film by any stretch of the imagination. "},{"Title":"Underrated Hitchcock","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The only thing generic about this British thriller is its title. After that, it's a rather remarkable and suspenseful Hitchcock movie. John Gielgud plays a WWI pilot who is hired by his government as a spy. He meets up with two operatives, one who is playing the part of his wife (Madeleine Carroll) and one who is just Peter Lorre. I'm not sure what his cover was (perhaps this is just a small flaw; I think that if these were real spies they wouldn't make it very far, but I think I'm mature enough to suspend my disbelief on this kind of thing). They are in Switzerland to root out a German spy. Robert Young plays an American tourist who has a thing for Carroll. The script is excellent, with some fine dialogue. The characters are well developed. Hitchcock's direction is super-taut. The acting is just great here, especially Peter Lorre, who is just delicious. One thing to note in this movie, as well as Hitch's other 1936 film, Sabotage, in my opinion one of his greatest achievements, is the weight that death carries. In most of his other films, the death of a human being is treated rather cynically. One need only view The Trouble with Harry, which displays Hitch's wildest cynicism. I don't particularly mind this normally, but it's interesting to see the moral implications explored more fully in Secret Agent and Sabotage. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Yes, John Gielgud Really Was Young Once!","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Secret Agent is a cloak and dagger spy yarn set in 1916 amid WWI. Directed by the legendary Alfred Hitchcock, it is unfortunately one of the weakest efforts from his British pre-WWII period.The film opens at the funeral of Captain Edgar Brodie (John Gielgud)who has apparently died while home on leave. We learn however, that the British government has fabricated the death because they want him to undertake a special mission. From British Intelligence under a character known only as R (Charles Carcon), Brodie learns that his assignment will be to track down and kill a German spy who is undermining Britain's efforts to form an alliance with Arab countries. To assist him an eccentric character known only as The General (Peter Lorre) is assigned to him.With his new identity, Richard Ashenden, he arrives in Switzerland and learns that as a cover, he has a wife, Elsa Carrington (Madeleine Carroll). When he arrives in his room, he discovers playboy Robert Marvin (Robert Young) putting the moves on Elsa. The Ashendens and The General begin their search for the German spy. They are directed to an organist in a small town who has information they need, but he is found dead. They then are led to suspect that Cayper (Percy Mormont) is their man. The men lure him into a ski area and The General causes him to have an unfortunate accident. All the while they are away, Marvin continues to pursue Elsa.Later they learn that they have murdered the wrong man and that the real German spy is still at large. The General learns from a comely young wench, Lili (Lili Palmer) that her fiancé (Howard Marion-Crawford) may have information that will identify the spy. In the suspenseful climax aboard a train going to Germany................................John Gielgud, as good an actor that he was, just doesn't come off as a dashing leading man. It's difficult to imagine the beautiful Madeleine Carroll being romantically interested in him. He simply comes across as a stuffed shirt. Peter Lorre is way over the top as The General. His role is played more for comic relief rather than the cold blooded killer he's supposed to be. I'm not quite sure how Robert Young, an American, came to be cast in this film. In any case he carries off his part quite well. And as was the case in several of his movies, Hitchcock again uses a train as a key plot item.Watch for early appearances by Sebastian Cabot, Michael Redgrave and Michael Rennie in minor bit roles. I have to say that I missed Hitchcock's trademark cameo in this one. He's gotta be in there some place. "},{"Title":"Not quite ready for Hollywood","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Though definitely one of the better films of Hitchcock's British Primitive period, it's still hard to see the hand of the master craftsman who would make Rebecca in this interesting but clumsy spy melodrama. The two major problems in this film are John Gielgud, looking distinctly uncomfortable in a dashing leading man role that would have gone down much better with Robert Donat or Laurence Oliver, and Peter Lorre, not able to do much with the grotesque, embarrassing Mexican blackface minstrel routine the film forces on him. The film's saving graces are Robert Young as Gielgud's unsettlingly suave American rival, and Madeline Carroll, looking and sounding uncannily like Miranda Richardson as perhaps the most uncharacteristically vivacious of Hitchcock's cool blonde heroines. "},{"Title":"Outlandish spy thriller, occasionally awkward but frequently very powerful.","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock was riding the crest of one of his early masterpieces, The Thirty Nine Steps, when he released this unusual spy thriller based on the Ashenden escapades by W. Somerset Maugham. Secret Agent is a very impressive film, though one inevitably experiences a mild feeling of anti-climax when Hitch isn't able to reacquire the sublime heights of his previous film. But, as we all know, it's hard to strike gold EVERY single time, so it is perhaps unfair and irrelevant to compare the two films. Secret Agent is a worthy movie in its own right, with many powerful sequences and some fascinating performances. Certain moments might seem cluttered or awkward, but the overall result is an effective and well-made film.During World War 1, British Intelligence fakes the death of a popular novelist named Edgar Brodie (John Gielgud) and give him a new passport and identity. Posing under the name Ashenden, he is instructed to travel to Switzerland to locate and eliminate a German spy. It seems the spy in question is just about to head to Arabia to build sympathy and support for the German cause among the various Arab tribes. Ashenden's job is to stop this from happening. Joining Ashenden on his dangerous mission is a Mexican assassin known as the General (Peter Lorre) and a female spy called Elsa Carrington (Madeline Carroll) posing as Ashenden's wife. During their hunt for the enemy, Elsa finds herself pursued romantically by incorrigible American playboy Robert Marvin (Robert Young). Eventually the trio of agents think they've located their target in the shape of an elderly Englishman named Caypor (Percy Marmont). They lure him up a mountain on a climbing expedition and kill him, only to learn later that they've accidentally assassinated the wrong man. The real German spy is Marvin &#150; Elsa's charming admirer &#150; and in a desperate final chase into enemy territory they try to stop him from making his escape by train to Arabia.The film is quite interesting in showing how Ashenden and Elsa grow to despise the dirty work they're involved in. In espionage, killing often takes place at close quarters and sometimes innocent lives are lost, or at least ruined, in the course of a day's work. While The General takes an obscene pleasure in his murderous trade, Ashenden and Elsa find it increasingly distasteful and devious. This kind of reaction is most unusual for a screen hero, and it makes the film rather different from the norm. Gielgud is OK in the lead role, but he is upstaged by the charismatic Lorre and the gorgeous Carroll. Some scenes in Secret Agent are slightly fudged, such as the chase in the chocolate factory which suffers from terribly fuzzy sound quality (it seems almost as if the sequence belongs in a silent movie). However, other scenes are tremendously powerful, especially the tense sequence in which Caypor is mistakenly killed during the climbing trip and the exciting train-set climax. Secret Agent is by no means the best film that Hitchcock made during his illustrious career, but it is proof once again that even when he was slightly off-form he was more than a match for other directors. "},{"Title":"The Secret Agent (1936)","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Hitchcock directed this thriller based on a novel by W. Somerset Maugham. The movie finds British soldier and novelist Edgar Brodie (John Gielgud) returning home from WW1 to find that a government agency has faked a report of his death. Indeed, they have changed his name to Richard Ashenden. Why? He must now travel to Switzerland and track down and eliminate a ruthless German agent.'Ashenden' is then teamed with two professional agents, an amoral deadly assassin known as The General (Peter Lorre) and Elsa Carrington, (Madeleine Carroll) a beautiful blonde who will pose as his wife and cover for his new identity. The plot strikes several of Hitchcock's famous themes, including, mistaken identity and murder. But, most of all the film is a winding tale of deception. Nothing is what it appears on the surface; and people tell lies constantly. Everyone, it seems, is either impersonating someone else or mistaken for someone else.For one, Elsa and Ashenden soon begin to question the morality of the very own mission they have been ordered to undertake. In espionage, killing often takes place at close quarters and sometimes innocent lives are lost, or at least ruined, in the course of a day's work.  We're not hunting a fox. We're hunting a man, Ashenden says at one point. The reason being is that they end up killing the wrong man. This scene is very striking, with the owner's dog reacting to what we as an audience knows is going to happen... the dog ends up making this terrifying howl.One problem with the film is the 'integrity' of Madeleine Carroll's character, Elsa Carrington. Had the British government known how wishy washy she was, would she have ever been given such an important mission? Come to think of it, how did she even become a spy? Her basic premise is that she doesn't want anyone's death on her conscience, the German Agents or any soldiers. So why'd you get involved? Robert Young plays a so-called American playboy named 'Robert Marvin' who develops quite the liking to Elsa. However, as I wrote earlier. Deception. Deception. Just as Elsa and Ashenden aren't who they say they are so goes Mr. Marvin. Who it turns out.... is actually the German Agent. Yes, the same very agent, they've been hunting from the beginning. ( It is nice to note as well that is what Mr. Marvin who tiped off our agents to the man who they believed wrongly was the German Agent! Beautiful Misinformation. Love it!) John Gielgud is a little stiff in the main role and I for one just think that Madeleine Carroll is way too young for him to be even 'posing' as his wife. Peter Lorre is just a freaking maniac here, he is everywhere- overacting and proud of it.Kindly tell me who you are, what your name is, and why your passing yourself off as my wife?  Yes, me friend of everyman with beautiful wife. Beautiful accident, very very sad, but could not be helped. Poor Poor Gentleman!  I was there all right. Half a mile away-at the other end of a telescope. Yet, it's quite true. Just one of those long range assassinations. That doesn't make it any better does it? I think your beginning to find that out too? Aren't you? "},{"Title":"A Delight","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Yes, this is an elderly and somewhat creaky film, but the direction of Alfred Hitchcock is masterful, as is Charles Bennett's script. Adapted from a Somerset Maugham novel, the movie tells the story of a reluctant secret agent (played by John Gielgud), supposedly dead but actually impersonating someone else, and his assignment in Switzerland with his bogus wife (Madeline Carroll), and an assistant called The Hairless Mexican, who's neither Mexican nor hairless, and who is also known as the general, though he isn't a general, either. The time is 1916, in the midst of the First World War. An amorous American playboy (Robert Young), and assorted Europeans are also involved. The film is full of humor and suspense, and emotionally rather cool.What makes Secret Agent work is its director and authors' love of paradox and playful irony. Nothing is what it appears on the surface; and people tell lies constantly. Everyone, it seems, is either impersonating someone else or mistaken for someone else. Things never quite go as planned; and errors on the parts of all involved abound and multiply as the story proceeds. If one relishes brainy, demanding thrillers this one's as good as it gets. The film gets a bit far-fetched and melodramatic near the end, with a slam-bang climax, and a remarkable, garbled statement of identity by the wounded general. For all its minor flaws this is a smart, smooth movie, one of Hitchcock's most underrated, and might have been, had it been made twenty years later, his Beat the Devil. As it was made fairly early in the director's career it's often viewed as somewhat of an aberration. "},{"Title":"Creaky but good","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I would like to see a remastered version of Secret Agent. The versions I have seen (tv, VHS and DVD) have all been murky and hard to hear. Despite the creakiness of the film, it is a pleasure to see John Gielgud as he must have looked in his theater star days. I enjoyed him most in his scenes of repartee with Peter Lorre and with Madeleine Carroll. He conveys his growing affection for Carroll slowly and subtly, and I like the way he befriends Lorre yet manages to make it clear that he doesn't approve of him. However, I'm less impressed with the rest of the cast. Madeleine Carroll's performance overall is average and I find it hard to distinguish her from other 30s leading ladies. Peter Lorre always is worth seeing, but here a little of his off-the-wall performance goes a long way. It's interesting to see Robert Young as a young man and as a suspicious character. However, his portrayal is too bland to stand out much. Still, all in all, Secret Agent is well worth seeing. I suggest watching the hotel scenes between Gielgud and Carroll more than once--Gielgud really tosses off some witty dialogue and delightful bits of business in those scenes. "}{"Title":"Lots of fun","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a good early effort from Hitchcock. As the title implies, it's full of espionage, international intrigue and hidden motives, and it's very entertaining. A very young John Gielgud is the male lead who becomes embroiled in spy drama at the height of WW1. Madeleine Carroll is the very pretty, very English woman who, at the behest of the mysterious R, comes along to help the British cause by posing as Gielgud's wife. Peter Lorre is Gielgud's curly haired sidekick The General with a ridiculously long name. Robert Young also plays a major role as a young man apparently after the hand of Carroll, yet who turns out to be someone far more sinister.I enjoyed this film a lot. Hitchcock didn't have much of a budget to work with in this period, yet he creates a lot of suspense with what he has. The film is also very witty, and many moments are played for pure comedy. Gielgud is solid as the male lead, yet unfortunately lacks charisma. He is very much in the stiff upper-lip Brit style, and as a young man he hadn't developed enough as an actor to counteract this. Carroll is simply gorgeous and seems to have just exist rather then act, but her pluckiness is refreshing and she does a good job. Lorre overacts badly as The General. Young actually fares the best of all of them, even if it is confusing as to why this clearly American man is there at all. The film has a number of cool scenes, particularly the murder of a wrong man seen through telescope, Carroll and Gielgud in an intimate scene as the loved-up new couple, and the final tense scene aboard the train. "},{"Title":"Fine lesser-known Hitchcock film","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It is hard to assign this inter-war Hitchcock thriller to any one genre... it is clearly a spy thriller but there are also romantic elements and a good number of comic moments.John Gielgud plays writer Edgar Brodie who returns from service in France in 1916 to learn that he has died while on leave! This is all part of establishing his new cover as Richard Ashenden; he is to go to neutral Switzerland with a man known as 'The General' to identify and eliminate a German agent before he can get to Constantinople. When Ashenden gets to Switzerland he is surprised to hear that his 'wife' Elsa has got there ahead of him; when he goes up to his room he finds a beautiful blonde wearing nothing but a towel and an American by the name of Robert Martin. It turns out that his boss, known as 'R', had sent her to improve his cover; he isn't impressed at first though as he sees her as a thrill seeker who doesn't really know how deadly their mission might be. They both learn when Ashenden and The General find their contact dead; the only clue to the killer is a button the dead man is clenching. That night at the casino Ashenden accidentally drops the button onto the roulette table. There is a bit of a laugh when it lands on the winning number then another player says he things it must be his... he is an Englishman married to a German woman; as he is undoubtedly the spy Ashenden and The General work up a plan to dispatch him. When the job is done Elsa no longer feels what they are doing is exciting and glamorous; it is grubby work... and it seems even grubbier when they learn that they got the wrong man! I lead puts them in the right direction but by then their target is on the move; heading to Constantinople which is in enemy territory.This Hitchcock film may be over seventy five years old but it doesn't feel particularly dated because it has a decent plot that has a few nice twists without being so convoluted it is hard to follow. The cast did a good job with a young John Gielgud putting in a sold performance as Ashenden; Madeleine Carroll was delightful as his 'wife' Elsa... I certainly won't forget her introductory scene and Peter Lorre was particularly entertaining as this lecherous, slightly creepy 'foreign gentleman'; The General. As one would expect from Hitchcock it was shot in a way that captured the tension of the situation... if you are a fan of Hitchcock's other works or just want to see a thriller that doesn't involve any offensive material then this is well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Perhaps this lie is true","Date":"5 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The series of espionage thrillers produced at British Gaumont Pictures in the mid-to-late 1930s, scripted by Charles Bennet and directed by Alfred Hitchcock, have a consistent quality to them. They don't repeat characters or plot elements, but they all follow a similar winning formula &#x96; not merely that of Hitchcockian suspense (of which there isn't really that much in Secret Agent), but of the notion that scrambling all over Europe bumping off spies and leaping off trains, constantly in fear of your own life, can be made to look rather good fun.First we have the cast and characterisation. A relatively young John Gielgud takes the lead and, although the director reportedly didn't like his performance, he does here epitomise the classic British hero. Laid back, unassuming, with an air of effortlessness, he is in some ways reminiscent of a certain other fictional British spy popularised in the latter half of the twentieth century, although Gielgud's Ashendon is far more human than the somewhat mechanical Mr Bond. Paired with a bubbly and very believable Madeleine Carroll, and supported by bluff gentleman Percy Marmont, chirpy yank Robert Young and crazy generic foreigner Peter Lorre, the overall feel is like one of those Brits on holiday comedies. The only difference is, occasionally people kill each other or send out coded telegrams.Then there is the Charles Bennet screenplay. Bennet was, after Elliot Stannard in the silent days, the second writer to really work well with The Master of Suspense&#x99;. Like Hitch, Bennet loves double meanings and secret knowledge. Take the scene where Gielgud arrives at the hotel finds out from the clerk that his new persona has a wife. He asks the clerk Did she look well? meaning of course Is she attractive? It is of course a little joke with no bearing on the plot, but it's moments like this that keep us engaging with the material and root us in the world of spying and bluffing. He also brings characters in with memorable bits of business to give us strong and meaningful impressions of them &#x96; for example Peter Lorre chasing a woman up the stairs or Percy Marmont being introduced when Gielgud trips over his dog.And then there is the director, who is let's face it the only reason anyone pays attention to what would otherwise be obscure English films in the first place. Hitchcock has simplified and streamlined his technique, which a few years earlier had been little more than a needlessly showy display of camera tricks. He's still not subtle &#x96; he never would be &#x96; but at least he is now tasteful. We see here his regular method by which the camera leads the audience by the hand, dollying in on an object or throwing a close-up at us as if to shout Look at this! What's good about it is that it allows Hitchcock to move the audience at any rate he wants. At the end of the first scene there is a dolly in on a portrait of a soldier. No-one is looking at or gesturing at it, but Hitch forces us to take notice. Later, when Gielgud walks into his hotel room and finds both Carroll and Young inside, there is a quick montage of close-ups as he checks he has the right number, and we essentially ride with his thought process for a few seconds.Secret Agent is by no means as good as The 39 Steps or The Lady Vanishes, not really having any major build-ups of suspense or danger. However, it does gently pull us along for a well-paced and slightly irreverent ride, and is ultimately watchable because it has very few bad bits. It is a good example what Hitchcock and co. were creating at Gaumont &#x96; pictures which were undemanding on the attention because they were smooth, unpretentious and yet continually gave us something to tickle the brain. "},{"Title":"The greatest non-spy movie ever made","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" With a title like Secret Agent and the stamp of Alfred Hitchcock, I'm sure most people are expecting a classic spy thriller with a suave, impeccable hero, a cold-hearted villain and a lot of patriotic drum beating. There's none of that here, and perhaps that's why this film gets a lot of abuse from reviewers.No, what you get instead is a very realistic story (almost cynically so) where the hero is fallible and full of doubts, where the villain is someone whom you'd sooner buy a beer than hate, and where the political message of the film borders on anti-British at times (or as far as Hitchcock could go without being strung up for heresy). In that respect, this film is way ahead of its time--and perhaps still so, 70 years later.In the late 30s when every British citizen was expected to do his or her duty without questioning orders, this film dared to present the notion that it's the individual who must think for himself, hold himself accountable for all errors, and never pass the buck as just following orders. Perhaps if people had paid attention to this sort of message, the world wouldn't be in the sorry mess it's in now. But I'll leave it up to you do find the present-day significance of the theme.The film itself has some absolutely brilliant moments. For one thing, there is no music. So, much like the Fritz Lang masterpiece M, the suspense hangs entirely on the camera. There is one particular scene--one of the most suspenseful scenes I've ever watched (yes more suspenseful than the Psycho shower)--that focuses almost entirely on a dog. A cute little weiner dog. But I swear my heart was beating a mile a minute. Why don't they ever teach this sort of stuff in film school? Future film makers of the world, please watch this old gem, take notes and learn. They just don't make em like this anymore. "},{"Title":"Long before James Bond, we had this","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Long before James Bond hit our screens, Alfred Hitchcock made this Bond type movie and I found Secret Agent quite enjoyable, even though there isn't an awful lot of action in it.A pair of English agents, pretending to be husband and wife are sent to Switzerland to look for a German agent out there. The investigation eventually leads them to a chocolate factory, where they track him down. At the end, the two English agents fall in love for real.Though a little slow moving at times, Secret Agent is quite gripping and has some good scenery thrown in too.The cast includes John Gielgud, Peter Lorre (The Beast With Five Fingers, Mad Love), Madeleine Carroll, Robert Young and Lili Palmer. Good parts from all.Though no James Bond, Secret Agent is worth a look. Check it out.Rating 3 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Worthy of more attention, if not among Hitchcock's best","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If you are a fan of Alfred Hitchcock or are a completest of his work Secret Agent is well worth a look at least once. Secret Agent is also a film that is much more than a film for completests only, it's not among the Master of Suspense's overall best- of his early pre-Rebecca films his best were The Lady Vanishes, The 39 Steps, Sabotage and The Lodger- but it's still a good film. John Gielgud performs admirably if somewhat too reserved in the lead role, a couple of the deaths are silly and there are a couple of loose ends here and there. Hitchcock's direction however is great with some clever and fun touches, if not as inventive or experimental as it would become later. It's a polished-looking film, not audacious but it's well made and has good atmosphere and very attractive locations. The music does a good job at being jaunty and eerie when it's called for, the script has some great ironic humour with a real sense of danger and the story is engrossing and suspenseful. The standout scenes were the church, German lesson, Langen Alp and chocolate factory ones as well as the truly exciting climax. Peter Lorre's toilet-paper scene has to be seen to be believed. Madeleine Carroll is very alluring and believable and she works nicely with Gielgud, while Robert Young is smooth and quietly menacing. Peter Lorre steals the film though in a performance that is genuinely creepy as well as funny. Overall, not mind-blowing but a very good film that is worthy of more attention. Gielgud's performance will divide people- he has been better- but the direction, the many memorable scenes and Lorre are enough to make you stick with it. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's best","Date":"29 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is the very sort of thriller that defines Hitchcock, and what he can do.It's a spy thriller in which the hero must be an unwilling participant in an assassination of an enemy agent.That's the main story, which underlies the thriller part of the film.Even in 1936, audiences knew who the spy was, if only by the way the film was billed, and the genial nature of the man we know will be the spy.We also know that the first assassination victim will be wrongly killed, an innocent man.Three agents are involved in the assassination. The hero and heroine are very guilt ridden, and question their ethics. The third, played by Lorre, is the ultimate assassin, a professional who has no qualms about his duty.The assassination scene, with the cutaways to the dog, is a landmark scene, one of the greatest directorial achievements ever. The emotion is unsurpassed in cinema, and it didn't take a huge budget. Just brilliance in directing.This is the suspense, wit, drama, and style that Hitchcock was famous for. This was his ultimate achievement. Don't pay attention to those who lambaste it. There is still jealousy in this business, and they're lambasting is simply a cover up. This is a classic film. "},{"Title":"Entertaining spy story by Hitchcock","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In 1916, during the WWI novelist Edgar Brodie, whose death has been faked by the intelligence superiors, is sent to Switzerland where he has to assassinate a German agent.He's given a new name.He's now called Richard Ashenden.He is assisted by a Mexican hired killer that calls himself The General.He has also a woman called Elsa Carrington waiting for him there posing as his wife.And there's also an American charmer named Robert Marvin.Secret Agent (1936) is an early Alfred Hitchcock spy story.John Gielgud does a fine job in the lead.And so does the awfully sweet Madeleine Carroll.There's some chemistry between the leading stars.Robert Young is brilliant.Peter Lorre proves that he's a real chameleon with his curly hair and all.And he also barks like a dog.This may not be the director's finest work but it sure does entertain.In the end we are in a train as in so many other Hitchcock films.This is a suspenseful ride every Hitchcock fan should enjoy. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a lesser known Hitchcock entry from his Gaumont British days, before David O. Selznick lured him to America. This film is incredible, from the exciting plot to the rich characterizations. From the gripping and atmospheric visuals to the superb acting by Lorre and Gielgud. The ending is absolutely jaw dropping, thanks to innovative and resourceful Gaumont special effects wizards. Check out this neat thirties time capsule, watch it with the lights off. "},{"Title":"Where the morality of cold-blooded killing gets some into hot water.","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is one from Hitchcock that doesn't quite come up to his standard fare, and definitely not equal to The 39 Steps (1935), The Lady Vanishes (1938) and many others. Perhaps it was the low quality of the production? Perhaps the story itself? Maybe the somewhat wooden acting from John Gielgud? Having not read the novel by Somerset Maugham, I can't make any worthwhile comparison about how well &#150; or badly &#150; the narrative was put to film. I can say, however, that the plot has a few inexplicable narrative gaps &#150; or the DVD I viewed was an incomplete copy. I'll never know, either way, of course.However, to the film a soldier is pulled from trench warfare in France, given a new identity of Richard Ashenden (Gielgud), a fake wife Elsa Carrington (the delightful Madelaine Carroll) and then teamed up with a clown of a spy called the General (Peter Lorre) to then all travel to Switzerland to kill a German spy. Right.Okay...moving right along In Switzerland, an American playboy, Robert Marvin (a very young Robert Young) worms his way into the intrepid threesome from England, apparently intent upon stealing/wooing/seducing Elsa &#150; not sure which, actually. Neither does Elsa, it seems, who keeps trying to fob him off. In the meantime, the dynamic duo of Richard and the General find their informant dead in a local church, strangled, unable to tell them the identity of the German spy.Undeterred, they chase up a clue left at the scene of the crime and narrow their search to a German couple. The man, a local mountain guide, agrees to guide them to a mountain top where the General pushes him off a cliff to his death. Unhappily for the team, they killed the wrong man. Quel domage!From there, the plot muddles about a bit as the three try to decide what to do, Ashenden particularly remorseful about the wrongful killing. They get a break, however, about the German spy and board a train for Turkey, on which the denouement ensues. To say any more, however, would truly spoil the story.Frankly, I wasn't all that impressed with the story I think it lacked the depth and suspense that you expect from Hitchcock. Of the actors, only Carroll and Young showed any consistency of character while Lorre was just so over the top, it wasn't funny. And, it wasn't funny, also. Gielgud was a great actor, no question, but I think others would have been better as Ashenden (maybe only Gielgud was available, at the time?).The cinematography is very good, reinforcing Hitchcock's developing expertise. In a chocolate factory, for example, there are some exquisitely choreographed panicky crowd scenes, reminiscent of Fritz Lang's M (1931). So, as a curiosity, it's worth seeing by all. For serious Hitchcock fans, it should be on the must-see list, if only to act as a comparison with his overall work. I'm glad I finally got to see it, but I wouldn't bother a second time. "}{"Title":"Somehow I don't like murders at close quarters as much as I expected...","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" First off, I'll state that I enjoyed Secret Agent, however on reflection, the story doesn't hold up realistically as the espionage drama it sets out to be. Not that it couldn't have been, it's just that the story development overlooked some important considerations. The main one is the integrity of Madeleine Carroll's character, Elsa Carrington. Presumably, Elsa is an agent assigned to assist novelist/aviator Edgar Brodie (John Gielgud) in his new identity, that of Richard Ashenden. When the going gets tough after she gets romantically involved with Ashenden, she's ready to ditch him and seek escape in the company of their known target, a German courier named Robert Marvin (Robert Young). Had the British government known how wishy washy she was, would she have ever been given such an important mission? Come to think of it, how did she even become a spy? And how does Ashenden decide he's simply going to quit the mission after the wrong man is killed? Fortunately that didn't have to be answered, because he was back on the case quicker than a commercial break. There are some other elements that stretch credibility also. While I can accept an intangible connection between a man and his pet, I found Caypor's dachshund to be absolutely psychic, so tuned in was he to his master's unfortunate death.On balance though, the film is somewhat redeemed by an amazingly adept performance by Young's character as he attempts to woo Elsa, even though her cover was as wife of Ashenden. Director Hitchcock's reliance on humor was served well by their steady comedic banter which had a genuine naturalness to it. I won't get into Peter Lorre's characterization as the hairless Mexican, as even the film admits coming up short on that one. Lorre is gleefully crazed as he pounds walls with his fist and attacks a roll of toilet paper, which by the way, wasn't exactly in a bathroom, was it?I don't quite know what to make of the climactic closing sequence. With Elsa once again changing stride in midstream, the British agents confront their quarry in a confined railroad car, the rest of the train brimming with German military. As English planes commence a bombing run and destroy the tracks, the train collides in a heap, leaving the four principals dazed in their compartment. As they all slowly come to, The General (Lorre) sets his handgun in front of the German agent, presumably to elicit his own suicide in a hopeless situation. Bad move, he uses it on The General. It reminded me of an earlier quote uttered by both Ashenden and The General in unison - He hasn't got a copy of the rules. "},{"Title":"No Job For Amateurs","Date":"8 November 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Secret Agent is filmed version of a W. Somerset Maugham novel in which Maugham relives some of his own experiences as an espionage agent during the first World War. Apparently what I got out of the film is that espionage just ain't a job for amateurs.Maugham's protagonist here is John Gielgud and he's given a wife as part of his cover in the person of the beautiful Madeline Carroll. He's also got another companion in the person of a cheerful little assassin played by Peter Lorre. He easily steals the film from everyone involved.Seen today, the special effects are themselves kind of amateurish with those model trains used. Of course Hollywood wasn't above doing the same thing in their B productions, but this was an A product for the British film industry by its most acclaimed director, Alfred Hitchcock.Gielgud's supposed to investigate and finger an enemy agent who absolutely must be eliminated for reasons that are never really made clear in the film. Lorre's the professional here, maybe a little too professional when Gielgud fingers the wrong guy at first. Never mind, figures Lorre, we'll get the right one this time. Just collateral damage as the officials would say today.Robert Young is also in the film over from America to play a helpful, but wolfish American who Carroll turns to for comfort because she's developed a real distaste for the job she has.I'm betting that Somerset Maugham did in fact find the espionage business distasteful and wrote the same in this novel. But in this Hitchcock misfire, the only lesson I got from it was that espionage is best left to the professionals. "},{"Title":"Hitch coming into his stride","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A film that intimates in several ways the future prowess of the master Hitchcock.He plays with suspense in this, and it has the unusual casting of John Gielgud as Richard Ashenden, in the central role of an ex-pilot now an operative for the government, a stiff performance, for sure, in many scenes he looks extraordinarily uncomfortable with the developing romance between himself and Madeleine Carroll, playing Elsa Carringon a fellow spy, who pretends to be his wife as their 'cover'.Peter Lorre has a supporting role as another operative, and has a ball as a Mexican lover, The General, a stark, rollicking contrast to the stiff Ashenden. He just about steals the movie out from under them all.Robert Young in the role of Robert Marvin, plays an American who has a scintillating flirtation with Elsa. One of his best roles.The script is witty and the characters are believable and Hitchcock's direction is flawless. Many of the scenes, like all early Hitch work are done with miniatures. Hitch and his toys.Death is treated more seriously than in his later films, there is a more moral thread in the characters.Not to be missed by fans of the Maestro.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Undistinguished but enjoyable thriller.","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Hitchcock was professionally competent in directing this, but not yet the tantalizing genius he was to become with maturity. John Gielgud, Madeleine Carrol, and Peter Lorre are sent to Switzerland to eradicate an unknown German spy who is about to buy Arabia during World War I. First, Lorre offs the wrong man, some poor British ninny who just happens to have a German wife and has lost a suspicious button. Robert Young meanwhile has shown up as an American gadabout, flirting with Gielgud's mock wife, Carrol. The trio of assassins continues on the track of the genuine German spy, though with less zeal, now that they've thrown an innocent man off a mountaintop. The real spy turns out to be Young. In a spectacularly cheesy model train crash, Young dies after shooting Lorre, and Gielgud and Carrol are on their way to a real marriage.You wouldn't need second sight to recognize this as a Hitchcock movie but you'd have to examine it with a bit of care. There are one or two shots in which the camera dollies in for a closeup of a printed message or some other small object. The usual tourist's eye view of the location is used -- Switzerland, mountain climbing, a chocolate factory. Madeleine Carrol is a pleasant-looking blonde. And of course there is the train.Gielgud provides the stiff upper lip, inexpressive as ever, that he would later lend to his colorful character roles as butlers or whatnot. Robert Young is blandly acceptable, both as giddy suitor and sneering villain. Peter Lorre has to be seen and heard to be believed. In dark makeup and curly hair, his oily skin glistening, he speaks with an accent that is impossible to pin down, hovering somewhere between his native German and generic Latin. You know what Chico Marx was to vaudeville Italian? Well that was closer to a real accent than anything Lorre comes up with here. Speaking of the Marx Brothers, Lorre has Harpo's simple approach to seducing attractive women too. When he sees one, he bares his fangs and hustles after her at a run. When irritated, he's given to tearing toilet paper off the roll and flinging it around in festoons.The film is likable in its own unpretentious way, although the DVD I watched (part of the AH Signature Collection) was so crummy I was unable to read more than half of the mysterious printed messages that come to Gielgud's attention. "},{"Title":"Flashes Of Genius","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of Hitchcock's earlier films and it can be seen in certain areas he is still working at his craft chipping off the rough edges that would soon make him the number one thriller director of all time. Gielguid looks strained in his romantic leading role and Lorrie for my money is too over the top but still watchable. But this film is worth a viewing if only for a singular piece of Hitchcock suspense as a suspected man is lured towards his doom will he or wont he be killed the point of view jumps back and forth between the scene and that of his wife at home with the family dog barking and howling will have you on the edge of your seat! "},{"Title":"Secret Agent Takes Us on a Wild Ride","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Secret AgentThe Secret Agent is a relatively early film from none other than renown director Alfred Hitchcock.    I believe it was directed during what is referred to as his British film period before he came to Hollywood, U.S.A. to direct movies circa 1940.  *** MILD SPOILERS AHEAD ***Although made in 1936,  The Secret Agent  is set in 1916 A.D. during World War I.   It is interesting to watch The Secret Agent while  keeping in mind major world events that had not yet occurred such as World War II.  This movie would be great to use for discussion in a history class about World War I.  The death of a British agent  ( John Gielgud) is faked and he is sent to Switzerland with the new name of Ashenden.  He is involved in espionage, or spying with a strange man called The General (Peter Lorre).    A fake Mrs. Ashenden (Madeleine Carroll) is issued to him as his wife and partner in espionage.   Thus begins a journey of  adventure, intrigue and death.   A young Robert Young, who much later would star in Marcus Welby, M.D. on TV,  has a prominent role in The Secret Agent .The Secret Agent  is an oddity, even for Hitchcock.    It is a romantic espionage mystery thriller with large doses of comedy which sometimes border on the macabre and I'm not kidding!   Peter Lorre's character is a dark, sinister thug who is also a hilarious as well as pathetic womanizer.    Madeleine Carroll and Robert Young are quite flirtatious and cheeky even while embroiled in deadly serious espionage.  It might  take a moment to adjust to a youthful John Gielgud in the starring role as Ashenden if you are familiar with his famous role as the butler in the comedy Arthur which came along many years later in his career.I won't spoil the plot for you, but it is sufficient to say The Secret Agent takes you on a wild ride.  For those of you who are familiar with and are fans of some of Alfred Hitchcock's earlier movies from the 1930's and even the 1920's, this movie could be to your liking.  For fan's of his Hollywood movies from the 1940's through the 1970's, this movie will be quite a culture shock. I rate The Secret Agent  a 73 out of 100 or a C &#150;.    It is a must see movie for  serious Hitchcock fans but it lacks some of the depth of character development in his better  films, of which there are many.   Other folks interested in seeing a 1930's Hitchcock film might try starting with The Lady Vanishes (1938),  The Thirty Nine Steps (1935), both excellent, or Young and Innocent (1937), which  is a good movie. Alfred Hitchcock was a prolific director, especially in his early years and he has left behind many films to choose from.    Marxi.   "},{"Title":"Not the best Hitchcock","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  *SPOILERS AHEAD*This adaptation of Maugham's Ashenden short stories into one plot is probably not one of Hitchcock's best efforts.......although we have to admit, any Hitchcock film is worth watching.The weakness is in the casting.  Hitch brought John Gielgud from the stage as one of England's finest interpreters of Shakespeare and it is obvious that Sir John was uncomfortable in the film medium at this point of his career. He was not very adept at some of the light, romantic touches that were always present in Hitchcock's stories and did not seem quite agressive enough to be doing the work of a spy.  He didn't play very well against the character portrayed by Madeline Carroll, the first of Hitch's many icy blondes.Peter Lorre is a disaster.  After his wonderful performance in The Man Who Knew Too Much, he hits rock bottom here with hammy, off the wall overacting as the General.  It has been documented that Lorre was in the throes of a bad drug addiction during the filming of this movie and that Hitchcock could not control him and was furious with the actor.  Lorre left for Hollywood after this film.Robert Young plays against type as he turns out to be the villain of the piece.  If you like Young, then you will enjoy his performance.  If you don't like him, you still will admit that he does a pretty good job.Percy Marmont, who was used by Hitchcock on a couple of occasions, is quite good as the wrong man and the asassination, seen through the telescope lens, is poignant with the added touch of the howling pet dog.I just realized that I have not even mentioned the story but only the casting......but if the casting is wrong, then the story is secondary.  That is not to say that this film is not worth viewing, it just is not in a class with some of Hitchcock's other English films, and if you proscibe to the auteur theory, then any Hitchcock film is a winner  "},{"Title":"Uneven but has its highlights and points of interest","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I found the film is a bit uneven but worth watching for at least four reasons. One of them is the performance of Madeleine Carroll who is perhaps the best of all the Hitchcock blondes. She was stunningly beautiful and a supremely talented actress. Her performance stands the test of time and of changing screen acting techniques. Carroll as Elsa is called upon to run a great range of emotions and never misses a beat. Her face is surely one of the most beautifully expressive faces in screen history.Peter Lorre is always worth watching. He is at once comical and cunning. He can be obsequious and yet ready to take the offensive the moment the opportunity arises.The third thing that strikes me in this film is how uninteresting John Gielgud was as a younger man. His face was rather non-descript and he had not developed the distinctively deep, resonant tone that was Gielgud's trademark. I know that he is playing the part of a relatively young man and not an old, wise professor but his lack of diction makes some of his lines completely lacking in emotion and is sometimes difficult to understand. Age certainly improved Gielgud as a screen presence.Robert Young's scenes with Madeleine Carroll are the highlight of the film. Witty, sophisticated dialogue and great charm. Both know what the other is thinking as they playfully counter each others moves. "},{"Title":"Secret Agent","Date":"27 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I am very keen to see as many, if not all, of the films from the great director Sir Alfred Hitchcock as possible, even those that might not be as big or suspenseful as the obvious ones. Basically it is the First World War, where novelist-turned-soldier Edgar Brodie (a younger Sir John Gielgud) is recruited by the British intelligence to find a mysterious German spy and eliminate him. With his new identity, Richard Ashenden, given to him by his handler 'R' (Charles Carson), Brodie is teamed with fellow spies Elsa Carrington (Madeleine Carroll) and an assassin called The General (Peter Lorre). Elsa is posing as Brodie's beautiful blonde wife, and The General has no morals but a cheery nature, and all three already have a target that they suspect is the spy. This turns out to be the wrong man, so they have killed an innocent old man, so Edgar and Elsa question the morality, especially as The General finds the mistake amusing. In the end, Elsa finds out the true spy, (it wasn't obvious to her, but it was to me) it is Robert Marvin (Robert Young), and there is a final encounter on a train that eventually crashes. Also starring Percy Marmont as Caypor, Florence Kahn as Mrs. Caypor and Lilli Palmer as Lilli. It was a bit hard to follow any story, and the suspense was a little vague for Hitchcock's regular standard, but there were some catchy moments, and Lorre was really good as the charming killer, so it's an alright spy thriller. Good! "},{"Title":"Lorre the Scene Stealer","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a very British movie. Everyone has a stiff upper lip and involved in the glory of the Empire. The protagonists are quite stuffy and staid. It takes the wonderful Peter Lorre, one of the best character actors ever, to keep things moving. He is an outrageous, complex character they call the General. He keeps the others on their toes and forces them to do their duties. The type of spying is never made totally clear, but it has to do with a campaign in Turkey. They seem to have a license to kill and this is the issue. A romance develops between the two spies and begins to compromise their mission. John Gielgud is incredibly dull in demeanor and looks a bit like a corpse, escaped from the morgue (he is actually pronounced dead at the beginning of the movie). Robert Young, later of Father Knows Best, is a flippant romantic character who proves to be more than he seems. It has a rousing conclusion and Hitchcock does a decent job with it. I felt that the middle was very slow and could have done with a little pizazz. It's certainly worth a look. "}{"Title":"Not Quite North By Northwest","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" For all the undeniably classic films Alfred Hitchcock directed, there are others like Torn Curtain, The Trouble With Harry, and Marnie that present interesting examples, if not of outright failure, of a confusion that muddles one's pleasure in the film while revealing the heart of Hitchcock's art. An early example of this is Secret Agent.During World War I, a British soldier named Brodie (John Gielgud) famous for his novels finds himself suddenly declared dead by a mysterious figure named R. R wants Brodie to travel to Switzerland under the name Ashenden and help eliminate a German, identity to be determined, who is paying Arabs to cause trouble around British-controlled Palestine. Helping Brodie will be another mysterious figure, the hairless Mexican, played by Peter Lorre at a high histrionic pitch, as well as Elsa (Madeleine Carroll), a naive young spy who pretends to be Mrs. Ashenden.Right from the beginning, when we watch a one-armed man messily upend a coffin for no apparent reason except to reveal it is empty, Secret Agent is aimed more for effect than making sense. The effects are often good, too. An innocent-looking old man buys a bar of chocolate, then opens it outside to toss the chocolate and read a secret message in the wrapping. Gielgud and Lorre are to meet a fellow at a church, and as they go deeper inside, the lone, sustained note of a pipe organ grows louder and more ominous.The strongest set piece involves the fellow Gielgud and Lorre's characters figure to be the German agent, how they set to neutralize him, and the shocking end note Hitchcock lays on you after it is done. As another user review here, by Zetes, notes quite well, this is one of two Hitchcock films from 1936 that really pushes the viewer's face into an unhappy sudden death. The difference, and the reason the other film, Sabotage, successfully carries it off and this doesn't, is because Sabotage is a heavy-toned film throughout. Secret Agent, on the other hand, is played for a lark, and so when Hitchcock deals his trump, it's a mean trick the film never recovers from.At least the scene makes an impact on screen, more than you can say for John Gielgud, who wears the same air of aristocratic diffidence he did when Dudley Moore told him he wanted a bath some 45 years later. Both director and star blamed one another for the poor way Brodie/Ashenden comes off, and both probably had a point. Gielgud never did anything for me in lead roles, anyway.Lorre grabs you by the throat and never lets go, even when it would be better he did. Taking out his frustrations on a roll of toilet paper when he discovers Elsa was requisitioned to Brodie, he screeches entertainingly for about half a minute but then like the Energizer Bunny keeps going and going. Carroll, so good in The 39 Steps, an obvious model for Secret Agent, is too silly to be believable here, spending most of her time being chased by Robert Young. Young utters some inane dialogue in wooing the woman he believes married, but he also gives the best performance, something you notice especially on a second viewing. It was Hitchcock's first time working with a name American actor, and strange they never paired up again.While the story is a letdown, what's good about Secret Agent is the energy with which it moves. Not that it isn't dull for long intervals, but it does develop a pace and energy that almost compensate for the lack of sense on screen. The comic undertones throughout help move things along, as well as point in the direction of North By Northwest and other Class-A Hitchcock suspense films to come. If not his best film, you can see in Secret Agent Hitchcock learning as he goes. "},{"Title":"Hamlet Survives","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There's something quaint an offensive about films made in the UK during and before WW2 about war. Its propaganda, thinly covered, and nearly always showing British superiority of character. Here it is the human qualms that British conscripted assassins have about killing a man whose death would save millions. There's also something a bit odd about seeing Hitchcock before he became a cinematic genius. Some scenes are brilliant in their presentation and others inept. He always had confidence that the audience would overlook poor effects, but here its more extreme than usual.Finally, there's a sort of severe discomfort in seeing Gielgud in a role he hated. Somehow, he thought his role was to be Shakespearean when he took it and was discouraged the way it turned out. The character is a novelist, something that could have given a Shakespearean fold. Hitchcock would have seized on that twenty years later, but here it zooms overhead.Naturally, the climax takes place on a train. It seems trains and train scenes are almost a genre in themselves in British films for about 40 years. Nowadays, you hardly see a train unless there is a fight on top, a tunnel, and a helicopter.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Peter Lorre is the star!","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" To me, I just love watching Peter Lorre in anything. His unforgettable voice and his villainous demeanor just adds to delight in watching his performance. Sure the film starred the legendary Shakespearean actor Sir John Gielgud who is fine but not a true standout. Madeleine Carroll also acts in the film as the leading lady. The movie is based on a novel and is set during World War I about espionage and intrigue. I really didn't find this film as one of my favorites. Peter Lorre was one of the director's favorites. It is clear to see why he was unique in voice and talent. Lorre always stole the spotlight. The film's story isn't so clear to me even until the ending. "},{"Title":"Lesser known Hitchcock is quite good fun to watch","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" RAF pilot Edgar Brodie fakes his death at the height of the Great War (as it was known then) and is recruited as a secret agent and given the identity of Ashenden, for assignment in Switzerland, to search for a spy, with an uncooperative woman pretending to be his wife.His contact in Switzerland, played by Peter Lorre, delivers his verbose lines appropriately stiffly and almost phonetically, especially as he so cheerfully (and repetitively) introduces himself throughout the film, as General Pompellio Montezuma De La Vilia De Conde De La Rue! An American tourist turns up along the way, with an admiration for Ashenden's wife - or, is there more to him than that? With so much mistaken identity and staged deaths and lies spiraling around, who's to know for certain, until the final scene? Less suspense than some of Hitchcock's other efforts, (perhaps that is why it is less well known?) but still a lot of fun to watch. One of my favourites of Hitchcock's, especially of his earlier work.A dog makes another appearance, repeating a trend Hitchcock began in The Pleasure Garden, which was repeated at least until Rear Window.If James Bond had been around in the 1930s, this is what he would have been like. There are striking similarities to Ian Fleming's original novel Casino Royale; this WWI-era spy thriller/ romance/ comedy is one of my favourite of Hitchcock's. "},{"Title":"Married life has begun","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have not read the novel, am I not even close to being old enough to have seen the play performed back then. Honestly, I didn't know anything about this going into it. The thing came in a box-set that was on sale, with The Lady Vanishes and Rich and Strange(that I didn't know before purchase, either). This is about as good as the former, and thus better than the latter. There is technically no scene selection on any of the three(at most, skipping ahead to the ending), so you're stuck with rewinding and fast-forwarding as if it were a VHS(ah, the good old days). The plot isn't bad, and this is genuinely exciting and tense(Alfred knew how to create suspense back then, too). It's interesting that such an early spy thriller would deal with the conscience of agents(and would do a pretty decent job at it, no less). Editing and cinematography show promise, and certainly are nice for the time. The mystery is fairly well-done. Chemistry is reasonable. The acting is satisfactory. Same goes for characters, although this has some stereotypes in that regard; Lorre is a walking parody of a foreigner, with his broken English(is NCIS' Ziva's habit of getting well-known sayings wrong inspired by that?). The traditional gender roles affect it a bit, as well. This can be over the top, but it is funny here and there; a lot of the material seems to be based on quirk. There is a little mild violence in this. I recommend this to big fans of Hitchcock and Gielgud. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Worth it for Lorre","Date":"8 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Secret Agent (1936) ** 1/2 (out of 4) John Gielgud and Madeleine Carroll are secret agents who disguise as spies to try and catch up to a mysterious German spy during WW1. Along with the help of a third person (Peter Lorre), the agents must try to overcome certain conflicts with their conscience in order to pull off the mission. Once again here's another British Hitchcock film that has plenty to enjoy but it isn't a completely successful film. I think one of the biggest problems is leading man Gielgud who just seems bored out of his mind. It's hard for the viewer to get too excited in the film when it appears the leading man is just rushing through a take or just bored out of his mind. I found him to be quite distracting in the film and that's not good since he's in just about every scene. Another problem was the mixture of suspense and comedy. Hitch would nail this blend down in the future but here it doesn't work as well. I think some of the comedy is just so over the top that it's hard to get back into a serious mode whenever the movie changes tone at the drop of a dime. Lorre has some very funny moments but at the same time these scenes take away from anything serious that happens afterwards. The sequence where Lorre has a fit and tears down a bathroom is very funny but at the same time it's hard to believe a world class secret agent would act this childish. The ending is pretty good and manages to have some nice suspense and even the final few minutes really pay off. Carroll was absolutely delightful and makes the film worth sitting through and Robert Young was also quite good. "},{"Title":"A not so secret agent","Date":"3 April 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One yearns to look backwards, owing to the batch of bad films coming on the market now...backwards to a time when the childhood of talking films experimented with literature. Such is Hitchcock's 'Secret Agent'a not so riveting adaptation of Somerset Maugham's 'Secret Agent', the grand daddy of spy novels. Situated here during the Great War when Ottoman Turkey was on the wrong side, John Gielgud, Madelaine Carroll, Robert Young and Peter Lorre engage in the Grand Game to snag a German spy. The spy is easy to spot. And justice will out in the end safeguard the British colonial hold on the Middle East in same British hands. The nuts and bolts of espionage is a far cry from James Bond, but not the stiff upper lip, the glib repartee and in the face of danger a sang froid the British are famous for. The rise of Nazi Germany put Europe on edge and ill at ease. Daladier pursued appeasement to avoid another world war. But fascist Germany, despite its supporters in England, didn't sit well nonetheless, with its growing appetite for European real estate. Lorre looks as though he escaped from a gypsy encampment, with a gold ring in his right ear. Swarthy, curly hair and an odd sounding English sing song. If murder be, it's not the urbane Gielgud or the beautiful Carroll who will do it, but the stereotype of a 'dagoe who is the General, a skirt chasing Italian. The team of Gielgud, Carroll and Lorre murder the wrong German. Hitchcock has a gripping scene of the wrong man's wife is giving a German lesson to Carroll joined by the manicured Young who is pursuing her. The woman's dog keeps sniffing at the door with an insistence that announces a tragedy, for the messenger of death is at the door. The scene is fraught with tension, and reveals a Hitchcock we come to know. The villain is Marvin played by Young. A chase the formulaic chase that announces the film's conclusion as Young is pursued before he can reach neutral territory and put him out of harm's way. London, 'R' head of the secret service, sends in the air force to stop Marvin. Marvin dies, but not before he kills the General. England is saved. Imperial real estate in the Middle East kept within the colonial fold. Long shots, close ups, the ABCs of Hitchcock's filmography is all there. With all its drawing room sophistication, the film creaks. "},{"Title":"little touches of Hitchcock","Date":"9 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's Edgar Brodie (John Gielgud)'s funeral. The movie flashes back to WWI. Edgar returns home on leave to find his obituary in the papers. R recruits him in a secret mission to intercept a German agent on his way to the Middle East. Edgar is given the fake identity Richard Ashenden. A weird man called The General (Peter Lorre) assists him. He arrives in Switzerland and meets his eager pretend wife Elsa Carrington (Madeleine Carroll). There is an unknown enemy agent given instructions to stop Edgar.It's Alfred Hitchcock while he's still in Britain. It's a spy adventure thriller yarn. The best thing about this is the little Hitchcock touches. I wouldn't call this exciting. I wouldn't call this a compelling mystery either. It's good enough to follow. Peter Lorre is really hamming it up as if he expects to be in a comedy duo with John Gielgud. It's a necessary watch for Hitchcock fans. "},{"Title":"An odd but well-crafted spy yarn","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is an odd spy film that couldn't have been made just a few years later. That's because the film involves British agents that have been sent to murder a German agent but the Brits struggle with the morality of their actions--making them question their mission. Such moral ambivalence towards the Germans makes sense in light of the pointlessness of WWI (where there really were no good guys or bad guys). Just a few years later, German agents would be portrayed (rightfully) in a much different light due to the Nazis and WWII.John Gielgud, Madeline Carroll and Peter Lorre (as a Spaniard!) play the three agents working for Britain. Along the way, Carroll strikes up a friendship with Robert Young (an odd choice of actors for this film, I know). Soon, the Brits think they've identified who the German agent is in Switzerland, though at the last minute they discover he isn't the man--thank goodness they didn't kill him when they got the chance! At this point, Gielgud and Carroll are sick of the business and plan on going back home. However, Carroll foolishly steps into a hornet's nest, of sorts, and into enemy hands! Will she escape? Will the German be killed or be the killer? See this film and find out yourself.While the film doesn't rank among Hitchcock's best, it is exciting and very off-beat. It is NOT the typical spy yarn and its morally ambivalent tones make it special--unlike the more typically jingoistic spy thrillers. I especially thought the final confrontation was well done and most interesting. The only serious negative is having Lorre in the film. His native language is German yet they had him play the General--a Spaniard! Instead of looking or sounding Spanish, he really seemed more like a gypsy from Central Europe. A case of a good actor in the wrong role. A smaller negative was my wondering why they would send anyone on a mission who was not 100% devoted and fanatical about the cause--Carroll and especially Gielgud seemed like odd choices in hindsight. "},{"Title":"Interesting rather than successful...","Date":"8 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In my review of the box-set that contains this 1936 spy suspenser from the Master, 'The Hitchcock Collection', I said that I'd award four stars for it. Reckoning I should at least see it again (I'd only seen it on TV before) I now wonder if four is too generous.Firstly, the picture quality is next to abysmal, almost unwatchable at times, the soft, flickering, with scratches and white marks and then there's the odd and difficult to follow plot. We see our three protagonists - a young, (with hair!) John Gielgud, Madeleine Carrol and a most peculiar Peter Lorre, talking, then they're mysteriously in WW1 Europe, shacked up in an alpine hotel. Hitch returns to the Alps again in others of his films, of course.Gielgud is tall, lean and with a clipped dulcet tone and looks the part of a matinée leading man, though Lorre, supposedly the assassin (they're sent to bump off a mysterious German spy) looks like an escaped vaudevillian cabaret artist and armed with an accent that is so thickly mongrel, it's ridiculous.Some peculiar humour, bordering on the inappropriate now, plus these almost sketch-like scenarios, show that Hitch is fighting to direct and control his blossoming flair and imagination - these elements, plus the subject, forms the backbone of many of his future classics. There's a scene where a button gets circling round the edge of a bowl, in a sort of roulette wheel effect; Hitch superimposes what (if I recall correctly) what Peter Lorre sees, a bigger, brighter but static button. A small point but shows that the Master is starting his little 'effects' at this time.In the final twenty minutes, the pace picks up and finally, moves on to become the slick spy suspense thriller that it should have been all along - on a moving train - another pretext for things to come.Treat Secret Agent as the film that Hitch did his apprenticeship on and not as a flawed masterpiece, allow for its inconsistencies but relish in the many bits he got right and thank goodness that from here-on in, Hitch was the Master that we all know and love. My score is nearer 6.5 than 7/10, however, as it looks really quite dated now. "}{"Title":"Hitchcock outdoes himself","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One of Hitchcock's best British films contains my favorite murder scene of all time.  Also there's Robert Young providing comedy relief -- with an unexpected twist.  No serious student of Hitchcock's work can miss this one!   "},{"Title":"A fairly pedestrian spy story","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Hitchcock follows spy movie conventions to a tee in his thirties thriller that could be charitably described as a tribute to Fritz Lang.  It might seem to some modern day audiences that this film is ahead of its time (because they probably imagine James Bond and Matt Helm were the first spies in film), but in fact it owes MUCH to Lang's 20s classic Dr. Mabuse and others of its ilk.Hitchcock has even imported Lang's best star, Peter Lorre, an actor who can put in a memorable performance even if given no script or direction.  He's got both here, and the effect seems to be a dampening of his innate style -- in other words, Hitch is overdirecting him.The story has something to do with John Gielgud's character faking his death to infiltrate German lines.  Typical love melodrama ensues to fill in space between Hitchcocks' setpiece suspense scenes. "},{"Title":"It's a mess. Not BAD, but...not that good either...Spoilers!","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Let's see what we have here-Peter Lorre chewing the scenery horribly as a 'blackface false Mexican', yah that's about right, a rather stiff and forced John Gielgud-King Lear #1!-stilting thru his spy role, Madeleine Carroll doing her best #39 Steps turn, a dead organist, a little blonde chickie cuddling up w/ Lorre, a toilet paper tantrum AND a trio of biplanes strafing a troop train. This was another one of Hitch's '30s Michael Bay movies, in other words. You have seen him do MUCH better-Sabotage and Lady Vanishes, for example, but this one is kinda fun if you don't pay it that much heed.I can't imagine a film where Robert Young gives a better performance than Sir john Gielgud, but-there it is, he did it.**1/2 outta ****. Oh and ya have to like the reference to 'neutral Turkey', who were only part of the WWI Central Powers....  "},{"Title":"Underwhelming, slow and long...","Date":"25 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Secret Agent tells the story of a two secret agents who pose as a couple as they attempt to capture and kill a German agent, Secret Agent was possibly an original Hitchcock story and one of the earlier spy films. However, an interesting premise, two great lead performances by Carrol and Gielgud is botched by poor storytelling, an overlong duration and the highly irritating character that Peter Lorre portrays. Lacking suspense and all the elements that make Hitchcock a master director and my all time favourite director, the only redeeming qualities found in this bloated Hitchcock picture are the attempted story its telling, an interesting romance story developing between the two leads and the two lead characters themselves. Secret Agent is the biggest step down from The 39 Steps that Hitchcock could seek. If his intentions were to make a film that is in every right, worse than its predecessor, he has succeeded otherwise its simply not something he'd want to remember. "},{"Title":"Now tell me do you love your country.. I just died for it.","Date":"23 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Having been reported killed in the fighting on the western front British Army officer Edger Brodie, John Gielgud, is brought back to life not by a Doctor Frankenstein but by the top British intelligence officer known only as N played by Charles Carson.Given a new identity as Richard Ashenden Brodie is told to travel to neutral Switzerland and with the help of his fellow British Agents The General, Peter Lorre, and his now new wife Elsa Carrington, Medeleine Carroll, to assassinate a German undercover agent. The German Secret Agent is trying to start up trouble in the Middle-East against the British troops fighting the Turks, Germany's ally, in Palestine.In Switzerland both Asherden and the General contact the third member of the British assassination team Elas Carrington who's masquerading around as Mrs. Asherden. To both Asherden and the Generals surprise Elsa is having an affair with this American tourist playboy Robert Marvin, Robert Young, which greatly complicates matters. Not only don't Asherden and the General know who this German Secret Agent is but their fellow British Agent Elsa is now, by being in love with Marvin, not at all interested in finding and terminating him!The attempt in tracking down and offing the shadowy German Agent falls completely apart when British mountain climbing tourist Caypor, Prcy Marmont, is mistaken for him and murdered by the General pushing Caypor off a snowy cliff in the Alps. This has both Asherden and his wife Elsa totally lose interest in finding and killing the German Agent even if letting him stay alive and get to German's ally Turkey, with his secret plans or a full scale Arab revolt, will cost thousand of British lives! That's by causing the neutral, at the time, Arabs to rise up against the British in Palestine in support of the Turks and Germans.***SPOILERS*** Very contrive and unbelievable ending with the RAF, if that's what it was called back then in WWI, doing the job that both Ashenden and Elsa didn't have the heart to do. As for the General he did the best he could to knock off the German Agent but his best wasn't good enough. It's later that both Ashenden and Elsa did in fact tie the knot after all this, spying running shooting and killing, was over and quit the British Secret Service finding that they just weren't quite cut out, in the assassination business, for it. "},{"Title":"Live and Let Spy","Date":"21 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" During a World War I air raid, British novelist John Gielgud (as Edgar Brodie) is recruited to be a spy, after his death is faked (in the opening funeral). Mr. Gielgud is given a new identity (Richard Ashenden) and a curly-haired assistant, ladykiller Peter Lorre (as The General). The duo is sent to Switzerland, where Gielgud is happy to discover he has been assigned a beautiful Dietrich-like wife, Madeleine Carroll (as Elsa Carrington). However, Ms. Carroll seems to have already attracted a boyfriend, heavy-browed Robert Young (as Robert Marvin). The trio get caught up in the inevitable&#x85; Director Alfred Hitchcock kicks things up whenever he gets his cast on a train, which helps make the ending mildly exciting. A noisy sequence in a chocolate-boxing factory is less sweet, due to everyone obviously mouthing their lines. The cast is interesting, with Mr. Lorre having the most obvious fun. But, overall, Secret Agent is dull and disappointing.***** Secret Agent (5/36) Alfred Hitchcock ~ John Gielgud, Madeleine Carroll, Peter Lorre, Robert Young "},{"Title":"when Hitchcock fails to deliver","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Here is one of the disappointing films in the first part of the career of Hitchcock. 'Secret Agent' was is another of the spies films made by Hitchcock in the years before the second world war, although the plot based on two stories by Maugham happens during the first world war. The heroes are a couple of spies sent to Switzerland with the mission to stop by all means a German spy whose actions could have turned over the course of the war in the Middle East. All means include murder, and actually the heroes will have the wrong man killed, which could have been a splendid subject for a psychological film. However the dilemma is solved in a very non-satisfying manner, and so is the romantic story of the love between the two spies who start by playing the role of man and wife and end by becoming lovers. At the end all the action story lacks real suspense, and what remains from the film is good acting and few bright Hitchcock cinema moments. John Gielgud looking here amazingly like Ralph Fiennes was a great actor and it's fun to watch him in this early role of his, despite the fact that he is miscast. Peter Lorre is at his best, in a dark killer role with nuances of comic. The final war scenes are among the best of the movie, and balance somehow the very unsatisfying ending of a disappointing film. "},{"Title":"Young And Guilty","Date":"15 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Though it's always been tough for me to work up a sweat about any Hitchcock movie this one - which was also a freebie with a National newspaper - had a couple of selling points for me; it was a film adaptation of the volume of stories by Willie Maugham which featured the character Ashenden and it top-billed Johnny Gielgud and was shot at the time he was electrifying the West End stage in his night job as a Shakespearean actor. Alas, neither of these factors can overcome what is ostensibly a 'thriller' yet which Hitch has seen fit to shoot with all the tempo of a heavily sedated sloth and there was more sexual chemistry between Moishe Dayan and Golda Meir than Gielgud and Madeleine Carroll can come up with. Robert Young as the inevitable guilty man weighs in with the only pretense to Style in the whole megillah. My advice is give this plenty of the back of your neck. "},{"Title":"Not Hitchcock's best","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock is easily considered one of the finest directors ever to have lived making films like The 39 Steps, The Lady Vanishes, Notorious, Vertigo, North by Northwest and Psycho. But some of his early British films were more hit and miss. Secret Agent was more of a miss.Set in 1916 in the middle First World War. A famous writer/army officer fakes his own death and becomes a spy for the British, Richard Ashenden (John Gielgud). Ashenden is assigned to go to Switzerland to stop a enemy spy who is preventing a British advance in the Middle Easy. His partners are The General/The Hairless Mexican (Peter Lorre) and Elsa Carrington (Madeleine Carroll), his fake wife on the mission. The team have little information about the spy they are hunting, even killing an innocent man, but need to use their investigative skills to stop him.They are some positives in this film, mainly in the direction. Hitchcock has some wonderful shots, showing his skill, like when the camera tracks from looking out of a window then through a telescope. They is a good action sequence at the end of the film, and because of the time, it forced Hitchcock to use long fix shots, making conversation shots longer, and actually better more like a play. There is also a decent cast in the film, and they is no fault from the actor.The problem with the film is the storyline. They should have had a more of a complex plot, with a lot more investigation throughout the film. Some things seem to happen too easily and just fall into place. It doesn't have the thrills or the tension that is normally in a Hitchcock film. As a spy thriller is mediocre. The character of the General was also a nasty stereotype and was almost played for laughs. It was tough to watch and whilst Peter Lorre tried his best he could only give an over-the-top performance. If this film was made now that character would have been a lot more serious and darker.Overall, Hitchcock does show his talent, but this is not his best film. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's training...","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of Hitchcock's most popular works from his early days there in the UK. Sort of a mixture of spy-movies and comedy pretty simple and that cannot be compared with his works at Hollywood. In a manner of speaking all those movies (Young and innocent, Lady Vanishes, et.) were nothing but a training.If I had to point something out I would mention the presence of John Giuelgud and Peter Lorre, who plays a Latin lover wannabe named Moctezuma (for God's sake!!!).*My rate 6/10----------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------- "}{"Title":"Dull, overly talky early Hitchcock effort","Date":"28 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Not one of Hitchcock's best films. SECRET AGENT is too slow and unwieldy to be truly enjoyable; it's marred by a lack of action, interesting characters and plotting and it hasn't dated very well over the decades since it was first released.It's the first time I've ever seen John Gielgud as a young man, and I have to say that he doesn't stand out at all. Perhaps he got better with age? Whatever the reason, he just doesn't possess any gravitas or charisma as this film's hero. The brunt of the acting work is left to Peter Lorre, who plays an exuberant supporting character. Lorre is without a doubt the best thing in the movie and he steals every scene he's in.Of course, this is still a Hitchcock film, so there are reasons to watch. The direction's not half bad, it's just the storyline that fails to impress. You never get any of the pervading menace or sense of impending doom from later thrillers like FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT. There are some stand-out sequences (I absolutely love the bit with the organist) but as a whole this is a letdown. "},{"Title":"Good Actors in a Bad Film","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Alfred Hitchcock is a director at the top of my list of great artists. Even though elements of his great style are in this film, it is ultimately undone by an unbelievably silly plot line. In too many places in this film, the plot turns make no sense. I would give examples but I might drift into the area of spoilers. Suffice it to say that this is the worst Hitchcock film I have ever seen. I think that it may be held in high regard by so many because it has a wonderful cast. But good actors make bad films from time to time and this is one of them. I voted 2 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"One of Hitchcock's failures.","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is pretty much the worse Hitchcock film I've seen.  The only part worth watching is Peter Lorre.  Beside that everybody seems like the same person. After watching the movie for 40 minutes I had know idea what was going on and I had no idea who any of the characters were.  I just gave up on it and fast forwarded to the end so I could find out it all ended. "}]