[{"Title":"A Humanist Classic","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"108 out of 123 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Grand Illusion is a movie about class that doesn't hate anyone. How often does that happen? Yes, there are namby-pamby movies that show all sides and bore everyone with their non-existent point-of-view, but that's not what I mean. And, of course, there are plenty of movies about class that reveal their biases from the start; I'm rather fond of Eat the Rich movies, myself. But Grand Illusion is about class without dismissing any of its characters. The aristocrats whose world is disappearing are presented as tragic figures, stuck in a code of life that is rapidly becoming meaningless. Both aristocrats know their time is past; the French one accepts this as probably a good thing, the German one doesn't (and blames the French one's sentiments on the French Revolution), but they both know their way of life is soon to be forgotten. And it would be easy for Renoir, when he made the film in the mid-30s a French communist with proletarian sympathies, to demonize these two. But he doesn't; he allows them their humanity, which is the most characteristic feature of Renoir movies in any event (he is the great humanist of movie history).Nor does he show the collapse of the old way as an unfortunate preface to chaos. The bourgeois characters are good people. The world might be safe in their hands, as safe as in any other hands at least (except for the propensity among nations for war). All of the middle and lower-class characters in the movie are presented as people, not stereotypes. But Renoir doesn't accomplish this by collapsing all class boundaries into some homogenous universalism. These characters remain trapped within their class, and their class is clear to the viewer. The movie is not about the absence of class but about the crushing ironies of the very real existence of class in the lives of the characters. To show all classes without condescension, while retaining a particular point of view (that while people are good, it's best that the aristocratic world is in decline), is pretty amazing.In Grand Illusion, the nominal hero is working/middle-class, but the upper class isn't evil and the lower class isn't romanticized or dismissed. And it's all accomplished in such a seamless way that many, if not most, first-time viewers might easily think it was a fine movie but something less than great. It sneaks up on you, and more than just about any film you can name, rewards multiple viewings. "},{"Title":"How language separates us","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"94 out of 107 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" What makes Grand Illusion a great movie, and the reason that some of us keep returning to it, is that it can't be reduced to a single simple proposition, the way that recent war movies like Platoon (war bad, to quote Tarantino's synopsis) or Saving Private Ryan (war senseless) can. It's easy to be sentimental about war, even while deploring it, by focusing on the horror of it or by making heroes out of those who are forced to fight. Renoir deals instead with the far more complex mesh of differences and alliances that separate and divide our characters. And while his main characters all have a clear class/national/religious identity, he makes much more out of them than just sociological categories.But trying to explain why Grand Illusion is such a great movie by charting all the conflicting bonds of nationality, class, religion, etc. doesn't explain why the movie is so powerful. To me it is in those scenes in which language either separates our characters (as when Marechal tries and fails to tell the British prisoners about the tunnel or asks why de Boeldieu uses vous) or unites them (as when von Rauffenstein and de Boeldieu speak in English or the English officer (in drag) sings the Marseillaise or when Marechal finally learns a little German). In these cases, Renoir uses language-without hitting us over the head to make the point-to illustrate the conflict between his ideal of sympathy between humans and the differences of class, nationality and religion.Now I know that this sounds just as dry and academic as other attempts to explain Grand Illusion. Maybe it is; the movie really does not need to be explained to be enjoyed. But these are the scenes that, for whatever reason, have always made the greatest impression on me. "},{"Title":"Classic film on the death of ancient regimes","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"54 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  In the old European order, pre-WWI, one nation's aristocracy made war on another's not out of love for king and country or hatred for the enemy, but out of a sense of honor and duty. War was what they did, these aristocrats of l'ancien regime. Their castles in the air, their noble worldview, their time-honored way--all would crumble, as they very well knew, if the line between the rabble and themselves were allowed to continue to blur. The masses had new and different loyalties.La Grande Illusion in 1914 was the hope that that old order could be preserved in the face of surging democracy and noveau-riche power. Jean Renoir's film presents us with an irony the martial elites of France and Germany needed the war to vouchsafe their very identities, and yet that conflict would prove their undoing. Whatever side won, the hoi polloi would gain the upper hand.Restored from its original camera negative, the 1937 French film now on DVD sparkles like new. The restoration lets us see that nothing is dated about this work of genius, even if its POW-camp situations today seem stock and its characters stereotypes of nationality and class. The fine acting, the deft pacing, and the fluid camerawork make for a film that could have been produced last year. The whispered subtext, the nuanced conflicts, and the ironic complexity make for a film that is timeless.The subtext is the eternal tension between in the air and on the ground, on high and here below, from a distance and up close and personal. From a distance, war is no more rancorous than a chess game, with national boundaries as artificial as the squares on a chessboard. Up close and personal, war separates humans from their lives and aspirations, lovers from their beloveds.The old elites loved nothing but their class and its accoutrements. It was peasant stock and noveau riche who belted out national anthems and honored the borders which in wartime could sever lover from lover but, paradoxically, also shield prison-camp escapees who made it across them to sanctuary. Renoir's genius was that he could show that an emergent new order, manifestly better on the ground, comes at a steep price, tragically, in the air.  "},{"Title":"Good company is harder to make than good war","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"59 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  From Jean Renoir's autobiography, My Life and My Films (1974)If a French farmer should find himself dining at the same table as a French financier, those two Frenchmen would have nothing to say to each other, each being unconcerned with the other's interests. But if a French farmer meets a Chinese farmer they will find any amount to talk about. This theme of the bringing together of men through their callings and common interests has haunted me all my life and does so still. It is the theme of 'La Grande Illusion' and it is present, more or less, in all my works.In a sense, 'La Grande Illusion' is a counterpoint in an argument of stories in one corner, Jean Renoir & friends singing about humor and good cheer; in the other, a handful of Germans demanding bigotry and murderous pride.My opinion of the movie is quite high, but I think, from having read that book and a few others, that the real accomplishments in 'Illusion,' artistic and thematic, come directly from Renoir's deep affection of people and our loves.To live your life with love and humor takes thoughtful delicacy. It's much easier to close your heart, fence yourself in, and never have a true friend in your life and such closed-hearted people are inevitably the ones who coolly turn the political screws until the world bursts into famine and war.It was too much to think that 'La Grande Illusion' would prevent the then coming war, as Renoir hoped. But to look at the story again, as a lyrical anti-fascist statement and a call to weigh friendship and good company over nationalism (of any sort), that I think is where the story gets really good.The modern era continues to give us a real choice. We can kill, without effort, to subdue the stranger. Or we can join the stranger for a meal and a conversation, and become friends. Which of these is the true vision of the world's leaders? Cold hearts, cold future.Something to think about as you watch the movie. "},{"Title":"Class(ic)!","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"34 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Every time I watch this I find something else I hadn't thought of before, every viewing is an augmented experience. Things I hadn't spotted at 11, 19, 22 etc I spotted last night, mostly inconsequential but still adding to the picture 36 years after my first time. That to me is the difference between great films and Great films, one of the reasons why this ostensibly simple movie is one of the all time Greats.And it is simple (the simplest things are usually the best) - boring to some people who sadly will never understand its logic and magic - an absorbing prisoner of war tale that is also a prisoner of class tale. It defines that class loyalties are more meaningful than patriotism even if not always practical, and that to those who consider themselves to have breeding it's far more important to have blood than capital. Boldieu and Rauffenstein embody this, they both knew their chivalric world order was being gradually diminished - the next war will and was led by people without breeding, types like Marechal and Rosenthal who fought on. The most significant borders are not between countries, races, religions, sexes or ages but those between the classes. Renoir was at his most inspired with Illusion, with so many memorable images and set-pieces, an engrossing storyline even when down to trying to say blue eyes in German or being posh by gossipping in English, and fantastic acting by all concerned. Everything has already been covered and better in previous posts, but I would add I don't understand why Regle du jeu is the Renoir film that gets the kudos today - unless by being deliberately more obscure it appeals to influential Artheads.The French film I love the most. "},{"Title":"A Timeless Classic","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"32 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Jean Renoir's classic La Grande Illusion has something to recommend it to anyone - there is fine acting, directing, writing, and photography, and a story filled with memorable characters who are involved in action, suspense, and drama, with some comic parts and even, later in the film, some romance.  All of it fits together perfectly to create a timeless and very satisfying experience.The movie takes place during World War I, and is often considered an anti-war film, but the themes about humanity, relationships, loyalties, and identities are all timeless and go beyond any mere political statement.  The interplay between persons of different nationalities and classes, thrown together by the war, leads to good drama and makes some profound points about human nature.  The story primarily follows three Frenchmen who are taken prisoner by the Germans, showing us how they manage to deal with their confinement, and allowing us to watch their disappointments and their attempts to escape.  The other main character is a German prison camp commander with whom they become friendly, raising complicated questions of loyalty and duty.The character studies are excellent, and all the fine acting and directing get the most of out the possibilities.  The settings are convincing and help the viewer feel what it was like to be in camp with the prisoners, sharing their boredom and their longing for freedom.  The plot itself is interesting, and has some exciting moments, but the main emphasis is on what the characters learn about themselves and about humanity in general.  There are many thoughtful scenes and some nicely defined secondary characters that round out the picture.This is a fine movie, deserving of its reputation, and one that should appeal highly to anyone who enjoys classic cinema.  "},{"Title":"A Vision of Reality the Way it Shouldn't Be...","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"32 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  It is a wonder to see a film from the 1930's so definite in its view and opinions, yet so touching and revelatory.  Jean Renoir's GRAND ILLUSION is a film of great importance, one that improves with each viewing.  Having just finished the picture again for the first time in some 7 years, I was struck by its freshness.  It is an Anti-War film set during World War I that is something to watch.  It demands intense viewing.This is a French work of art by the great Renoir, who would make his most acclaimed film, RULES OF THE GAME, two years later.  If you ask me, GRAND ILLUSION is the superior pic and holds up immeasurably better.  The small doses of humor and original characters in this film foresee the classic shooting party of RULES OF THE GAME.  With this movie, Renoir uses prisoners-of-war and the ludicrous element of war so prevalent in early 20th Century Europe and merges them into a film not unlike a play (an extremely well-written play).  The viewer has no illusions as to whether or not a war is happening.  We happen not to see any battles or gunplay, rather, the human element between men and women who are not so different no matter their ethnicity.Renoir's camera is an incredible tool used throughout.  He probes the characters at the various prison camps with some smooth dolly shots and brilliant use of focus and pull-backs.  It seems like an extension of his hand, much like his father's paintings.  One striking scene has some weary soldiers singing the French Las Marseilles after getting third hand knowledge of a French victory over their German captors.  Any scene with Erich von Stroheim is interesting because he is human and not some mindless German dictator so many people would come to know at the time of the film's release.  He is a broken man, scarred by war and looking to gain a friend in the enemy.  This is rare.As far as prison camp films go, these guys seem to have it easy, however the fact that they are officers gives us some explanation.  The story-line effectively moves from escape attempts to human realization of the situation they are in.  Parts of it reminded me of STALAG 17, Billy Wilder's 1953 classic no doubt inspired by GRAND ILLUSION.  This is Wilder's film without the Hollywood touch, realist and sometimes drab.  Abel Gance's J'ACCUSE would follow a year later.  If you want to see some anti-WWI films with two completely opposite methods of warning beneath the surface, see these two flicks back to back.The illusion of reality is shattered by war, Renoir is telling us.  If only it could be as simple as those amazing shots of the countryside from inside the German woman's house a breathtaking, simple look at a peaceful scene the way it should be.RATING ***1/2  "},{"Title":"Its Historical Significance Is No Illusion","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Franklin Roosevelt said of it Everyone who believes in democracy should see this film. Mussolini banned it in Italy, and Hitler's Ministry of Propaganda banned it in Nazi Germany. The film vanished during WWII, and was thought to have been destroyed. Then it was recovered in 1946, but in an altered state. Decades would then pass before the original negative could be confirmed.The Nazis hated the film because of its pacifist, anti-war, theme. The setting for the film is Germany in 1914, during WWI. Germans capture several French officers and take them to a POW camp, specifically for officers. After several escape attempts, the French officers get shuffled off to a presumably escape proof castle, run by Rauffenstein (Erich von Stroheim), a flamboyant German officer with a forbidding persona.Unlike other war movies, La Grande Illusion shows no actual combat, and the number of deaths is minimal. The film's tone is surprisingly lighthearted. Writer/Director Renoir conveys a sense of community among the French prisoners, despite their differences in social class. We see them several times sitting around a table eating, and chatting amiably. The cordiality between prisoners and their jailers is also surprising. It's not exactly a hug fest, but the predominant feeling among the men is respect for fellow officers, even if those officers are your enemy. None of the French or German officers want war; it's just their duty, when called on.In most of the film, scenes take place in small rooms or in that castle. Toward the film's end, outdoor vistas provide a visual contrast. Except at the film's end, I was amazed at how drab the surroundings are. Room furnishings are unadorned and contain the barest of essentials. Tables and floors are made of simple wood. The clothes are dreary and depressing. The stone castle is dank and forbidding. Music is made with simple instruments, like a harmonica or a flute. Of course, given the time period and considering the setting, such drabness and simplicity are not surprising. But the contrast with today's complex world of modern luxuries, that we take for granted, is striking. The film's B&W cinematography accentuates the drab environment.The story can be a bit confusing in the first half, because the relationship between the jailers and the prisoners is so unusual. Viewers need to give the film wide latitude on this. Watching the film a second time helps clarify who is doing what to whom. The plot is easier to follow in the second half.The film's acting is credible. I especially liked the performance of von Stroheim, all decked out in that imposing uniform, that monocle, and with that stiff bearing.La Grande Illusion is an unusual war film, one that had real significance during WWII. For this reason alone, it deserves to be seen. "},{"Title":"So,I finally saw it and of course I thought it was one of the best films ever!!!","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"34 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I have tried to get this film for months on the criterion collection but it seems impossible here in Sweden(Maybe not impossible,you can order it on Amazon but that´s to expensive).So when I finally found it on video this is what I say about itThis anti-war masterpiece film is really ONE OF THE GREATEST FILMS EVER.I almost liked it as much as seven samurai.It´s a about a group of French prisoners during the world war one.The performances is simply some of the best I have seen(Jean Gabin Erich von Stroheim...).The cinematography is beautiful,great script but I guess i was most impressed by the direction by Jean Renoir.I don´t think that I have been more touched by a film then this.It has such a deep humanity.A poetic film that should be seen by every one.Also remember that I have only seen this film once and it could be in my top 20 over the best films ever and when I watch it again it could be in top 3.RATING 5/5   "},{"Title":"Both expert and inept","Date":"13 March 2010","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I've just finished watching this film twice. Initially as my first ever viewing of it, and then again with the commentary track on. So it's quite fresh in my mind. And, with the benefit of the commentary, I don't think there's a lot that I missed.I'm still wrestling with my reaction to the film. There was much in the film that was skillfully done and rewarding. Some moving and thought-provoking themes. Some superb camera work. Some fine performances. Some memorable sequences. A lot of good movie making.And yet, on the whole, I find myself dissatisfied. Because as expertly done as many aspects of the film are, there are others where it is simply dismal. Its structure is a fiasco. Its plot a jumbled mess. Events which are played very significantly turn out to have no significance at all, and merely peter out. Key events are simply left out of the story, leaving us to wonder what happened. The movie breaks up essentially into three sections which have little to do with each other.The problem is, the movie lacks a tight, coherent plot, and is more a sequence of somewhat related events. It's sloppy and all over the map. And it's easy to see why Renoir's inspiration for the film was a collection of war stories recollected to him by an officer he met after the war. And that's exactly how the movie comes off, as a hodge-podge of ideas and stories thrown together, without enough effort made to sculpt the thing into a cohesive whole. Heck, Renoir didn't even know how to end it or what to name it until the very end, underscoring the fact that even *he* wasn't quite sure what he was making. What ended up on the screen is apparently vastly different than the first draft of the screenplay, which didn't even have some of the key characters, and was supposed to be about the various escape exploits of the protagonist. By the time we're done, we get only one actual escape for our hero, plus minor participation in a stillborn attempt.So you can wax on all you want about the great care and detail that went into every scene and camera shot, about the messages and the themes, about the acting, the sets, whatever you want. And I agree that, in looking at the details, at looking at the movie in a reductionistic way, it's a beautiful work of art. But a movie is about more than its parts. It's also about how those parts fit together to make a whole. And looked at holistically, I'm sorry, La Grande Illusion is a disappointment. The story rambles and just does not hold together.And I'm still *bugged* that we have no idea why Our Hero ends up in solitary confinement. "}{"Title":"One of greatest anti-war films with memorable acting from Stroheim, Gavin and Fresnay.","Date":"4 December 2009","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" During WWI two officers are imprisoned , lieutenant Marichal (Jean Gavin), and cultured captain named De Boeldueu (Pierre Fresnay). Later on, they meet other inmates as a rich Jew banker named Roshental(Marcel Dalio). Some time later, they meet again in a prison-castle commanded by aristocrat official Van Rauffenstein(Erich Von Stroheim in spinal collar).This is an excellent classic anti-war and deals about friendship, comradeship, and human relations. A heart-breaker and elegiac movie in the way it shows war undercutting and qualities of prison life. Interesting performances enhance an eloquent screenplay by Charles Spaak . It's a moving reflexion on high and low class , about war and death. Time has not diminished its qualities nor its charming to the emotions. Exceptional Erich Von Stroheim , remarkable in a self-effecting performance and perfect Jean Gavin as good official and mechanic in civilian life ; furthermore the comic relief by Carette. Fine musical score by Joseph Kosma , including emotive ¨Marseillaise ¨during theatrical acting. The movie was deservedly nominated best foreign film and won special prize of festival of Venice.The film is excellently screen-written and directed by Jean Renoir who approach the intensity and feel of his best works. Son of painter impressionist Auguste Renoir , was perhaps the best of French directors . At its initial French period he directed classics as ¨Boudu saved drowning, Rules of the game, Marseillaise, Day in the country¨ and of course ¨Grand Illusion¨ in which his optimism remains relentless . Renoir was in Hollywood for seven years, where he made ¨Swamp water, Southerner, Diary of chambermaid, This land is mine,and Woman on the beach¨. He returned France where directed other classic films as ¨Carrozza dóro, Testament Dr Cordelier, Picnic on the grass, Vanishing corporal¨ and several others. His films have influenced on Francois Truffaut, Luchino Visconti, Satyajit Ray , among them. Rating  above average, an extraordinary and sensational film. "},{"Title":"Class and the Great War","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"23 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I had to watch this movie as part of my graduate film class, and I didn't have terribly high hopes. I took French classes for five years, and my experience with French movies mostly involved Gerard Depardieu in some state of undress and many cameo appearances by disrobed ladies.But this wasn't bad...perhaps partly because it was made in 1937, before taking your clothes off onscreen was such a common occurence.This is, ultimately, a class picture. If you know anything about World War I, you know that a lot of the class ideals about upper class gentility and the way an aristocrat behaves died in the trenches. The war was a great leveller, and that leveling is what is showcased here.You never see the actual war. This isn't All Quiet on the Western Front. You only see some of the French officer POWs, and their treatment at the hands of their German captors. If you're familiar with war movies, you might be surprised at how cushy these prisoners have it--World War II certainly did not exhibit this kind of easy-going don't escape now, you said you wouldn't kind of attitude. But this was a different time, remember, when gentlemen still behaved as such, and those of your social standing were your equals, regardless of nationality.The unlikely friendship that develops between the Frenchman de Boeldieu and the German von Rauffenstein comes out of this class mentality. They are the upper class that is slowly dying out, due to the large number of lower and working class men that are entering the army and gaining some amount of money and respectability. It is the true emergence of the middle class, and the end of the grand illusion that was the importance of old money. Fellow Frenchmen Marechal and de Boeldieu can never truly be friends, even though their nationality would lead you to accept their friendship over one between supposed enemies--Marechal is working-class, a mechanic. Your gloves, your tobacco, everything seems to come between us, he tells de Boeldieu. De Boeldieu does, in the end, sacrifice himself for his countryman, but not simply because it is the patriotic and French thing to do. For a man of the people, it is terrible to die in war. For you, for me, it's a good solution, he says to von Rauffenstien. For the upper classes, this was truly the way they, and their way of life, died. The men that emerged, like Marechal, were the ones who would go on to shape the world we inhabit today.Wonderful performances all around, especially from von Stroheim. Truly overall a fairly great movie, and much preferable to seeing Gerard with no clothes. "},{"Title":"I think we can do nothing to stop the march of time","Date":"11 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Re-reading my review of 'Stalag 17 (1951),' I see that I referred to it as the template for every prisoner-of-war film that followed, including 'The Bridge on the River Kwai (1957)' and 'The Great Escape (1963).' Once again, my relative inexperience with cinema seems to have caught me out; this film from Jean Renoir uses a similar formula, and predates it by almost fifteen years. Billy Wilder must certainly have seen 'The Grand Illusion (1937)' &#150; since it features Erich von Stroheim, whom he himself used in 'Five Graves to Cairo (1943)' and 'Sunset Blvd. (1950)' &#150; and so Renoir's influence is present throughout. It's a WWI film, but we see no combat. Whereas most anti-war films illustrate their stance by pounding the all-too-familiar adage war is hell through images of death and destruction, Renoir's approach is considerably more understated. He highlight the futility of war through human interaction, both between the captured French prisoners and between the Germans who watch over them.Just what is the grand illusion? Renoir derived his film title from The Great Illusion, a 1909 non-fiction book by Norman Angell, in which the author argued for the impossibility of a large-scale European war for economic reasons. That WWI broke out five years later obviously proved detrimental to Angell's arguments, and Renoir deliberately plays on the irony of this knowledge. More significant, however, is that the book was released in a revised edition in 1933, the general argument modified to assert the utter utility of waging war, a theme that supports Renoir's stance this would not be the war that ends all wars. With WWII just around the corner, there's an bitter urgency to what the film has to say; just three years later, the director would be fleeing France. The topicality of the film's message proved especially successful overseas, and 'The Grand Illusion' was unusually nominated for the Best Picture Oscar in 1939.Of course, no Jean Renoir film is complete without some class-related social critique. Most striking in this regard is the relationship between Capt. de Boeldieu (Pierre Fresnay) and Capt. von Rauffenstein (Erich von Stroheim), from which, scandalously, it is implied that one's class forms a more binding camaraderie than that of nationality. Boeldieu and Rauffenstein, both multilingual upper-class aristocrats who sense their social dominance is drawing to an end, seek solace in each other's company, and feel closer to one another than to the lower-class men of their own armies. However, there is hope in Renoir's vision of society. The age of aristocracy is coming to a close, and a new social order &#150; in which all men are accepted as comrades &#150; is at the cusp of existence. Boeldieu accepts this inevitability, and, despite the initial suspicion of his fellow Frenchmen, ultimately offers his life to allow two lower-class companions to escape. He betrays von Rauffenstein in favour of duty to his country, even if his death provides only temporary relief from the inescapable futility of war. "},{"Title":"Moderately good war flick, but not the masterpiece many want to see in it.","Date":"20 September 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" As I approach my 100th review I've decided to dedicate the remaining ones until then to some alleged masterpieces. It's not that I have started only now watching them, mind you. I've seeing quite a lot during the last year, even if I've only reviewed a few, and&#x97;-my, oh my--there should be somewhere a textile plant working 24/7 just to weave enough fabric to cover the naked butts of so many emperors out there. Now to my review The first flaw I see in LGI is the acting, the mood it is too casual. See, these men come from war--from the worst form of war, trench war, which horrified even Hitler to the point of making him force his generals to develop a new form of it (Blitzkrieg). Yet they look sharp, mentally well, even with a gift for comedy, vaudeville, when their true life counterparts where mental & psychological wrecks after 18 months of carnage. I can believe that in TGE, where the POWs were airmen; or in Stalag 17 where they had seen little action before falling prisoners, but not in a WWI German POW camp. If you've seen films that accurately portrait the horrors of WWI--All Quiet in the Western Front, Paths of Glory--you'll agree that these men can't have come from the same place. It is only in the last half hour that LGI gives us a taste of what that war was really about, after the death of Boeldieu and the escape of Marechal & Rosenthal.Then there is the plot. It's not solidly built; it lacks deep. It meanders from subplot to subplot without being quite sure where it wants to go. The tunnel? Gone, forgotten. The vaudevillian which seemed destined to greater things? The same. And what about the Pindar reading guy, why is he just left behind? And what's the point of the Russian subplot? (In Stalag 17 there is also a Russian subplot, but to show that Sefton could get even women in that camp). LGI seems to find its calling only in its last 30 min., when Boeldieu dies and the escapees find the farm. Marechal troubled relationship with Else is the closest thing to a strong, deep, story line you'll find here, specially when his departure makes even sharper her loneliness and hardship, the same millions of women must have endured during that and any other war. But that's almost ruined by an unbelievable ending. An imaginary line on the snow makes the German guards let them go, instead of shooting them. As for the Rauffenstein--Boldieu relationship, I found the first just too eager to express his empathy for Boldieu and his reasons-&#x97;their common upbringing--a bit shaky. Their final scene evokes more a farewell of two lovers than anything else, which is emphasized even more by his symbolic cutting of his lone geranium.The direction is tight, but the editing from Hell. Many times, when something crucial happens, there is a sudden jump to a new scene without us having the chance of experiencing the resulting change of mood. For ex., when they are ready to escape and are told they'll be transferred to another camp, the action moves quickly to the transfer itself, without giving us the occasion of seeing them work out their disappointment. Then, after what it seems a trip with so many stops we see Rauffenstein reading that Marechal & Boldieu have attempted several escapes, which can only mean they were sent to other camps during that time, but no info at all is given to us about that. Or we see Marechal interrupting the drag show and right after that he's in solitary. We have no idea either of the passing of the (story) time--except when Marechal tells Boldieu they have been pals for 18 months&#x97;neither of the dates when this happens, except for some news bulletin which is dated 20 of Feb. 1916.Despite all that, not a bad movie, it has some interesting bits--like a flute playing Boldieu asking for some hot lead and the whole Elsa, Lotte episode--and there is good use of the settings, especially in the night scenes, with expert use of lightning and camera angles and movement. A quite decent movie but not a great one by any means. I suspect it's so highly regarded only because of conscience pangs, as everybody has ripped off something from it. 6.0/10.BTW' I don't agree with all that humanity of men in war and we are all equals crap critics talk so much about. Come on, these are the same Frenchmen who had an empire they were ready to keep at the cost of millions of lives, as they did in Indochina and Algeria. As for the commoners taking over, just ask William & Kate. "},{"Title":"Forerunner of Escape Movies and Social Satire","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  The Grand Illusion, a forerunner of escape movies as well as a social satire where the three French prisoners represent each own class, consists of roughly three parts which are slow and incoherent with each other. The desire for escape is not compelling while the prison room is huge and luxuriously furnished. The intense screen presence of Austrian director/actor Erich von Stroheim as an evil German soldier may be the best part of the film. "},{"Title":"With Enemies Like These, Who Needs Friends?","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" What a lovefest! Though set in the middle of World War I, yet this movie shows everyone getting along fabulously. A German and a French officer regard their class as more important than their nationality, the German being very sad when he has to shoot the Frenchman. A Christian and a Jewish officer become pals and celebrate Christmas together, at a time when anti-Semitism was quite common. A German widow protects two French officers who have escaped, falling in love with one of them. They plan to get married after the war. When the two escapees make it over the Swiss border just as the Germans arrive, the Germans are relieved that they do not have to shoot them.In the face of all this brotherhood-of-man stuff, we are forced to conclude that the whole war was just some big misunderstanding among friends. "},{"Title":"Offers sombre introspection but didn't win me over or draw me in particularly well","Date":"23 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This film was recently released on DVD and this was the trigger for me to finally get around to seeing the film I frequently heard referred to as a classic. I came to it not knowing what to expect from it &#x96; although of course I had some awareness of what others had said of it. Early on I was surprised by the fact that it jumps to the POW prison very quickly and that it doesn't have much in the way of action; I was also quite surprised by how much light humor there was in it &#x96; although this was perhaps more to do with the characters rather than the film itself. Indeed so surprised was I that I began to quite enjoy the film and be taken by the characters, the world of the escape attempts and the odd, chivalrous tension between the opposing officers.This turned out to be an error because soon the film starts to bring out the real anti-war message and the focus becomes on the pointlessness and emptiness of war, with the supposed rules and standards of behavior being little more than a paper thin construct of no real meaning. While many viewers find this engaging, I'm afraid that I did not &#x96; and trust me when I say that I wish I could, since it is always good to agree with the majority when it comes to classic cinema, for fear of being labelled an idiot due to a differing opinion. While I was quite held by the mix of realism, humanity, drama and pointlessness, there are several point where the focus on the latter becomes too tight. I should have seen it coming when we only hear about the many escape attempts (rather than see them) but it is not long before the emptiness of it all is pushed forward without anything else to provide framing for it to exist within.Don't get wrong, there is still much to enjoy with what the film does, but it did seem rather obvious the more it went on. I loved the contradictions within the attitudes of the German soldiers at the end, but mainly because this was smartly done and not pushed in my face as much as some of the other aspects of the second half. The actors give into it as well, even if they are mostly still good. Gabin is a good lead while I thought Stroheim and Fresnay worked well off each other throughout. The direction is good although the tone and pacing seems a little off scene-to-scene and also as a whole.This is still an interesting film as it provides a sombre view of war with a sense of the hollowness and meaninglessness of the artificial rules and structures established by man, but it is not quite the amazing film that most viewers will come to it expecting. Perhaps a historical appreciation of the film's place in cinema is what I'm missing, but for me it just seemed to be rather obvious in what it did and it did this will rapidly dropping any allusions towards being entertaining that the first half of the film suggested. It is an engaging film even with this, but it is best approached by blocking out the claims of classic and high praise that everyone seems to have for it &#x96; then expectations will be more measured. "},{"Title":"A Gentlemen's War","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Renoir uses the element of directing to expose the predominant theme of this film friendships are what sustain human life. Rather than choosing to focus on the suffering and angst of war, Renoir hones in on the humane aspects of brotherly love and kindness to display this message. This is revealed from the very beginning. When French pilots are captured behind enemy lines by the Germans, they are taken to prison amongst other nationalities where all are treated with respect. It seems more like a gentlemen's war in this regard. Renoir establishes this veneration by showing the veteran prisoners warning the newcomers of material confiscation. They do this by playfully singing a song about hiding your valuables. Renoir further directs the viewer's attention to the theme of friendship by showing that although the prisoners come from different backgrounds (i.e. occupations, interests, nationalities) they still can gather together in a welcoming environment to eat a home-cooked meal. They also help one another support the cause of escape by digging a tunnel under the barracks. Even under the direction of choosing the title of the film, Renoir ironically suggests that the grand illusion of war is war itself. War is what creates a violent façade over what matters most&#151;human relationships.Again this theme presents itself when the main character, Marechal (a Frenchmen), attempts to give information to an incoming caught Englishmen regarding an escaping tunnel in one of the barracks. Even though there is a language barrier and neither one of them understand each other, the attempt was made and further contributes to the spirit of unification and friendship. Through Renoir's sense of direction, he deliberately eliminates any prejudice between race and military status and in turn establishes a wonderful connection between all of the characters.The most powerful moment in the film that completely seals the theme is when Renoir romantically brings Marechal and a German widow together in a Romeo & Juliet type manner. Despite their countries fighting in a war with each other, they see beyond the hatred and find love. It is this love that clinches the highest form of friendship. "},{"Title":"Not sure now what Renoir is actually saying","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Just saw it again on TCM, and now I see things in the film that make me question my high regard and admiration for it. This classic film has a special glow of humanity, which makes it unique and instinctively accessible. One can understand why it was such a hit in 1937. At the same time, this is not a surrealist film or a satire as the title might suggest, but an interpretation of horrific events from the point view of a humanist, and in that sense you get the inspirational message which seeks to outweigh other issues, but if you stop and think about the whole thing you end up appalled by some of the conclusions you might end up with. If it had successfully advanced the theme that war is hell and that men seek to preserve their humanity under these conditions, fine. But that is not the end result the balance between the anti-war message and the idea that WWI was a gentlemen's war and that it brought the best out of men somehow leans on screen towards the latter and lends the film to negative interpretations. Renoir refuses to openly condemn war nor show its ugly face but by implication. And you can't say that wasn't Renoir's style, given his in-your-face condemnation of the attitudes of French's aristocracy prior to WWII in The Rules of the Game. Renoir emphasizes the men being pals and patriotic, eating well, joking, and dancing, which is what Renoir as a humanist understands men wish to do instead of fight, but the lack of any substantial sense of horror and suffering makes for an unbalanced film. The suffering is almost all psychological (life away from home and wife, loneliness) but it is hardly felt, except in the part of the story with the German woman, which is very successfully told. The physical suffering is not exposed at all, except for von Stroheimm's ailments, which are discussed tangentially, and even that suffering is mentioned but not felt. Renoir seems to expect the audience to presuppose the horror and the suffering. Renoir's conclusions in this film are confusing, naive and might even be considered downright insulting, particularly in the historic period this film was made. The problem might not be in Renoir's point of view or intentions but in what he actually put on the screen. So all in all, I'm not sure what Renoir is saying in this film, and therefore can not regard it as highly as I once did. I also agree with other reviewers that Renoir's technique is extraordinary but that the script is a mess. All in all, if you trust Renoir and stay with the humanistic theme and try to avoid any other interpretation you will still feel this is a great film, if not, then you will have serious reservations. I for one now have doubts. "},{"Title":"The Grand Renoir.","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" 'The Grand Illusion' ('La Grande Illusion', 1937) is the second Jean Renoir film I have seen so far, after the brilliant 'The Rules of the Game', which was made two years later during what is considered by many his most creative period (he also made 'La Bete Humaine' in 1938, based on Emile Zola's novel, also regarded as a masterwork). If in 'The Rules of the Game' Renoir focuses on the French bourgeoisie and their servants at a château during the onset of World War II (the basic premise was reimagined magnificently with British flavour in Robert Altman's Gosford Park, made sixty-two years later), 'The Grand Illusion' focuses on two officers of distinct social backgrounds captured during the conflict itself - in that case, World War I.However, 'The Grand Illusion' is not the average war movie, those filled with pyrotechnic action and explosions. It is extremely human and poignant, but also very humorous (at least, as humorous as a war story can be - a delicate, honest humor far from the sentimentality of Roberto Benigni's 'La Vita e Bella'). Basically, the title shows that in war, both lower and upper classes are the same, despite the illusions of superiority the richer folks might have. And they are all united by the desire for freedom - and their plan to escape will be their ultimate rebellion. The cast, formed by Austrian silent era director ('Merry-Go-Round', 'Greed') and actor Erich Von Stroheim (mostly remembered nowadays as the butler in Billy Wilder's Sunset Boulevard, 1950), Jean Gabin, Pierre Fresnay and Marcel Dalio, is uniformly precise. Highly acclaimed since its initial release (even being nominated for a Best Picture Oscar in 1939, the first foreign language film to achieve that, losing to Capra's You Can't Take It With You), The Grand Illusion''s original negative was seized by propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels when the Germans occupied France, and was thought lost for decades. The prints available were not of best quality, and Renoir died (in 1979) before the original negative was found (German film archivist Frank Hensel had had the negative shipped to Berlin; it was later captured by Russians, who shipped it to Moscow; later it was sent to France!). With the best print available since its release now on the Criterion Collection DVD, The Grand Illusion will remain the timeless tale of life struggling, rebellion, and humanity during wartime, as relevant today as it was seventy years ago. Sad trivia the little girl who plays Lotte never saw the film, having died of the flu weeks before the film was released. "}{"Title":"The Grand Illusion Is That Folks Think This Is a Great Movie","Date":"22 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I was looking forward to watching this film. I had read that Le Grande Illusion is considered to be a classic anti-war film. I was expecting something along the lines of All Quiet on the Western Front (a truly classic anti-war film, in my opinion), but Le Grande Illusion misses the mark when it comes to presenting the dark side of war. The only reason I gave it a rating of 2 instead of 1 is that on my copy of the DVD I watched there is a short message, an introduction, from the film's director Jean Renoir (son of the famous impressionist painter Pierre-Auguste Renoir). It was of slight interest for me to learn that Jean Renoir was a pilot during WWI and that some of the scenes in the film are based upon the stories of a pilot-friend of his, though who knew stories from a WWI pilot could be so boring? I had to fight to stay awake during this entire movie. At the end of the movie, I was reminded of the old Hans Christian Andersen tale The Emperor's New Clothes. People, this film ain't got any clothes. It was a complete waste of my time. "},{"Title":"Not the Greatest Anti-War Film, ever,...quite,","Date":"11 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The accolade for the greatest anti-war film ever made, must still go to Lewis Milestone's 1930 'All Quiet On the Western Front', though being an American film, feels very European. It's emotive depth and utter despair amongst the trenches reaches far and deep into the souls of everybody who watches it.Le Grande Illusion, though, always feels like a French farce, albeit a very good one. The script is its master-stroke, as is the characterisation of its lead players. I realise that this tongue-in- cheek laugh-in-the face of adversity is its trump card and it generally does a very good job of keeping the story flowing, as it's nearly two hours long.Erich von Stroheim, as he did also in Howard Hughes' Hell's Angels plays the archetypal German high-officer - his monocled Nosferatu-looks fitting every conceivable stereotype of what such an image of evil should look like. Jean Gabin, of course, known to us who love our (mostly) later French classics is reassuringly amiable and a portrayal of a decent, ordinary Frenchman should be like - rather like how 'our' John Mills would do 'us'.Maybe I have a problem with this film, in that it all bumbles along so nicely, never gets too heavy and that it's all too easy to simply not think too much, or too deeply about it. I'm on my fourth play now, in as many years, yet I still prefer Kubrick's 'Paths Of Glory', for its real shock of anti-war, how it grips the viewer like a vice, its claustrophobia hanging heavy, like a dose of flu. I also get strange hints of Billy Wilder's 'Stalag 17' - no-one has termed that an anti-war film yet it carries the same camaraderie and unification across the social classes (though not as wide; more racial probably) along with Wilder's infamous satirical wit.Like another reviewer has said, perhaps Renoir's film has lost its sting through time - how horribly ironic it must have been for French cinema goers to find that these horrors should test them again, just two years later. That is, perhaps the Grande Illusion, the ridiculousness and futility of it all. "},{"Title":"It's War, be a Gentleman","Date":"14 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Greetings again from the darkness. Often cited as one of the all-time great films, I was fortunate enough to catch this one again in a limited theatrical release ... a staggeringly beautiful and crisp print. The look of the film is so clear it looks new, and the updated subtitles make sense and are easy to read. As amazing as it looks, the real value is in the film itself.Directed by the great Jean Renoir, the story takes place during WWI and shows a much different viewpoint than what we would normally expect from a war movie. But then, this is not really a war movie ... or a POW movie ... or a Political statement. The real core of this story is the respect and gentlemanly nature exhibited by the men from opposing sides of the war. It is a reminder that war itself is the grand illusion. We also see the results of class differences. When German pilot von Rauffenstein shoots down a couple of French planes, he tells the recovery team to invite them to lunch if they are officers. And then we see the similarities of the aristocratic officers as von Rauffenstein and Captain de Boeldieu discover their common bonds.The influence of this film is quite obvious in two scenes. The digging of the escape tunnel and subsequent emptying of pockets on the prison grounds were borrowed in The Great Escape. Also, the singing of La Marseilles to annoy the Germans was used quite effectively in Casablanca. We also see a quite daring bedside death scene with the pure admiration between opposing officers who decide dying in war is a good way out for their types. Powerful stuff. There is also much commentary on differences aristocrats, working class, Jewish, Germans, and career soldiers. We even see cross-dressing (with a purpose) in a couple of scenes, one of which provides an unforgettable visual as the soldiers sing It's a Long Way to Tipperary.As great as the movie is, the backstory is almost as fascinating. Released as WWII was brewing, it was one of the first things Goebbels seized when the Germans took France. The original negative was shipped to Berlin and presumed destroyed. However, it ended up in Russian archives and was re-discovered in the 1990's. This was after Renoir attempted restoration from numerous copies in the 1960's. Unfortunately, he did not live to see this most recent restoration that brought the film back to it's original glory. Renoir's camera work is something to behold - subtle movements for extended shots. By the way, Jean Renoir is the son of the famous French Impressionist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. I believe they call that good genes.Silent film director Erich von Stroheim's iconic turn as von Rauffenstein is truly movie magic. You will recognize von Stroheim as the man servant in Sunset Boulevard. Boeldieu is played by Pierre Fresnay, Marechal is played by Jean Gabin, and Rosenthal by Marcel Dalio. Marechal and Rosenthal have a remarkable segment at Elsa's farm house. Elsa is played by the stunning Dita Parlo. This sequence provides a nice contrast to the POW portions of the film.This work of art is now 75 years old. It is highly recommended that you see it at least once. Also, check out Renoir's other masterpiece The Rules of the Game. "},{"Title":"German Or French, duty is duty","Date":"28 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Although World War I was one of the great exercises in futility hence the title of this film, Grand Illusion sustains the proposition that people do not like being prisoners, be it wartime or for civilian offenses. That they will try to escape is inevitable.Consider John Sturges classic The Great Escape. Unlike these French prisoners in the first World War in the second these people want to get back and get into the fight against an enemy of civilization itself. Jean Gabin and his peers just want out of a new escape proof prison camp which is an old castle replete with battlements and turrets and quite a drop to the ground. Their host at the citadel prison camp is Erich Von Stroheim who is similarly disillusioned.Von Stroheim strikes up a friendship of sorts with Pierre Fresnay who unlike his two fellow planners in escape is a professional soldier just like Von Stroheim. Fresnay is of the aristocracy and Von Stroheim is a German Junker, the landed gentry of which Otto Von Bismarck was the chief representative. Fresnay's death scene is quite touching.The three amigos among the prisoners are Gabin who is a working class stiff, Fresnay, and Marcel Dalio who is Jewish and has some wealth to him, but because of his religion can't crack the French upper crust. Fresnay's death allows Gabin and Dalio to break free from Von Stroheim's custody. What happens then is as Paul Harvey used to say, the rest of the story.One part of that story is Dita Parlo, a German farm woman who inexplicably shelters them. Her family has been decimated by the First World War and she also has few illusions. What goes on with Gabin and her could never be shown in Hollywood because of the omnipresent Code. But this is the French cinema and the plain fact is the woman has needs and Gabin looks more than capable of fulfilling them. Nothing that frank would EVER have been shown on the American cinema of the time.If there were an Oscar category for Best Foreign Language film in 1938, Grand Illusion probably would have won. As it was it was given a rare honor of being a nominee for Best Picture that year, but lost to You Can't Take It With You. Jean Renoir was sadly ignored for Best Director however. Still Grand Illusion remains quite the high point in his career and that of Jean Gabin. After over 70 years it still is a classic in both entertainment and in message content. "},{"Title":"A landmark in cinema that is difficult to interpret fully","Date":"4 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Grand Illusion is one of those movies that so often makes the list for some of the greatest films ever made. And deservedly so. Jean Renoir's 1937 World War I classic is stirring, intellectual, intricate, and deep. It's a film that has sustained the test of time and is remembered as one of the greatest statements on the absurdities of war surrounding the human condition. It focuses on French soldiers who are imprisoned in German POW camps and their relentless attempts to escape. This isn't a film that delivers what you would expect from a POW movie. It is something quite different and unexpected. It is a much more human look at the subject and becomes a much more realistic interpretation of the relationships of soldiers fighting a politician's war.If you only take Grand Illusion at face value, chances are you will get nothing out of it. What makes it so renowned is the vast amount of interpretations that can be drawn from the film. There is no clear cut way to decipher this film. It is a mash up of all different sorts of ideas and motives. Overall it is a statement on war, but there are so many elements that go into this statement that it makes it a chore to analyze and then subsequently articulate everything about this film. But that is sort of a reflection on the whole point the film pushes. You can't fully analyze the human condition. It is a constantly changing entity that can never be tangible. Grand Illusion captures these paradoxes and existential aspects of humans perfectly and then tells an engaging story that is both humorous and dramatic. It is entertaining as well as moving. It is an excellent embodiment of life as we know it.And of course no interpretation of the human psyche would be complete without fantastic visual sophistication to blanket it. Jean Renoir directs this film with such compassion and meticulous determination. And yet the direction isn't even the most prevalent thing in the film. Instead of taking over the story and characters the direction lifts them and locks in perfectly with them. Renoir keeps his camera present but not overbearing. For a director with such vision and prowess this can be a hard thing to accomplish. It's easy to go overboard and really push an aesthetic point, but Renoir keeps it all at bay and makes sure that the characters, storyline, and direction all come together as one glorious entity.There is a lot to Grand Illusion and that can put some people off. To understand this movie fully takes a lot more effort than the average film. You have to work to get the full enjoyment out of this film. On the surface it is still a good film, but there is a phenomenal amount of hidden beauty in its subtext. After one watch it was clear to me that I missed out on a lot of the subtle brilliance of Grand Illusion and thus I look forward to watching this film again. It is obviously a very subjective film, so I hope that through repeated viewings I can come up with my own personal interpretation of this film. But for now I will accept this film is the deep masterpiece that it is. I can tell it's a masterpiece, but I can't quite grasp what makes it such quite yet. However, it is still a tremendous film. "},{"Title":"Jean Renoir's thoughtful and humorous treatment of class/national differences in a WWI prison camp.","Date":"27 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Jean Renoir's La Grande Illusion is a film that certainly requires seeing more than once and special attention should be paid to certain scenes which, the first time around, might easily be neglected. For instance- Marechal's solitary confinement. When Jean Gabin is imprisoned for a presumed escape attempt and begins to lose his bearings in his isolation, his gentle German guard, Arthur, hands him a harmonica in the hopes that it will keep him occupied. After closing the cell door, Arthur leans in to hear whether Marechal will use the instrument, and upon hearing several notes played, contentedly closes the peephole, hoping he has done his bit to save his ward's sanity. This scene is so simple and yet heartbreaking; the basic gesture of one person reaching out to another to lessen his anguish is incredibly poignant.- The musical rehearsal. When one of the younger soldiers dresses in drag during rehearsal for the prison camp musical (it almost seems like they are in summer camp!), the camera lingers on how the rest of the soldiers, frozen, stare at his feminine apparition, while he mutters, C'est drole, c'est drole. Yes, the strangeness of men isolated from women and confronted with this ersatz woman is funny, but in a disturbing as well as amusing way. The scene emphasizes the overall unnaturalness to war's destruction of real family units. - The Christmas scene. When Rosenthal and Marechal join with the German (Austrian?)woman who has taken them in during their escape to celebrate Christmas with her young daughter, the peacefulness and the beauty of the most natural family scene in the story shine out. It is especially touching since we know that the two French soldiers are only temporary stand-ins for the husband and brothers that the woman has lost during previous wars. Her isolation, like Gabin's in his imprisonment, has become unbearable to her, and her relief at the companionship of the prisoners of war is immense but frail. Rosenthal's comment that the infant Jesus in the creche in their kitchen is a long-ago relation is ironic and heartbreaking given the extreme anti-Semitism lying ahead in the next world war. "},{"Title":"Classic Anti-War Movie","Date":"11 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Spoilers.Films like La Grande illusion have a lot to live up to. Widely acknowledged as a timeless classic, it's approached by the first-time viewer with a high level of expectation. As I watched the first twenty minutes or so I began to doubt the opinions of those who profess to know about such things. The forced, broad humour of the prisoners of war was off-putting and out of place. The comical yet annoying little French man who nearly suffocates in a tunnel would no doubt have received a few clouts within days of arriving at the camp if he lived in the real world instead of enjoying the tolerant good humour of his fellow prisoners.But once the prisoners are separated and moved on (on the very day they plan to leave by the tunnel they have been digging for months) and the film concentrates more on the working class Marechal (Jean Gabin) and aristocratic Bourdieu, it seems to find itself. The war has displaced these prisoners &#x96; they play childish games as they watch children training to be soldiers &#x96; and the film almost seems to be taking them through a new life, one which they must grow and mature into. They play foolish pranks, dress up in costumes, undergo a kind of homo-erotic bonding as they observe how women's hair has grown so short that it is like sleeping with a boy &#x96; before all conversation and activity is stopped by the sight of a young comrade wandering around in women's clothing he has acquired for a stage show.Marechal and Bourdieu are sent to a castle prison presided over by a German officer they have encountered before. The officer is played by Erich von Stroheim, and, in an understated performance, he speaks his lines with care. He too is a casualty of war, no longer able to fly because of injuries to his spine which leave him with his neck in a permanent brace. His character identifies with the aristocratic Bourdieu they know the same people, and have possibly slept with the same woman. It's at this point that class distinction comes to the fore. Renoir emphasises the differences in class to illustrate the fact that, while we may not all be the same, war influences all our lives. 'The rich and noble glorify death in service,' one of the officers opines, 'but for the lower classes it's a tragedy.' Marechal and Rosenthal, a Jewish prisoner, escape from the castle and are offered refuge by a German widow. The German, the Jew and the Frenchman live in harmony, enjoying a blissful Christmas together. All the men in her life &#x96; her husband and brothers &#x96; have been taken by the war, all of them killed in battles that were great victories for Germany. By now the film has dropped all pretence of humour and reaches &#x96; mostly successfully &#x96; for something more profound. War inevitably separates this happy trinity (plus cute child), and Marechal's departure, without tears or overt sentiment, is almost devastating in its subtlety and grace.By the time the film was over the near two-hour running time had passed in a blur. Our heroes make it safely to Switzerland, but Renoir is careful to avoid any hint of triumph; we see only two tiny figures trudging through the snow, watched by a troop of German soldiers who refrain from firing because their quarry has passed a border that Rosenthal has earlier declared to be meaningless. 'Borders are man-made,' he says, 'Nature couldn't care less.' "},{"Title":"French or German, duty is duty. I would've done the same.","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Jean Renoir's 1937 time capsule of poetic realism is all about tone, a tone of longing and cynicism. It has a heightened aestheticism, but one that doesn't draw consciousness to the representational aspects of the film. Long, fluid takes counterpoint the mood with a brisk pace. A bored restlessness. This film is a lot of things. It's riddled with symbolism, it has no interest in the war going on outside the walls of its POW camp setting and it captures a great feeling of male bonding and camaraderie. It's as if they're boys and the camp is a new school to them. Everyone alike complains about the food, the cold, the smells, what have you. Enemies are only enemies because it makes sense politically, not on personal level. It's good to see you again, gentlemen, Joseph Von Stroheim says. I'm sorry it had to be here. Even the planning of escape is patient and leisurely.Their easygoing attitude is in part disillusionment. They see the sternness of the neighboring boot camp Those children acting like soldiers. In here, the soldiers act like children. Dry, sometimes silly humor complements the attitude. When a German officer tries to cheer up an exasperated Jean Gabin in solitary confinement, it feels like the scene in Animal House when John Belushi tries to cheer up Flounder by crushing a beer can on his head. The central drive of the story, a plan to escape, seems to be out of a sort of rebellion against boredom. As one German says, The war's too long.When I first saw this film at a screening at the Taft Museum, I loved it but I felt the ending ruined it. It felt tacked on, unnecessary. But now, seeing the film again, I've changed my mind. The farm woman is a widow, they're fugitives. Hey, lonely is lonely. She and her daughter are naive, the POWs are disenchanted. They refresh each other.In this humanistic war drama, there is more frustration between classes than the sides of WWI. Everyone learns to give and take, without betraying who they are personally, without denying differences of culture and class. Playing patience? Yes. I'm a realist, says one aristocratic character as he and the other prisoners hydrate themselves with small dreams, digging a tunnel by night, dressing up in drag to awaken their memories of womanhood, commemorating the smallest and most tentative of defeats to the enemy as news dribbles in from the front, or von Stroheim's sensitive care of a geranium in his fortress bedroom. I love Von Stroheim, his extreme Germanness and how he uses his character's injured spine to complement it. It's one of the many nuances that complements the paring down of all the characters' views of life. The grand illusion is nationality. It's man-made, and so are borders. "},{"Title":"Our Personal Wars","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" In the film La Grande Illusion World War I is only depicted as an underlying force in the storyline. There are no scenes of actual battle, and no dialogue about what the purpose of the war is. There are three main characters in the film the aristocrat Captain De Boeldieu, the commoner mechanic Lieutenant Marechal, and the upper/middle-class Lieutenant Rosenthal. The primary focus of the film is on their personal relationships and situation. When the war does come into view for the characters it is only when one side is celebrating a victory while hearing distant news of the events unfolding. The film conveys that even the elite cannot escape war, and that the ways of life and class divisions throughout the world differ very little. In the prison camps people from of all classes come together. The only thing that really separates any of the different people is the fact their countries are at war with one another. When Captain De Boeldieu stages a diversion to help the two lower-class Lieutenants escape from the prison the German official seems shocked that Captain De Boeldieu would even want to leave seeing as how they relate in the fact they both come from an aristocratic background. La Grande Illusion doesn't present a definite message against war or against anything. It is fair to all its characters whether they are German, French, upper-class, lower class, et cetera. The film doesn't focus on a particular perspective; it follows all its characters with a non-judgmental sympathy. There are no villains or heroes in the film, and all the characters are able to relate on some level because of the universality of the war. Even though the people may speak a different language, or otherwise have lived a completely different way of life before the war because of the war they are brought together and now have the same concerns and a newly developed respect for one another. An upper-class French Captain is willing to die to help two non-aristocratic French Lieutenants escape from the German prison camp and the French Captain is able to forgive the German official who shoots him. A German woman helps the two French Lieutenants hide from the German search parties sent looking to kill or recapture them and the three form a close relationship despite the fact they cannot completely speak one another's language. The upper/middle class Lieutenant Rosenthal shares the food packages sent by his family with the other lower-class prisoners. The French invite the Germans to a theatrical performance they are putting on despite the fact that there is news of an important advance made by the German army against the French. Through all the barriers of class, nationality, and language the characters can all relate to one another, and they all share a respect for one another. It can be assumed that the reason for the war was the fact that those barriers existed and were taken seriously in the first place. Each individual doesn't necessarily have a place in the broad-scope of World War I, but each character does have their own struggle with the situation the war has put them in, and to survive they learn stop separating themselves from others based on the sort of divisions that started the war to begin with. Despite this message ironically in the end Marechal and Rosenthal survive being within sight of the German military looking to kill them by simply crossing the non-distinct artificial boarder to the neutral territory of Sweden. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The image is grainy, the sound tinny, and it's a great movie, one of only a handful of movies that are truly anti-war. The ordinary anti-war movie typically gives us plenty of blood and intestines to show us how awful war is -- and then at the end, we win. Nobody really wins here, although I guess two French officers escape from the German POW camp successfully and reach Switzerland. But this film gives us no battles, no gore, only one death, and no long speeches about how fruitless it all is.There are four principal actors -- Gabin, Dalio, Fresnay, and von Stroheim (who picked up his von from the same place Claus von Bulow got his). Gabin has big eyes and a homely face that seems made of putty. Fresnay projects aristocracy and good breeding. Dalio is Rosenthal, the Jewish French lieutenant. He speaks German with a Yiddish accent, like James Cagney did. Dalio was in a number of French movies that have become classics of their kind then, barely escaping the Nazis, came to Hollywood where he played in three movies made from Hemingway stories, leading to his apotheosis on the silver screen as the gay interior decorator in Pillow Talk. The grand illusion in the title comes from an exchange between Gabin and Dalio as they are crossing the German countryside in civilian clothes. Gabin says, I don't know who will win this war but let's hope it is the last, and Dalio dismisses the hope as an illusion. History has come down on Dalio's side. As Santayana put it, only the dead have seen the end of war. The film takes a trajectory from amusing to tragic, involving several POW plot touchstones -- the digging of the tunnel, the musical show in which prisoners dress up as girls, the hidden contraband in the barracks. The comedy is pretty good sometimes. The Russian prisoners receive a big box, a present from the Tsaritsa. Caviar and booze! They invite the French and English prisoners to the coming feast, but when they break open the crate it's full of books -- Introduction to Grammar, Elements of Philosophy. They are so enraged they set fire to the box and its contents and brawl with the guards. The Russian aristocracy might have avoided revolution if they'd understood the needs of the common man.The saddest part is near the end, when Gabin and Dalio take shelter in a farmhouse with a German widow and her young daughter. The widow is plain looking, young but not too young, and blond, and she's lost all the men in her family to the war. The little girl, Charlotte, is trusting but not cute. Over time Gabin and the widow fall in love. He teaches her a bit of French and she teaches him a little German -- Lotte hat blaue Augen. It's all very understated. No one weeps when Gabin and Dalio leave, except perhaps the viewer. I'm moved every time I see it, enveloped in a loathsome sentiment. It's well worth watching, if only for Eric von Stroheim's performance as the major in charge of the prisoner's castle. He is an aristocrat and so is one of the French prisoners, Fresnay. Von Stroheim treats Fresnay with masculine affection, like the geranium he cultivates in his stone fortress. The two aristocrats know their time has come, that the world belongs to commoners like Gabin and Dalio. They're like the gunfighters or gangs of the disappearing Old West, unable to adjust to the changes. Fresnay is philosophical about it. Von Stroheim regrets having only been severely wounded and not killed outright. That monocle! Those braces on his neck! The cigarette holder! And I swear that he speaks French with an American accent! See the major click his heels and bow. See him drape his greatcoat over his shoulders like a cape. See the movie! "}{"Title":"Unusual, curious enterprise...","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Occasionally very strange, subtitled French film about two soldiers--POW's during WWII--plotting to escape extravagant German fortress run by a strangely polite and benign official. Not your typical war movie; the film plays out like a tall tale, a legend. Leads Jean Gabin and Pierre Fresnay are very good, and the lightly-spirited, often humorous picture still looks good today. There's a nice romance between handsome soldier Gabin (who reminds me of a young Kenneth Branagh) and a farm widow, and director Jean Renoir gets a nice balance of moods on film, even if the opening is a bit obtuse and the characters and narrative are initially perplexing. Eventually it is intriguing and ultimately satisfying. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Class consciousness","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Jean Renoir was a man behind this masterpiece of the French cinema. It stands as an anti-war document by itself. The incredible DVD version looks as great today, perhaps, as when the original film was released. The screen play by M. Renoir and Charles Spaak was the original model, which many other films that came later, copied and profited from.La Grande Illusion presents us a group of men that come together because of the war. If there were no war, none of these men would have met, let alone, would ever have crossed paths in real life. The top brass in the European armies were headed by the aristocracy. These rich classes only intermingled with their peers; they only gave orders to their subordinates. WWII changed all that!M. Renoir gets excellent acting from the three principals. Jean Gabin, as Lt. Marechal, shows why he was one of France's best actors. Pierre Fresnay, the aristocratic French Capt. Boeldieu, and Erich Von Stroheim, as Capt. Von Rauffenstein, his German counterpart, are amazing in the film.Together with The Rules of the Game, this film will always be one of the most cherished French films of all time. "},{"Title":"The best film ever made by anyone, anywhere, ever","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  The power of La Grande Illusion is such that it forever altered cinema. It has been copied in lesser films such as the Great Escape and Casablanca. It has burned its mark onto cinema forever. As a professor of film, I have seen thousands of movies and this one alone still can move me, even after more than 100 viewings. Eric Von Stroheim's performance as a German general is touching, compassionate, and brilliant. Jean Renoir, who also made La Regal Du Jour, another one of the finest films in history, directs his actors and shoots his scenes to perfection. If you are fed up with Hollywood garbage like Lord of the Rings and The Matrix, this is the film to see. "},{"Title":"Out there, children play soldier...In here, soldiers play like children.","Date":"24 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" LA GRANDE ILLUSION is one of the biggest accomplishment of French and world cinema. Anti-war theme is shown in a rather strange way. Senselessness of war is the essence. At a frivolous (human) and non-violent way emerged the war illusion. Human relations during the war, the loss of any meaning and value. This is a strange story about human relationships in a time of war.Prisoners of war camps. The camps in the war could be called hell on Earth. Here are just illusions. Renoir gives us a work of art that explores the depth and complexity of human relationships. One difficult and undesirable topics is presented with a lot of modesty and charm.In the film's social status is reduced to a minimum. The soldiers are essential and a little crazy. The relationship between prisoners and soldiers is almost friendly. Full of patience and respect. War is man's ultimate folly, for it brings him losses that are permanent, and victories that are pyrrhic and short lived.Scenography and acting are excellent. Watch Gabin (Lieutenant Maréchal) and Fresnay (Captain de Boeldieu) is a real pleasure. Erich von Stroheim (Captain - Major von Rauffenstein) is quite realistic figure and around him is spinning an illusion and absurdity of everyday life. Dita Parlo as Elsa appears briefly but leaves a strong impression. There are so many different and important characters who acting with a lot of freedom and creativity. Renoir reveals every aspect of his characters.This film is full of humanism, heroism, drama and adventure. All of these features are mixed in a war illusion in which is hard to believe, but it's very nice to see and feel. A little comedy of manners is welcome, romance also.Whether it is or not, the film tells us that men can act nobly, even when they are a part of something that is not itself noble. Mankind must rise from ruin. Unfortunately, to this day all is one La Grande Illusion. "},{"Title":"You have no right to open my ham.","Date":"1 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I really, truly enjoyed this film. I wasn't expecting to because war-related movies aren't particularly my thing, but this isn't really about war. To me, it was a film about humanity, and it delivered its message with such grace. The story was solid and made for a really pleasant experience. I caught myself wondering how the heck the filmmaker made me want them to escape almost as much as they wanted it, and that's awesome.The acting was excellent. It seemed effortless for them to be these characters, and I've never felt that before when watching a movie. The main character was my favorite, for sure. Handsome in a non-traditional way, and there was something about him that was so mysterious- a combination of cool, tough, fearless, but sensitive. The characters were so genuine. Great performances all around. The respect with which they all treated one another was beautiful, despite the captives/captors dynamic. Not a romance movie but the minor bit of love was surprisingly touching. Not sudden, I can't live without you! love like I've seen in a lot of old classics, but gradual, sweet, believable love.It was a simple, tragic, sweet story. No ground-breaking cinematography, but definitely beautiful. Great establishing shots. The director did a great job of giving the viewer an understanding of the time, the setting, how things worked in the camp, everything. Really smooth and nice panning shots. It's not an especially fast, thrilling story, but it definitely doesn't lag or make you look at the clock either. I enjoyed it the whole way through. No wasting time with unnecessary or redundant scenes or dialog.I loved this movie, honestly. I definitely recommend it and I'm happy to have it in my collection.9/10 Bye love you "},{"Title":"The French Great Escape in WWI","Date":"23 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" During WWI, French aviators aristocratic Captain de Boeldieu and working class Lieutenant Maréchal are taken prisoners. Boeldieu and the victorious aristocrat German aviator von Rauffenstein actually has a lot in common. The two captives have differing experiences finally arriving in Wintersborn prison commanded by von Rauffenstein. The prison duo and Rosenthal try to escape.There are some interesting parts in the first half. It's about 50 minutes when they get to the castle prison. A modern POW escape movie would send them to one place and let the tension built. The second half is closer to that idea. The castle prison isn't the most impressive or the most forbidding. That holds back the movie a little.The characters are well drawn. The actors are very natural. Beside an escape movie, this is very much a relationship movie. It's their different backgrounds and their connections that make this more. It's a fairly compelling movie but it's not really a war movie. There is very little action or even gun fire. This is more of a human relations movie. I do wish that the original duo stay together throughout the movie. That way their relationship could develop more. "},{"Title":"memorable","Date":"20 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" a touching story. and a powerful warning. precise portrait of a group. and image of a war. one of contemporary films who, in each society, in each period, remains a reflection of present. the secret - Jean Renoir delicacy in create a credible manifesto, the splendid cast - Erich von Stroheim, Dita Parlo or Jean Gabin in admirable roles - and brilliant acting, the wise use of silences and the filming angle. and, sure, the story. it is more than artistic work. or great legend. it remains memorable for the generous honesty. for the symbols - the pelargonium -, for the map of feelings, for the inspired manner to remember basic pieces who defines existence. it is not exactly a lesson. only a memorable meeting. with a masterpiece, of course. but, more important, with yourself. "},{"Title":"This film is a master piece on shows how war used to be","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Grand Illusion shows the struggles on war, and the struggle between the rich and poor class. The film actually doesn't show war between the French and the Germans and instead Jean Renoir took another approach to the film. The Film instead shows a typical life on a POW in the first world war. While watching the film you'll take note that neither the German people nor the French are enemies but instead respect and care each other. In one scene at almost the end of the film one of the leading characters Le lieutenant Marchall a French man played by Jean Gabin meets a German women named Elsa played by Dita Parlo, while fleeing from the POW camp. As the film progresses you'll notice that Marchall and Elsa care deeply for each other but are separated by the fact that both of their country's are at war. "},{"Title":"Worthy of its stature as one of the all-time masterpieces of cinema","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Released in 1937, Jean Renoir's Grand Illusion remains one of the most revered films of all time seventy five years onward. The story of a group of working class Francophones trying to escape imprisonment during the First World War, the picture has been praised both for its exceptional acting and craft and its driving humanist, anti-war themes. As a young person taking in this Renoir classic for the first time, I can attest that the film holds up very well.Grand Illusion follows a company of working class French men imprisoned in a German POW camp during World War I. Amongst them the proletariat Parisian Marechal (Jean Gabin), the French Jew Rosenthal (Marcel Dalio), and a nameless engineer (Gaston Modot) - they are distinct from one another but share an understanding of the futility of the war they're fighting and a desire to escape. This futility is exemplified through the interactions between the Captain of the men, De Boeldieu (Pierre Fresnay), and the head of the German POW camp, Von Rauffenstein (Eric Von Stroheim), who are both aristocrats and share more common ground than the respective lower class men they represent.All of the elements of the film are at a higher tier of quality the dialogue eloquently written, the performances subtle, the camera movements elegant (Renoir's camera has a way of artfully manoeuvring around rooms and dinner tables, following important characters as they talk and keep the plot moving forward). What truly makes Grand Illusion great though is not these formal elements but the larger statement they are in service of. Renoir was a writer with something to say, and from the scene where the French soldiers band together to put on a talent show to the final sequence where Marechal and Rosenthal are kindly taken in by a young German widow, he drives home his theme of the futility of war by highlighting the common humanity of people.In conclusion, Grand Illusion has aged remarkably well and remains one of the cinema's great masterpieces. Tied with Rules of the Game, it is Renoir's greatest work, and a must-see for anyone with a passing interest in cinema. It's a perfect example of what quality filmmaking is high artistry in all compartments at the service of a simple but driving truth, in this case the grand illusion that war is something worth pursuing. "},{"Title":"The Grand Illusion's blend of camaraderie, sense of tragedy and emotion that makes this film so timeless and a pleasure to watch.","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" It startles me now how much the prison break subgenre can do. It gives us Cool Hand Luke, The Shawshank Redemption, Le Trou, The Defiant Ones and The Grand Illusion. Perhaps it's the subgenre that can reveal the most humanity. The Grand Illusion definitely deserves the classic status it has. Although the plot can be hard to follow as well as tracking the side characters, it's the profound themes that shine out. It suggests the idea that the grand illusion of life is the differences between people, specifically through nationality and class. It's touched on in a brilliantly ironic way, best summed up from its last moment. I'll have to rewatch this film to get under the character's skin but its influence on cinema remains powerful. It's The Grand Illusion's blend of camaraderie, sense of tragedy and emotion that makes this film so timeless and a pleasure to watch. I'm very glad I finally watched it.9/10 "}{"Title":"You Can't Mass-Market Cynicism...","Date":"9 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Most hail La Grande Illusion for its overt commentary on class politics and depiction of horizontal/vertical boundaries. The film also has its subtleties - De Boeldieu knows the downsides of both aviation uniforms which is a keen distinction on his part and one that defines bourgeois upbringing. Some would identify such distinguishing as snobbery while it must also be considered as an element of intelligence and foresight. English as a mediator language is another element of foresight as it did prove to become the international language, for all intents and purposes. What is the 'Grand Illusion' then? Is it that to conduct war with rules beguiles the essence of rank inherent to those rules? Is it that the rhetoric of fraternity ignores other roles in the genealogy of social organization? These suppositions would imply a hard Left position within the film. However, the film's direct reference to a grand illusion is that the war would soon end. Renoir posits thus that war is an eternal process because of a dishonesty between internal and external truths. This is best exemplified through the theatre prep scene where the 'awkward' silence hints at something being said internally that would never be admitted to externally. And so the illusion is imagination itself... we are always exercising it but only within a bordered construct of the psyche. Imagination has an infinitely expansive quality but remains 'stuck' within the fixed borders of what is consciously understood (known, accepted, denied and disavowed). De Boeldieu's What's fair in a war echoes the greater truth of what's fair in life. Illusion is a consistent film stylistically - great depth of field, long tracking shots, group dynamics, polyvocal dialogue superseding shot-reverse-shot construction, mobile framing, the long shot. When Gabin's Marechal is put in solitary, there is no significant closeup treatment and no attempt to draw out psychological response or evoke emotions in the spectator - despair of the individual is not entertained by the apparatus. Illusion is a powerful film which highlights that sooner than Renoir being a humanist and ambiguous politically, he is ambiguously humanist and thoroughly apolitical. "},{"Title":"Duty bound despite differing social and political affiliations.","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" One of the reasons why Jean Renoir's Grand Illusion holds up so well some 70 years after its release is because it isn't wholly about war. It is on the surface and to a degree, but like The Great War it inhabits, this is a film depicting the two key countries of Europe in the first half of the 20th century attempting to cooperate and even be amiable to one another. In a sense, this is a brilliant social exploration of two very different groups of people that have much more in common than they realize.France and Germany were the key settings for WWI; after all, probably 75% or more of the combat was at the Western Front, that horrific, brutally long death trap known as no man's land. Because of this and the issues building up between France and Germany at the time of this film's release (1937), it is crucial to have a slight understanding of the background between these two very proud but somewhat stubborn nations. With this in mind, it is much easier to see why these characters act the way they do they are living in the past at a time when the whole world is shifting from the Victorian to the modern period.From a historical perspective, this film is fascinating in terms of understanding these characters' backgrounds and motivations. This assists in appreciating the film from a cinematic perspective, which is just as easy to do. Renoir films have a way of sneaking up on the audience as they tend to start out slowly, then gradually progress forward until they pack such an emotional and visceral wallop that you are hooked to the end. Here, Renoir uses his camera as a tool of information, panning over the various French prisoners and German soldiers, showing us numerous examples of how these peoples have much more in common than they would like to admit. Indeed, there is a great spirit of camaraderie as the Germans are more often than not somewhat civil to their French POWs. Renoir is telling us here that WWI could very well have been avoided and another world war needed to be treated the same. Along with beautiful camera work, the dialogue works at such a harmonious pace that it is just so wonderful to listen to these people talk. This is a rare occurrence amongst films today, so it must be appreciated.Overall, this is an exciting film not only for its cinematic value but also its value as a historical archive. It is a great instructive tool as an introduction into WWI and the modern era. It is also a touching and powerful story about friendship, loyalty and civility. Whether it is a pure anti-war film or not is to diminish its overall quality. Renoir is able to penetrate much deeper than just the surface. "},{"Title":"Hasn't aged well.","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" There are certain films that, due to their strong reputation and historical significance, are supposedly beyond criticism. Citizen Kane, Seven Samurai, 2001, The Godfather and many more are examples of films that despite not being necessarily perfect, many say that they are beyond criticism, and that if you do criticism them, you must discuss what masterpieces they are first. One of those films is Grand Illusion. Considered to be one of the first prison escape movies ever made, the film is meant to be one of the best ever made, for not only being the grand-daddy of prison escape films, but for having great characters, an engaging story and a strong anti-war message laying underneath its skin. However, while it does have many positive attributes, Grand Illusion isn't the masterpiece everyone believes it to be, due to poor narrative and being very overlong.The plot is that after being shot down during an aerial battle, a group of French soldiers are sent to a German prison. Here, they decide to escape, and use many cunning plans in order to do so. That's really all of the story there is here, and while its simple nature makes it seem impossible to screw up, the story is poorly told here. This is due to how there isn't much of a story throughout much of the film, and many scenes consist of characters talking about things not story related or utterly pointless scenes as well (i.e. a scene where the prisoners display a show to the Germans) that should have hit the cutting room floor. Because of this, the film feels very baggy and overlong as a result. It also doesn't help that the character development is quite inconsistent. While I understand that the film is essentially an ensemble piece, there are too many characters for the film to juggle, leading to few characters we care about or are interested in, and many we couldn't care less about. It also doesn't help that there isn't much threat from the villain characters, as they act very friendly towards the heroes and in a later scene when a protagonist dies, the villain tends to his need. Sure, the scene that this leads to is a wonderful moment (something the film sadly has too little of) and it does represent director Jean Renoir's pacifist views but it fails to create any tension or conflict within the story, and if the audience doesn't care about the events on screen, then what's the point of watching?The film isn't a complete disaster though. The film is clearly well made , some of the characters are at least interesting and the cast are excellent, with Jean Gabin, Marcel Dalio & Erich von Stroheim in particular giving standout performances. It is also at least an entertaining experience for the most part, and it is also an interesting watch, as it is compelling to see one of the first prison escape films and to see how it influenced later prison escape films as a whole.It is because of this that while Grand Illusion isn't a complete failure, it is very flawed and it hasn't aged very well, due to its overlong length, barrage of pointless material and lacking any tension or suspense for the most part. However, there are some great moments here and there and the acting is fantastic overall. So in conclusion, what you have is a mediocre film that despite its iconic status is quite problematic. However, it is worth checking out to see one of the forerunners of the prison escape genre, and is occasionally brilliant here and there. If you must get it, get the Criterion version above all others, as it goes into great detail about the film, it's history, cast biographies and Nazi ban. To be honest, the edition gives the film a better treatment than it perhaps deserves. "},{"Title":"There is a grand Illusion indeed with this once-banned film. Everybody thinks it's the best film ever. It's a good film, but kinda overrated","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Don't get me wrong, I love this film, but I don't see it being one of the greatest films of all time. It was pretty hard to watch and get through. It's not the fact that it was made in 1937 by French director Jean Renoir for a French speaking audience, and I can't relate to the film due to its aged and language. It's the fact that the film's themes put me in odds and the editing was just horrible. It's not the director or the editor at the time fault. It was World War 2's fault. For many years, the original nitrate film negative was thought to have been lost in an Allied air raid in 1942. Then, it was revealed that the original negative had been shipped to Berlin during the Nazis control of France due to the ban of the film during WWII. Then in Cold War, Berlin in 1945, the film was controlled by the Soviet's zone and consequently shipped along with many other films to Moscow. The negative was returned to France in the 1960s, but sat unidentified in storage for years. In the early 1990's, it was found, restored, and re-released in the United States in 1999. Overall, watching the badly damage film getting restored was a blessing, but it didn't make the film any better. Probably in pre-World War 2, the film was pretty amazing, but after World War 2, this film feels like a long lost puzzle just put together, with a few of the original pieces missing. It just doesn't have that same grandeur. La Grande Illusion is about a small group of French officers who are captured during World War I and are plotting an escape from a German prison camp. The title of the film comes from the book, The Great Illusion by British economist Norman Angell, which argued that war was futile and pointless. One thing, I do love about this movie is that there is no all-good and all-bad type characters in this film. The Germans were portrayed in a mostly positive light, and not like negative evil madmen like other war films do. Elsa (Dita Parlo) had a very powerful scene about talking about how big the table is, now. It really hit you, when you see how the toll of the war has cause this woman, so much pain. Erich von Stroheim as Captain von Raufeenstein, the warden of the prison had great acting. You can tell through his acting that the character felt pain, not only because of what happen to his body, but also to what is happening in the world. The French characters like aristocratic Captain De Boeldieu (Pierre Fresnay), working-class Lieutenant Maréchal (Jean Gabin) and Wealthy Jew, Rosenthal (Marcel Dalio) were all great in their roles. The film was generously humanistic to its character of various nationalities. Still, the movie has this odd tell rather than show moments. There is a scene in the beginning, where De Boeldieu and Marechal are going to do an air reconnaissance before captured, and a minute later, they are sitting down with Captain von Rauffenstein for dinner, captured. Where is the scene where they get shot down? They talk about it, but we, the audience don't see it. It was a bad jump cut. Even in the meal scene, the music cuts off pretty oddly to show people do die in this war, as symbolism by the funeral wreath, but still it's awkwardly cut. There are hundreds of badly made cuts in this film. Then, there was a vaudeville-type performance that was pretty weird, that remind me of 1963's Great Escape and 1953's Stalag 17 type humor. I do like the 'LA Marseillaise' scene that remind me of 1942's Casablanca. Still, most of the film felt like watching Hogan Heroes, then a real life movie about prison camps. The different between Great Escape, Stalag 17 and this movie is that this movie fails to make the prisoner-of-war camp look a place, you want to escape. Yes, the guards here were kinda mean, but in no ways, brutal like other two films. The prisoners were living in a castle, no less, better off, then the soldiers living in the trenches at the time. The film loves to say that there is a language barrier between the characters, but throughout the film, the characters understood each other more than I did, watching. The movies go quickly with the French, German, Russian and English dialogue, it does get confusing. The English seem out of place. There is a scene where Boeldieu and Von Rauffenstein spoke English for some odd reason. When did this English speaking came from in the film? I don't know how Maréchal is unable to pass word of the tunnel to an incoming British prisoner, when Boeldieu speak English. Boeldieu and von Rauffenstein, are aristocrats represented as cosmopolitan men, educated in many cultures and conversant in several languages. In true life actor Erich von Stroheim didn't speak a word of German. The film would be easier for the audience to understand if they stick with just French. Indeed, watch the film with sub-titles. You need them. I do like the message that critique the romantic idealization of duty, by showing how the aristocrat old order of European civilization has died in this war. I love the symbolism of the flower in the prison. I do like how the movie fights against the anti-Jewish campaign enacted by Adolf Hitler's government at the time, by making Rosenthal looks like a good man. Overall, this film does one thing right, it shows a realistic interpretation of the relationships of soldiers fighting a politician's war. That is why it's one of the great movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"4 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Renoir paints a picture of a different world - this is way before Nazis and Hitler changed our perception of German soldiers, in WW1 there were actually old-school army gentlemen who would honor the enemy, shake hands and apologize for inconvenience. So we have characters of obvious aristocratic background behaving like gentlemen towards each other even as enemies and working class common soldiers going trough the horrors of war together. Interestingly, Renoir shows both french war prisoners and German soldiers with deep understanding of humanity, I dare to say he shows them all as human and not enemies. Jean Gabin is suffering in a solitary imprisonment and old German soldier feels sorry for him. His friends war prisoners are all lovable rascals, just like some of German enemies are simply people mobilized (kids in uniforms marching). Friendships that grow out of sharing the same circumstances (wealthy Jew who shares his food with everybody), young German widow who lives in a house with a big empty table because all of her family had died in a war. I understand this all too well,because I was in a war myself and people around me (and probably on the other side) were ex-civilians who happened to be pulled out of their usual circumstances, postman, the butcher and such. There is a very interesting story - divided into several parts - that I won't go into right now,it really has to be seen. It definitely deserves its reputation as masterpiece and one of greatest films ever made. I dare anybody to watch it and not be moved. Its really up there with The Best Years Of Our Lives except that its done with European sensibilities and a lot of compassion for both sides. Because it was so famous, Germans banned and seized the copies as soon as they occupied Paris (this turned out to be a blessing in disguise when decades later this copy was found in excellent condition). If in the beginning I was simply following the story, eventually I got so involved that towards the end I found myself crying several times because I loved and understood the characters so well. When Gabin tries to explain (in his bad German) to a German widow After war.. if me no die.. I come back I bawled like a baby. Definitely one to watch again. "},{"Title":"So much human decency!","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" There is not a single scene which I hated. Grand Illusion has one of those rare touches to it in the film industry. If the full 114 minute edition of it was released in 1937 (and not the butchered one), it would've been guaranteed a Best Picture win. I found the Criterion of it as a godsend (allegedly out of print) and quickly grabbed it before anyone else would get their hands on it. I love this movie to death. It's my new all-time favorite now. Even though I consider Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas and Pink Floyd The Wall the greatest films I have ever had the fortune of bearing witness to, Grand Illusion takes the cake. Yet there is so much human decency throughout this film, Grand Illusion would share that cake without hesitation. No-one told me about this movie. Criterion's library made me stumble upon this masterpiece. This film also has a special place in my heart, as the first Criterion movie I ever purchased. If you are depressed, or down, and enjoy foreign films, then watch this movie. If effects last longer than 4 hours, then this movie did a pretty good job on you. "},{"Title":"Illusion, like The Breakfast Club, about Class","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The first thing you need to know is that this WWI POW film has much in common with The Breakfast Club. But we'll get to that later. Despite it's masterpiece designation,Grand Illusion is as watchable as many modern dramas. You don't have to have a PhD in Film Studies to appreciate the movie.The film tells the story of Lieutenant Marechal (Jean Gabin) and Captain de Boldieu, two French officers fighting the first world war. Marechal is a pilot and blue collar guy while de Boldieu is an aristocrat. They are shot down by Captain von Rauffenstein, a German aristocrat, while flying a reconnaissance mission. Von Rauffenstein, even in the midst of warfare, gives the officers a distinguished welcome and toasts their arrival, sharing wine with them at his table. Bullets might not care about your station in life, but von Rauffenstein is determined to preserve social order in spite of the chaos.These opening moments tell us what will be at stake throughout the film. War and captivity to some degree strips combatants of their social standing. But von Rauffenstein will seek to preserve them. He will lay out rules for the men to follow as if they are playing a game. He knows the men will try to escape captivity--it is their role as officers--but he expects de Boldieu to behave in a manner befitting his bloodline. The old order will be preserved. In a conversation late in the film between de Boldieu and von Rauffenstein, they share a recognition that the old order is dying. The German captain is knowingly fighting a losing battle.In fact, throughout much of the film, the soldiers all treat each other will surprising kindness. The German soldiers are workmanlike and never particularly cruel to their captives. The captives are surrounded by barbed wire and the guards all carry guns, but the mood among the men is generally upbeat. They put on stage productions and the American officers all carry tennis rackets.If I had not first listened to the spirited introduction by director Jean Renoir included on the DVD, I would have been tempted to view these niceties as ironic, an absurd vision constructed to examine class conflict. But Renoir fought in the war himself and declares that World War I was a conflict fought between gentlemen before Hitler destroyed the spirit of humanity. As a conflicted pacifist, I don't know whether to be disturbed by this vision of a more tidy war or to realize that Renoir is showing that social niceties could and were preserved in the more subdued prison camps.And here is where we arrive at The Breakfast Club similarities. You have to think John Hughes watched Grand Illusion a few dozen times while penning his tale of teen angst and clique disintegration. (Incidentally, I always thought the ending of The Breakfast Club was far too rosy. I would have preferred if the movie featured a crushing epilogue in which Bryan (Anthony Michael Hall) shows up at school only to be punched by Emilio Estevez with Molly Ringwald on his arm while Judd Nelson ignores him and Ally Sheedy in the distance crumbles dead leaves with intensity. And is anyone else po'd that Sheedy's conformity is treated as triumphant. But back to Renoir...) Just as five teens discover common bonds while confined to Saturday detention, the prison camp forces the working class, the aristocrat, and people of different races and ethnicity into cooperation with one another. Renoir's vision isn't as pleasantly trite as that of Hughes, but they do share a similar theme.Renoir seems to conclude that this cross class cooperation is an illusion and unsustainable. Not long after Marechal and the moneyed, Jewish captive Rosenthal leave the camp, they begin shouting at one another and name calling. When Marechal must cut short a war time romance with a German woman and vows to return to her, Rosenthal tells him that the idea is ridiculous and unrealistic. Captivity and conflict have ironically has brought out the better natures in some men. But the disappearance of inter-class struggle and resentment is chimerical.The director regularly employs long takes and deep focus--objects in the foreground appear as clearly as those in background--in the film. We are given a great deal to observe at any given moment. Because of this, the film rewards multiple viewings. We can observe several actors reacting at once which often forces us to choose where to place our focus. From a technical standpoint, the use of long takes combined with a moving camera are a marvel as they require precision from the actors who must deliver lines without error and always be acting and for the production crew who must remain invisible. Where a director like DePalma will use the long take and appearance of a long take to wow you with his technical mastery, Renoir uses his in service to story. Renoir becomes unobtrusive and the actors, story, and setting solidify in our minds.Grand Illusion is justifiably labeled a classic, but is also very accessible. "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This is one of the better foreign films I have seen lately. Grand Illusion is a movie that should be considered a timeless, cinematic classic. It goes into the human condition, assessing the theme of friendship as well as the theme of the realities of war. I'm surprised I can't find a classic like this at a video rental place such as Blockbuster.I really hate to say this but Grand Illusion is better than Luis Bunuel's L'Age D'Or. I was fortunate to have seen Grand Illusion on a public access channel and was surprised to find out how popular it was in the foreign film world. I'd watch this again; it's a great film. "},{"Title":"Jean Renoir's stunning anti-war statement!","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Such is the power of Renoir's The Grand Illusion that the Nazis deemed it (among thousands of other works of art) as being too dangerous to their cause, resulting in the attempted destruction of this masterful film. Fortunately for us, it was saved, preserved, and restored. This is not only one of the great anti-war films of all time, it is an astonishing work of art, expressing humanity's frustration with the idiocy of war. Two French officers (Jean Gabin as Lt. Marechal and Pierre Fresnay as Capt. de Boeldieu) are shot down over Germany by Capt. von Rauffenstein (brilliantly portrayed by Erich von Stroheim). The German officer shows the utmost courtesy to his French prisoners, their rank as officers being one reason. The other reason deals more with the heart of the film; Capt. von Rauffenstein respects Capt. de Boeldieu because of his social standing and his ancestry. The two officers lived under relatively similar circumstances in their civilian lives, and, as a result, have much in common, starting what could, in any other situation, be a wonderful friendship. However, this is war, and that cannot be forgotten. The two men are on opposite sides, and cannot afford to become friends. Humans judge each other based on many things; appearance, social standing, occupation, salary, etc. War judges people on only one thing - whether you will be the one to shoot, or the one who is shot. Both of these men know this, understand this. It is viewed as an almost necessary evil in order to maintain their patriotism and their way of life. This is the underlying theme of the film, but is not the entirety of the film. Renoir expands on his ideas as the story continues, until we are left alone to meditate on the nature and eminent consequences of war. The film is brilliant in its own right, but the performances of Jean Gabin, Pierre Fresnay, and Erich von Stroheim, especially, really bring the movie, and its ideas to life! An exceptional film! "},{"Title":"Context","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"    It goes without saying that a film that dares make a social comment can only be appreciated when the time and/or place is understood.  Grand Illusion is of that genre, a film completely woven around the themes of the old vs. the new order and questions about a soldier's role.   Set primarily in prison camps, the movie explores the world of prisoners (varied in social status, background and even ethnicity) hell bent on escape.  But more than that, it is a study of ...human characters who were not stereotypes. (1)  Later pictures revolving around prison settings most assuredly are cast with an eye towards assuring us that each type will be represented, and in fact often become the butt of jokes because of it.  Not so in director Renoir's case.   There are some very memorable and sometimes startling moments.  The orthopedic device Von Stroheim (as the camp director) sports is very striking as is his scene (and behavior) in the bar at the very beginning of the film.  There are some surprises regarding the use of languages, and the scenes involving the camp play are as timeless as a MASH rerun.   There are almost no technical flaws and the acting is superb, if not a bit over the top in the case of Rosenthal (played by Dalio).  A scene involving a shooting towards the end of the movie is a stretch when a sub-2 inch automatic is employed, but that is the only (and is a pretty famous) gaffe of note.   The movie has been described as occurring in three movements (acquiescence, rebellion and return) (2) and this is a fair notation.  The art is how the director seamlessly moves us through this war adventure placed not on the battlefield, but primarily on the set.         (1) Bertin, Celia. 1991. Jean Renoir A Life In Pictures. John Hopkins Press. Baltimore.   (2) Crowther, Bosley. 1967. The Great Films. G. P. Putnam's Sons. New York.  "}{"Title":"An Excellent, Much Copied Film","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Parts POW escape movie, parts anti-war movie, parts buddy movie, parts social commentary, The Grand Illusion is a timeless gem. Released in 1937 the war in question is World War I, and the prisoners are French, their captors German. There are four main characters; three prisoners and the commandant of their camp. One prisoner and the commandant are aristocracy from the old, nineteenth century Europe, the Europe being destroyed around them by The Great War. Theirs is the grand illusion of the title. One of the remaining two is a member of the proletariat, the other a member of the newly rich bourgeoisie.  There are numerous famous scenes, copied in many movies in the years to come. There is also great acting, directing, and cinematography. Grand Illusion is a classic, so don't let the 30s filming technology and the subtitles scare you off. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Reflections on La Grand Illusion","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Many insightful comments concerning this enduring cinematic gem have preceded mine, and, if only for that reason, I shall keep my comments brief. While I am not, and never have been, a marxist, the deepest impression that this film made, on me, was that values shared by class, which, at least before the First World War transcend those of nationality, were profound and significant.  This is exemplified by the tete-a-tete between Rauffenstein, one of the few Junkers who survived the carnage of 1914-15, and Boiledieu, the Royalist for whom the Petainsist slogan honneur, travail, patrie, would probably have been more evocative than the Republican credo of liberte, egalite, fraternite.  Incidentally, I have pondered, for many years, over the seamless transition between French and English during that conversation between these two men, and I have yet to understand what Renoir meant by this except perhaps to underscore the importance of their shared values.  (Hello, Josh.) "},{"Title":"A really unforgettable trio Gabin-Fresnay-Von Stroheim.","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  During the First World War, the aeroplane of Captain Pierre Fresnay and his mechanic Jean Gabin is shot down by the Commander Erich von Stroheim. They are soon transferred to a prison camp&#133; The classic to top all classics, a magnificent and profoundly humanitarian work, where Jean Renoir makes his message for peace whilst exalting patriotism and wartime fraternity. "},{"Title":"why La Grande Illusion is a great movie","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  One could argue about the technical aspect of the film, but I won't. As in many Renoir movies, what is essential is the human content. I think that the title does not really refer to the movie but can be taken as a critical stance concerning this movie. The greatest illusion of it all, is that Renoir displays characters that are fundamentally and primarily good people.No one is bad here, there are no villains, no treacherous minds. the french escape because it is their duty, just as the german officer shoots Boildieu because he has to do it. But they are all human and honest anyway. That's why it is a great movie it makes you believe for two hours that the world is filled with people who have a sense of dignity and a code of behaviour that prevents them from doing evil. The second part of the film in the german farm is the real anti-war stance. Gabin could have stayed there and be a farmer, though he is a city bloke, never caring about his being french and her being german. this shows that people are the same everywhere and --just as the last image of an invisible swiss frontier shows it-- that frontiers are only boundaries men invented. "},{"Title":"An excellent exploration of class and war","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This film is more about the changing relationships between the classes than it is about World War I, during which the film takes place.  From the first scene to the last, Renoir explores the relationships between the various French prisoners of war and their German captors, always showing the great similarities between them.  The dialogue in this film is truly inspired, and the acting of all the main characters is excellent.  Each character is vividly drawn in a few brief moments, and then expanded on in the rest of the film.  I could see how some might be disappointed in this film, if they expected an early version of The Great Escape.  But I was very impressed. "},{"Title":"It got better with a second viewing","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I saw this film a few years back--before I really appreciated French cinema. I liked the film but didn't think all that much about it and probably would have given the film a score of 6 or 7 had IMDb been available. However, after having seen a huge number of older French films that are available here in the States, I have really come to appreciate the films more and more--especially since they offer a slightly different style from the typical fare from Hollywood at the time. Neither is necessarily better--just different. And after having watched a ton of films, I really appreciate the difference. Now, I couldn't imagine scoring the film with anything lower than a 9, as it was truly an exceptionally made film with tremendous acting, writing and direction.In many ways, this film is like a pacifist version of Stalag 17 without the comedy. Like J'ACCUSE, it is a decidedly anti-war French film that probably did a lot to convince the French that war wasn't glorious and was in fact often pointless. In hindsight, this was a great message but was delivered at the absolute worst time. The view of this film that the Germans and French weren't so different in WWI and they really had no reason to kill each other is very true--it was a stupid and wasteful war. But, given the evilness of the Nazis, who were poised to take over Europe, the message left the French ill-prepared to fight a war that needed to be fought and fought to win. Talk about bad timing! However, despite the timing, this was a marvelous film as instead of the usual jingoistic view of war, the characters were like real men and the Germans weren't mindless monsters. This full and realistic view of the war was echoed in other exceptional films such as ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT, THE EAGLE AND THE HAWK and ACE OF ACES. And, the ending of the film really summed up the war and the futility of meaningless death and carnage.Beautiful, interesting and thoughtful--a terrific war film that is timeless despite its age. Watch it twice, if need be, and you'll no doubt be impressed. "},{"Title":"A perfect structure and a deep sense of humanity combine to make this one of history's greatest films.","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Made on the eve of WWII, La Grande Illusion is Renoir's famous plea for humanity and peace. The perfectly balanced structure of the story allows for a deeper experience with each successive viewing. Although the action and styles on its surface are dated after 60+ years, the themes put forth in its subtext are universal madness of war, cultural clash, class distinction, the myth of nationalism, bravery under extreme duress, etc. Renoir's austere realism puts him at odds with most of modern cinema. He remains one of cinema's few geniuses - a true artist, as opposed to the technical wizards and sentimentalist storytellers of today. La Grande Illusion stands - with Rules of the Game - as one of his 2 masterpieces. Watch and learn. And watch again.  "},{"Title":"What is the Illusion? (SPOILERS)","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I understand that movie historians have long debated just what is the illusion referred to in the title.  Perhaps we could start our own debate?There is the illusion that chivalry can make modern warfare palatable.  Von Rauffenstein invites the French to luncheon after having just shot them down and many other gestures during the movie.  The bubble is burst when he has to shoot de Boieldieu.  No matter how you dress it up, war is ultimately about butchering your fellow man.Then the many social illusions.  The illusion of aristocracy shared by Von Rauffenstein and de Boieldieu, of which they are both keenly aware that it is about to pass.  (This must have struck a chord with Kurosawa who came from a samurai family and was intensely proud of it.)  The illusion of class differences as between the rich Rosenthal and the working man, Marechal.  The illusion of racial differences as, again, between the Jew, Rosenthal, and the gentile, Marechal.  The illusion of nationality as between Marechal and Elsa, the German farmer's wife.But hanging above all is the illusion that this was the war to end all wars. All that gallantry, all that sacrifice, all that bravery - for nothing.  In two decades, the same antagonists were at each others' throats again.  The Grand Illusion makes you understand why the French armee was unable to fight in WW II.  And why the madness of appeasement gripped the British before the war.  Disillusionment sapped their will to fight.  The Germans were just as disillusioned, of course, but they had revenge to motivate them.So what do *you* think is the grand illusion?Nice of some poster to mention that the actress who played Elsa was in L'Atlante.  (Was it in Day for Night that Truffaut showed the street sign, Rue Jean Vigo?)I see Grand Illusion at 10 yr intervals and each time it acquires new layers of meaning.  Just saw it this last weekend in a newly restored print.  The movie doesn't change (of course), but the viewer does.  The more you experience of life, the more this movie will mean to you.Is this the greatest French movie?  I understand the enthusiasm of some fans, but this is a silly question, especially given the richness of that country's movie heritage.  What about Les Enfants du Paradis?  Or Renoir's own Rules of the Game?  But hey, what would life be if we couldn't indulge in a little silliness once in awhile?  I'm sure Renoir, with his joie de vivre, would have approved.-- ray  "},{"Title":"Renoir's WWI Masterpiece","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  After seeing this film again for the second time I am utterly convinced that it easily deserves to be placed among the greatest films of all time. With The Grand Illusion Jean Renoir managed to do something that is rare, even in today's cinema. He managed to make a film that transcended the man-made notions of hero, enemy, class, etc. to reveal the humanity that we all share. Renoir was able to show the common ideas and beliefs that are common in all men, regardless of country, race, language, etc... he shows great understanding from all sides and doesn't show us merely one perspective from one side of the war.The camera work is genius... absolutely terrific and an integral part of the storytelling. Renoir uses similar shots throughout the film to bind a common unity between all characters.I must also add that the great Erich Von Strohiem is absolutely terrific in this film, and proves that besides being a great director, he was also a great actor. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable, memorable characters and scenes, an early classic in humanist/prison escape films","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I can't deny that Jean Renoir has a genuine eye for human connectedness and moves his camera with a practical naturalness. The performances by the principal actors as well (Jean Gabin as the working-class Marechal, Pierre Fresnay as the eloquent Boieldieu, Marcel Dalio as the subtle and happy Rosenthal, and Erich von Stroheim as the un-mistakenly stiffest and suavest of movie prison wardens Captain von Rauffenstein) are on the money every step of the way. Perhaps my one problem (and it's not a big one) with The Grand Illusion is that despite it being made at a time when cinema, in particular sound cinema, was just starting out, there could've been better targets hit by Renoir. He hits on a mark with these prisoners as well as with the guards- these are regular people, caught up and made to feel like they're in the schoolyard with ruthless heads and rebellious minions. As a satire, for some reason, it works a lot better for me than a drama- at least at first.For example, when Marechal is in solitary in the first prison, this is a masterpiece of a scene in and of itself, and for some reason I wanted more moments like this. While this could be attributable to the fact that Renoir didn't film everything he had intended with his script (lack of budget one can assume), there are some expectations that weren't up to what could've been met. This may be variable from viewer to viewer, which is why this shouldn't deter those interested in seeing this - this is one of those POW films that's inspired others (i.e. Great Escape), but has a sort of spirit that's all it's own. On the other hand in what comes out when one takes more of a look- which Renoir allows through how watchable (in terms of just being able to not turn off the film once it starts) the drama does become integrated with the critical view of the characters and changing situation. It's almost TOO complex, if that's possible.One of the fantastic joys of Grand Illusion is how much there is life and energy in his scenes depicting the prisons of world war one. Like in a Fellini drama (which it may very well have inspired for the later Italian), there's a lot pf love for how cinema is made itself to get too depressed with the story & characters. And like in a neo-realist film, the dialog between the people is quite realistic and interesting. Some of the supporting characters/actions may seem odd to some new viewers, although one has to take into context the period. With an awesome cameraman (Christian Matras), finite music score by Joseph Kosma, and an escape scene that's almost as thrilling as what Darabont cooked up in Shawshank, Grand Illusion is deservedly so the first film released by the Criterion collection (DVDs), and is a suave, nice note in film history. AND, it definitely becomes better upon repeat viewings, as these characters become more familiar, as if we're in there in the prisons with these amicable, existential beings. "}{"Title":"La Grande Cinema","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  For my money Jean Renoir was the finest director in all of French film and La Grande Illusion is one of the gems in his crown.  This sober, anti-war film illustrates the travesty of war and what was considered honor in those days when honor was slaughtered in the trenches.  It vividly points out the gulf that existed between the upper-class and the bourgeoisie through the microcosm of officers and the common soldats. The actors, without exception, are outstanding but the four main characters deserve particular recognition.  Pierre Fresnay is aristocratic and honor bound; Jean Gabin portrays the soldat as if he had lived the part in another life. (He soon was to become a tank commander for the Free French when France fell to Hitler.); Marcel Dalio, one of the great French actors who had some success in America, holds his own as the Jew, Rosenthal, and the significance of his role is obvious as it relates to what would happen in the real world two years from the date of this film's release. Erich von Stroheim is brilliant as the  jaded and battle weary commandant whose sympathies lie with the officer class, regardless of whose side they are on.  He must face up to duty in his confrontation with Fresnay on the fort's battlements. It is a poignant moment.  The final rush to freedom will lift your heart as the Swiss border comes into view.  This film is a strong statement made by a Frenchman at the time when France (or at least part of France) was dancing with the Devil and the word Vichy would come to be hated by the free world. La Grande Illusion well deserves it's inclusion on the list of great films and it is a treasure.  "},{"Title":"One of the five best movies of all time","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Everybody know that Citizen Kane is the greatest movie of all time.  La Grande Illusion is number two!  That makes it the best French movie of all time, and the greatest war movie ever made.  Everything here is perfect  the cast, the dialogues, the atmosphere, the film direction of Renoir, the intelligence of the script, and even the now very old music is perfect! Even if I love the emotions and the humor of the two prisoners camps, for me, the final 30 minutes are the peak of the movie, when the two fugitives are with the german woman (Wonderful Dita Parlo, as seen in L'Atalante).  She can't understand Gabin, but the two fell in love. When she shows the empty table where there was so many people before the war, some tears always dry my eyes.  See this movie anytime! Tell everybody to enjoy this great piece of art! "},{"Title":"illusions of our past and present","Date":"25 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The past year has seen remembrances of the first global war, now known as World War I. This worldwide conflict, one that eventually dissolved empires and set the stage for a second global war, senselessly took the lives of millions of young people all over Europe and spawned a lost generation.But amid this pointless war, there were instances when people managed to find their common humanity. Jean Renoir's anti-war masterpiece La Grande Illusion looks at how a collection of POWs do this. Even the German captain (Erich von Stroheim), presumably the enemy, manages to have some humanity.It was ironic that the movie got released just as Europe was about to get plunged into a second massive war. One might see it as a warning about what could happen, and that could apply even in the present. Probably the most important scenes are at the end Maréchal (Jean Gabin) and Rosenthal (Marcel Dalio) spend time with a German woman widowed by the war; and then they cross into Switzerland, headed for an uncertain future.Really good movie. "},{"Title":"Definitive World War I Film","Date":"23 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" During the First World War, two French soldiers are captured and imprisoned in a German POW camp. Several escape attempts follow until they are sent to a seemingly impenetrable fortress which seems impossible to escape from.This is regarded by critics and film historians as one of the masterpieces of French cinema and among the greatest films ever made. Orson Welles named La Grande Illusion as one of the movies he would take with him on the ark, and even Woody Allen named it among his favorites.Director Jean Renoir uses the First World War (1914&#x96;1918) as a lens through which to examine Europe as it faces the rising specter of fascism (especially in Nazi Germany) and the impending approach of the Second World War (1939&#x96;1945). Indeed, this is what makes the film so great... Europe between the wars, especially coming from France, which is like Ground Zero for the Second World War. "},{"Title":"A Tender Classic about (the) War","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Jean Renoir's The Great Illusion (1937) is often celebrated as the greatest anti-war film. It takes place during the First World War and was made just before the Second. Back in the day, Franklin Roosevelt stated that everyone who believes in democracy should see the film. Detaching from such political idealism, one might claim that every human being should see it. It's the film in which Renoir's humanism crystallizes, showing that humanity can preserve even in the darkest of nights. A story about POW camps and people escaping them is a tale of eternal love, friendship and yearning for freedom. A proof of its cinematic power is that without showing a scene of actual combat, The Great Illusion is the most accurate portrayal of WWI. It seems that every film about the First World War much deal with its mythological position as the death of cultural innocence. Although The Great Illusion begins with the war already going on, its opening scene works as a metaphor for the period before the war. We see a man singing in a café when all of a sudden he is called for a mission to transport a general which sounds easy and quick, but then turns into a long and unpredictable chain of events -- talk about dancing off to war. Not only does Renoir reach the fact that WWI was pointless and a consequence of ostentatious nationalism -- arms race, alliances and hostilities -- but also the feeling of transience as aristocracy begins taking its final breaths. In the hour of disappearance, two aristocrats, Bouldieu and Rauffenstein (aptly played by Erich von Stroheim), unite. The old general in The Rules of the Game (1939) might say that they are a vanishing breed. It is beautiful and moving that Renoir's nostalgia considering this social transition has no irony whatsoever, despite Renoir's apparent sympathy for the working class. The nostalgia is very tender. All that matters to Renoir is humanity. It is precisely this human sympathy which is the strength of Renoir's cinema. This is present in Renoir's characterization, treatment of the class theme, and his anti-nationalist philosophy of the great illusion. André Bazin's timeless words are worth repeating at this point the grand illusions are the illusion of hatred, which arbitrarily divides men who in reality are not separated by anything; the illusion of boundaries, (...) the illusion of races, of social classes (...). The war, the product of hatred and division, paradoxically reveals the falseness of all the barriers of prejudice separating man from man.One of the many reasons for the survival of The Great Illusion in the test of time is its realism (that is not afraid of poetry) which travels from the director's style to his world view and attitude towards life in general. Bazin thought that the film was based on the authenticity of human relations. I believe this is a key into understanding the film and its legacy. War is the great illusion because it separates us from one another. Yet, despite darkness and disappointment, Renoir continues to believe in love and humanity. "},{"Title":"The Mirage of War","Date":"31 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" During World War I, working-class mechanic Jean Gabin (as Marechal) and smoothly suave aristocrat Pierre Fresnay (as Boeldieu) are shot down while piloting a mission for France. Taken prisoners of war by duty-bound German aristocrat Erich von Stroheim (as von Rauffenstein), the pair join nouveau riche Jewish officer Marcel Dalio (as Rosenthal) in plotting a Great Escape. But the four men are trapped by more than meets the eye... Writer-director Jean Renoir's wonderful film requires much concentration and reveals intentions with great subtlety. It portends the end of European aristocracy, shoots societal class distinctions through the heart, and points its heroes uncannily toward new and uncertain political horizons.********** La grande illusion (6/4/37) Jean Renoir ~ Jean Gabin, Marcel Dalio, Pierre Fresnay, Erich von Stroheim "},{"Title":"La Grande Illusion","Date":"10 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" From director Jean Renoir (Boudu Saved from Drowning, Partie De Campagne, La Règle Du Jeu), I assumed from the title being listed in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die that this was going to be either a fantasy or art based film,I had no idea it was a French war movie, and one made just before the start of World War II, set in World War I. Basically French Captain De Boeldieu (Pierre Fresnay) and Lieutenant Maréchal (Jean Gabin), in service during the First World War, get shot down during a reconnaissance mission by German Captain Von Rauffenstein (Erich Von Stroheim) and end up captured, but Von Rauffenstein seems charmed by De Boeldieu. They are taken to a Hallbach POW (Prisoner of War) camp where they seem to be treated differently by all the other lower ranked people there, only the two officers have a friendship between them due to their situation that they are trying to escape from. On the request of Von Rauffenstein, now commandant and having a permanent injury, the two of them are transferred to a converted 13th century castle, now the Wintersborn POW camp. Maréchal and fellow captive Lieutenant Rosenthal (Marcel Dalio) start making plans and preparations to make their next escape attempt from the new camp, while De Boeldieu seems more interested in keeping his position and bonding more in his special friendship with Von Rauffenstein. Also starring Dita Parlo as Elsa &#x96; Peasant woman/Farm woman, Julien Carette as Actor, Gaston Modot as Engineer, Jean Dasté as School Teacher, Georges Péclet as French soldier and Jacques Becker as English officer. The cast do their parts as good as you can expect, only very occasionally speaking English, I have to say that this is probably the first wartime escape movie I have seen to come from another country other than Britain or America, it does have some interesting moments as the French side hang around with some of the German side, so overall I would say it is a worthwhile classic First World War drama. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Picture. Very good! "},{"Title":"The Way War Was ...","Date":"11 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" We learned from Paths of Glory, All Quiet on the West Front and any History book, what a disastrous slaughter World War I was. But the purpose of Jean Renoir's Grand Illusion is less to demonstrate the hellish than the futile nature of War. Futile because usually instigated by upper classes in the name of profit, greed and imperialism (usually disguised as patriotism) while all the working-class people share the same desire to live in peace, harmony and solidarity. The tragedy of War is to make people believe in an illusory adversity while they're equal in life &#x85; and naturally, in death. This vision of war might surprise but this is Renoir's vision, it belongs to HIS generation, who grew up with a war still conducted by gentlemen, where the purpose was admittedly to defend a country but not to turn people into killing machines. Renoir, despite his military background, loathed the zealous and dehumanizing devotion to the Army, as he said in the film's commentary, the point of showing the rifle was not to learn a series of precise movements like a robot, but just to show a goddamn clean rifle. With that in mind, we understand the soldiers' cordiality in Grand Illusion and the peculiar way they were treated by the enemy. And on that aspect, the context of the film couldn't have been more significant as Nazism, the ideology that annihilated so many pillars of European civilization, hadn't undermined yet Renoir's nostalgic feeling; Germans were still 'good enemies'. We can assume that a film like Grand Illusion could never have been made after World War II although it's the very conflict that highlighted the film's prophetic value. Indeed, Grand Illusion belongs to the Greats, it was Orson Welles' favorite movie and it has always been compared to the glorious Citizen Kane in terms of impact on the field of filmmaking, as one of the first truly humanistic dramas. But as odd as it sounds, it's not to Citizen Kane that I feel like comparing Grand Illusion but to another masterpiece named Gone With the Wind. Grand Illusion is also about an Order, a 'Civilization of Chivalry and Gallantry' forever gone. It is the swan song of the Old Europe that died with World War I, and which is incarnated by two characters Pierre Fresnay as Captain De Boeldieu captured by the Germans with Lieutenant Maréchal, and Erich Von Stroheim as the iconic Von Rauffenstein. De and Von are the two prefixes that define the European aristocracy and both Boeldieu and Rauffenstein realize during the lunch following the capture, that they have many acquaintances and are familiar with the same things. Maréchal, the blue-collar officer played by a young and handsome Jean Gabin, is more down to earth and engages an even friendlier exchange with a German alter ego.The lunch scene sets up the tone of the film where the relationships between French, Russian and British prisoners and the German soldiers flirt so much with a 'comedy of manners' that it puts the whole meaning of 'War' into perspective. Renoir resisted the temptation to make a conventional war film and serves us in three distinct acts, a beautiful tale of humanity and friendship. The first act is the ancestor of all the POW movies such as The Great Escape or Stalag 17 where we'd meet a colorful gallery of French prisoners, digging a tunnel. They're well treated and sometimes eat better than their guards, thanks to Rosenthal a rich Jew, played by Marcel Dalio, who shares his goods with his fellow prisoners. Rosenthal incarnates the new wealth of France who'd ultimately be the target of the Anti-Semitism ignited by the Nazi occupation.The first act climaxes with the superb scene where a cross-gender musical number is interrupted by the announcement of the Douaumont Fort taken back by the French army, and in a patriotic outburst lead by Maréchal, the prisoners start singing La Marseillaise in a powerful and stirring moment that inspired Casablanca. The second act takes place in a fortress where Boeldieu and Maréchal, after a series of failing escapes, are affected. The part centers on the friendship between Rauffenstein and Boeldieu, two men aware that their world is about to collapse, regardless of their nationality. They speak English in the most intimate moments as to denote their similar cosmopolitanism, before a new generation would embrace modernity, for the better and for the worse. It's a poignant transition incarnated by the sacrifice of Boeldieu, playing with the flute, the famous 'steamboat' child song that relating a sacrifice story.Boeldieu's courageous act created a diversion that allowed Maréchal and Rosenthal to escape, and after this display of humanity and a poignant deathbed farewell between the two aristocrat officers, we follow Gabin and Dalio, in their struggle to cross the Swiss border, concluding in an anticlimactic way by their journey in a German farmhouse, inhabited by Elsa (Dita Parlo), a young widow and mother. They stay a while to recover from injuries and hunger until Christmas. Elsa proved to be trustful when she saved them from the German army, an act due to the fact that she also suffered from the loss of brothers, ironically, in three German victories. Victory is such an illusion when it comes to death, but it's the very illusion of borders that would save the life of Maréchal and Rosenthal when a group of German soldiers refuse to shoot them because they are in the Swiss territory. For a war movie, Grand Illusion strikes by an unusual absence of battles and fight scenes. Uniforms and brief but powerful occurrences of death remind of the historical setting but overall, Grand Illusion is an atypical war film, whose atypical message is precisely what elevated it at the rank of the greatest movies ever made. And that Joseph Goebbels named it 'Enemy Public Number 1' is probably the proof of its undeniable value. "},{"Title":"Work of Art","Date":"17 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" A classic by Renoir. It's about French POWs in WWI Germany and how they work together to escape from a fortress-prison. It's a movie about comradery, society, and cultures of France, respect amongst officers (no matter which side one fights for), the complexities of what it means to be human, and how they work together and how they think about one another (no matter the sex, social status, religion, or language one speaks). A beautiful, perfect movie in every way. An absolute MUST SEE for the cinephile! 10 of 10.------E. "},{"Title":"All Those Grand Illusions","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" A group of French officers in World War I become prisoners of war. This movie follows their experiences, their escape attempts, the kind of people they are. But that hardly touches on the greatness of Renoir's creation.This is a movie about the illusions we live with. Some illusions help us survive unbearable situations. Other illusions are just accepted parts of our roles as citizens, as mechanics, as children or wealth or children of poverty.It is an illusion that Rauffenstein and De Boildeau are at war with each other, that they are enemies when they've shared so many experiences together. The upper class and their conceits are shown to be absurd illusions.At one point POWs dress up and rehearse for a theatrical show; one boyish soldier puts on women's clothes and thinks everyone will laugh -- nobody is laughing, the looks on their faces show their hunger to see even the illusion of a woman.It is an illusion that a man who meets a woman far from home during a war will seek her out after the war -- that he makes a promise to return for her in a language she doesn't even understand. It is an illusion that Verdun and these other battles were great victories for Germany when they left one woman's dining table empty.And the final, grandest illusion of all -- no matter how many times I see this movie it still gives me chills -- that there is such a thing as Switzerland. However absurd things may seem in the rest of the movie, the fact that someone can look out over a blanket of snow and say That is Switzerland ... whew. "}{"Title":"Some Movies are Just Classics","Date":"12 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Some movies are just classics. La Grande Illusion, or Grand Illusion in English, is one of those.It's a French movie about a group of French officers taken captive by Germans during WWI, and their plight to escape. Although, on a deeper level, it's about the proletariat taking over Europe from the upper class, the nobles and all the other various bourgeois. It's not a Marxist piece, but it's more about the dying of the bourgeois because they aren't needed anymore. It's a celebration of the common man, but somehow still placing the nobles above them. The projected theory is like a nobleman's view of communism, if that makes sense.There are lots of flaws in it. For example, I watched the first ten minutes twice, and never did understand what was going on. After that, it's coherent, but the first bit is horrible. It's badly edited as well, although that's a result of it being created in 1937, and probably being lost several times. And the actors are a product of their acting generation, being trained in the theatrical style, very evidently not the same caliber as actors of today's generation.But the story is nothing short of genius. It has been ripped off by many other movie classics, from The Great Escape to Casablanca. It's not a terribly serious movie, even though it's about prisoners of war. They're all captains, so they are treated like guests in a palace, and yet they still try to escape. That is the most striking message to me, about everyone's search for freedom. At first, it's unclear who are the main characters. But then it focuses on three men. All are high- ranking officials, but one is from a noble name, a long lineage of the bourgeois, somehow above the others. It is about the indomitable nature of man, his yearning for freedom, and his obligation to honor, and his love, and the beauty of it all.Jean Renoir is the director, and he is a genius, despite the sloppy beginning. For any movie to be truly great, the director has to be great, because he or she is the one creating everything the audience sees. They craft the actors and the dialogue, interpret the story, even shape the audience's view of characters and their expectations. Renoir is great at that. His panning and focus on what is most important in the story is amazing. So often great directors are too focused on the vision, when in reality, the vision is secondary to storytelling. Vision is most important when the story is particularly challenging or deficient. Otherwise, it's a distraction. Renoir knows this and shows the story, like telling a fairy tale to a child, to spectacular effect.For a much better analysis of this great movie and its interesting history, check out Roger Ebert's Great Movies essay on it. It can be found on his site. "},{"Title":"Rich but never stodgy first world war tale","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Parodied to good effect in The Great Escape, La Grande Illusion is a celebrated paen to humanity. What is 'La Grande Illusion'? The title refers to a contemporaneously notorious publication which argues that war was outdated. Renoir's film sells this idea, indirectly. At no point during the film does one see any conflict of any kind - the war and its contingent antagonism seems more like hearsay (like the radio reports that spark a Casablanca-style partisan singing of La Marseillaise).Instead the film is about the communality of the men. Whilst there's plenty of humour to be found in national stereotypes - Germanic regulation fetishism, French Epicureanism and a British officer blowing his chances of escape by apologising to mask his ignorance of another language (even a moment of anti-Semitism has no more purchase than a jibe about over-literary Russians) - the men are generally united by a mutual sense of duty and patriotism. The touching third act at the Swiss border felt like overkill to me, although I was too involved for it to matter.What delights me about this film is the quality of the acting. As in La Règle du Jeu the cast are uniformly wonderful. Jean Gabin may be prima inter pares as the working class pilot Maréchal but no-one else is overstated, as can often be the way in pre-war films. Renoir's handling of the camera is unobtrusive and entirely natural. A sophisticated, unpatronising and above all unhectoring Jeremiad on the pointlessness of modern (specifically European) conflict. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The grand escape.","Date":"11 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Of course this movie is being called the French version of The Great Escape. Not because it has a similar plot, settings or main characters (on the contrary, since this movie is actually set during WW I) but because The Great Escape is about the ultimate movie within its genre, to which every other prison camp movie gets compared, no matter if the were made prior or after The Great Escape.It's a fine movie, that is directed by well known and acclaimed French director Jean Renoir. The directing is really superb for the movie. Every shot gets skillfully directed, often with lots of eye for detail. Yes, it perhaps is foremost the directing and its storytelling which makes La Grande illusion such a fine movie to watch.But is it me, or is the second halve of this movie much weaker than its first? From the moment on when the main characters are being placed in the other camp/fortress the movie and it story sort of starts to get weaker, since the story and its main characters are being placed out of the environment that worked out so well for the first halve of the movie. Can't really say why but the movie just became a bit less interesting and was a bit dragging in parts. In the first halve the movie didn't really need a story, since it simply showed the war situations as the they were. Perhaps you should see it as a build up for the second halve of the movie, in which the characters are established and a main clear plot line is more clearly present.The movie doesn't feature very well known actors (unless you're into French cinema of the first halve of the 20th century) but this works out well for the movie and its progress. It offers some surprises with its story and characters. The only well known actor of the movie is Erich von Stroheim and he indeed is a great actor and also shows that in this movie with his really great role but his German as well as his French accent sounded a bit off, probably due to the fact that he went to the States, early on in his life. This is a small but notable point of critique of an otherwise fine performance, that should had probably earned him an Oscar nomination.The movie did receive an Oscar nomination for best motion picture of the year, which is obviously a big accomplishment for a foreign language movie. It also should be noted though that La Grande illusion in its year was nominated along with 9(!) other movies for the award.It's a movie that uses nice and realistic looking settings and costumes. Hollywood movies from the same time period also tend to look a bit cheap, with its often fake looking backgrounds and cardboard sets.A solid French war movie, without the war, from director Jean Renoir.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A film that tries to reveal the other sides of war.","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This move among the long history of war film is by far the most interesting and to me blows all others away. A story about people, normal people and their conflicts with a war of gentleman and the changing of the guards form war being lead and fought by gentlemen to a war of gung-ho soldiers that have come from normal families. I loved this movie and the subtle cuts that allowed you to understand the characters on a more personable level. This anti-war film of WWI with its smooth scene transitions and pan shots pulling together people and the situations that they are forced to deal with. I believe that this movie is one of director Jean Renoir's best films of his career bringing together all his techniques to show a humanitarianistic view of war and the faces of the men and their different nationalities. "},{"Title":"Deeply thematic","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" A brilliant piece on war and class distinctions and the struggle between them. Probably one of the first anti-war films, and possibly one of the very best. Incredibly sharp writing and naturalistic acting elevate this above a typical POW escape film, but it's the deeply thematic message that really pushes it over the top. All of the characters are three-dimensional, flawed human beings, and the real villain of the work is war. Each of the three main parts of the narrative builds on the previous one, adding to the themes and furthering the notions about class similarities across warring nations. Not the best French film ever made, but certainly right up there. "},{"Title":"A quick review for a deeper film.","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" It was only after this movie that I went through some of my logs, lists, reviews, and whatnot and realized that I've never seen a Renoir film before this one. What the ... ? Anyway, this movie is about how war democratizes class politics, despite the pomp and standing of the various individuals involved, shown through the actions of a bunch of POW officers during WWI. It has a very good ending, but Renoir isn't quite finished making all his points yet and it continues on, including a minor love story and some more character development before finally concluding. The most remarkable thing about this movie is that it was made in the 30s... in the midst of depression, between WWI and WWII, and it definitely shows that the issues of WWI weren't resolved before the fighting concluded. In that way, it's a pretty observant and poignant film.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Best scenes for comparison","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I thought I might see if IMDb is a good platform to a launch a discussion of Criterion's 1st DVD and a classic of french cinema.As part of an assignment for my UCLA French Film class, I've been asked to compare two of the film's scenes (non consecutive). This comparison should be vivid in motifs, thematic presence, camera angles, style etc I've screened the film many times, found tons of analysis for individual scenes, but I'm struggling to find the two scenes that would be perfect candidates for comparison and cross-analysis.What do the resident film buffs at IMDb think? Any suggestions? Thanks for any input from a longtime lurker, Alan "},{"Title":"La Guerre in Three-Quarter Time","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  When this movie is coupled - as it often is - with Renoir's The Rules Of The Game the pairing can be seen to form an idealized statement that both life and warfare can be conducted according to Hoyle.  What is quite singular about 'Illusion' is that it contains not one foot of combat footage.  After a brief scene on a French air base which introduces two of the three principals, Pierre Fresnay and Jean Gabin, the action switches to a German equivalent where Eric Von Stroheim announces his latest coup and issues instructions that should the crew of the plane he has just shot down prove to be officers they are to be invited to lunch.  So now, with great economy, we have our Three principals in one room.  It is quickly established that Von Stroheim knows a relative of Fresnay and the 'civilities' are enhanced when a German officer offers to cut the meat for Gabin, who has one arm in a sling.  Moments later the meal is interrupted as a wreath, bought by the German officers to commemorate the shooting down - this time fatal -of a previous French plane is carried into the room.  Von Stroheim's apologies for this faux pas are extensive as is his 'bitter' regret that this incident may mar the lunch. Hang on!  This is War, we're talking.  Isn't it supposed to be Hell.  Well, yes, General Sherman, it IS.  In fact whilst all this civilised dining is going down THOUSANDS of foot-soldiers from France, Germany and England are actually DYING in rat-infested mud-filled dugouts. Nevertheless, like Stalag 17 in the next war Renoir's like Wilder's camera keeps well out of the way.  Even when we get to the officer's prison camp it is light years away from Stalag 17 or even Von Ryan's Express in that there is little if any internicine bickering. But with all this La Grande Illusion remains a Great movie, one I have now seen three or four times and always viewed with pleasure.  8/10 "},{"Title":"The finest three roles in movie history&#151;from three of the best actors ever","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" For obvious reasons, here is the best place to talk about Fresnay, Dita Parlo and Stroheim&#151;as they all give here extraordinarily good performances. And Dalio & Gabin do very skilled roles.Maybe the first thing one notes is the approach of equilibrium and humane openness and healthy sympathy and wisdom and lack of resentment. This delights and offers a dependable basis for the palette of Renoir's and his actors' art. It gives the movie its entirely satisfying character.The ability of working simultaneously with so many characters, themselves so different and diverse, is remarkable. The narration is equiangular and, in its inner structure, so dependable. Many scenes play like comedy, and the contrast of the characters (Fresnay/Gabin, Stroheim/Dalio,etc.) is also satisfying. Well written, even better directed, filmed and scored&#151;and even better played by its several first&#151;class actors.The film is unusually well written, and I will select here but a few scenes. Take, for example, that with the prisoners caressing the feminine objects&#151;the stockings, and how aroused are by the touch of that stockings. And when one of them appears disguised, his comrades don't laugh but are rather disturbed by this feminine shape of their fellow.Stroheim was the master of the larger&#151;than&#151;life and the thrilling extraordinary. He needed to surprise his audience. His role is so compact and so finely modulated, and Stroheim's physical appearance was so striking and unusual, that each Stroheim scene is a feast.Fresnay's role is not very well written; Dita Parlo's is small, but well written. And the best written roles are those of Stroheim and Gabin.Fresnay and Stroheim were masters of the sensational beauty in the interpretative art&#151;there is something sensuous, refined, almost voluptuous, and intensely thrilling in their roles&#151;a vibration, a virile and highly distinguished emotion. Stroheim was, perhaps, even better than Fresnay; but,as I already said, his role is also the best written one, Stroheim had this advantage. There is&#151;from Fresnay, Stroheim, Dita Parlo, Dalio&#151;such an intense appetite for their roles that it's almost tangible. I guess I've seen actresses more beautiful than Dita Parlo. Maybe. But none of them was more stunningly beautiful than Dita Parlo in The Grand Illusion . She is a country woman, and she doesn't betray her role, and she is concomitantly one of the sexiest female movie characters ever.Allow me one paragraph about the technical aspects, very important&#151;the good use that Renoir makes of the deep focus. In fact, he is widely famous as one of the four artists of the deep focus. See also the great ensemble compositions, when one can watch the simultaneous behaviors of the men in the group of French prisoners.Renoir's art was one of wise austerity here. It wasn't always like this&#151;but here, in this particular film ,it is&#151;wise, tactful, balanced austerity. Relatively little use of music. On the other hand, the music, when used, is very interesting. The film is also notable for another two aspects&#151;its sense of dream&#151;its dream note, as an almost secret but magically obvious modulation , and also its contemplative tone (not content);--and the Renoirian device of the film's frame the show&#151;in&#151;show (here, the stage of the prisoners' show). The sense of dream is very efficacious. Hence the amazing beauty of some scenes, and also the firmness of the touch.The illusion is Gabin's hope that the wars will be abolished. This explains his tenacity. On the other hand, notice that he is not idealized, but kept within the coordinates of his social condition. "},{"Title":"The genius is in the underplaying","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Some other comments here have it right, I think it's a complex interweaving of different feelings and forces, not really one thing or another alone. It is, for instance, an anti-war movie, but it's not just that or simply that. Nor is it simply a glorification of war.There's an extraordinary moment in the film where it suddenly becomes quite moody and meditative, even melancholy. For a POW film it suddenly feels like a meditation on the passing of time, and things, and how life is really just a stealthy robbery of us all.There are a couple of moments that feel a bit preachy, and that's a real disappointment, as for the most part the tightrope of subtlety is walked extremely well. (I especially feel a lot of the ending at the farmhouse is beside the point.) So I don't think it's a perfect film. But it is very fine. "}{"Title":"A great motion picture.","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" While many readers have discussed at great length some of the universal themes of this great film, none seem to have addressed the title. What is the Grand Illusion? When the film was introduced last night on a film channel, Peter Bogdanovich claimed it was the illusion that WWI was the War to end all Wars, but, as Renoir made the film two years before the start of the second World War, this could not have been his meaning. I think that there are countless levels of illusion in the movie. The aristocrats, who continue to rely on their civility in the midst of a horrifying war, are clinging to an illusion of the way things should be and, hopefully will be, after the war. They seem to feel that war is a temporary interruption in the privileged lives. While war, like politics, makes strange bedfellows, in the end, the aristocrats have an illusion of themselves as truly better than the rest, even the men they have learned to care for. They seem to have no idea that their way of life has ended forever. The relationship that Gabin develops with the woman at the end of the film also strikes me as illusory; based as it is more on the loneliness of characters who have come together under exigent circumstances than a real feeling of love. Gabin's promise to come back after the war also struck me as an illusion--something he would say under the circumstances but not really plausible. Ultimately, there are two grand illusions. The first, is that war can solve human problems. No character seems to grasp the fact that mankind has warred with itself forever and never seems to have learned that any war is always a precursor to the next. (This war being perhaps the classic example). In turn, this makes peace an illusion as it becomes a temporary status between the next inevitable war. In the end, we feel that almost all things are illusory, be they language, all forms of personal relationships, boundaries of countries (often formed after one side wins and the other loses a war) etc. To me, the grandest illusion occurs when the two soldiers escape to Switzerland gaining their freedom. Have they truly attained freedom or are they entering a world in which the next war is certain and they and their loved ones, will once again have to face atrocities and death? I believe this is why the last scene of the film, showing them walking to freedom in Switzerland does not show them walking into bright sunlight (the way a Hollywood movie would end today). Instead the scene depicts them trudging through deep snow, their movements slow and agonizing, as if they know that getting over an illusory border is no more freeing to them than the fate that awaits them in a world that cannot resolve conflict without war. Stated another way, the only thing that is real (i.e., not an illusion) is the fact that more wars are inevitable. "},{"Title":"perhaps the best ever cinematic statement on war","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Jean Renoir's Grande commentary on war should be mandatory viewing for every politician on a monthly basis!  This is film making at its finest, dealing with perhaps the most difficult social/political issue of the ages, and Renoir manages to do this without resorting to special effects or abusing the viewer's emotions.  This film is like a fine bottle of wine that simply keeps getting better with time. "},{"Title":"Deservedly one of the all-time classics","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  One of the 100 greatest films of all time, this anti-war tale really brings home the absurdity of WWI. Director Renoir is characteristically subtle, relying on understatement and the quite accumulation of detail. Terrific performances from Gabin, Fresnay, and von Stroheim some moments are indelible. Emotion, humor, and a few dramatic flourishes. Renoir is one of the great directors, and this film ranks just behind Rules of the Game in his canon. "},{"Title":"One of the best ever","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  So many people have commented so eloquently on this film that there is not much more for me to add.  I've now seen it four times during the last 15 years or so.  It is remarkable each time, because during each viewing there is some new little subtlety of the messages and the layers of the film that I notice.  This time, I also noticed that this film has been heavily imitated by many classic (and not so classic) films during the years.  If you want to see one of the ultimate sources for prisoner of war films, see this one.  That is definitely not the only reason to see it, though.Usually I resist making lists of favorites -- but will make an exception and say that Le Grande Illusion is one of the top three films I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Should be considered on par with Citizen Kane and 7th Seal","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  After seeing the restored print I understand why Woody Allen cites this film when he talks about his insecurities.  His Annie Hall is a great movie but the romantic relationship between men and women is but a small facet of this great Renoir film.  Renoir's inventive use of the Great War to tell this great tale of humanity in the early 20th century is unsurpassed. "},{"Title":"Excellent story in this World War I prison drama ...","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  1st watched 8/7/1999 - (Dir-Jean Renoir) Excellent story in this World War I prison drama portraying French prisoners in a German camp before American enters the war.  There is much to keep you laughing, crying and interested throughout as we follow the lives of inmates who eventually escape. A unique perspective for Americans to view. "},{"Title":"Greatest film ever made.","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  There you have it.  There has never been another film (with the possible but not-quite-all-the-way exception of Life is Beautiful) that has captured as much about all the aspects of the human condition as this one does.  From the absurdity of war to the tragedy of the ruling class to the liberating power of love, Renoir put it all in there.  And he did it with an incredible script and some of the best cinematography this side of American Beauty. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films of all time","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I felt I had to cast my vote for this picture.  The Sixth Sense, just to take one example, is a pretty good movie, but it does not deserve a higher ranking than La Grande illusion.  I believe one of the problems that some people have in appreciating this movie is that they don't know enough of the historical context that makes the film so meaningful. "},{"Title":"Renoir's Grande masterpiece  Best Western Film","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  In Grand Illusion and Rules of the Game we experience the mature genius of Jean Renoir's incomparable visual sense (perhaps  genetic?) elegantly portraying complex human stories.  Both of these films create their own rich worlds which may be visited and examined many times on many levels.There are other great films that came out of WWI (The Big Parade and All Quiet..., to mention but 2), but for my money, Renoir's is far and away the best.  In fact, most times of the day, I'd say it's the best film I've ever seen.If possible, see it on the big screen; you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Powerful and Unforgettable","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  WWI changed everything, and Renoir's masterpiece carefully reveals the eroding social structure of the early 20th Century. The classes are melting into each other, and the new world emerging is seen with both hope and reservation.  Banned by by both Hitler and Mussolini, the film nevertheless was brought to the Venice film festival where it won top honours.  La Grande Illusion has managed to stay with me every day since I first saw it over a year ago.  One of (if not THE) best anti-war film(s)ever made, the futility of battle has never been so well expressed on screen.  "}{"Title":"A powerful film about the futility of war and the ever-present hope of peace","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I saw this film to day for the first time in a class i'm taking now, and i was amazed at how strong renoir's visual language remains since he filmed it in 1937. The film does a wonderful job of introducing us to its main characters Marechal, de Boeldieu, von Rauffenstein, and Rosenthal. The cast is well-chosen and they work together splendidly as an ensemble. There are many powerful scenes in the film--so many that it's pointless to begin listing them. Suffice it to say, this is a great film about the futility of war, racism, classism, and all other things that separate any human being from another. A wonderful film. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Jean Renoir's 1937 black and white film, Grand Illusion (La Grande Illusion), is often bandied about with Citizen Kane on the list of all time great films, but unlike that film, Grand Illusion was a commercial and critical sensation from its initial release. While both are arguably great films, neither is really within sniffing distance of any mythic top spot. Both have flaws, but Grand Illusion has more flaws than Citizen Kane and is clearly the lesser film, although it's still certainly a very good film. It was written by Renoir- son of the famed Impressionist painter Auguste Renoir, and Charles Spaak, based upon Renoir's own adventures as a World War One Flyboy, and in many ways is well ahead of Hollywood films of that era, in terms of dealing with life and the way common people really spoke. In fact, it was one of the earliest films to have its characters all speak in their native tongues, and its influence upon later prison camp escape movies, such as The Great Escape, is manifest. That said, after a strong start, the film meanders for a while until the actual escape, and sort of meekly limps to a schmaltzy end. Simply put, Renoir had no real way to end the film memorably, and admittedly improvising the ending&#133;. While Grand Illusion is not be the masterpiece that it is claimed to be, for its maudlin score, sketchy screenplay, and anomic ending are its greatest flaws, it is certainly a good film worth pondering. The thing that most people ponder about is the film's title. What exactly is the grand, or great- in French, illusion? Some have asserted it's the illusion of class, or nationality, that those things are real, or that war is noble, or can be gentlemanly. Some critics claim it was the idea that the Great War was The War To End All Wars, or that real love and happiness are possible in this world. All of these interpretations are correct, yet all of them are wrong, as the film is about none, yet all, of those things. It is like the elephant and seven blind men, and viewers will find their own meanings in the work and its title. Nor is it simply a film about escaping a prison camp, nor about jingoistic politics, nor even an essay on the collapse of the Old World Order of Europe. It is, perhaps, best viewed not as a record of what really was, but what should have been, and what might be. In this way it reminds me of the British film Things To Come, by William Cameron Menzies, based upon the H.G. Wells novel. While that film is set in the now anachronistic 'distant future' of the 21st Century, it has much in common with Grand Illusion, such as the ends of both films showing men slogging on through the coldness of life simply because they are men. Such commonalities, between men or works of art, are what give Grand Illusion its staying power, despite its manifest flaws. It may not be the deepest film ever made, and may not even be the best war film ever made, but it can properly be considered a classic, if only by some de facto 'grandfather clause' for such works of art. It may not be what Renoir intended, but intent in the arts means nothing, only reality does, and Grand Illusion's is better than most. "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I wouldn't call it a masterpiece but i liked it better than the rules of the game. I had heard that Jean Renoir at first had a downbeat ending but wasn't going to use it and while he was shooting, he didn't know how it was going to end. It shows because the end really does drag on when it should of been over a lot sooner. Erich Von Stroheim wanted to do this movie but at first their wasn't a character that was big enough for him to play so he worked with Renoir on the script to change two smaller characters into one bigger character. Some of the best scenes are between Erich Von Stroheim and Jean Gabin and Von Stroheim is excellent in this movie. I've only seen one other Renoir film and that was The Woman on the Beach.  "},{"Title":"Strange.","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I've been reading the comments on la Grande illusion and I'm puzzled. Many viewers only keep the political the historical, or the social aspect of the film while, in my opinion and in the opinion of my friends, the central message of the film is the christian we are all brothers. Despite the religion, the social class, the nationality and the historical circumstances.Renoir describe an event, the WWI (maybe the craziest butchery in the whole history - see The path of glory), from the backstage. Passive or active fraternisation, complicity and compassion is everywhere. He says to us, many years before Lennon Give peace a chance.I've seen it at least 50 times and still cry. If you believe in humanity, you'll cry too.  "},{"Title":"One of the two greatest anti-war films ever made","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I have seen this film several times over the last forty years. It never fails to make me wonder at the genius who produced this masterpiece, fit to rank alongside 'All Quiet on the Western Front' as the greatest anti-war films ever made.Like a polished gem, every facet reflects  an aspect worthy of examination - the affinity between professional antagonists,the class distinctions,the camaraderie,the code of chivalry soon to be abandoned,the conflicts of duty,loyalty and friendship. Those who feel that the film has 'dated' and that the moral values portrayed have lost their meaning and relevance in the age of technological warfare, overlook the fact of the unchanging nature of the human spirit, particularly in adversity. Perhaps the message of this film has still something to say to our troubled world ? "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" There are many interesting ideas in this classic war drama, such as companionship and duty, and they are explored very well, plus the film gives an insight into life in POW camps. It is very well photographed and for the bulk of the duration is quite realistic, however the film's editing fails to provide a continuous flow of action at times. The editing is not really too good, with cuts between changes in action and music that make the editing obvious. There is little else to complain about in the film. Sure, it does not have the same power today as it would have had during the 1930s, and the acting is hardly better than adequate, but it is still very well made. Some plot points are initially ill explained, but by the end everything makes good sense and the film's ending is very effective. It is also interesting how language is used in the film - to show a uniting force that can exist between otherwise opposed people. "},{"Title":"An interesting film on many levels","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  First there's the whole class structure theme, and the changes in the European economic classes. There's a theme about how regardless of class or race we are all brothers, regardless of what side we are on.I'm sure that this must have been one of the first films to address all of these issues.  They would later creep up in a dozen Hollywood films.This is a very hard movie to critique. The first 30-40 minutes is very trying and painful to watch at times.  I'm not sure if Renoir didn't know quite how to lay the foundation of the story, or what the reason is. It clubs you over the head with its obvious statements about the absurdity of war (which I think is told better in All Quiet on the Western Front and The Big Parade). And as one other person wrote, there is hardly an exterior scene in the beginning. It's almost as if there were a different director at the helm.About 45 minutes into the film, after the drag show, it starts to click. The story is clearer, and more interesting. The performances are better, also. By the time von Stroheim returned I was fully absorbed into the story.His performance of a German officer who knows that his time has passed is honest and heartbreaking. I found the most profound moment to be his clipping of the flower after Boeldieu is killed. I think that it is one of the strongest performances on film.At first I couldn't warm up to Jean Gabin as Marechal. Perhaps he was not involved enough, until his time the jail(which wasn't made clear as to why he was in solitary, was it because he made the announcement at the show?). After the escape however, his performance was superb.I think I can understand why this film is considered such a classic. I just wish that Renoir could have done a better job of getting through the first third of the movie.7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"My wife and I loved it","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  We saw it just the other night at a screening in our university's library and absolutely loved it.  Such a positive, beautiful film about accepting and loving others.  It taught such a great message without seeming boringly didactic.  A must see for anyone and everyone. "},{"Title":"The Dignity of War!","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" To a post World War II viewer, the idea of a prison camp like this one seems a little hard to fathom. The French are at War with the Germans in World War I, and a group of officers have been arrested. They spend their waking hours trying escape; it is their duty. Enter Erich Von Stroheim. He plays a German officer with many broken parts. A neck brace keeps him from turning his head. He must pivot at the waist. This gives him an odd stiff appearance. He comes from an aristocratic background and enjoys the company of officers, even enemy officers. This is an amazing contrast between the realities and pain of war and an ancient code that made war seem almost dignified. At one point the French officers are handed their own manuals and expected to conduct themselves according to a written set of principles.One officer gives his life so that others may escape. The men are taken in by a farm widow. This expresses the incredible sadness of war and the uncertainty of the future. At no time does Renoir get overly dramatic. He plays things out subtly and with grace. Even with that, you leave the film knowing that war is the worst thing we can foist on each other. "},{"Title":"A Surprising and Significant Film","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" As with so many films, I have to divorce to my social conscience from my aesthetic sentiments before I can comment. On aesthetic grounds, Grand Illusion is well deserving of all the praise it has received, and I have nothing to add. It is the film's significance as a cultural artifact that is worth mention --If feel that Grand Illusion betrays a nostalgia, on Renoir's part, for a return to the 19th century. It is surprising that he was able to make the film as late as 1937, and I am quite sure he would not have been able to make it after the Second World War. He seems to desire a return to the days when it was still possible for Europeans to regard imperialism as something more or less benign--of course, Fascism and the Nazis shattered this illusion, or ought to have at any rate. For example, can one imagine the flippant remark, Dirty Jew, used in such a way in a film made since 1945?Since Renoir is also well regarded for his post-war films, I suspect he must have successfully fortified himself in an ivory tower by the time he made them--it seems unlikely he would have been able to have faced the present he found himself in honestly and remained functional as an artist otherwise. "}{"Title":"Viewer Comment","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Greeting.I saw this film first on TV in the 1950s over an independant station in Saint Louis. I have seen it a dozen times since on TV and video. I did a report on it in my University Film Appreciation course.I love history, well I obsess over it actually. I am a high functional autistic, and we all have some obsession. Military history, and that of wars, has fascinated me since I was seven years old.I enjoyed the film for all the historical accuracy in costumes, miliary, war, and class distiction. Later I was engrossed over the severe class distinction. Men of equal rank were treated differently as one was aristocracy, and the other aworker class.. privilaged birth yields privelaged treatment!Erich von Stroheim laments that the class distiction as they knew it was ending because of WW I. I liked the German military music from the film too, and the line, I forgot how much I hate fifes, from an allied prisoner hearing German musicians doing drill.The film is fantastic!!!! Great acting! Von Stroheim fluent in three languages. The lessons in history and sociology, and one fine story!Ten Stars from me! I own two VHS copies (one for back up). I am seeking a DVD copy as I now have a DVD player.Terry Alan Klasek "},{"Title":"It's a French Masterpiece","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Grand Illusion is considered a masterpiece for several reasons.  Renoir did microcosmic studies through cinema and Grand Illusion is a metaphor for the changing of the old European aristocracy to the growth of the new ruling classes of the workers and upper middle class.  The POW camp is a microcosm of European society- containing French, Russian and Englishmen, professors, actors, bankers, Christians, Jews, etc.  Two men fight on opposite sides (German and French captains), but are ideologically and physically identical.  The irony comes when the German commander must kill this man for whom he feels the most connection with simply because of the rules of war. Renoir uses music as motif throughout the film and brilliant word play- using the irony of language barriers.  He also is consistent with visual imagery- cold, hard and dead vs soft, warm and vital.  "},{"Title":"In praise","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  A fine film. The commentary of the shift of Aristocracy led Europe to common people led europe is highlighted well in this film. Along the way it set examples used later in the Great Escape. And as a commentary on the finding of love among a man and woman of different and even warring countries... well this is a fine film in Humanity. "},{"Title":"Song in the film!","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  There is a brief bit of a song sung by Marechal and Rosenthal toward the end of the film. This is from a favorite folk song of children in France, in the public domain now. The refrain is O-way, O-way, for recognition to those who are not familiar with it. The song is Il Etait un Petit Navire. The whole movie is very well done in accuracy for details of the time that it takes place. That is what makes it such a memorable film! "},{"Title":"The Great DElusion","Date":"5 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" That seems to me, the appropriate translation for the french title. MOst reviewers appear to think, that the depicted life in a German prison camp for officers shows the real thing. Of course not! Therefore, the film seems to me more of a fairy tale -depicting, on purpose, the romanticized view of the general public in the 1930 's of such a place. An ironic fairy tale, that is. Hence the title La Grande Illusion.The horrors of the First World War seem too heavy to be treated as a feel good comedy, with only a title as a reference to something else. Maybe this review is influenced by the viewing of WEstfront 1918 by WG Pabst, one week earlier. That film depicts the real war, in the trenches. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Films Ever","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  When we talk of the Golden Age of films during the late 1930s, it is easy for fans of cinema to become myopic to American releases.  But not all golden celluloid comes from southern California, nor even the USA.THE GRAND ILLUSION comes from France and is without a shadow of the doubt one of the greatest movies ever made.  The story was thoroughly engrossing and entertaining.  The acting was superb.  The directing was outstanding. The camerawork was always on bullseye.The bill calls this an antiwar film.  Frankly, I didn't see that at all. It was, however, honest and real about the first World War.  To interpret that as pro- or anti- is to project a personal bias.  There are no blood and guts.  No gore.  Rather caring personal relationships are made and then shattered, across social, political, and racial lines.Orson Welles, Francois Truffaut, Ingmar Bergman, and on and on, they all referred to this as one of greatest, important and most influential movies ever.  It demands not be missed. "},{"Title":"A great escape French style...intriguing but not completely satisfying...","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" For a film that has been hailed over the years as a masterpiece, GRAND ILLUSION is showing its age. I'm speaking now from a technical standpoint. The version shown on TCM has a series of scenes linked together by choppy editing, abrupt changes of scene that lack smooth narrative style. But overall, the B&W photography is sharp and glistens with the life brought to the story by an excellent cast.It seems a bit more profound in tackling the subject of prisoners of war, but there are many moments when you might think you're watching the French version of The Great Escape or Stalag 17. The somber mood that prevails is broken intermittently by scenes of male bonding amid camaraderie and clowning around, especially the scene where the men decide to put on a show for the German officers. Needless to say, the drag show is good for a few laughs before the plot has them all struggling to hatch an escape plan, one that hasn't been used before.But it soon becomes apparent that Capt. Von Rauffenstein (ERICH VON STROHEIM), an aristocratic German in command, has taken an instant dislike to two prisoners especially, a Frenchman (JEAN GABIN) and a Jew (MARCEL DALIO), both from the lower class. The class distinction also includes Von Rauffenstein's tolerance for an aristocratic French officer (PIERRE FRESNAY), who later becomes the pivotal character in helping the two most despised prisoners escape.The World War I story is poorly paced for a film that runs almost two hours and, as noted before, the editing leaves a lot to be desired. The story's final section takes place in a farmhouse after the two have escaped, supposedly to show the mutual trust and comradeship that develops between the Jew, the Frenchman and a German farm woman who gives them shelter during the Christmas season. Presumably, the intent is to show that the horrors of war are best forgotten when it's time for humans to treat each other with compassion.Worth watching if you don't mind reading the sub-titles (which are plentiful throughout), except for a short exchange between Erich Von Stoheim and Pierre Fresnay that is spoken in English. Perhaps it was the only part of the negative available when scenes were put together from various pieces for continuity.Not really the masterpiece that others have called it, with pacifist overtones that are non too subtle in those final scenes. It's an interesting glimpse into the past via the French cinema, nothing more, nothing less, but well worth viewing.As an escape film, it falls far short of the adventurous spirit we're used to in more recent outings of American cinema, and certainly it lacks the rugged style and pace of The Great Escape or Stalag 17. "},{"Title":"One of the ten greatest films ever made.","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  The Grande Illusion is one of the most poignant elegies to the  death of European aristocracy ever put on the screen. Although Renoir intended the film as an anti-war treatise, his graceful portrayal of an era coming to an end surpasses the movie's didactic end.What I find particularly purplexing is how such medicre movies a s Memento and Schinler's List, among others can  possibly be so high up. "},{"Title":"Good but stagey","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Knowing for so long that this is considered one of the greatest movies of all time...I hate to differ.It's incredibly good, don't get me wrong.  Very powerful and moving at times.  But for a film that has great exteriors in its later segments...why the heck does this film begin like a staged play?   The officer and the mechanic go for a plane ride...and then they're captured by the Germans.  It felt like the room in the first scene was just next door to the German camp.  Did Renoir have a very low budget?  I'm not even saying I want a full-tilt action sequence of the plane being shot down....just a couple of exteriors between them embarking on their flight and being captured.  (I'd accept them standing on the damn airfield by a stationary plane!)I'm not saying that in 1937 French cinema, it was easy to show a plane being shot down.  But come on, ten years earlier, Wings, the first Best Picture winner, has great plane sequences.  And i believe Hells Angels in 1930 did too.   In other words, if Renoir had Marechal and Rosenthal escape from the prison in one shot...and then he'd cut to the interior of Elsa's farmhouse when they first come upon it....it wouldn't have been as effective as how he DID shoot it, with them traversing the countryside and all.To me, visually, the film is unbalanced, with too many interiors in the very beginning, and powerful exterior moments later on.   As a character piece, about soldiers of all stripes in WWI Europe, its still effective, and I'm sure it was a groundbreaking story for its time.  But as an overall film that stands the test of time?  In my book, it doesn't hold up that well.  And as one who LOVES old movies as much as modern ones, I can't be accused of being unclear as to how all movies were more talky back then.  I'm fine with talky.  Its just that Renoir's visual scheme was a little too flat for my tastes.  I know you can't do much with a POW camp...but for all the platitudes this film has gotten, i feel that had it been more visually creative to match the exemplary dialogue and acting, it would have deserved to be called ONE OF THE BEST MOVIES EVER.And is it me, or does Jean Gabin look a lot like Kenneth Branagh?? "},{"Title":"Outstandingly slow!","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I should clarify. In what is known as the first prison break film ever made, I was initially surprised at how similar Grand Illusion was to the 1963 film The Great Escape, which is to be expected, of course, since this film probably had such a profound impact on that one (and any respectable break-out movie that has ever come out, as it were). I was also surprised to see that, not only does the movie move at an alarmingly slow pace during much of the middle of it, but several of the characters come across as almost stereotypical caricatures, like they are filling in expected roles in a formula film. But then (and here is where it really struck me how great this movie is), before I even realized anything was changing in my mind, it occurred to me that the combination of the slow pace and the caricatures were almost like a cinematic justification of the pace of the film and the characters that appeared in it. After more and more seemingly slow or even irrelevant scenes, you suddenly see these caricatures not only as characters rather than caricatures, but as people rather than characters. At least as important is Director Jean Renoir's desire to present it not as a movie about relationships between people of different nationalities (an understandable conclusion, since it takes place in a time of war), but of HUMAN relationships, of common bonds of humanity rather than nationality. He explains this in a wonderful video introduction to the film, in which he also talks about the film's nearly miraculous survival after years of having been lost. If you get a chance to catch it on DVD, you will be watching a copy that was thought to have been destroyed by the Nazis decades ago! "}{"Title":"Plain boring and it is black and white?","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I have never learned to appreciate the greatness of those old, black-and-white so-called classical movies. There are exceptions such as Bela Tarr's Werckmeister Harmonies and a very obscure Hungarian film called Fallen that came out a few years ago. But even those are still pretty recent. I am not saying all those old movies are no good, but most of them are. The limit of technology directly determined the fate of those classics. The conversations sound very artificial in this movie, like all other old movies. Sorry but if you compare the modern German war movie Downfall to this one, you will find how bad this movie is. The storyline of this movie is also downright boring. And if you are looking for something that can put you to sleep, this one will be it. "},{"Title":"Feckless...","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Granted, Jean Renoir had yet to experience the long Nazi nacht to come (as his disclaimer on the Criterion disc makes perfectly clear), but, to see an all-singing, all-dancing pro-war film made just prior to same is more than a little mind-boggling. I owe these riches to the misfortunes of war, one of the Upper Crust boasts early on. As well he might in addition to great accommodations (a castle), there's caviar and vodka and fine clothes (including spit-and-polished uniforms and jackboots); all pilfered from the dead. Where there are Germans, there is order. Uh-huh... Erich Von Stroheim is hilarious as Herr Hermann the Humane. I beg you, he pleads with an escaping prisoner Come down! When the prisoner refuses, Stroheim reluctantly caps him. Forgive me, he asks the wounded man I aimed at your legs. It was five hundred feet, with poor visibility, the all-too-forgiving recaptured prisoner replies Besides, I was running... Please, no excuses, Stroheim persists with a clearly pained expression I was clumsy. This is just one exchange among many that make THE GRAND DELUSION rife for ribbing. (One can only imagine what the crew of MYSTERY SCIENCE THEATER 3000 could make of this one...) Renoir's contention is that The war of 1914 was almost a war of gentlemen. When escapee Gabin and his buddy, in plain sight of their German pursuers, are allowed to cross a mythical border into Switzerland, one almost expects them to stop and turn and wave. Perhaps Renoir never heard about strafing or machinegun nests or poison gas. This movie certainly suggests as much. "},{"Title":"A flawed classic","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Excellent casting and some fine performances. But the editing is probably the film's greatest flaw, especially early on in shifting from the French squadron to the German squadron; no transitions at all. Just plain amateurish a grade school student with a film splicer could have done as well. Those easily avoidable flaws reduce my rating to a 7.GOOF why oh why does the floral wreath to a fallen French flier have the date March 12, 1914. The film is set in 1916, but the wreath's date was five months before the war began! GOOF Stroheim made the greatest pistol shot in movie history a moving man, in the dark, at 150 meters. But the French victim indicates he's hit in the forearm--certainly not a fatal wound. "},{"Title":"Good but a classic?","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Like some other people have mentioned, why is this a classic.  It's well directed, has two very good performances (Gabin and von Stroheim), but it was kind of boring, seeming much longer than it was, and the anti war message was obvious and done with sledge hammer subtlety.  Maybe back in the late 1930s this was considered powerful, but it hasn't aged well with time.  Also we've had other anti war films that are much better.  In fact All Quiet on the Western Front came out in 1931, was also about World War 1 and is twenty times better than this!  Worth seeing, but don't go out of your way.   "},{"Title":"Poetic but boring","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  French officers is prisoners of war in Germany during WWI. They never give up escaping, and gets transferred all the time. French poetic realism they called it. 60 years later we can also call it slow-paced and even boring. Well this movie ain't all that bad. And the last half hour is memorable. But the start introduces a lot of people that just disappears, and some of them are actually more interesting than those we follow lateron. "},{"Title":"Insufferably Boring","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"8 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" A bunch of guys who all look the same are sitting around in a dreary, depressing setting talking for a long time, about 45 minutes to be exact. Then another big long scene with some guys dancing and playing instruments that seemed to go on for hours. Then 3 guys are standing in line and one guy decides to go and tell another guy that there is a tunnel back where they just came from. Cut to next scene with a man sitting at a table expressing his disgust for coffee then he talks to the two guys who just came from the line up. More talking, and then two guys (presumably the two main characters) escape and meet a woman, they tell her a bunch off stuff, she waves them goodbye, they say goodbye to each other and escape to Switzerland. End of film. Supposedly this is a great prison escape movie. But throughout the whole film there is just ONE 3 minute scene of them planning an escape. "},{"Title":"Overpraised pacifist statement rings hollow.","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"9 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This overpraised, overlong film is due for a fresh look from the critics.The characters are not terrifically individualized or interestingly portrayed, with the exception of Von Stroheim's philosophical Colonel. The plot development is slow to the point of aimlessness. The prisoners are all either happy-go-lucky adventurous types or poor souls who just want to go home. It may be unfair to compare two films made nearly thirty years apart, but there is far, far more of interest going on in The Great Escape, unquestionably the most thoughtful of the POW movies, than there is here. Which is especially ironic, since The Great Escape was made chiefly as an adventure tale. Yet it can boast far better characterizations and far more interesting human interactions than does Grand Illusion, long a favorite among cinema intellectuals.Europe's mood in the 1930s (outside of Germany, of course) was pacifistic. Voila! Grand Illusion is a pacifist film. It is also, unfortunately, a tedious recital of sentimental clichés, quite undistinguished except for some nice open-air direction at the end, and for Von Stroheim's oddly memorable neck-brace. "},{"Title":"I don't get it!","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"9 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Why has this film been so praised, so admired, so loved?  It's not a bad little yarn about World War 1 POW's - but its incredible and deep significance escapes me.  In fact I found it a bit of a chore to sit through.The first part of the film is something like Hogan's Heroes, with the French POW's having a high old time eating like kings and putting on impossibly elaborate stage shows in drag.  And of course there's the ubiquitous escape tunnel!  Then it becomes a lot of silly ramblings as a French and a German aristocrat mourn the loss of their class - the other major characters are a French workman and a French Jew.  All very deep.  And then it all descends into The Great Escape.Yes, it's all about the stupidity of war - but it makes its point quickly and then rambles on for another hour and a half.  I've always been immune to the charms of over-weight, middle-age French actors like Jean Gabin (and today Mr Depardieu), who we are supposed to find sexy - but Von Stroheim is splendid as the German officer.  He carries a tragic weight, as opposed to a cholesterol-induced one, that is very powerful.Surprisingly ordinary. "},{"Title":"Why do so many people love this film?","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"9 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  It amazes me that there is little negative commentary about this film. Ok - I recognize that is has been hailed as one of the great movies of all time, but I strongly disagree.What do people see in this film? It is way too long (a common critique of realist cinema) and the characters are very unsympathetic. I certainly didn't feel any great pacifist sentiment from this film, except for feeling that war is silly especially when officers are most concerned about the length of women's hair in Paris.Finally, what can this film possibly offer for a female audience? The response from female contributors on this site has been positive - something which surprised me. There are no strong female characters, and the movie takes place in an all-male environment that has no allure for the female viewer. Renoir made some good, socially relevant, interesting films, but this one.... Thumbs Down. "},{"Title":"A good story but a very long and boring movie.","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Maybe it was the fact the version I had contained subtitles and mixed German, French, English and who knows what else to throw you off...no that wasn't it. It just simply was boring. I admit it was a decent story about not only war, but loyalty among friends, I give it props for that, but as something taking up almost two hours of my day well it was a waste. I was thinking as I watched that even though I don't like reading and prefer movies, this film would've been the exception and would have been funner to read. Okay, so I don't fancy older films and bad acting, editing, directing, sound etc. etc. but this films main flaw was that it was confusing at first and then by the time it falls into place you realize you don't care anymore. I found myself floating off thinking of other things, but it will be a film that I will remember.Bottom line... if you enjoy war dramas and don't desire a lot of action then you may enjoy this. If you need excitement then rent one of Stallone or Schwarzenegger's films.1/2 a star out of possible 4  "}]