[{"Title":"A Great Sylvia Sidney Vehicle (before Beetlejuice)","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"47 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Like most Hitchcock films, Sabotage is a great thriller directed with a fluid, self-assured style. But given its thriller genre what makes Sabotage unique is that moments into the movie we know the identity of the saboteur, we know who is the undercover detective, and we know that the police have all but solved the case. So Hitchcock's suspense must come from somewhere else and in the meantime he must entertain us with character development. And that task falls to his heroine. Hitchcock had an uncanny ability to cast actresses who were a perfect fit (at that exact point of their career) to play a particular heroine. Fortunately he again makes the right choice and we are treated to a fine performance from Sylvia Sidney (imagine an expressive Sasha Cohen without ice skates).The film is essentially a Sylvia Sidney vehicle as she plays a woman who slowly realizes that her husband is a monster. She is a young American woman who married an older European (nationality unknown) man who apparently showed kindness to her and her young brother Stevie (played by Desmond Tester) when they were down on their luck. They moved to London to run the Bijou, a struggling movie house.Among the notable scenes is the meeting between Sidney's husband (played by Oskar Homolka) and a spy contact at the London aquarium; to the backdrop of a huge turtle swimming in an illuminated tank. The tank cross-dissolves into Piccadilly Circus as it is demolished in his imagination.Another is late in the film when Sidney sits in the theater in numb shock, watching a Disney cartoon ( ( Who Killed Cock Robin ? )). There is not a word of dialogue but her eyes and expressions subtly convey an emotional cavalcade of stunned realization, immense sadness, and barely suppressed hysteria that will stay in your memory forever. It is a rare example of the visual power of film and an illustration of what acting for the camera is all about.And perhaps most amazing is the long and unbearably suspenseful journey of young brother Stevie across London, unaware that he's carrying a ticking time bomb. "},{"Title":"Tense, Atmospheric Thriller","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"35 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Sabotage is one of Alfred Hitchcock's least known features, but it is part of a string of fine films he made during his last few years in England, and is well worth watching for any Hitchcock or thriller fan.  The picture is based on a classic novel by the great Polish-English writer Joseph Conrad.This is a tense, atmospheric thriller, without much humor.  It is more like Vertigo, I Confess, or The Birds than North By Northwest or The 39 Steps.  Instead of humor, Hitchcock concentrates this time on carefully constructing the world of the Verlocs, the family at the center of the film. The setting, in a movie theater where the family works and lives, is an important part of the themes and questions explored in the film.The characters are constantly walking in and out of the theater while movies are in progress, or discussing the movies being shown as they go about the main actions of the (actual) film.  The obvious themes of appearance and reality parallel the lives of the Verloc family, and especially Mr. Verloc (Oskar Homolka) whom we know from the beginning to be a terrorist, albeit an amateurish one, and not the mild-mannered family man he appears to be. The settings of Verloc's meeting with his co-conspirators, an aquarium and a bird shop, are also carefully chosen to demonstrate the contrast between the everyday appearance of the terrorists and their actual agendas.  Besides the obvious implication that such persons may be those we would not suspect, there is also the strong suggestion that these conspirators do not themselves realize the serious nature of the game they are playing. Certainly Verloc himself quickly realizes that he is in over his head, and he tries desperately to get out of the fearsome responsibilities he has accepted.Hitchcock buffs will enjoy watching the film repeatedly to catch all of the carefully crafted detail, and to enjoy the trademark Hitchcock touches. There are two particularly riveting sequences.  One occurs when Verloc sends his wife's young, unsuspecting brother on a dangerous errand, leading to a sequence of excruciating tension.  Hitchcock later said he should have ended the sequence differently, and many viewers might agree, but what happens is in keeping with the themes and plot of the movie, and the suspense sequence is also masterfully done.  Also well-known from Sabotage is the sequence when Mrs. Verloc (Sylvia Sidney) learns the truth about her husband's activities, and the awful consequences of his latest plot.  There is first a touching sequence in the theater, when the Disney movie playing on the screen first provokes Mrs. Verloc to involuntary laughter, then to deepened sadness when it too closely parallels her own experience.  Then there is a tense, famous scene at the dinner table, filmed as an absolutely masterful montage by Hitchcock.These scenes, and the finely crafted atmosphere of Sabotage, make it worthwhile despite a few small faults, and despite the possibility that many viewers will not be comfortable with some of the plot developments.  Watch it at least once if you are a Hitchcock fan, or if you like spy stories or thrillers. "},{"Title":"Poor Stevie","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"29 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" For reasons that are left unexplained -- and maybe it should be so -- Karl Verloc (Oscar Homolka) is working for unknown forces by terrorizing London natives as he sets off bombs. His wife's brother Stevie is the patsy given these packages to be delivered once they reach their destination at a certain time. Until one delivery goes terribly wrong and causes the innocent Stevie his life.It's the sequence that is Hitchcock's earliest depictions of what he describes as suspense. The boy, whom we have grown to like over the course of the film, is on his way to a location on a bus carrying the bomb inside a package. Hitchcock cuts between the package, the street, the Big Ben, over and over and over until the tension becomes so unbearable and is finally released in an explosion which kills the boy.While Hitchcock in his interview with Truffaut would later state that putting the boy in this situation is something that he resented because the audience at that time reacted negatively at this, I think this is a mistake. Because there is another character, Mrs. Verloc (played by Sylvia Sidney), who will eventually come to realize what she has been slowly fearing all along -- that her husband is the person behind the acts of sabotage -- she has to lose a person close to her to take action. In the climactic sequence which resembles a silent film, Mrs. Verloc brings murder and retribution home without a line of dialogue but only using her survival instincts and those sad, expressive eyes. Hitchcock shifts from her face, to Homolka's, to the food they are eating, to her holding the knife, until we cannot bear it anymore and in a moment of almost casual surprise, it happens. It's too bad Hitchcock and she did not work again; she would have made an excellent Hitchcock heroine.The Director would explore the theme of the suspicious wife time and again on two other films. In the correctly titled SUSPICION, Joan Fontaine would be the wife who has to come to terms with the gnawing fact that her dashing husband's love may be killing her, and in DIAL M FOR MURDER would bring to focus what was implied in SUSPICION. "},{"Title":"Sabotage holds up much better than some of Hitchcock's later films","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" What an opening. The power goes off all over London as the camera gives the viewer a sweeping panorama of the situation, light, shadow, blackness, panning throughout the city with emphasis on historical sites. Then one word utterances from several different persons in charge of keeping the power up and running. This beginning grabs the audience's attention better than any other film this side of The Letter and Hitchcock's own Rebecca. But unlike The Letter where the opening is the high point of the entire film, Sabotage keeps getting better and better. The opening is truly just the beginning of a cinema masterpiece. Hitchcock uses old film techniques such as cross cutting in novel ways. One of the best scenes takes place in a zoo aquarium where water creatures are compared with the human creature. Listen to the dialog between the two saboteurs as the camera zooms in on the sea turtles. Later the bomber thinks of the fish swimming in the tank and then sees motor cars filled with passengers speeding along the streets. An explosion. Suddenly the fish in the tank again flash through the bomber's head. To savor this splendid moment of cinematic brilliance, the viewer may need to zip back and watch and listen as the scene is repeated.What a wonderful acting job Sylvia Sidney does. Hitchcock used all his influence and bargaining power to have Sidney play the part. Unfortunately Hitchcock and Sidney did not jell. Their personalities clashed. So the gifted actress refused to have anything else to do with the masterful director. Such a great loss for each.The way Hitchcock handles the delicate situation involving the cute boy, Mrs. Verloc's (Sylvia Sidney)little brother, riding the bus with a time bomb in a package under one arm while petting a fluffy puppy with his free hand is necessary for what happens at the end of the film. For once, however, Hitchcock misread his movie patrons who were outraged. Never again would he make a similar mistake.An interesting feature of this Hitchcock outing is a cinema owned by the bomber (Oskar Homolka) and his wife (Sidney) where clandestine meetings among the saboteurs occur. Several features are shown in the background from time to time during the film but one stands out, Who Killed Cock Robin, a Disney short from 1935 featuring a parody of Mae West among others. Hitchcock skillfully blends the clip from Cock Robin into his story of Sabotage. Mrs. Verloc deeply depressed and confused following her brother's death hears the laughter coming from the audience. She sits down and joins in with the gaiety. When the arrow is loosed and strikes poor Cock Robin, the laughter on her face changes to an expression of agony and terror. Reality replaces fantasy and make believe. Now she fully realizes what a monster her husband truly is, not the noble sensitive caring man of her dreams. One is reminded how a later director/writer Preston Sturges would use a similar technique with a Mickey Mouse cartoon in his classic Sullivan's Travels.There is also a clear message by Hitchcock on sabotage, today terrorism; those so-called martyrs for a cause are in reality misguided devils who end up killing the innocent and helpless instead of the ones their feeble minds believe to be the deceivers and exploiters of the human race. "},{"Title":"Easily one of Hitchcock's greatest films","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"29 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Ah, yet another Hitchcock movie that is less than famous but then turns out to be one of the best films ever made. Every Hitchcock film that I see just makes me want to the rest of his films.Sabotage has a lot going for it. It is based on a novella by Joseph Conrad, the master writer who wrote Heart of Darkness (truth be told, that's the only novel of his that I've read the whole of, but I've been told that he has plenty of great novels besides that; I guess after Sabotage, I'm now obliged to read up). The story is excellent. Mix that with great characters played by great actors, and you've got yourself yet another Alfred Hitchcock masterpiece.Maybe this film is not popular because it is atypical for Hitchcock. It contains tons of suspense, maybe more than any of his films besides Rear Window, especially in a sequence where he demonstrates his famous theory that a bomb that does not go off creates the suspense. No, this film is atypical because it lacks Hitchcock's masterful humor. This is usually taken as one of his trademarks, but I've seen several of his films that lack humor (or at least reduce it), and I find them just as good (I Confess, Rope, and The Birds). Instead, Sabotage may be the most emotionally affecting Hitchcock film, competing with the likes of Vertigo and Rebecca. It gives you characters to care about, especially Mrs. Verloc, played masterfully by Sylvia Sydney as a happy wife who discovers the hard way that her husband is a terrorist (don't worry, no spoilers here; we find this out in the first scene). John Loder plays Ted, a detective who falls in love with Mrs. Verloc, although she is clearly not willing, while undercover at a grocer next door. The best performance is Oskar Homolka's, who plays Mr. Verloc. Only Norman Bates is a more sympathetic villain than Mr. Verloc. We never do see why exactly he wants to sabotage things (and in this way, this movie is quite xenophobic), but we see that he does not wish to harm anyone, and that when he does he only does it through compulsion. He also cares greatly for his wife and her brother. Even at the end of the film, we understand why Mrs. Verloc wants nothing to do with Ted's advances. The film ends with an easy escape, but guilt remains heavy. 10/10 "},{"Title":"The best of Hitch's early British films...","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Most buffs and fans of Alfred Hitchcock point to 39 STEPS or LADY VANISHES as his best work before he hit Hollywood in 1940.  SABOTAGE is really the first time we see a pure thriller, specifically a spy thriller, which became so commonplace throughout the master's career.   The main character is an undercover agent, looking to break up a ring of saboteurs bent on destroying London.  Hitch places the head villain within, what else, a cinema, something that adds to the already rich atmosphere.  The film was also shot on location, an oddity for Hitch.Check out the camera movements and use of shadows in regard to the villain (played by a creepy looking Oscar Homolka).  They reveal a lot to us the viewer and lead us to hope for his wife to figure it all out.  An ominous image of London falling is depicted from the point of view of Oscar.  This is pretty basic stuff, but, considering how old the film is, it still packs a punch.  The scene on the bus, where a young boy carries a film tin which may or may not carry a bomb is extremely suspenseful and well-done.  We even see a British crowd in the movie theater watching a Disney flick (which is well noted in the opening credits).1934's THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH was an effective early thriller, better than the 1956 remake, however, this is the film to start with if studying Hitchcock's career.  You may find yourself preferring some of his British films, like MAN WHO KNEW, to his work in Hollywood.  SABOTAGE provides the goods for the first time. "},{"Title":"Good Hitchcock, but I miss Conrad's layered ironies","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Sabotage is one of a series of six films in the mid 1930s that firmly created the public image of Alfred Hitchcock as a major film director and artist. The others were The Man Who Knew Too Much (1934), The Secret Agent, The Thirty-Nine Steps, Young and Innocent, and The Lady Vanishes. The films caught attention in American (especially The Thirty-Nine Steps and The Lady Vanishes), and Hitchcock was invited to come to America by David Selznick, who would be his producer from 1939 onward.The other comments on this film have pointed out some of the best moments, such as the explosion scene and the death of Verloc (Oskar Homolka). The film was quite well made, but the film had to be modernized for it's 1937 audiences. Although the foreign power that is behind Homolka's gang is never mentioned, a 1937 audience would have probably considered it was Nazi Germany (which was the suggested enemy in The Lady Vanishes, and The Thirty-Nine Steps. In the original story Verloc is acting for the government of Tsarist Russia, who has sent a high ranking official to London to tell Verloc to commit a terrorist act (to spur anti-Immigrant feelings in London). Verloc does not run a cinema (as in the movie - the novel came out in 1907), but a small store. However, he does sell contraceptive devices, which Conrad hints at but doesn't name. Verloc lives in a fool's paradise with his wife Winnie and her simple-minded brother. He thinks that his wife adores him, but she only tolerates him for the sake of giving her brother a home. When Verloc's plan destroys the brother, it destroys the household. Verloc's world is that of the foreign anarchists in London, none of whom are worthy of the respect their breast beating comments make them think they deserve. One of them is at total war with society, and wears an outfit that a modern suicide bomber would not find amiss (this character is kept in the film, but his impact is reduced by script changes). In the novel, when this brave anarchist goes out into the public wearing his booby-trapped coat, he suddenly sees the vast multitudes in the street and realizes that no matter how many he kills or maims thousands and millions will replace them - and nobody will replace him! Conrad's The Secret Agent was called the most completely ironic novel in English. If not it comes close, and is possibly his best novel (Lord Jim and Nostromo may be better). The twisted irony of the plot (for all the destruction nothing really changes) is first rate in the writing, but it does not translate too well in this film version. Watch the film for Hitchcock's touches and his directing of Homolka, Sylvia Sydney, and the rest. But read the novel by Conrad for the real treat. "},{"Title":"Sabotage","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" What you'll find is signature Hitchcock touches. Such as the brilliant mobile framing, and how he lets the players use their eyes to tell the story in visual terms. Watch how Mrs. Verlock's face is suddenly stricken when she sees the bird get killed in the cartoon movie right after the moments she tries to laugh her grief off.Look at the beautiful graphic match of the turtle aquarium to Mr. Verlock's sick fantasy of what happens to some buildings. I also really liked the intense scene in the dinner table, that Hitch accentuates with his beautiful camera movement. And oh, that wicked angle when we see Mrs. Verlock right past the doorway, and in the F.G., the feet of the slain Mr. Verlock.I really don't know how Hitch did that double-decker explosion. It was really clever as it was really quick. I hafta see this film again to figure out how they did that train blast.People say this is an elaborately detailed thriller; I can see part of that --- you'll laugh when you watch the last scene where the police officers realize something they didn't earlier.Best of all, SABOTAGE is only 75 minutes in runtime. Yes sir, better than a hundred or 110.Retitled A Woman Alone in the U.S. Grade A+10/10 "},{"Title":"An update of Conrad's 'The Secret Agent' - filmed 'on location?'","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This film makes use of clever reference to locations, often at their darkest and most shadowy - Mr Verloc sabotages Battersea Power Station and brings darkness but his wife Winnie, (Sylvia Sydney) is always radiantly lit. In fact, Hitchcock the illusionist, created the 'locations' with giant photographs (stills exist  of the shooting).  His classic 'business' is perfectly in place - the contrast between the growing menace of Verloc and the 'English' humour is a characteristic which he refined here. An early cameo of Charles Hawtrey explaining the lives of fish at the aquarium while Verloc plots a bombing, the old lady arguing about a canary with the pet-shop owner who is also a homicidal bomber who keep ingredients in the larder! The latter is also henpecked by his gawky daughter (played by an unrecognisable Martita Hunt, not in Ms Havisham mode).Stevie, the heartbreakingly delightful brother is carrying the bomb to the Lord Mayor's show, while every device a crowd offers holds him up and builds the tension.The scene where Winnie stabs Verloc (Oscar Homolka) is a triumph of understatement - it is banal evil a struggle over the dinner table - Winnie stabs Verloc almost in one motion without effort, and without a clear purpose.  Typically, having disposed of the villain, a trick leaves her free- the bomber strikes before the police can find Verloc's body. Hitchcock shies away from Conrad's bleak ending where Winnie is tricked out of the money and throws herself off a channel ferry. That would not be Hitch's style and this film is very much about style. "},{"Title":"The front, the screen, the back room","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  French intellectuals probably love Sabotage Story and pace might not hold the interest of the general public for long, but this movie is a multi layered affair with a lot of stuff to analyze. I read Joseph Conrad's sadly prophetic novel about terrorism in our modern day world before I knew that a Hitchcock treatment existed, and I just admire how the master of suspense succeeded in adapting the story (written around the year 1900) to the conditions in Hitchcockland. There is suspense, there are funny scenes, but Sabotage is, compared with The Man Who Knew Too Much or The 39 steps, a rather serious movie that investigates the dark sides of the condition of human nature in modern times. There are different particularities that I think are quite unique and worth a comment.POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEADCertain parts of Sabotage seem to pay tribute to the silent era expressionist and avant garde heritage of Germany and the Soviet Union. The movie starts in an impressive, unforgettable way First we see a dictionary, then Battersea Power Station with one smoking chimney in the moonlight, then a gaudily lit city street at night. The lights in the street go out; change to a piece of big machinery half in water, lit only by a flashlight; several hands excitedly fussing with the machinery, digging up a muddy substance from the water, rubbing the substance between the fingers. Then the first words of the movie are spoken by an anonymous voice Sand!. Then another voice Sabotage!. Then a third voice Who did it? With a quick succession of different scenes &#150; partially accompanied with a nasty humming sound like from a generator - the viewer is brought right into the movie. The audience is now informed about the dark nature of the subject &#150; terrorism - and the wanted atmosphere is firmly established.The use of spaces or spatial sequences is extraordinary. They have a symbolic significance that in my opinion is uncommon in later Hitchcock movies. The main character, Mr. Verloc, operates a  small, shoddy movie theatre, the Bijou. He lives, together with his young wife and her brother, in a small appartment behind the movie screen. Whoever wants to visit the Verlocs walks up to the ridiculously pompuous, brightly lit front of the Bijou, passes through the front into the dark, stuffy small screening room, walks towards the screen, passes it and is at the Verloc's door. Mr. Verloc, a twisted character without discernible ethnic or ethical roots, executes acts of sabotage or terrorism for whoever pays him. The sequence of light and darkness that lead from the outside to the brain that concocts acts of madness  is repeatedly shown in the movie. A detective tries to squeeze himself into the space behind the screen in an attempt to spy, but there he is unprotected and spotted by the people in the appartment. At the end of the movie,  Mrs. Verloc, fleeing from the appartment when she understands that Mr. Verloc caused her brother's death, gets stuck in the dream zone of the screening room. She stops and watches a sequence of a Disney animated picture, somehow re  enacting her brother&#145;s carefree life and its brutal end. The movie in the movie makes her state of distress more acute. She turns back to the appartment and finally stabs Mr. Verloc to death. A similar spatial sequence as in the Bijou is shown in a pet shop. In its back room a bomb is prepared for Mr. Verloc by the owner, an equally miserable and twisted character. Again there is a respectable front, a middle zone with a surreal situation (many caged exotic animals), and a stuffy back room for a chaotic unconventional family of three (in this case father, daughter, granddaughter) where modern-day sciences are turned into a senseless destructive force. The meeting between Mr. Verloc and his anonymous employers (as in Conrad's novel, it is never explained who they are and in whose favor the acts of terrorism should be) takes place in the zoo, in a dark cavern with windows into different aquarium (I strongly suspect Orson Welles of having copied the set with few alterations for The Lady from Shanghai). The conspiracy thus takes places in a subterranean commando bunker (a predecessor of Ken Adam's war room) from which you do not see a clearly defined battlefield but just murky waters and strange, silent creatures moving through space in slow motion. In a short, dream like sequence the scared Mr. Verloc sees through one of the aquarium windows Piccadilly Circus distorted and destroyed by the bomb he is ordered to plant there.In Sabotage the sets are very important. The character's lives are conditioned by their surroundings. They move little. There is not too much action and the viewers of the movie are required to watch carefully. Maybe this is Hitchcock at his most uncommercial ...  "}{"Title":"Sabotage (1936)","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Sabotage Based on Joseph Conrad's 1907 novel  The Secret Agent, the story concerns Detective Sergeant Ted Spenser ( John Lodger), who is disguised as a greengrocer in order to uncover the details of a plot to destroy London. Involved in the plot are a band of German and British spies who use a movie theatre and a pet shop as a ' front' to cover their activities. The owner of the theatre, Mr. Verloc ( Oscar Homolka), is involved in the plot, but his young wife ( Sylvia Sidney) and her younger brother Stevie ( Desmond Tester) are ignorant of it. Soon feeling that something is up and under pressure from his co-conspirators, Verloc sends Stevie to deliver something for him, only the young boy doesn't know he's delivering a time-bomb.There are many standout scenes in this film. The first scene that comes to my mind, is in the beginning of the film where London has just gone to total darkness. Several quick views of the power plants eventually lead us to the workmen who discover sand in the works.  Sabotage! cries one.  Who did it? The audience is given the answer immediately, as the face of Verloc, crisscrossed with the shadows, emerges to fill the screen. Classic Hitchcock! The second scene which stands out to me, is the entire sequence involving Stevie and his errand. In these scenes, Stevie is completely at the mercy of others, time, and the saboteurs plot. For example, the suspense Hitchcock builds on the bus with the conductor, who ironically warns Stevie,  Don't set fire to me or the other passengers. The last is the entire sequence in which Mrs. Verloc finds out what has just happened. This includes the Disney cartoon  Who killed Cock Robin? and later the scene where Verloc confesses to his wife his part in the sabotage ( he does this against the background of the model boat which she and her brother had made) and the later final dinner scene, where not a word is spoken. This last part is so carefully arranged and so personal between the two, they are right in each others faces, silent.Sabotage is really quite simply, a film rich in complexities of its moral ambiguities. Hitchcock examines really our thin veneer of security the potential we have to sabotage our own lives and the lives of others. For example, the buying and selling of one?s own soul, using the disguise or ?cover? of a cinema or as a greengrocer. In the end, our own detective hero of the film faces his own moral dilemma, for his own recognition of his duty has begun to crumble. "},{"Title":"Magnificent Hitchcock film with lots of tension and excitement","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The picture is an adaptation of the Joseph Conrad's novel about Verloc (Oscar Homolka) , an anarchist bomber and owns a theater who actually is an unknown secret agent for the foreign government in London pre-WWII . He is married to Sylvia (Sylvia Sidney )who works as a theater cashier and doesn't know her kindly husband is behind all it and has no idea his activities . An undercover police inspector (John Loder) surveys the marriage movements . The film contains suspense , tense thriller , intrigue and usual Hitchcock touches . Hitch was a fervent anti-Nazi and similarly other films , he denounces the interior enemy , a spy-ring formed by English and German people . The movie has the expressionist German atmosphere , the suspense is continued and appears lurking and menacing in the theater , streets and during the bus scenes , when the boy carries the bomb . His habitual photographer Bernard Knowles makes an excellent camera-work with lights and shades . Enjoyable cartoon sequence belongs to ¨Who killed cock Robin ?¨ from Silly Symphony of Walt Disney . The movie has the Hitchcock's customary technicians , as Charles Friend (edition) , Louis Levy (musician), Bernard Knowles (cinematographer) , the screenwriter results to be Charles Bennett and being produced by Gaumont British with the great producer Michael Balcon . In spite of long time was released and a little bit dated , the film holds up pretty well . The motion picture was elaborately directed by the master of suspense . Rating  Above average . Essential and indispensable seeing for Hitch's moviegoers. "},{"Title":"excellent and underrated","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Most of Hitchcock's pre-Hollywood films have been pretty much ignored by American audiences with only a few exceptions (such as The 39 Steps and The Lady Vanishes). Of the several somewhat forgotten films is this dandy suspense film from 1936. What I particularly liked about the film was that it COULD have chosen the easy way out of a dilemma but chose for the grittier solution. This provided much greater realism which is so important when making a film about terrorists. In essence, there often is NOT a happy ending and these maniacs hurt a lot of innocent people.Although the titles are similar, this should not be confused with Hitchcock's propaganda film The Saboteur from 1942. While a good film (and at times great), it is nowhere nearly as well-written and suffers from predictability--and Sabotage is NEVER predictable! "},{"Title":"London must not laugh on Saturday.","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Watching Alfred Hitchcock's early British films is a treat for this viewer, particularly in seeing the director's experimentation with themes that will become better known in his more famous American movies. Sabotage becomes an intriguing psychological drama even after the early revelation of the parts his key characters play in the story.Particularly vile is Karl Anton Verloc (Oscar Homolka), a terrorist conspiring to plant bombs in association with an underground cadre. He uses a London cinema house as a front for his activities, while his antagonist, a Scotland Yard detective named Spencer (John Loder) attempts to get enough evidence to expose him. Verloc is married to an American woman (Sylvia Sidney) who is unaware of his activities.With tense precision, Hitchcock visually reinforces the timing of Verloc's next bombing, even though the actual target is never mentioned by name. To carry out his mission, he enlists the services of his wife's young brother Stevie. As Stevie gets sidetracked by the distractions that would affect any teenager, he becomes the victim of Verloc's plot when the bomb detonates, destroying a London bus.Mrs. Verloc's consolation comes in the form of revenge. The moment of retribution takes form almost immediately after she catches herself laughing at scenes of a Disney cartoon playing in the cinema - Who killed Cock Robin? indeed. In classic Hitchcock style, the director makes use of quick cuts to the saboteur, the wife serving dinner, plates of food, and of course, a knife. Needless to say, the knife finds it's mark, and with it, a cold satisfaction for the audience.As in Hitchcock's first talking film, 1929's Blackmail, the director uses deft sleight of hand to shift blame for Verloc's death to a surrogate. In the earlier film, a case could be made that the female killer was acting in self defense. Here, the event was achieved with spontaneous calculation. In both movies, the female lead was just on the edge of making a confession when abrupt dismissal by the authorities led them to a different conclusion about the murders.The film left me curious about a couple of things, the main one being how audiences of the time reacted to the death of an innocent teenager. It seems to me that this would have been a particularly controversial subject for the time. On a very different note, I was left wondering whether the appearance of a rather large billboard directly behind the bombed bus was intentional or not; it was an ad for Coca Cola.Though it's been stated otherwise by other reviewers on this site, the movie does have it's light moment even if only one, the Disney sequence notwithstanding. In an early scene at the pet shop, an old biddy tries to return a canary that doesn't sing. The shop owner has no trouble getting the bird to warble, implying that maybe it's the lady's fault. Strange though, that the shop would also have chickens and a rooster! "},{"Title":"Early signs of Hitch Greatness.","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  In a perfect cinematic world, more suspense films would follow in the footsteps of the master. Sabotage is a testimony to Hitchcock's brilliance way back in the 1930s; it showed the promise of a director who would go on to make the classics Marnie, North by Northwest, and, of course, Psycho.The beginning of the film didn't quite work to my liking; I felt Hitchcock went a bit far with the narrative, essentially spelling out details with unnecessary dialogue. 'What happened? Who did it? Let's show the villain!' Not necessary with the Hitchster's visuals. As the film progressed, however, this minor complaint found itself in isolation as the narration/dialogue improved and the Hitchcockian craftsmanship charmed me.There's something about directors like Hitchcock, Welles, Schafner and Leone in their ability to show an image that's been used in countless other films and keep it fresh. Whether or not it's new is not an issue, it's all about the underlying technique that still keeps viewers on the edge of their seats. For example, we've all seen the moment in a film when one of the innocents is unknowingly describing the hero to the film's villain (whose usually occupied with some mundane activity), we get that moment of realization in the villain's eye as he glances up. I see the move coming a mile away, but I still find myself spellbound as Hitchcock delivers.Indirect SPOILER - The moment in Sabotage that absolutely won me over came at the film's climax when a child is placed in danger. My moviegoer instinct (influenced by modern Hollywood trends) told me, 'Nothing will happen. There'll be some cheesy, ill-logical, and extremely improbable rescue.' Then moments later I remembered, 'Wait, this is Hitchcock . . . the kid really is in danger' and I was on the edge of my seat as the appointed detonation time approached. The Master of Suspense delivered both a satisfying conclusion and setup, and from that point on the rest of the film was delight after delight as Mrs. Verloc tapped into her dark side upon realizing the truth behind the bomb and as the web of deception comes full circle and consumes all involved. I adore the scene where her and Mrs. Verloc are at the table and her body language telegraphs the thoughts passing through her mind, then Verloc simple walks around the table and how she abruptly snatches up the knife. Not much dialogue, and none is really needed. End SPOILER.Sabotage pales next to the be-all/end-all suspense film, Psycho; however, Sabotage is a nice little precursor of what would come.  "},{"Title":"Expressionist thriller resonant with pre-war fears","Date":"5 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A very interesting, transitional Hitchcock film (I haven't read Conrad's The Secret Agent). An early act of the eponymous sabotage plunges Camberwell - for this film is set on the fictional Plouthorp Road of SE5 - into darkness allowing for some unsettling silhouettes and shadow- chasing. Yet this seems to the be the extent of Hitchcock's use of the German aesthetic. Subsequently we get a not entirely polished selection of unexpected twists (Ted's real identity), suspense (the boy with the package) and latterly trademark foreground/overlaid shots. Luckily Hitchcock has employed the excellent Oskar Homolka as Karl Verloc. Rather usefully, it seems that Hitchcock is as benighted as we are when it comes to the motivation for Verloc's shady behaviour - he could be a gangster, a vengeful national or simply an anarchist. It doesn't matter, he is simply the slimy, spinless middle man set to reap what he sows. Loder (Ted) and Sylvia Sidney (Sylvia) are winsome if a little stock - Desmond Tester as Stevie is jolly good.Entertaining but patchy 5/10 "},{"Title":"The film with the infamous 'bomb on bus' scene","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Sabotage clearly isn't Hitchcock's finest hour; but even though this is a 'lesser' Hitchcock film, the director still manages to inject the film with many of his trademarks that would go on to make classics out of films such as Psycho and North by Northwest. Hitchcock makes centrepieces out of several scenes; the best of which include a cross-fade with an aquarium and a London street, the striking opening sequence that sees London go dark; of course, the infamous scene on a bus - and my personal favourite and the crux of the film - the climatic scene that sees saboteur Karl Verloc (played to perfection by Oskar Homolka) try to pass the blame for his actions on to the Scotland Yard inspective who rumbled him. The plot sees cinema owner, the aforementioned Karl Verloc, get himself involved with terrorists. He manages the cinema along with his wife and her brother, and neither of them knows what's going on. The only third party who does know is Sgt. Ted Spencer; the Scotland Yard inspector employed to work a vegetable stall next door as a cover to investigate Mr Verloc.This film is most famous for the sequence that sees young Desmond Tester carry a bomb onto a packed London bus. Audiences at the time were outraged by the climax to this scene; but I was impressed with it. By having the story run the way it should, Hitchcock showed early on the sort of flair that would ensure Psycho a place on 'best film' lists forty five years after its release. Hitchcock shows a willingness to take a risk, and while it may not have done him much good at the time - it's that sort of mentality that made him one of cinema's greats. As you'd expect, Hitchcock makes best use of the latest cinema techniques available at the time, but also harks back to the silent classics with several shots made to look like storyboards. It's obvious why Joseph Conrad's novel appealed to the great director, as the story itself is packed with suspense and Hitchcock always makes the best of it. The build up to the finale of the bus scene is beautifully serene, yet so daunting at the same time. On the whole; Sabotage represents a good example of early Hitchcock and comes highly recommended to his many fans. "},{"Title":"Too short to be a full-length film, too long to be a filler.","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Sabotage is a film with many flaws.  The character development is very poor, resulting in characters we don't know or care about.  The plot is good enough for the time allotted (and that time is very short), but still seems a little thin.  Yet, Sabotage is a good film despite these flaws.Sabotage is interesting if only because it is a great example of Alfred Hitchcock's talent for building suspense.  The bus scene and the husband and wife confrontation are classics in every sense of the word.  The rest of the film is not nearly as compelling as these two scenes, but since the movie isn't very long, Sabotage is well worth at least one viewing. "},{"Title":"An interesting, early effort from Hitchcock","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Although it's probably evident if you've read some of the other things I've written, I'm not a writer. I sometimes have difficulty putting my thoughts on a given movie into words. For whatever reason, I'm having more problems writing about Sabotage than I usually do with a movie. There are a lot of things I enjoyed about the movie. The plot, the acting (especially Sylvia Sidney), and Hitchcock's ability to create tension worked for me. Like a lot of others, the bomb on the bus scene is the highlight of the movie. Hitchcock's genius at creating tension is as evident in this scene as any I've run across.Even though I've rated the film a 7/10, there are problems I have with Sabotage that bothered me. I usually hate the term dated when discussing movies, but it's the best term I can come up with to describe my feeling toward Sabotage. It might be that I haven't seen enough British films from the 30s or maybe it was the poor transfer on the DVD I watched, but I couldn't shake the feeling. It's really a minor point and it won't deter me from my mission of watching and discovering more of Hitchcock's older, pre-Hollywood films. "},{"Title":"Worst Hitchcock Film Ever!","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I cannot imagine how people rate this film highly. Have you ever seen the brief bit on Hitchcock between movies on TCM? Andre de Toth lambastes Hitch as a lazy and sloppy film-maker. After seeing Sabotage for the first time, I now understand why.I don't think Oscar Homolka is intended to be funny in this drama, he's dumb as a box of rocks! (In fact, every character in this movie is conveniently stupid!) In the aquarium scene, Homolka's contact informs him that he won't get paid until he accomplishes his job; Homolka's minor interruption of electric service did not do the trick! But Homolka just says, Huh? I don't understand? He is equally slow to catch on to the idea of bombing Picadilly Circus. HELLO! Then he stumbles into the wrong side of the exit turnstile, can't figure it out and struggles there until the next person to exit pulls him into the right side. (Otherwise, I guess he'd still be struggling like a wind-up toy spinning its wheels in futility against a wall!) Then he has to be fed constant reminders about Saturday at 145. He is so incompetent and stupid that it is difficult to see his being used in a spy ring - even as a dupe.The scene where Homolka goes to the bomb-maker's bird shop is totally inexplicable. In the spy game, contacts among agents are strictly minimized. Yet Homolka's visit serves no purpose. We meet the bomb-maker's family. We see his daughter's toys mixed up in his bomb-makings. We see that he keeps his ingredients in ketchup bottles and jam jars. But Homolka doesn't need to be there when the film-maker shows us these things. He risks going there just to be told that he will receive the bomb in a birdcage??? Why didn't the aquarium contact tell him that?The undercover Scotland Yard man is equally dumb. We never hear him explain to either Sydney or Homolka who he is or show them any identification. He just launches into his interrogation of Sylvia Sydney in the open theater right under Homolka's nose. Now that's smart and discreet! He ends up revealing more to her than she reveals to him, even though she should logically still be under suspicion. He promptly interrogates Homolka in the same way. He doesn't ever identify himself, but just launches into an interrogation. But he ends up giving Homolka more information than he gets. It's a cinch that Scotland Yard didn't build its reputation on the likes of that agent!When Sydney learns of her brother's death, things really start to fall apart. Thereafter nobody behaves in a logical way or in a way that I could identify with. Apparently convinced of Homolka's responsibility, Sydney doesn't go immediately to the undercover agent, like any rational person. Instead she exposes herself and invites her doom by directly confronting her husband - who she apparently believes is a ruthless murderer. For his part, Homolka just says,Sure I was responsible, but, hey, it's no use crying over spilt milk; why can't the cook ever prepare green veggies. THAT whole scene between Sydney and Homolka is surreal - not a syllable of dialog that seems to ring true under the circumstances! Sydney cries, but she never seems to portray either real shock and/or grief or SUPPRESSION of shock and/or grief in order to maintain Homolka's trust. The little boy's death is an emotional footnote in this story. Even when Sydney awakens from fainting and envisions her brother's image among the faces peering at her, or when she stops the child wearing the identical tie during her flight after killing Homolka, there is negligible emotional impact.When the bomb-maker's wife urges her husband to retrieve the birdcage from Homolka, we are left to ask,Why??? What is so incriminating about a couple of birds in a cage that Homolka gave the boy? So, she shoves him out the door of their shop with his hat, coat and umbrella. No bomb. No time to make one. Does he just keep 'em lying around ready-made just in case??? No bomb when he hails the cab. No bomb in the cab. No bomb when he goes up to Homolka's apartment. But - PRESTO, bomb! when he locks himself in the apartment and threatens the detectives banging on the door!Then after the bomb goes off, the detective in charge just tells Sydney she is free to go. The good inspector knows enough to absolve the wife of a terrorist without any investigation! In fact it is NOT apparent to anybody in the film - ONLY to us the audience - that Sydney is innocent! Unless you assume some uncorroborated statements she has provided the investigator - which the audience didn't hear!This is just a sampling of the holes in this movie that are so big and so numerous and so glaring that, like Andre de Toth, I am compelled to conclude that Hitchcock was a very sloppy and lazy filmmaker. Could Hitch have imparted missing information to both the audience and the characters in the film? You bet, easily! Could he have imparted it in scenes that were more credible in a supposed spy-story? Absolutely! Could he have created characters who didn't have to be dumb or defy professional standards in Scotland Yard to advance this story. DUH! One commentator characterized this story as tightly written. He must have gotten this film confused with some other movie. This movie absolutely fails to hang together at all. ALL of Hitchcock's British films are vastly superior to this piece of swiss cheese.I chuckled at this movie - just not at the parts that were intended to be funny. Mostly I just scratched my head. How could this mess have been directed by one of cinema's greatest? "}{"Title":"The Bomb Disguised as the Film","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Few people appreciate how self-referential many filmmakers are. I believe a great many of them have a self-referential mentality regardless of the story, but for those people, you can find some projects were the story itself is self-referential. Here's one for Hitch.It is set in a moviehouse. The central device is that a man pretends (even to his sad-eyed wife) to be  something he is not. In other words, he is an actor. Same with the detective. The central episode involves a bomb disguised as (hidden in) a film. It is a small observation, but combined with dozens of similar ones it gives insight into how the man thought apart from what he said.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Modern Cinema Began At 146","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A boy, an old lady, and a puppy on a bus. What could possibly be a sweeter film scene? Well, that is unless you're Alfred Hitchcock and the film is Sabotage, in which case you get a trifecta of quite a different sort.Playing with the rules was Hitchcock's forte, but never again until Psycho would he do so with the cold brilliance on display here. Unlike Psycho, which hasn't dated a month since its 1960 release, Sabotage doesn't for a moment feel like it was made any later than 1936, in part because of its fuzzy sound quality (maybe just the versions I've seen) and in part because it's a very static film.That's not to say Sabotage isn't good. In fact, it's brilliant. Adapted from the Joseph Conrad novel The Secret Agent but markedly better both in terms of its linear treatment of the thin central story and its sharper, more measured ending, Sabotage introduces us to Mr. Verloc (Oskar Homolka), the owner of a London cinema who sidelines as a secret agent for a mysterious foreign power, the people you and I will never catch as one policeman tells another. After causing a power outage that produces laughter rather than the desired fear, Verloc is assigned a more deadly job, to cause an explosion in Piccadilly Circus, the center of the world, as Verloc's controller calls it.It's impossible to watch the film now without thinking of 9/11 or the London subway bombings, a world of murderous, anarchic terrorism Conrad's novel and Hitchcock's film anticipated without quite comprehending. The film seems to stumble on offering a coherent why, perhaps because there isn't one, then or now. But echoing a central point in Conrad's novel, Sabotage shows the terrorists' greatest fear is not retribution but indifference. London must not laugh is the order given to Verloc.As played by Homolka with sleepy nuance, Verloc isn't quite a villain, just a weak, lazy man of no moral fiber who objects at the thought of murder but decides to go through with it in order to be paid. Sgt. Spencer of Scotland Yard is hot on Verloc's trail, but he's not exactly a hero, a bit of a bumbler rather who fancies Verloc's wife. Mrs. Verloc, played by screen vet Sylvia Sidney (she was the case worker helping the Maitlands in the afterlife in Beetle Juice 52 years later) is the closest we have to a rooting interest, though her concern seems less with the husband or the policeman who woos her than her little brother, Stevie (Desmond Tester).Hitchcock's direction offers a little of the comic relief more prominent in his other films, and some arresting visuals for their time, especially that of a fish tank which morphs into a London street under attack. There's a very involving scene where a devastated Mrs. Verloc is reduced to tearful laughter by a Disney cartoon. (Verloc's owning a cinema may be a comment on the deceptively transformative power of cinema, or a wink in the direction of his sideline activity in the novel, selling Edwardian porn.) Mostly Sabotage is a film that grabs you by the throat and never lets go, making its 80-minute running time feel like forever going by in an instant.It all comes down to the scene on the bus. Hitchcock apparently believed it was the biggest mistake in his career. It may have killed enthusiasm for Sabotage, but it made clear to filmgoers that all bets were off as far as this young director was concerned. From then on, cliffhangers would be invested with a certain added dread that would make their resolutions seem less pat, and the movie thriller would be that much more thrilling. It took guts to make a film like that. "},{"Title":"How and why did they get married?","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  There are many comments here about the suspense and intrigue of 'Sabotage'. Each time I see the film (and while I can see why some people don't think it's Mr. Hitchcock's best, for me it exerts a strange fascination) I am drawn into studying the Verlocs' relationship.He is much older than she - does he have a protective 'fatherly' role? Verloc is certainly a 'father' to Stevie, who is really his brother-in-law (although a very young one). The implication is that the marriage is without physical love, but Verloc is good to Stevie. And that means a lot to Mrs. Verloc. Only once does Verloc come close to touching his wife and then breaks off awkwardly. Is he, therefore, a 'father' who isn't a 'man'? We know what Hitchcock thought of mothers, does this give us an insight into his ideas about fathers?At the end of the film Verloc suggests Maybe we could have a kid of our own? Mrs Verloc freezes and the words die on his lips in a way that make the suggestion strangely obscene. What is the sexual tension between these two? What brought them together and why did they marry?Trying to find an answer to these questions is one of the reasons I thoroughly enjoy 'Sabotage'. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock takes on Conrad.","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" (Spoilers throughout.) The casual viewer may be forgiven if he has confused *Sabotage* with the other pair of similarly titled Hitchcocks from the Thirties, *Saboteur* and *The Secret Agent* (the latter was NOT based on Conrad's novel, while *Sabotage* IS). Besides, it's really old, black & white, British, and, as a consequence of belonging to public domain, easy prey for cheapskate DVD distributors, which ensures that the picture-quality and sound will be none-too-helpful. Nonetheless, this movie has to be, by all comparative measures, the single most underrated in the entire Hitchcock canon a true masterpiece that almost everyone has forgotten. However, its trunk-in-the-attic location may be a thing of the past, now that our Islamist friends have taken it upon themselves to murder innocents in the London Underground. The DVD box art proclaims, A Deadly Bomber Terrorizes London! Now, suddenly and rather unfortunately, *Sabotage* is the most relevant Hitchcock movie going.The director was compelled to strenuously update the details of Conrad's novel, molding the ragtag, amusingly ordinary ring of terrorists into émigré Nazis. (The movie never TELLS us that they're Nazis, but they all have German accents.) Hitchcock also gets off some self-referential jollies -- as already noted here by the ubiquitous TedG from Virginia Beach -- by changing Mr. Verloc's convenience shop into a movie theater. Jean-Luc Godard doubtless loved this film, in which Verloc must play-act the part of an unassuming husband, while the Scotland Yard cop who mans the fruit-stand across the street from the theater must play-act his own street-hustler part. Needless to say, Mrs. Verloc, by movie's end, will face a lifetime of play-acting an innocent woman after the violent crisis (preceded by a Walt Disney animated short in the theater in which Cock Robin gets an arrow through the heart). Even more needless to say, the fact that Mrs. Verloc's kid brother carries the deadly bomb along with film cannisters -- labeled Bartholomew the Strangler in a characteristically gallows-humor touch -- puts the meta-fictive icing on the cake. This movie was New Wave before the Old Wave had finished rolling out to shore.This sort of fierce film-making intelligence is evident throughout *Sabotage*. Yes, it's a bit musty, what with Verloc raising his beetle-brows suspiciously at his wife above the edge of his newspaper every ten minutes or so. And perhaps Hitchcock out-Hitchcocks himself with the bus sequence too many cuts between the oblivious kid brother, the package, the cute little dog in the next seat, those big outdoor clocks whose arms get ever closer to 145, and so on. Of more value is the delineation of the seedy anarchist underworld, populated by bird-shop owners and theater managers, along with other shifty-eyed foreigners in ill-fitting suits. One conspirator's wife berates him for putting a bomb underneath a bird-cage. This particular fellow keeps his dangerous materials in the kitchen cupboard, next to the ketchup.It's the overall rancidity of *Sabotage* that finally gets to you. There's something bracingly vile about a man who sends his unaware teenage brother-in-law off to plant a bomb in Piccadilly . . . and, after the plans go awry, orders his horrified wife to a get a grip and do something about the over-boiled cabbage on the dinner table (and this after confessing to her that he was responsible for the blast!). But Hitchcock goes that extra mile when he has Verloc suggest to his wife that they could have a child of their own, as a way to compensate for her loss. Nasty!I'm out of space, but I gotta mention the horrifying little fantasy of Verloc's, in which Piccadilly collapses into goo. If you're a Londoner, this film will make you a little sick. But while Hitchcock can be absolved from not knowing what the real-life future would bring, he can't be absolved from killing little Stevie. Nor should he be. The director was as tough-minded as Joseph Conrad equals squaring off at the line of scrimmage.8 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"excellent Hitchcock","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This early in Hitchcock's career, we can already see several of his trademarks in development. The element of time being painstakingly drawn out during a suspenseful scene. The cold removed portrayal of a character during an emotional revelation.The emphasis on terrorism dusts this film off and makes it something suitable for modern viewing, as we begin to contemplate murder in our midsts again. Hitchcock has a habit of feeding into state propaganda, and in this case he exploits his audience's fears of a pernicious, evil adversary. Another great scene is when Mr Verlock imagines London falling down, via a visual effect. "},{"Title":"Curiously Relevant Today","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" In the era of 9/11 and terrorist bombings in London and Madrid, Sabotage has assumed an uneasy relevance for today's audience. Sometimes terror does indeed live among us.In this case it operates the Bijou Theater in London. It's personified by Oscar Homolka of obscure Eastern European origins. Homolka is married to Sylvia Sidney and her juvenile brother Desmond Tester lives with them. She's completely unaware of her husband's other activities as a saboteur.In the Joseph Conrad novel Homolka is clearly identified as an anarchist and I wish Alfred Hitchcock had done that or at least made it more clear who was doing all this terror and why. Might have helped the audience in understanding the motivation of the characters. I also do find it hard to believe Sylvia Sidney was that dense in that she had no clue what Homolka was up to.John Loder plays the green grocer next door who in reality is a Scotland Yard inspector doing undercover work. In fact at one point he's spotted doing the surveillance by the gang and his cover is blown. Why Homolka didn't just pack it in and call off the bombing is not quite explained.Sabotage certainly does have the usual Alfred Hitchcock tension built into the film. Unfortunately the tension is like badly wasted energy on a story that really has too many holes in it. "},{"Title":"One of Hitch's most Daring","Date":"25 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" It's Hitchcock at his grimmest. Just count the number of smiles. Also, the only happy person is unceremoniously killed half-way through! This is not a movie the director could have made in Hollywood&#x97;the Hayes office would never have allowed it. What with the killing of a central character, an innocent kid, plus an unpunished murder by another central character, there's no way the film could have originated stateside. Nonetheless, it's one of Hitch's most interesting since it raises a number of complex moral issues attaching to both guilt and innocence. Most saliently, should Mrs. Verloc (Sydney) be allowed to walk away from killing her husband unpunished, and if so, why?Also, there's the issue of terrorism, not dealt with by many films of the time, but which seems very topical in our own day. Apparently, the terrorist killing of the boy (Tester) has been a controversial part of the film over the years, since it's so wrenching and goes against unwritten movie-making norms. Nonetheless, I think it's an important part of the story since it calls attention to the death of innocents caused by terrorist acts, whether the bombs are planted or come from the sky. I'm glad Hitch had the gumption to include it.Anyway, it's not a movie to see if you're depressed. The lighting is dark, the mood somber, with a doleful Sydney, a sour-faced Homolka, and a conflicted Loder. Still, it's good to see so many Londoners going to the movies in those days, even if they do want their money back. In my view, it's one of Hitch's most daring movies, British or American. "},{"Title":"Those Magnificent Sad Eyes!","Date":"19 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Sir Alfred Hitchcock adapted James Conrad's story, The Secret Agent, into one of better known films. This film is short but not sweet. Sylvia Sidney is magnificent in the leading role as Mrs Verloc. Oscar Homolka plays her husband. They run the Bijou movie house in London, England before Word War II. Her husband is up to something but she doesn't know what. The red flag is raised when the theater loses power and patrons want refunds. Sidney was so young and her eyes could have earned an Academy Award nomination. Sidney supposedly had the saddest eyes in Hollywood but I disagree. Her eyes alone were worth watching. This film is a must for Hitchcock historians and fans alike. "},{"Title":"If gangsters looked like gangsters&#x85;","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" In the mid-to-late 1930s Alfred Hitchcock held a unique position for a director. Since the successes of The Man Who Knew Too Much and The 39 Steps, his destiny as a suspense filmmaker had been revealed not only to himself but also to his bosses at Gaumont. He was now only assigned material suitable to his area of expertise, and given a considerable amount of freedom to play around with the form. At the tail end of his British period, at a time when standard cinematic technique and narrative convention were well established, Hitchcock was effectively a researcher, of the kind that hadn't really been seen since the days of Griffith.Sabotage is adapted from the Joseph Conrad novel Secret Agent, and it's worth taking a peek at a synopsis of the book to see the differences in the movie version, two of which are very significant. Firstly the novel is a kind of anti-heroic piece told largely from the point-of-view of the villainous Verloc. You couldn't have that in cinema in the 30s, so Verloc's opponents are beefed up into morally sound protagonists. However, it is still revealed from the outset that Verloc is the culprit, and we the audience are always kept aware of his doings even when the heroes are not. Dispensing with the Agatha Christie form of whodunit is essential to the Hitchcockian mode of suspense building. Revealing the identity and intentions of a killer keeps the audience constantly wondering when and how he will strike again.The other important difference between the novel and film, is that Conrad states quite explicitly that Verloc and co. are anarchists, delving quite deeply into their ideology, as well as implying that they are Russians. Hitchcock's picture however makes no mention of the politics or nationality of the villains. They are simply generic foreign terrorists, existing to make the plot work. Imagine how much weaker this picture would be if we were asked to think about Verloc's motives. He has thick eyebrows, a sinister accent and he puts bombs on buses. What more do you need? On a purely formalist level, Hitchcock's method is becoming increasingly streamlined. This is perhaps the earliest of his pictures which really feels like it was planned shot by shot before a single camera rolled. Of particular note is Hitch's staging of drama through reaction shots rather than expository dialogue. For example, Oskar Homolka's reaction to Stevie talking about gangsters, or pair of close-ups after John Loder is pulled through the air vent that tells us one of the gang members has recognised him. There are a few pointless technical touches, such as Homolka's vision of London in the fish tank glass, or Stevie's face popping up among the crowd of boys, but these are not as distracting as they could be in Hitch's earliest pictures.Hitchcock rarely gave his actors any coaching, and relied upon a good professional cast to deliver the goods. In Sylvia Sydney and Oskar Homolka he has two of the best leads he had worked with so far, and their restrained naturalistic performances make their climactic scene together incredibly effective. The supporting cast are not bad either, although as usual with Hitchcock the comedy characters are the real standouts. Little-known stage veteran William Dewhurst, who plays the professor, is a joy to watch, and it almost looks as if his scenes are about to turn into Monty Python sketches.Much as I detest the phrase experimental film, this was truly an experimental era for Hitchcock, or at least one in which his pictures were going through a process of natural selection. He realised afterwards he had made a huge mistake in one aspect of the main suspense sequence on the bus &#x96; I won't reveal it here as it's a major spoiler &#x96; and would ensure he never repeated the error. In spite of what was for him an embarrassing flaw, Sabotage is a very enjoyable and effective thriller, not among the greatest of his British period, but certainly worth watching. "},{"Title":"Story vs performance","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is one of Hitchcock's films more direct and specific of all his entire filmography, isn't one of the best movies, but its an outstanding film of its English period. The reason why this film highlights of the others is because its plot is not about a crime but a character itself.The whole story is built around Mr. Verloc and from the first minutes we know that he is the villain of the story, so everything that comes after the sabotage of the power plant is knowing what is going to do this man now?, What are their motivations?, How do they going to stop he before everything worse? And so Hicthcock begins to develop an odyssey of a man who is a traitor to the motherland. But unfortunately falls short, whether in later movies this filmmaker is going to delve into the psychological aspect of their characters, during this English period that mattered less was why?, so everything became a succession of actions that sought to engage the viewer with the suspense but they don't understand what was happening at the bottom of the story.So the result is not boring, Hitchcock manages quite well the intercalation of planes with great action and suspense with those who are closest, this ones few and poorly worked. For the technique are few or no errors presented but on the performances Hitchcock doesn't look that the characters develop their emotions instead they just living the moment, so when the end comes no one believes the melodramatic reaction of Mrs. Verloc and the agent of Scotland Yard attitude towards her, this character in particular is at times quite pathetic. So the value of Sabotage is the story in general you shouldn't seek such great performances, they will come in a latest period of Hitchcock. "}{"Title":"A Boy... An Old Lady... A Puppy... And a Bomb On a Bus","Date":"16 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Released in 1936 - This intriguing early film directed by Alfred Hitchcock contains a great opening scene where the electrical power goes off all over London, which is caused by a willful act of sabotage.The camera then gives the viewer a sweeping panoramic view of the situation, scanning over the city that's now in shadows and blackness with an emphasis placed on selected historical sites.This excellent beginning immediately grabs the viewer's attention as Sabotage's gripping, well-crafted story gets underway, moving the action along at a fine clip.Adapted from Joseph Conrad's novel Secret Agent, Sabotage tells the tale of a Scotland Yard undercover detective who is hot on the trail of a suspected saboteur who's part of a diabolical plot to set off a powerful bomb in broad daylight in downtown London.When the detective's cover is blown, the plot begins to unravel and go haywire.Even at this early phase of Hitchcock's career as a director, it's plainly obvious to see that he had something of a strong fascination with butcher's knives, already.Featuring a really strong cast, this first-rate, b&w Suspense/Thriller has a running time of only 76 minutes. "},{"Title":"Superb but partly 'sabotaged' by misguided critics/fans views!","Date":"17 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is a truly superb film by the all time greatest genius director. It is brilliant in almost every respect and has many of Hitchcock's astounding directorial touches. The aquarium scene where a fish tank becomes a vision of London in carnage is amazing. An explosion is incredibly filmed. Every scene of suspense is fantastically tense and awesomely well executed. Actors are directed to show huge thought and emotion through silent action and use of their body language or just their eyes. It is a marvellous film with great pace, timing and perfect judgement by the great director.Sadly not everyone agrees on Hitchcock's judgement and one decision in the plot of this film caused consternation and criticism from viewers and critics which caused Hitchcock to say he made a mistake. I will not spoil this for viewers except to say that for me it massively increased my enjoyment of the film as it makes it more unusual, was right for the character development in the film and heightened emotional impact of the climactic scenes. Truffaut criticised Hitchcock's choice when he interviewed him and Hitch admitted he was 'wrong' but he made the choice at the time to keep true to the story and I feel he knew what he was doing. He was as usual totally correct in his direction and only declared he was wrong because it was an unpopular decision which was 'wrong' commercially and caused fans to question him. "},{"Title":"Never Send a Boy To Do a Man's Job.","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Hitchcock was fond of telling a story about the meaning of suspense. If two men are seated at a desk, discussing baseball, and a bomb unexpectedly blows up under the desk -- that's shock. But if the audience KNOWS there is a bomb ticking away under the desk, they squirm in their seats and want to shout out warnings to the men and see them get up and leave. That's suspense. He always referred to Sabotage as an example of how NOT to manipulate the audience. There's plenty of suspense when the little boy, Stevie, takes the bomb unwittingly aboard the bus but when it blows up and kills everyone, the audience is disappointed. Well, Hitchcock's lesson has been learned too well. In most movies now, if there is a bomb about to explode or a missile about to be mistakenly launched, the expectation is that the bomb will roll safely into a sewer or a puddle of water and explode harmlessly, or the missile will be deactivated with only a few seconds remaining, or the device with the deadly virus will not release its contents because someone takes the plunge and snips the red wire instead of the green. Now, seventy-some years after Sabotage, it would be innovative if the bomb DID go off as planned.Sorry. Turned a bit tedious there, I know, but the explosion on the bus is the single most important scene in the film. Oskar Homolka -- he of the villainous face -- is married to Sylvia Sidney. Sidney's little brother, Stevie, lives with them behind the cinema they own. Unbeknownst to Sylvia or Stevie, Homolka is a saboteur who disrupts London's daily life for small amounts of money. (The motivation for any of this isn't too clear.) A man from Scotland Yard, John Loder, suspects them and, while under cover, comes to be fond of Sylvia Sidney. Homolka's contact or handler gives him a bomb and tells him to deliver it to Picadilly Circus at 130. It's times to go off at 145. But the suspicious Loder keeps hanging around and Homolka, not wanting to be unaccounted for at the time of the explosion, tells little Stevie to take the package to Picadilly and leave it in the cloakroom.Needless to say, Stevie is distracted by all manner of goings on. A street vendor pulls him out of a crowd in order to demonstrate a new toothpaste. He's stopped from crossing a street because a parade is marching by. The bus keeps hitting red lights. Finally -- BOOM. I'll quit here and not reveal the ending.The film is clumsily edited but identifiably Hitchcock's. He indulges in some special effects that were in uncommon use at the time. An aquarium tank full of fish becomes, in Homolka's guilt-ridden vision, a downtown boulevard onto which the surrounding buildings melt. And I'm not sure anyone but Hitchcock would have Sylvia Sidney as the woman who has just learned that her brother has been blown to bits by her husband, walk through a cinema, begin to chuckle at the Walt Disney cartoon, and then sit down to watch it. Who else would dare to come up with such a non sequitur? The script doesn't give the director too much help. Homolka's character is named Verloc. It may be out of Conrad's novel, which I haven't read, but in any case it's a vampire's name, not a saboteur's. And what the hell kind of a name is it, anyway? Verloc. Probably Russian. Conrad hated Russians. He wouldn't even eat cabbage soup, made from a vegetable mentioned more than once in the dialog. A lot of birds in here too, come to think of it. Homolka's immediate superior runs a pet shop full of the things and gives Stevie a pair of canaries.These villains, by the way, aren't the kind you're likely to find in a James Bond movie or even a Bond spoof. They're all uniformly poor (it's 1936) and they have families. The performances are okay. No more than that, except for Sylvia Sidney, who's pretty subtle. No one is particularly colorful and there is little in the way of laughs or even smiles. John Loder's role is a stereotype. Interesting to see Torin Thatcher and Peter Bull in their youths.It's not one of Hitchcock's best-known films from his British period, yet it rolls along smoothly and engagingly. It's a professional job and perhaps a bit more. "},{"Title":"theme song for Alfred Hitchcock presents is now stuck in my head","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" How did i ever miss this one... This was a pretty decent movie i must say. I'm not familiar with any of the actors at all, but that's besides the point. To be honest i was kinda surprised in the way the bomb scene was carried out, bold i must say. but Hitcock always took risks and that's why i admire him. The plot of the movie was very interesting you have people that want to make London come crawling to it's knees, so they hire the owner of the local theater to participate because he needs the money. His wife at first doesn't know what's going on, but later on she gets suspicious, via the FBI agent who pretends to have an interest in her in the beginning. I liked the different shots of London that were used in the movie. Overall i thought this movie was an undiscovered gem until now, i will definitely watch it again soon. "},{"Title":"Packs a real punch","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Sabotage is an absolutely gripping film about the dual life of a terrorist who operates a movie house in London. Surprisingly dark and completely suspenseful as Hitchcock throws a few uncharacteristic curves our way. There's an oft-talked about scene that I won't describe due to the spoiler element and the fact that we see glimpses of the bad guy's life that allow us to empathize a little more with him than other Hitchock baddies. These rare shades of gray make for all the more engaging a film. Sylvia Sidney is wonderful in this - carrying herself with dignity and confidence in a way seldom seen in Hitchcock's women (she was also excellent in Lang's The Fury made around the same time). Joseph Conrad's novel Secret Agent on which this film is based is now on my reading list. I have a feeling we may get a better sense of Verloc's motivations in this form but their absence from Sabotage is no big loss. I'd recommend this film to anyone interested in seeing a good piece of cinema - not just Hitchcock fans. "},{"Title":"fine thriller","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is a good movie. The humorous aspect of the script isn't as assured as, say, The Lady Vanishes, in which the funny stuff seems more integrated, but the thriller aspect of Sabotage is excellently done - taut as a bowstring. The mood is sombre, with wonderfully intense performances from Homolka and Sidney as an admittedly unlikely central couple. Their relationship is not particularly explored in the script - the gratitude of Mrs Verloc to her husband is the key to it, rather than her love for him, but this is hurriedly implied rather than stated. It probably needed more screen time than Hitchcock could afford to give it. Never mind - it fairly rattles along, with some terrific supporting performances, and some great shots of 1930s London. "},{"Title":"Oft-overlooked Early Hitchcock Gem","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" 'Sabotage' is a neat little thriller directed by Alfred Hitchcock when he was still working in Britain in the 1930's.It has many flaws, but also contains one of the best, most suspenseful scenes you'll find in a Hitchcock film. Hitchcock actually regretted filming the breathtaking sequence where an innocent young boy naively takes a bomb on a London bus, after negative critical response. It's a great, daring sequence though, and takes 'Sabotage' up a notch.Sylvia Sidney, owner of the saddest eyes in cinema, stars as Mrs Verloc, wife to the suspicious cinema owner Karl Anton Verloc (Oscar Homolka, in a villianish role). He's really a terrorist plotting evil deeds against London, but his wife remains largely unaware until her live-in teenage brother Stevie is killed as a result of Verloc's actions.Some great scenes and ideas presented here. I particularly love the dinner table scene between the Verlocs, where a knife 'slips'. I'll try not to spoil the film for any viewers, but it's a subtle yet powerful moment in the film. Also, very ambiguous in it's approach. The bird motif that Hitchcock would later focus on in many of his American films is introduced here, even in the delightful film being shown at the Verloc's cinema 'Who shot cock robin?'.This is a low-budget film, Hitchcock and the British film industry were not exactly rolling in cash in the 30's. Still, Hitch makes the best of limited resources to pull off some wonderful scenes and camera shots.Hitch was very audacious and daring to make such a film depicting terrorists in London. Given the tragic bombing of the London underground train network and buses in 2005, it is very eerie and prophetic viewed today. One cannot watch this film anymore without thinking of last years events.7/10. "},{"Title":"A major Hitchcock work","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" As a Hitchcock film enthusiast, I found several remarkable facets in this work that makes it rub shoulders with the very best among the director's complete works.The best Hitchcock films always leaned on the strength of a novel (works of du Maurier, Leon Uris, etc.), a play (Noel Coward, for instance) or a scriptwriter (e.g,, Ben Hecht, Ernest Lehmann). In this case it was a novel called The Secret Agent by Joseph Conrad. Unlike Hollywood giants like John Huston, who reworked on others ideas without acknowledging the source (ref. my review of Victory on the IMDb website) Hitchcock would change the original material substantially always acknowledging the source of the original idea.True to Hitchcock's love and respect for cinema as a medium, Conrad's character Verloc is transformed into a film theater owner&#x97;while Conrad's novel had little to do with cinema or the nitrate film cans that the film propels into the foreground. He even seems to pay respect to Disney by using his cartoon at the end to move the plot forward. Six years later, Hitchcock did similar homage to the medium in Saboteur. Equally fascinating is the sequence where Verloc imagines the destruction of Piccadilly Circus. The visual editing of the fishes in the aquarium fading into to people on the streets of London and then to the destruction of Piccadilly Circus is superb for a film in the Thirties. The special effects rival those of contemporary cinema.Hitchcock's closing shots are always interesting. The finest ending was in Frenzy, followed by the dark ending in Notorious. In Sabotage Hitchcock reprises his ending in Blackmail where the culprit, not the major one of course, is absolved by the police out of inefficiency. Here, too, as in Blackmail, a policeman plays a collaborator with a wrongdoer.Now Hitchcock has a liking for making comments on marriage. A policeman outside a room where a terrorist is hiding with a bomb is told to leave the dangerous spot by a colleague, for the sake of his wife as he is married. The jocular response is All the more reason for me.. just as the conversation on marriage with the milkman in Blackmail. In Sabotage, there is a brief mention of having a child from the marriage&#x97;indicating that the marriage had little physical relationship, probably because of the wife's interest in raising her young brother with their meager means.The kissing scenes in Hitchcock's film are noteworthy Notorious, Marnie, Torn Curtain, Topaz etc. as the director took a lot of care in getting the right expressions and the angle of the shots. In Sabotage, we see the first of these with he spoken words Whatever happens.. Finally, this is a rare film of Hitchcock shot on location. It is one of the few when the director never appears in the film. It has a lovely dog at a critical moment that shocks you. After a murder, the birds chirp&#x97;Hitchcock shows this. There are references to food&#x97;food prepared by a young boy, food eaten by a boy ahead of his dinner, and a murder that precedes a dinner. The brilliance of the film is the silence of the soundtrack and emphasis on visuals. The opening sequence has hardly any dialog&#x97;only exclamations. The murder too is lacking in words. Visuals talk. That is why the film is a great Hitchcock.It is not surprising that Jean-Luc Godard found this one particularly satisfying among Hitchcock's work. He was dead right. "},{"Title":"Strange things happening at the Bijou","Date":"2 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Joseph Conrad's novella, The Secret Agent, served as the basis of Alfred Hitchcock's Sabotage, during his British period. Since Mr. Hitchcock had already directed another English film, Secret Agent, the title was changed to Sabotage, not to be confused with Saboteur, which the director made in America in 1942, which is not a remake. The achievement of this film is tremendous, even when the viewer knows from the start who the evil character is. Mr. Hitchcock pulled it off in surprising, and simple ways, that paid off handsomely in this thriller, that in spite of having been made more than 74 years ago, still merits a view by fans of the director. Mr. Hitchcock knew how to keep the suspense, as he proved here. The viewer is kept at the edge of his seat as one watches Stevie, the young boy going on to deliver the bomb, that unknown to him, his brother-in-law thought would surely go to its intended target. Because of the parade, and not being able to cross the street by the police barricade, he has no other way to get to Picadilly by taking the bus as time gets closer to the deadline of 1.45pm.The other fantastic sequence involves the killing of Verloc. It is done without any sound, practically, yet, the impact it creates in our minds is nothing short of shocking because, basically, Sylvia Verloc, cannot believe the monster she has married, could be the one responsible for the death of her own brother. The ironic twist at the end comes unexpectedly at the end without even a hint of what is going to happen to the Bijou when all the evil doer is trapped inside the apartment trying to retrieve the bird cages.Sylvia Sidney made a wonderful Mrs. Verloc. She is not the typical blond the director favored, but she brought a great presence to the film. Oskar Homolka underplayed his Verloc to an amazing effect. He is menacing without doing much, which goes to show what good actor he was. John Loder is seen as Ted, the undercover agent assigned to watch what was going on at the theater next door. Diamond Tester added a touch of innocence to the action; we all know he is a good kid who did not deserve his tragic end.Sabotage is vintage Hitchcock that must be seen by serious fans. "},{"Title":"Early Hitchcock - Straightforward Suspense","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This early (1936) British Hitchcock film is, unlike many of his slightly earlier films, a completely matured talkie - with few silent film conventions and an economical, consistent pace. Based on a Joseph Conrad story - The Secret Agent - Sabotage presents us with an Eastern European terrorist living in London with his unsuspecting British wife and her young brother (Tester). Why Mr. Verloc (Homolka) commits increasingly violent acts of Sabotage is never explained, but he has drawn the attention of a neighbor (Loder) whose interest seems to be mainly in Verloc's young wife (Sydney).Of the four principal cast members, Sylvia Sydney is the strongest and most memorable. Her character is the primary focus of the film and she is entirely believable and sympathetic. Her young brother, Stevie, is also fine. Personally, I found Loder a little annoying as the nosy neighbor.Sabotage has its brutal moments, and gives us a nice sample of Hitchcock's trademark suspense and subtle but experimental camera flourishes. On a few occasions, we are privy to grief-driven hallucinations and hallucinatory fantasies experienced by the characters . And the climax - Stevie's delivery - is a work of brilliance. There are quite a few signature Hitchcock close-ups and a few nicely integrated experimental sequences involving cartoons and films within the film.Great film for Hitchcock and Conrad fans. Recommended, though less vehemently, for the average connoisseur. "}{"Title":"birds","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" What one notices while watching Sabotage is the role of avians. There's the birds in the cage (like the lovebirds in The Birds, maybe?), and after Sylvia Verloc (Sylvia Sidney) watches the cartoon Who Killed Cock Robin?, she gets an idea. You see, her husband Karl (Oscar Homolka) is involved with some anarchists who have some unpleasant plans.Alfred Hitchcock was showing his skills with this movie. As chaos is often a motif in his movies, you see it here, and this also has the theme of the guilty woman (or is she guilty?).It's hard to believe that the young woman in this movie is the Mars Attacks! grandmother, but it's true. "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I'm going to weigh in on this topic and I have to say that I didn't even see the entire movie (missed the first 20 minutes and still watching the rest on tape) but I'm finding it quite enjoyable. The bird shop scene reminded me of the taxidermy scene in The Man Who Knew Too Much. In fact there seem to be several scenes that would find there way into other Hitchcock pictures. Theatre scenes in particular, just off the top of my head they appeared in The 39 Steps, Saboteur, The Man Who Knew Too Much and Torn Curtain. And of course the bird shop scene would again appear in The Birds. For those of you who say it's dated or boring, or not much character development, keep in mind when this was made, and don't judge a foreign film from 1936 by the standards of today. The film is interesting enough to watch a genius perfecting his craft. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but ultimately unsatisfying.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This is probably one of Hitchcock's better-known movies from his early British period, but that's only because of the famous bomb on the bus scene. The film certainly doesn't compare to The 39 Steps and The Lady Vanishes, not to mention his later Hollywood masterpieces.Sabotage is an interesting piece of work, but unfortunately it leaves a lot be desired and seems rather dated when viewed nowadays. Hitchcock's trademark humour (of which Frenzy is the best example) shines by its absence and there's barely enough suspense to sustain the whole film--though its running time is quite scant.The characters are regrettably underdeveloped, as they remain virtually strangers to the viewer. Furthermore, the story conclusion feels rather hurried and unconvincing. Luckily Oskar Homolka gives a subtle performance that may be the film's main asset. "},{"Title":"Quite an unexpected gloom from early Hitch","Date":"12 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A highly recommended film, better than many of Hitch's follow-ups. Plus it has a story I can believe in, which is not that typical for the lion's share of his filmography. And who would expect such a disturbing and utterly thrilling ending from an early Hitch film that starts with a quite funny episode of a crowd demanding their money back because of outage? I guess that the only drawback of the film is that Sidney and Homolka were miscast as a married couple, they look like a father and a daughter. Though, I cannot complain too much on their acting; furthermore, the supporting cast is quite solid. "},{"Title":"Sabotage","Date":"26 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Master of Suspense director Sir Alfred Hitchcock started his successful career in his home country, and this was one of the last films he made before going to the United States (although he did return home for Frenzy), I was interested. Basically Karl Verloc (Oskar Homolka) is a cinema owner and a member of a gang planning to sabotage operations in London, and he lives with his wife Sylvia (Beetlejuice's Sylvia Sidney) and her teenage brother Stevie (Desmond Tester). His wife and her brother know nothing about Karl's big secret, even after a big incident where many lights in a part of London were turned off, but there are worse things to happen than that. Suspecting something is going on with Verloc, Scotland Yard assigns undercover Detective Sergeant Ted Spencer (John Loder) to keep an eye on him, working near the cinema and investigate. Sylvia didn't originally know anything, but her suspicion arises, and at a reasonably good time because the gang assign Karl to put a bomb in the metro, so he sends young Stevie with a bag for him to deliver, but he does not make it all the way to the right location for the explosion. In the end the villain Karl gets what he deserves being stabbed by his own wife, and London seems to be safe from anymore sabotage incidents, and Sylvia walks away with Ted. Also starring Joyce Barbour as Renee, Matthew Boulton as Superintendent Talbot, S.J. Warmington as Hollingshead, William Dewhurst as Professor A.F. Chatman, and Hitchcock's cameo is as the man passing looking up when the lights go back on. The acting is reasonable, the best scene is certainly unknowingly carrying the bomb in the bag, and there are some good tense moments you would expect from the great director, a watchable mystery thriller. Very good! "},{"Title":"A fine Hitchcockian thriller","Date":"13 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Whilst Alfred Hitchcock is considered by many to be one of the best directors to walk the Earth and still has a wide fan base of out and new film fans, some of his early work is well, unremarkable. This was even commented by Paul Merton, in his documentary for BBC 4. Luckily Sabotage is one of Hitchcock's better British works.A spy ring is trying to attack London, hoping to distract Britain from there Foreign enemies. But their attack on London's power supply have failed to install and a sense of fear in the British public. Karl Verloc (Oscar Homolka), a cinema owner, is assigned a mission to place a bomb at Piccadilly Circus with the aim of causing fear and panic. But Verloc is being watched by Ted (John Loder), a police officer who is undercover working for a fruit and veg stool outside the cinema. Ted attempt to find out what's happening by becoming friendly with Verloc's wife (Sylvia Sidney) and her younger brother Stevie (Desmond Tester). But the two do not know anything. With the terrorist plot taking shape Verloc ends up making Stevie unwitting pawn to plant his bomb, and it becomes a race against time to stop him.There are some familiar Hitchcockian traits, such as the two main protagonists having a love-hate relationship before they warm to each other. But for the most part this was a well paced thriller about the need to stop a terrorist attack. There is tension and a good example that a thriller doesn't need a lot a action scenes to make it exciting. This is a big spoiler but it has to be said some people have criticised the film for allowing the bomb to go off and people getting killed, including Hitchcock himself. But this gives the film an edge, and was revolutionarily for the time. It shows that people do get hurt and gives the film a more darker psychology. This would be good if it was done in a modern film.The acting in the film is pretty standard, not good or bad to report, but the characters do not have as much depth as they should. They was a moment when Karl Verloc showed doubt about his mission and that should have been played up more.Overall a pretty good thriller with a lot of potential. It is worth watching if you are interested in Hitchcock's work. "},{"Title":"An Unfairly Overlooked movie.","Date":"25 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Unfairly overlooked by most film critics in favour of Hitchcock's more famous British movies like The 39 Steps and The Lady Vanishes, this thriller actually surpasses both of them in terms of agonising suspense and story. While it might have benefited from a less bland hero as played by John Loder and had another actor, like Robert Donat for example, replace him, but his charmless performance is fully compensated by Oscar Homolka as the terrorist, Mr. Verloc. At times angry and other times sad, his acting ability is astounding, making a terrorist killing innocent people with bombs sympathetic. Of course, as this is a Hitchcock picture, you know you will get at least one excellent suspense sequence and this is no exception. It basically comes down to a boy with a bomb, on a bus, sitting next to a dog as the time for its detonation draws ever closer. The ending of this bubble of tension is thrilling while at the same time horrifying. A true masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Early Hitchcock film deals with terrorism","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This film is a dark look at terrorism, as it exists in the life of a bustling city. Directed by Alfred Hitchcock in 1936, it gives us a glimpse of the career that lies ahead for the master of suspense. The movie has some great cinematic touches, i.e. the shots of London at night, the background of the city as the younger brother Stevie delivers a lethal package and the closeup expressions of grief, anxiety or disbelief at pivotal moments in the story. The movie stars Sylvia Sydney, a New Yorker by birth, who also appears in the film as an American married to Oscar Homulka, a terrorist by the name of Verloc, and John Loder, an under-cover detective for Scotland Yard, who assumes the role of a green grocer and keeps an eye on the evil plots of his neighbor Verloc, who runs a cinema as a front for his gang of conspirators. Mrs. Verloc's brother's role, played by Desmond Tester as Stevie must be the most heart-wrenching child character in Hitchcock's body of work. The cartoon of Cock Robin, courtesy of Walt Disney, is a macabre touch of humor at a sad point in the movie. The movie shows a tragic event that Hitchcock told fellow-director Francois Truffault was a grave mistake. (You'll know it when it happens.) I found the event to be a dose of realism and in fact, a key part of the movie. There are light glimpses of daily life such as a lunch at Simpson's, the commotion with the movie goers when the power goes off, and the views of the city from inside a bus. The subject of terrorism is one that would assume great significance in the tortured century in which Hitchcock lived and beyond. His insights are delivered with his usual skillful touch. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's genius is delightfully apparent","Date":"6 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I recently came into ownership of some old Hitchcock features and have been pleasantly surprised - especially by this one. It seems as if practically everything that could be suspenseful is dropped into the viewer's lap before too long, yet the 'Master' still finds the proper twist and keeps the interest going right to the very end. Fantastic character studies - most notably featured within the lead female. There's this thing with ol' Hitch...upon viewing this gem I was ready to watch yet another. No one maintains the anticipation and anxiety the way he did. Today's film-makers would learn much about good storytelling by viewing films by Hitchcock. He sets up shots that provide the viewer with the proper dose of information to keep the plot moving while never bogging it down. The sequence before the bomb explodes - beautifully excruciating. "},{"Title":"Good enough '30's Hitchcock thriller.","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock always had obviously been inspired by the early 1920's Russian way of film-making, especially Sergei Eisenstein's work. This perhaps best shows in this movie, in its style of editing, camera-positioning and crowed sequences. This perhaps makes this movie a bit more outdated than others but it shows how Hitchcock tried out different things and techniques to develop his style and redefine the thriller genre.It's a movie that definitely would had been a better one had it been made 10 years later, with its more modern film-making techniques. This goes for quite some of the most earliest Hitchcock movies, which also really proofs that Hitchcock was a director who was ahead of his time.The fact that this is a '30's thriller and directed by Hitchcock of course makes this a more special than average movie. The thriller genre wasn't that well established in the '30's and it was Hitchcock among others that pretty much defined the genre, that really started to take off in the '40's, with its WW II theme based spy thrillers mostly, which also triggered more and more general thriller movies to be made during that particular time period.The movie does has some trademark Hitchcock suspense moments and twists, which should really especially please the Hitchock fans.Yet this isn't one of the great Hitchcock movies. It's story is far too weak and simple for that. There basically is very little story and character development, something early Hitchcock movies still often lacked. Also nothing gets really explained in the movie. Here is this situation and here are those characters but why and how just never gets handled.A good watchable thriller, as long as you're not expecting one of Hitchcock's masterpieces.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"Sabotage- Someone Did this to the Film *","Date":"30 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Extremely boring 1936 film warning of acts of sabotage. Problem here is that the organization of the culprits is never fully identified. Why?What we get instead is an extremely dull, moody black and white film of a couple running a movie house in London. Trouble is that the husband, played well by Oscar Homolka, is in with a group of saboteurs and before the curtain comes down, tragedy has struck on a bus thanks to this group.Homolka steals the show here with his acting. His cold, calculating veneer is a joy to watch and his wife, Sylvia Sydney, does well, especially when she discovers what is occurring.John Loder, as a police officer, and smitten by Sydney is adequate for the part. "},{"Title":"one of the best Hitchcock films in the 30s","Date":"14 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" 'Sabotage' is a film that Hitchcock did not like later in his life. The principal reason was what Hitchcock considered lately a big script mistake, which made the film to have a bad press at the release date. And yet, there are several reasons because of which I liked the movie.First, it has quite a modern look, with the street scenes in the 30s London looking very natural. Second it tackles with the problem of terrorism including a bus bomb that looks almost a premonition of a problem that the world faced many decades later. Third there are a few classic Hitchcock scenes in a higher concentration than usual for the films before Hitchcock crossed the ocean to begin his American career.The start of the movie sets the context by using the dictionary definition of 'sabotage' then to follow with a London blackout symbolized by one light bulb losing power, one of the object scenes that will become a Hitchcock mark later in his career. Then as the story of the villain German terrorist played by Oskar Homolka suspected by his American wife played by Sylvia Sydney develops we become interested by the Harry Potter like figure of the kid brother of Sylvia. And then ... Hitchcock kills him as the innocent bearer of a bomb in a bus, in a scene that was controversial at its time over-passing a taboo in the cinema stories of the time. Although this breaks the balance of the story, this does not look at all outrageous nowadays, and it allows for the classic scene of revenge between Sydney and Homolka, a scene created with pure visual means while the actors keep their full reserved style all over. Another interesting scene allows for the heroine to try to cure from her shock watching for a Disney cartoon in a cinema theater ambiance which plays the role of setting of much of the intrigue of the film.The film does not lack problems, one of them being the bad casting of John Loder as the positive detective character - positive but lacking any interest or charisma. The final scenes seem to provide an artificial solution to all problems. Yet, the interesting setting and the collection of several interesting thriller scenes make of this film one of the best of the decade in Hithcock's career, even better than what the director thought about it to be. "},{"Title":"Good suspense","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I'm not going to lie the one thing I think of when I think of Sabotage, is the Beastie Boys. OK that's a bad joke, however this movie does have one unforgettable scene. And at the time I watched it, it was really unbelievable. Now if you haven't seen the film please quit reading and go watch it. The scene I'm talking about is the scene with the kid carrying a bomb. Wow. Talk about suspense. The whole time it just keeps building and the whole time I'm thinking Kid just get rid of that box!. It's one of those few times I was actually on the edge of my seat. In the back of my mind I knew... I mean I knew this kid was going to be OK. It was made in 1936. There was no way a child is getting blown up by a bomb. But that's exactly what happen. It's rare that a movie shocks me, most films try to use language or gore to shock you, but this one blows you away. I've read that Hitchcock regretted killing the kid, but (as one reviewer already typed) it was necessary for the story. I guess it follows the book pretty well and there had to be a good reason for this woman to kill her husband. With that scene alone Hitchcock can be call the master of suspense and no one could argue. I only gave it a 5, because that scene was the only thing I took away from this movie. Don't get me wrong the direction and acting are good and the story's OK, but that's pretty much it. Some said they liked the climax, I could take it or leave it. But that's just me. Like I said that scene made it for me. Overall I would recommend this, just so you can see that scene. "},{"Title":"So much from so littel","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Hitch excels in making a great thriller using what are from today's viewpoint the most primitive means. The opening is a so smart and succinct, four or five tight cuts set up the first stages of the plot and propel us into the film with elegant panache.. a light bulb flickers and dies, street light follow, cut to power station, cut to a generator turbine, cut to an engineers hand as they pull out a handful of sand, cut to three or four rapid shots of the men standing looking down, cut to the leering villain as he makes his escape to the cinema.Instantly cut to the stalled subway, the passengers walking up the stairs in semi darkness, the gleeful look on the match seller's face as his business suddenly booms, the amazing low light portraits of the people walking along the street cut, cut cut into the crowd at the box office. I could go on but if you love Hitch you must see 'Sabotage'. It's now out on DVD with a nice crisp print. "},{"Title":"Here lies Hitchcock!","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Look closely and you will find this film has layer upon layer. With its elements of meta-cinema and characters like Verloc and the bomb-maker, we can see that Hitch is using the Conrad original as a base for revealing his darkest thoughts...his power as a film maker to sabotage an audience's preconceptions...simultaneously empathising with a woman that no-one seems to listen to. Verloc just wants his food on the table and Spenser just wants her to be the woman he believes her to be. Desperately she will try to assume her own path and confess, only to be confounded and captured by Spencer his hand gripping her wrist more tightly than any handcuff.At first glance you may not recognise all the elements of H. But believe me they are all there.Watch it...then watch it again...Hitch is there...really no need for a cameo this is truly Hitch's most personal work in Britain and second only to Vertigo when viewed across the whole gamut of his work. "},{"Title":"Don't blow up the puppy!","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Based on the novel THE SECRET AGENT, Hitchcock goes out on a limb to capture one of the greatest suspense filled moments in early British cinema. There's a bomb on the bus! And the audience hangs on the edge of their seat waiting to see if a little boy and a puppy will be blown to hell......or not? Shocking the audience, the bomb goes off, putting the audience in complete shock after witnessing the entire ordeal. A wonderful scene from the master of suspense.  "},{"Title":"This cries for a remake","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is a great film. I love it for the reason others didn't. It isn't typical Hitchcock fare. The scene on the bus with the little boy is an extraordinary study in creating tension.What surprises me, is that the current climate, there are a lot of similarities with the War on Terrorism. It wouldn't take a lot to make this a really fresh new piece of film. The plot is fantastic, it is well written, I believe it is perhaps a little short so some punching up may be needed. This script is ripe for an update - as sacrilegious as it may be to redo a Hitchcock classic. But then again it worked for Gus Van Sant...or did it? It did didn't it? No? Yes? "},{"Title":"Has nice Hitchock touches, but mostly lacing in Hithcock's genius.","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This was a good movie and rather interesting.  However, I must say it lacks something that other Of Hitchcock's late 1930's movies had.  It seemed to lack characters that draw us into the story and the intrigue.  It's an OK movie to watch, but it doesn't rank up there with some of Hitchcock's other late 1930's films such as The Lady Vanishes or The Thirty-Nine Steps or even Young and Innocent.  All in all, not a bad film with very nice touches and good performances.  However, it's simply doesn't come together quite as well.  **********************Possible Spoilers******************************** The one part of the movie that truly has the 'greatness' of Hitchcock in it is the boy on the bus.  Now that segment has Hitchock's genius everywhere.  Otherwise, this is a Hitchock film which you may prefer to simply rent or watch on tv rather than buy.  75/100 points for this one.  "},{"Title":"One of favourite films","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoy this film and always have like the lovely Sylvia Sydney who recently deceased. She was the star of the 1931 Goldwyn classic Street Scene with Beulah Bondi set in the NYC tenements of the time. Sabotage has a lot going for it even though I know a lot was done on sets at Gaumont-British, probably at Lime Grove/Shepeherd's Bush, the London street scenes are well done and I am always interested in films with theatres and film projectors. Desmond Tester who played the c11 year-old boy who is blown up at the Mayors street parade came to Australia in the early days of TV here, after 1956 and was well known here. This film like Street Scene is on DVD. Sabotage DVD I have is from Delta Entertainment(Laserlight)in USA and is under US$10 and the print is excellent as is the soundtrack(Tony Curtis introduces) but the bonus film of Hitichcock's 1926 The Lodger is extremely poor. It is worth it for Sabotage alone. Street Scene is equally good quality to view on DVD. "},{"Title":"This is really great","Date":"3 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This movie, a Hitchcock film that hardly anyone has heard of, is yet another one of his best and I'm surprised it doesn't have more of a following. I won't give away too much, but I will say it has all the good things going for it. High suspense, an intriguing plot and overall great performances put into one of the darkest Hitchcock thrillers make this one an incredibly enjoyable film that will make you want to see it again. I highly disagree with the IMDb rating on this one.Watch it when it comes on TCM "}{"Title":"An Early Hitchcock Classic","Date":"20 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A Scotland Yard undercover detective is on the trail of a saboteur who is part of a plot to set off a bomb in London. But when the detective's cover is blown, the plot begins to unravel.This film has received some notoriety for having a young boy carry a bomb around London. And I think that is warranted, although it is nothing to apologize for (Hitchcock had apparently regretted this later in life). What could make the story more suspenseful than placing danger in the hands of someone so innocent? The story comes from Joseph Conrad, the same author whose work inspired Apocalypse Now. I must say I have read Heart of Darkness and did not particularly enjoy it, causing me to go no further with Conrad's work. This movie, however, makes me think Secret Agent might be worth picking up. "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated Hitchcock films and a great one","Date":"31 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Sabotage is not among Hitchcock's very finest, and I consider The Lady Vanishes and The 39 Steps better films from his British period. However, it is still a great, though perhaps a too-short length, film and one of his most underrated. There are more audacious films of his visually(Vertigo, Rebecca and To Catch a Thief for examples) but it is still a very well made film and the sets exude a lot of atmosphere. It is very well-directed by Hitchcock with some really nice touches and a visual style that makes you think yes this is Hitchcock. The dialogue provokes thought and keeps you gripped and guessing, while the story draws you in- due to its high levels of suspense and great atmosphere- with the 75 minutes or so just flying by. It is not a Hitchcock film without a memorable or suspenseful set-piece, Sabotage has those, the highlights are the scene on the bus with the bomb and the death of Verloc though Verloc imagining London in ruin is chilling stuff too. Sylvia Sidney is wonderful in a nuanced and quite touching performance, the scene where her character is watching Who Killed Cock Robin saw Sidney express many different emotions that made that scene tense and moving at the same time. Oskar Homolka's Verloc has a strong air of menace, you only have to look at his appearance for starters, yet there is a hint of a sympathetic edge. To conclude, a great British Hitchcock and one of his most underrated efforts. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Tension-filled drama---way ahead of its time.","Date":"14 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" There is something almost prophetic about this Hitchcock drama during the early days of the rise of Nazi power (and prior to Hitler's invasion of Europe) that makes this film all the more scarier. A group of foreign agents are involved in terrorism blackouts and bombings in London, and a young wife (Sylvia Sidney) has no idea that her movie theater owner husband (Oscar Homolka) is one of them. Sidney's lovable younger brother (Desmond Tester) lives with them and steps in to unknowingly help out Homolka which leads to tragedy. This film is both political and personal, dealing with the saboteurs (whose alliance is never revealed) and the innocents involved in the initial blackout (where Sidney must pacify a group of theater patrons demanding their money back) and the ultimate explosion that has horrifying results. Some reviewers consider the actual explosion anti-climactic; I think how the film moves up to that point and the results that come after it make the scene quite horrifying, quite stunning considering the events and horrors of the next decade because of the rise of Nazi power in Europe. Homolka gets no sympathy as the husband/Villain, but he does an amazing job showing a slight conscience if not compassion. Sidney, one of the most underrated leading ladies of the 30's (and remembered more as an old lady on screen rather than a long-suffering heroine of pre-code dramas), looks different than almost everybody on screen. She isn't quite beautiful, but she's stunningly real, and gives a very layered performance. The scene after she discovers what has happened is quite tense as she finds herself laughing as whats on the movie screen, realizes what she has to do, and fights the urge to go through with what her grief is demanding her to do. John Loder is adequate as the agent who lets her in on the truth. Tester gives a wonderful performance as the young brother we'd all love to have. I could not find the credit for the lady complaining about the canary she purchased from one of Homolka's conspirators, but the scene she appears in is very amusing. Technically, this film is very well made, and I am thrilled that some excellent prints have surfaced. The scene of London in the blackout has a sort of 3-D effect. I am assuming that the parade sequence Tester attends is the ascension of King Edward (briefly) to the throne after the death of the previous King. That would give a motivation for the saboteurs, and gives the film a historical importance as well in addition to its startling preview of a grim future. "},{"Title":"The Flammable Nature of Early Cinema","Date":"10 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Sir Alfred Joseph Hitchcock, at this stage just the vigorous maverick of the Gaumont-British sentry, carved a mercilessly sensational bit from Conrad's The Secret Agent into a proficient drill in suspense. Sabotage is flawed plotting, but unqualified histrionics. Edgily dismissing all but the facade of motivation, the great manipulator thrusts his lens into the nucleus of Conrad's plot and extracts a giftedly implemented splinter of a story. What makes Hitchcock Hitchcock is that his technique is its own justification.Invariably the master of his movie's fate, this sculptor of modern cinema has compacted this story to the nuts and bolts, choosing just those events which he could crook to his dramatic command. His tempo is deceivingly measured, but he lurches mercilessly to his climaxes and makes the effect intense and unexpected. The excellent Oscar Homolka, Sylvia Sidney, John Loder and that winning youngster Desmond Tester, are held tightly to the frontier of plot development and, inside the slender confines Hitchcock allows them, supply thoroughgoing characterizations.For reasons vague, minor cinema owner Verloc has been ordered to terrorize London. His gateway is to disable the city's lighting works. London receives the blackout as a gag. The foreign agent retaining him cautions that London better not chuckle next time A time bomb, placed in a Piccadilly cloakroom, would truly try the British sense of humor.Verloc, being watched by Scotland Yard, is incapable of sending the bomb himself and picks his wife's baby brother as the innocuous courier of terror. The kid takes the paper-wrapped bomb, calculated to explode at quarter two, and commences his venture across town. Verloc has cautioned him to leave the little box no later than half one. Despite the Master of Suspense's later nitpicking of his work here, he orders the sequence mischievously. It's excruciating to have to helplessly watch the heedless youngster's easygoing movement across London, stopping at shop windows, volunteered by a sidewalk vender for a presentation, postponed by a parade, by traffic and finicky policemen.Homolka as Verloc is an ideal means for Hitchcock's calculated rhythm. Sidney as his baffled wife, mothering her young brother, John Loder as the amorous Scotland Yard sergeant, William Dewhurst as the bomb maker and of course Tester are severally solid. But this is Hitchcock's film and a worthy early one. "},{"Title":"Dr. Hitchcock, or How I Didn't Learn to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb","Date":"25 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Suspected saboteur Oscar Homolka (as Karl Verloc) is secretly pursued by Scotland Yard investigator John Loder (as Ted Spencer). Along the way, Mr. Loder falls in love with Mr. Homolka's alluring American wife, Sylvia Sidney. Director Alfred Hitchcock gets ahead of himself by over-directing and detailing this film; but, it is an interesting one to watch. There is no mistaking hero from villain, which calls the heroine's character immediately into question. Her little brother, nicely played by Desmond Tester, is likewise made more foolish by being directed to play the boy as more of an innocent, bumbling oaf than his more interesting literary counterpart (in Joseph Conrad's original novel The Secret Agent). The most memorable sequence in Sabotage (you'll know it when you see it end) contains what Mr. Hitchcock later admitted to be a misjudgment in the way a character's demise is conceptualized.****** Sabotage (12/2/36) Alfred Hitchcock ~ Sylvia Sydney, Oscar Homolka, Desmond Tester, John Loder "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Topical","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I'm aware that Hitchcock always regretted having the boy die. Audiences weren't used to such a bitter pill (though it showed the reality of what was going on). This is a very good movie with a great cast. It has great villains and a use of time that builds and builds. Oskar Homolka is sinister yet, in many ways, cowardly. He's in over his head but he goes ahead. His pleas with his young wife after the death are almost sickening. It shows he really has no heart. He even tries to blame the police detective for the death because he blocked the doorway so he couldn't deliver the bomb himself. One can see the roots to this in Blackmail where another woman nearly confesses. This is certainly a topical film when one thinks about suicide bombers and explosives being planted. It shows the disregard for human life on the part of the terrorists. "},{"Title":"Two Early Hitch","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Sabotage (1936) *** (out of 4) A woman (Sylvia Sidney) begins to fear that her husband is the terrorist planting bombs all over London. This is a very good and tense thriller from Alfred Hitchcock that has the right mixture of action and comedy. The best thing is the performance by Sidney who really shines in her role. Homolka and John Loder are also good. The highlight of the film is the leadup to the bus exploding. A nice twist ending as well.Man Who Knew Too Much, The (1934) *** (out of 4) Hitchcock's original version has parents Leslie Banks and Edna Best learning of an assassination plot and having their daughter kidnapped. This version too is a lower tier Hitchcock but it's slightly better than the remake, although Banks isn't quite as good as James Stewart. Best certainly beats out Doris Day and Peter Lorre turns in a good performance. The biggest benefits of the original are the ending and the assassination scene. "},{"Title":"Quite good","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I liked this quite a bit more than I've liked any of the other U.K. Hitchcock movies that I've seen. It's a very daring movie about a difficult topic that takes the story into directions that few would have dared at the time, or now. I'm not sure if in the final analysis the movie had anything important enough to say in order to justify showing the death of a child by terrorism, but I salute the director for willing to attempt it from Conrad's story.Oscar Homolka is quite a bit more handsome than I've seen him in other films, although it's interesting to note that the film features absolutely no romantic scenes or signs of affection between his character and his wife, played by the lovely and talented American actress Sylvia Sidney. Probably that's to soften the audience up for the fact that the romance, such as it is, which develops is between Sidney's character and the detective played by John Loder. Unfortunately Loder is a bit of a weak link in this triangle. He lacks screen presence and can't really elicit respect or admiration from the audience in the hero role. We're supposed to sympathize with him I think when he wants to run away to France towards the end, but the whole idea just seems idiotic. After all, considering that Homolka's character just killed her brother with a bomb and was probably going to strangle her, it would seem easy to cop a self defense plea even if juries at the time were less friendly towards wives who kill their husbands. What exactly does Ted know that nobody else knows, which motivates him to try to run? It seems fairly contrives, and doesn't really pay off the investment we've made in these characters.But the film on the whole is not bad at all. There are a handful of really excellent suspense scenes, especially the fatal bus ride and the final confrontation between husband and wife. There are also some interesting ideas floating around in the stew, such as a parallel that's set up between the movie itself and the movies that are being shown in Homolka's theater. For a moment after her brother's death, Winnie (Sidney) laughs along with the audience at a cartoon. But when one of the cartoon characters dies and everyone else in the theater breaks out in laughter, she is dead silent. What the film seems to be saying is that death or murder exist in more than one context. Early in the film there's a nice little scene where the window between their living room and the theater suddenly bursts open and you hear a woman shrieking as she's perhaps murdered. This intrusion of fantasy violence into such an apparently peaceful domestic situation mirrors the act of sabotage that puts innocent people going about their business in harm's way. It also comments on the fact that certain depictions of death can be entertaining while others (such as the death of a young boy we've come to know quite well) exist within a very different context. This separation, the space between the two contexts, is what allows someone like Homolka's character to commit such heinous crimes that are not in keeping with what he sees as his own gentle character. It's not a case that Homolka was an evil man whose wife was simply unable to see through him; perhaps he is evil, but he is not a villain. He is a human being who has become an agent of evil because he cannot see or feel the direct affects of his terrorist actions.It's a strikingly well made film, with a couple of good performances from Homolka and Sidney and a very dense suspense-oriented plot. One additional note the scene with the bomb-maker trying to fool people into thinking that mute canaries can sing by way of some kind of audio trick was clearly inspired by a similar scene with Lon Chaney in Tod Browning's film The Unholy Three. It's the only time I've ever noticed any explicit influence of Browning on Hitchcock. "},{"Title":"Pretty good '30's Hitch.....","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This has a lot of his trademarks-innocent heroine, crowds of onlookers flooding the street, cops undercover, a little model bus action, a stabbing, etc. All handled quite well.Spoilers?The baddie you know right off the bat, which might undermine some of the movies' effectiveness. You also wonder if Sylvia Sidney could have been so clueless about Homolka's doings like that. He does look pretty guilty.The exploding bus is like the planes strafing the train in Secret Agent, really Hitchcock had a streak of Bruckheimer in him like it or not. He liked F/X and he liked things that blew up. Certainly he runs rings around anything Bruckheimer's touched, but--it's there.Good effective flick, I enjoyed the little Disney toon in the middle as well.*** outta ****, it's not a classic but worth a look.  "},{"Title":"Mechanically Defective","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This isn't one of Hitchcock's finest...it's an example of what happens when a filmmaker relies overmuch on a transcription from the written word, rather than conceiving things anew to make it all work as a film.The acting is mechanical, the characters are all revealed to us up front to be exactly who they are with no discovery or irony, the outcome as plainly inevitable as clockwork.But there are images of note...particularly Verloc imagining London blasted into ruin as a film frame jammed in front a projection lamp and then melting. It's an embryonic example of how Hitchcock would later toy with audience perception and perspective, culminating in the likes of 'Foreign Correspondant', 'Rear Window', and 'Psycho'. "}{"Title":"Pretty good...","Date":"6 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I own Sabotage as part of a DVD with 15 lesser-known Hitchcock films. I did not expect a film of the caliber of his best work (Psycho, Vertigo, Rope) but I was still surprised at how good the film was.The film wasn't incredible, but it maintained a great deal of suspense in it's second half especially. I thought the film was filled with great performances, most notably Sylvia Sidney (who is very beautiful by the way!) and her husband Oskar Homolka. One complaint I have though, is the quality of which I saw the film in. The picture quality I could live with, but the audio is sometimes almost unheardable. I desperately wanted English subtitles, but there weren't any. I probably missed out on a lot of the dialogue, but still got a pretty good idea of the film's plot. "},{"Title":"Dated Hitchcock thriller.","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This British Hitchcock thriller is dated and pretty weak, certainly weaker than The Lady Vanishes. Hitchcock tries hard, and he provides one memorable sequence (the bomb in the bus), but he is defeated by the underwritten, poor script and the equally poor production values. "}]