[{"Title":"Quintessential British Hitchcock","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"54 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Young and Innocent is one of the best of Alfred Hitchcock's pre-Hollywood movies.  It contains all of the features that characterized the finest of his British movies, and is (as many others have commented) a film often undeservedly overlooked amongst Hitchcock's large collection of classics.The actors would all be unfamiliar to most contemporary American viewers, but it is a fine cast that does full justice to a good story, and that responds well to Hitchcock's expert direction.  Derrick de Marney is engaging as the unjustly accused hero Robert Tisdall, and his character is balanced nicely by good performances from the rest of the cast (several of whom appeared in more than one of Hitchcock's British movies).As is often the case with Hitchcock's British pictures, the title is capable of multiple interpretations.  At the least, it could refer either to the hero, to the heroine, or to the overall atmosphere and themes of the movie.  Young Tisdall is being chased by the law, but we know from the beginning that he is innocent, and his knowledge of that innocence enables him to remain upbeat and even playful despite the dangers and complications he faces.  Erica (Nova Pilbeam), his reluctant friend and helper, is innocent in a different sense.  In the story she finds her youthful naivete, especially the assumptions she has acquired in growing up as a chief police constable's daughter, challenged by the real world - perhaps for the first time in her life.  Pilbeam is not a glamorous heroine (and this may be one of the reasons why Young and Innocent is unjustly neglected), but she was a good choice to portray the youthful earnestness and resulting moral dilemmas of her character.  Despite the film's short length, it is filled with classic Hitchcock touches of detail, artistry, and humor, many of which are more low-key than those in his more familiar Hollywood films.  It is worth watching several times in order to catch and appreciate all of the details.  Three sequences are especially worth noting (i) the renowned tracking shot at the climax of the film, which is not only a fine technical achievement but also an ideal way to set up the suspenseful conclusion; (ii) the birthday party in the middle, which encapsulates in very subtle ways most of the themes and contrasts of the movie, and (iii) the sequence towards the beginning involving the hero's conference with his lawyer, his court appearance, and his escape, a sequence which is filled with comic details too numerous to catch all at once (including one of the director's most humorous cameos).Any Hitchcock fan should thoroughly enjoy Young and Innocent.  Beyond that, any fan of thrillers who can look past an unfamiliar cast, and who is willing to look for the subtle touches that characterized the great director's British work, will also find the film a satisfying experience. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Hitchcock Fare","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"41 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A truly charming film from the Master of Suspense. Being a rather huge Hitch fan, I recently sought out some lesser known films from his early period. Of those I viewed (Number 17, & Murder! among others) this one was my favorite--among the best of his Pre-Hollywood films. There is the usual mixture of humor and suspense, some nice camera work (including a wonderful precursor to the key-in-hand shot of Notorious), and most importantly, Nova Pilbeam. I'm not sure how this actress managed to play her scenes SO appealingly, and yet managed to have fallen SO completely off the acting radar. How many people today have her name rattling about their cerebral attic? Virtually none, I'd hazard, and yet she is terrific here--worth the effort of finding the video for her performance alone.This film certainly is not in the same league as Hitch's best, but still is vastly superior to the average suspense film coming out of Hollywood today--or any other day, for that matter. "},{"Title":"well worth catching","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"40 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I hold with what seems to be the majority opinion here, i.e. that this early Hitchcock effort is a neglected gem. Though certainly not as well-done as some of his more noteworthy movies, I found it to be thoroughly captivating and entertaining, with the blend of suspense and humor that one finds in, say, To Catch a Thief or Family Plot. Derrick deMarney as the romantic lead does a particularly fine job; sort of a foreshadowing of the kind of thing Cary Grant later did so well. One thought is that the title is perhaps a bit of a double entendre; we always associate the phrase Young and Innocent with a female, but the story is really about the attempt of the lead character - a young man - to prove his innocence. Then again, is he really the lead, or is the story about the girl after all? I'm sure Hitch intended this  touch of ambiguity.Once again I have to thank American Movie Classics for bringing us another worthy movie from the past. Hitchcock fans should not miss this one (come to think of it, the only dog that I have seen from Hitch is The Paradine Case). "},{"Title":"Classic Hitchcock","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"39 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Hitchcock is in a class by himself. I'll give any of his films multiple viewings. The story and structure of Young and Innocent resemble The 39 Steps, with a young woman helping a young man on the run thwart the police and prove his innocence. This film is a standout, though, not because of the story or acting (both charming), but because of a virtuoso bit of directing by the Master, in which the location of the killer is revealed. As I watched the scene unfold for the first time, I remember thinking, This is what makes Hitchcock Hitchcock. I wish I had never seen any Hitchcock films so I could watch them all again for the first time. His is a brilliant body of work, and this is an often overlooked example of his mastery of the film art.  "},{"Title":"Early and Delectable","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"24 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Sort of a blueprint for any number of later, more bloated Hitchcocks The man falsely accused of murder; the sympathetic miss who helps him, the set pieces in creepy places. This one has a lighter, more picaresque feel than most of the Master's movies, with irrelevant but diverting supporting characters, Maguffins, an unstarry cast, and an unusual dollop of humor. It's also blessed by a screenplay that leaps nimbly from improbability to improbability, as much as its more famous contemporaries, like The 39 Steps or The Lady Vanishes. The light tone throughout tips us off that everything's going to turn out all right, so there's less suspense than we associate with Hitchcock. Still, it's beautifully photographed (with one really stunning crane shot), beautifully paced, and enjoyably acted. The unstoried Nova Pilbeam is a standout She's the ideal Hitchcock heroine, blonde, slender, and spirited.  "},{"Title":"Don't Blink!","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I have always been partial to Hitchcock's British films (Murder, Blackmail, 39 Steps, et al) and I consider this one another star in the crown. Granted, it may not be as sophisticated as his later films but few films from the 30's are. It has a certain charm and suspense that will hold your interest.This film is filled with Hitchcock's cadre of actors that he used again and again in his early films.....and what a group they are! Nova Pilbeam (The Man Who Knew Too Much) was a rather strange looking girl but is perfect for the part of the young woman who helps a stranger; Percy Marmont (Secret Agent) as her father; Mary Clare and Basil Radford (The Lady Vanishes) as the aunt and uncle; John Longden (Blackmail) in his usual role as the detective......all these players are top drawer. Derrick de Marney is rather effete as the man on the run but is very effective in the part.Several scenes are particularly outstanding. The opening beach shots are beautifully done and the chase is on! You hold your breath in the sinking car scene even though you know that Miss Pilbeam won't be lost so early in the story, unlike Janet Leigh in Psycho. But of course, the long tracking shot in the hotel as it zooms in on the drummer man is the one that most people remember and talk about. It's dynamite.The rural setting is delightful and Hitchcock seldom used that slice of life in his films (with the exception of The Manxman). That may be what gives the film it's more easy going pace, it's more casual feel. Regardless, Young and Innocent (which is a rather awkward title), holds up after 66 years as just another example of the artistry of the Master. Enjoy it....it's worth it. "},{"Title":"Nice Hitchcock touches elevate this film above your usual mystery romance.","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  In this near classic from director Alfred Hitchcock, a police detective's daughter and a writer get tangled up in a murder case, and the chase is on!  While they are being pursued by the authorities, they themselves are searching for clues that might prove the writer is innocent.  Nice Hitchcock touches elevate this film above your usual mystery romance.  Nova Pilbeam and Derek DeMarney deliver charismatic performances as the two leads in the film.  As usual, Hitchcock has paid careful attention to detail, continuity and pacing of the story, and the result is still entertaining decades later.  This is a film which has aged rather well. There are so many delightful scenes in this movie that it is hard to pick a favorite.  This film reveals all of the signs of genius that Hitchcock would continue to display for many years after this 1937 outing. Young and Innocent is said to be one of Hitchcock's personal favorites from the films that he made in Great Britain before his Hollywood era began.  In my estimation, Young and Innocent is just a hair's width from being as good as the other two early directorial triumphs made by him in his British era which are considered classics  The Thirty Nine Steps and The Lady Vanishes. For Hitchock fans, this is one of his must see films.  86/100.  "},{"Title":"No One Can, But the Drummer Man!","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The argument is always going to pursue Hitchcock's students and fans. Were the films he made in England from 1934 to 1939 his best films (specifically THE 39 STEPS and THE LADY VANISHES) or were the films he made in Hollywood from STRANGERS ON A TRAIN through THE BIRDS his masterworks. I think most Americans favor the latter group, and Englishmen favor the former. Certainly he had huge budgets to play with in the 1940s to 1970s, whereas his budgets in England were terribly puny. But his basic themes got developed in his English films, and he managed to achieve some great effects on those puny budgets.YOUNG AND INNOCENT is probably frequently confused with RICH AND STRANGE, a really weird film Hitch made about four years earlier. That was about how a marriage survives an inheritance and trip around the world. This one deals with a mystery by Josephine Tey. In the 1930s to 1960s Ms Tey was the equal as a British mystery novelist of Agatha Christie, Margery Allingham, and Dorothy Sayers. This is based on A SHILLING FOR CANDLES, but most people who remember Ms Tey recall her for two novels based on historical mysteries. One, reset in modern times, is THE FRANCHISE AFFAIR (based on the 1753 mystery of the disappearance and reappearance of Elizabeth Canning in London - a case that literally split English society as equal numbers of witnesses placed her either in a farmhouse as a prisoner, while others insisted she was living with a lover). The second (and better recalled) is THE DAUGHTER OF TIME, which tackles the question of the guilt of King Richard III in the various crimes ascribed to him by Sir Thomas More and William Shakespeare - including the murder of his two nephews. Tey's usual hero, Inspector Adam Grant, concludes history lies (the victors determine what is true) and Richard is innocent. Although it's research value is dated in 2005, it is still a good place to start looking over Richard's reputation and case.Here the hero (Derrick De Marney) is suspected (rather flimsily, actually) of having killed a young woman on a beach. He after all helped discover the body. From the beginning we are aware of another person who is more likely to be the killer, but after a sinister opening we don't see him again.De Marney flees, and his path leads him into that of Nova Pilbeam. She was an up and coming performer of that period in England, appearing as the kidnap victim in the original THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH in 1934, and then as the ill-fated Lady Jane Gray in TUDOR ROSE in 1936. Here she is the daughter of the local police head (Percy Marmont - he had been an accidental murder victim of Peter Lorre's in 1936's THE SECRET AGENT). She is convinced of De Marney's innocence, and keeps helping him flee (including a comic interlude at the home of her uncle, Basil Radford, during a birthday party. They keep looking up potentially innocent-proving evidence, and find one more ally Edward Rigby as a helplessly entangled hobo named Will.And they do find the killer (as does Marmont and his police) in the conclusion, when they track him down to the drummer man - in the first really memorable use of a tracking shot by Hitch. He would next use it again in NOTORIOUS in the party scene. The man is in black face (a racist element that was acceptable in 1937 unfortunately), but we know the key to his identity - his twitching eyes (possibly nervousness, but also possibly by drugs). His eyes do twitch for the audience before they do for the others. And his nerves suffer the torments of the damned when he sees the police in the room and De Marney. Then he goes into a really wild drumming turn (which his boss acidly comments on afterward) - it is like a wild animal at bay, symbolically.It is not THE LADY VANISHES or THE 39 STEPS, but it an effective film for all that. Definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"Underrated but great","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I believe that this movie is very underrated Hitchcock. Young and Innocent is about another seemingly docile situation that blows up in a young man's face. While wandering the beach, he comes across the dead body of a woman he knew (we saw the brief fight the woman had with her husband at the very beginning of the movie). As he runs to go get help, two ladies think he is running away from the body. As his trial proceeds, he is able to duck out and go on the lam with the daughter of the chief of police. With her help, they go to prove his innocence.One can't help but feel for the young couple as they go on their adventure. Mainly, Hitchcock really works the camera on this one. There is one scene in particular, a great panoramic shot that comes to focus on a single pair of eyes, those twitching eyes from the very beginning of the movie.Maybe it is because it doesn't have a big name or didn't have any real jump out and get you moments that it is forgotten. It is worth a look and I recommend seeing it, especially if you like old movies. "},{"Title":"A wonderful film, don't miss it","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is a good Hitchcock film, but on the lighter side. The acting may be disputed (certainly many dispute about it!), but in my opinion it is a very solid, entertaining, and well-acted picture. It does have much of Hitchcock about it (not surprisingly) and is well worth watching. All of the classic Hitchcock elements are there, and they fit together wonderfully the musical score, the camera work, the twists and turns in the plot, the thrilling scenes, the build-up, the director himself ... and not to forget the story! This is built up very carefully, and contains many, many interesting side-glances and elements. But one needs to watch the film very carefully, or more than once, in order to find these. It is indeed a sort of '39 Steps', and a precursor to several later Hitchcock films, but in its own way it occupies a place rather different than any other Hitchcock film. I am referring to a certain 'bucolic' atmosphere, which is perhaps only equalled by 'The Trouble With Harry'. The parallels to this film have perhaps not yet been adequately explored. "}{"Title":"Likable leads make for enjoyable early Hitchcock outing (possible spoiler)","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I regard this film as unfairly overlooked, even among admirers of Hitchcock's British period. The mystery plot is fairly basic and doesn't unfold in a particularly sophisticated way, but the simplicity and quaintness add to the picture's overall charm. I find something completely engaging about the two young (and innocent!) leads of this film they play two decent individuals compelled to trust one another under potentially disastrous circumstances. Pilbeam's character, in particular, is consistently goodhearted and resourceful; it is her willingness to help others that directly leads to her discovery of the real murderer at the end. Her and De Marney's good natures have a ripple effect on other characters, as when her easygoing uncle conspires to whisk the young couple out from under the watchful eye of his suspicious wife during the humorous birthday party scene, or when Erica's usually bratty brothers evince quiet sympathy for her dilemma at the dinner table. As far as technical innovations and experimentation go, the lengthy crane shot in the hotel ballroom is a nicely executed precursor to a similar reveal in the party scene from Hitchcock's later Notorious. For these and other moments, I would go so far as to name Young and Innocent my third favourite of Hitch's British films, after The 39 Steps and The Lady Vanishes. Most of the public domain prints available on DVD and VHS are adequately watchable, but let's hope Criterion picks this one up in future and gives it a much-deserved remastering. "},{"Title":"Sweet, fast, joyous British Hitchcock...","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Young and Innocent (1937)The title is appropriate to the point of being redundant, because in nearly every Alfred Hitchcock film the key theme is an innocent man accused. In this case, accused of murder, and the young man is a charming English actor, Derrick De Marney. As the police begin their hunt, he runs into the police chief's daughter, played by Nova Pilbeam, a tomboyish answer to Katherine Hepburn, and the real star of the movie.This is a late British Hitchcock film, and it feels slightly raw around the edges, but it's so fast and likable and well constructed, you have to love it. In fact, the suspense of getting caught is balanced by some downright slapstick scenes that are brief and hilarious. And a reminder that this is a romp, the whole thing a beautiful, spritely entertainment. Never mind a killer is on the loose, because if one man is innocent of murder, another, out there somewhere, it not.This is 1937, and by 1939 Hitchcock has moved to the U.S. to do Hollywood movies (including the amazing Rebecca in 1940), and so Young and Innocent and The Lady Vanishes (which has a similar quaint feel) wrap up his long British period. It says a lot for a movie to say I could watch it again, not because it's technically astonishing, but because it's just a joy, and very sweet. Never mind a little corniness or an inevitable ending, it's good! "},{"Title":"Lively Comic Chase From Hitchcock","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A young man (Derek De Marney) is accused of murder and jailed. His lawyer is a greedy nincompoop, so De Marney escapes, dragging along the innocent daughter (Nova Pilbeam) of the chief constable (Percy Marmont). There follows the sort of comic yet thrilling Chase that Hitch's fans are familiar with from others of his film like Saboteur and The 39 Steps. Nova Pilbeam -- great, imaginative name, by the way -- realizes along the way that De Marney is innocent and she falls in with him as they track down the one or two clues they have to the identity of the real murderer. The chase takes them through a flop house run by a surprisingly young Torin Thatcher. There they meet the only man, a bum, or (excuse me) a vagabond, who can identify the murderer. Not that the absurd character remembers what the killer looks like, just that he had a spastic twitch in his eyelids.Their last clue takes the couple to a semi-elegant supper club with a band playing in the background. Fasten your seat belt because here comes one of Hitchcock's bravura shots. The innocent, puzzled pair are seated at a table, looking around the hopelessly crowded dance floor for someone with a twitch. The camera pans slowly over the mob of dancers as if they were objects stored in Citizen Kane's warehouse, then droops down, passes through the dancers, approaches the band stand, noses through the musicians in black face, to an enormous choker of a close-up of the drummer's face. The drummer spots the investigators peering around. His eyes twitch spastically.The drummer/murderer, luckily, is not one of Hitchcock's suave and unflappable villains, not like the four-fingered guy in The 39 Steps. This murderer is a nervous wreck. It isn't that De Marney and Pilbeam discover who he is, so much as that he gives himself away. He begins banging the drums and cymbals out of synch, helplessly falling over the instruments, collapsing while the other musicians stare at him. The police drag him away, cackling maniacally. The end.The pursuit involves some suspenseful moments, particularly a scene in which Pilbeam's old Morris is driven into the mine works and begins to sink as the floor of the shaft begins to collapse under the car's weight. I was happy she was saved. She's delicately appealing. I wouldn't have been broken hearted if the dog, Towser, had gone down with the sinking car though. But Hitchcock makes certain we see the dog escape safely. He had a weakness for dogs, having once owned a Beagle named Philip of Magnesia. Dogs appear in several of his films. He seems never to have been much for cats, and he was definitely down on birds.This is a good example of Hitchcock's British works from the 1930s, the sort of thing that eventually saw him lured away to Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Lovely little Hitchcock film, unfortunately overlooked","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Young and Innocent would have to be one of the most overlooked films in the Alfred Hitchcock oeuvre, that is, until recently when the film has enjoyed some much-needed audience attention on DVD. Its a shame that the film has been overlooked until now, as it is actually one of Hitchcock's most easily accessible films and perhaps his warmest film of all. It doesn't have the technical brilliance and emotional reach of Vertigo and Notorious, yet it has a warm, almost bucolic quality, in large part thanks to an excellent performance from the amazing 19 year old leading lady Nova Pilbeam.The plot resembles The 39 Steps', in that an innocent man is accused of murder and must go on the run to avoid capture. His innocence is eventually proved by help from a gorgeous blonde accomplice. This similarity to an earlier, very popular Hitchcock classic may well be the reason Young and Innocent has been passed by over the years. Inferior re-hash, they say. But Young and Innocent is really quite different in its concerns- the heart of the story is really about a young woman's (Nova Pilbeam's character Erica Burgoyne)emotional growth and discovery of love.Pilbeam gives a lovely performance as Erica, startling in its complexity and maturity given she was only 19 (I am 19 and I find her performance just amazing). Its a shame that Hitchcock didn't use her in more of his films, she was quite a talent. Derrick De Marney plays her love interest, the wrong man in question, and he fares less well. He's never really bad in the role, its just that it is hard to see why such a lovely young woman as Pilbeam would be interested in a nice, yet rather drippy Dee Marney. Marvellous English character actors fill out the supporting cast.Hitchcock creates a wonderful, warm English countryside feel to this film. It looks and feels innately real. His technique is as sharp as ever, and Young and Innocent flows rather seamlessly. Its a great, entertaining little film that should be better known. "},{"Title":"May I Have Another Attorney, Please!","Date":"19 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Aside from the suspense, there are several notable scenes. Two minutes into things, and a man opens a front door. Suddenly facing us just beyond the railing is a roiling wall of water, an angry sea about to pour over us. I grabbed my seat cushion, hoping it would float. Then there's the flop house full of snoring vagrants, dead cockroaches, and peeling paint. Right away, I reached past my highball glass and took the wife's Coke. Topping that, is the drive into the mine tunnel. It's a marvel of special effects and timing, with an effect as stunning, I believe, as anything in today's digitally drenched cinema. Nonetheless, I checked the garage to make sure my car was still on all fours. The final scene was a contrast since I'd just watched a 40's musical with wild-man drummer Gene Krupa. Here, it's like watching a wind-up toy slowly losing its mind.Nova Pilbeam is not exactly a glamor girl, with her over-sized brow and snub nose; still and all, for an 18 -year old she's one heck of an actress. This is a pretty slender exercise for Hitchcock, nothing terribly profound and a lot like The Thirty-Nine steps of two years before. Too bad De Marney doesn't generate the kind of charisma or sympathy the Robert Donat part calls for. Hitchcock was to plow this furrow of racing against the law a number of times. Here, it's Pilbeam going against her civic duty and constable father to help prove accused murderer De Marney's innocence. Their bond of trust grows over time, showing once more that young love often sees what the law cannot-- at least as far as the movies are concerned.This may not be top-flight Hitchcock. Still, there are the usual humorous touches, darkly suggestive moments, and imaginative moves with the camera. So if you've got a spare hour and half, see why England should never have allowed that funny looking, fat guy an exit visa. "},{"Title":"An underrated gem!","Date":"11 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Whenever one thinks of Alfred Hitchcock films, it's almost impossible not to think about his famous Hollwood period where he directed a series of movies considered among the most important American films in history. Due to this powerful reason, his early British work is sadly often forgotten despite of having an enormous importance in the development of his style and a quality sometimes as high as his American films. Of the films of that period, 1937's thriller Young and Innocent is a very special case, as despite being an excellent movie, it's often ignored as is overshadowed by the movies that were done before and after it the popular Sabotage (1936) and the classic The Lady Vanishes (1938). Nevertheless, Young and Innocent is an excellent thriller, that represents another step in the development of Hitchcock's favorite theme the innocent man on the run.One morning, writer Robert Tisdall (Derrick De Marney) is taking a walk along the seaside cliffs to clear his mind when he makes a gruesome discovery the dead body of actress Christine Clay (Pamela Carme) washes ashore. As he runs to call an ambulance he is seen by two young swimmers who begin to believe that he is the murderer and call the police. As he returns to the crime scene, Tisdall is arrested as a suspect and taken to the station; but while at first Tisdall is confident that it's all a mere misunderstanding, soon he finds himself in a predicament he had met Christine Clay and she left him a large sum in her will, giving him a motive to be the killer. Without any way to prove his innocence, he escapes in order to find the real killer and clear his name. On the run, he'll find Erica Burgoyne (Nova Pilbeam), a young woman who begins to believe him, even when she is the daughter of Col. Burgoyne (Percy Marmont), the man in charge to find him.Written by Hitchcock regular collaborator Charles Bennett (with Edwin Greenwood and Anthony Armstrong), the movie is very loosely based on A Shilling for Candles, one of the Alan Grant series of novels by Josephine Tey. The adaptation is not faithful, as what happened was that the writers took only the chapters where Tisdall is a fugitive and built their movie from that (it doesn't even include Tey's signature character, Inspector Alan Grant). What is left, is a similar story to The 39 Steps (also penned by Bennett), but where the romantic comedy elements and the relationship between the couple get a more prominent role than the adventure and suspense of the previous classic. The dynamics between the characters is what sets this movie apart, as the main characters have remarkably well developed and have some nice jabs at some screwball comedy during the movie that gives it a charming tone.As written above, Young and Innocent is essentially a thriller on the vein of The 39 Steps, but while the tone of this story is considerably lighter, the Master manages to shows off his dominion of suspense through the film. Brilliantly using the excellent cinematography by Bernard Knowles, Hitchcock creates some of his best shot scenes among his British work, with a very clever uses of camera-work and miniatures that make this movie one of his most visually pleasing films. However, Hitchcock knew that in this story the characters were the star, so while many of his camera tricks shine through the movie, he never lets the visual effects to overshadow his actors, and keeps an excellent balance between the action sequences and the dialog-ridden scenes. While it certainly feels a tad unpolished when compared to other movies from that period, it has plenty of that special something that can only be described as Hitchcocknian magic.In a film like this, based entirely around the personalities of the characters, the performances by the cast are a key factor in the success of the movie, and fortunately this cast doesn't disappoint. Derrick De Marney is quite effective as our innocent man on the run, Robert Tisdall, delivering his lines with a charming wit that forecasts the characters that Jimmy Stewart and Cary Grant would play years later. However, who really shines in the movie is the beautiful Nova Pilbeam, as Tisdall's unwilling partner in crime, Erica Burgoyne. Previously seen in Hitchcock's The Man Who Knew Too Much, Pilbeam shows off her natural talent in one truly remarkable performance. Edward Rigby has a small yet quite funny role in the film, and he makes an extraordinary display of his talent for comedy. The supporting cast is good too, and includes nice performances by well-known actors Percy Marmont and Mary Clare.While in many ways this movie could be considered a minor gem in Hitchcock's career, it has enough interesting elements that make it an important movie. The film's blend of suspense and humor wasn't new to Hitchcock, who always liked to spiced up things in order to break the tension, but Young and Innocent took this one step forward and set the basis for many of the Master's future films. In fact, in many ways Young and Innocent could be seen as the companion piece to The 39 Steps, in the sense that many years later, Hitchcock would take elements from both in his masterpiece North by Northwest. As many critics have already pointed out, the witty figure of Derrick De Marney's role has a lot in common with Cary Grant's suave character from that movie. While definitely not a perfect movie, Young and Innocent is a nice movie to watch, as its charming wit never fails to be amusing. It certainly feels dated by today standards, but despite its old age, it still is a thrilling tale of adventure and comedy. Sadly neglected as a classic from this period, Young and Innocent is definitely as good as most Hitchcock films. Fans of Hitchcock should not miss this one. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Early Classic","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This 1937 British film is undoubtedly a Hitchcock film and can be no other. It is another innocent man on the run story, a plot he used often, but a plot on which he has done several fascinating variations. In 'Young and Innocent' it is a chase through the English countryside with Derrick De Marney as the accused man, Nova Pilbeam as the reluctant helper and the incomparable Edward Rigby as the gentleman of the road caught up in the plot.The visuals are wonderful, a man blinking in the lightning storm, a lifeless arm in the waves, the chiaroscuro interior of a barn , the opening and closing close-ups of two different women in different moods, legs dangling past a window, and of course the celebrated tracking shot towards the end that moves from a large view down to a telling detail. Pure Hitchcock.There are lots of good scenes mixing humour with tension; the family dining scene discussing the murder, the fight in the truckers café, the children's party where the two on the run find it difficult to leave. The last scene is strangely moving as the drummer goes over the top in more ways than one. There are familiar but good actors in the film such as Mary Clare and Basil Radford. The man playing De Marney's lawyer is perfect too. Nova Pilbeam is particularly effective. Not one of Hitchcock's ice cool blondes which is all to the better. 'Young and Innocent' is a valuable entry in the early Hitchcock canon, worth seeing more than once. "},{"Title":"Wit and Charm to Spare","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock's 1937 film Young and Innocent is a terrific little film in its own right. It also presages many of the themes and techniques Hitch was to use in his later great films. Derrick DeMarney plays a young man accused of murder after he is seen running away from a corpse on the beach. He hides away in the car of a police official's daughter (Nova Pilbeam). The two fall in love as they race to find proof of his innocence as they elude the inept police. All classic Hitchcock stuff. Great fun with good performances by the stars and some pretty good effects and miniature models (another Hitchcock trademark) for 1937.Percy Marmont is the police official, Mary Clare is delightful as the puzzled aunt, Basil Radford is her husband, Edward Rigby is Will, J.H. Roberts is a hoot as the dim solicitor, and Hitchcock himself has a cameo.DeMarney is especially appealing as the innocent man, and Pilbeam has her most memorable role as the girl. Pilbeam had also appeared in Hitchcock's first filming of The Man Who Knew Too Much. "},{"Title":"A murder suspect, constable's daughter and a man with  twitching eyes","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" An actress, Christine (Pamela Carme) is murdered by the jealous husband.A man who knew her finds her lying dead on the beach.This man, writer Robert Tisdall (Derrick De Marney) runs away to call the police but two female witnesses think he did it and so he becomes a murder suspect.He manages to escape from the courthouse and takes the young police constable's daughter Erica (Nova Pilbeam) on the run with him.Together they have to find a raincoat that was stolen from him.The victim was strangled with the belt of such coat.They find old Will who has the coat and it was given to him by a man with twitching eyes.Alfred Hitchcock had the ability to make it work.That's what he's done with Young and Innocent (1937).He's made it work.With some untalented director this movie could have bombed.In his movies there were usually just the right actors playing the right parts.Nova Pilbeam is just wonderful as our heroine Erica Burgoyne.It's a sad thing she didn't become a bigger name.She stopped acting completely in the 40's and now at the age of 88 her comeback doesn't seem very likely.Then there's Derrick De Marney playing the part of Robert Tisdall.Also very fine.Percy Marmont plays Erica's father.Edward Rigby is Will.This time Hitchcock does his cameo appearance outside the courthouse as a photographer.Throughout the movie there are suspenseful scenes.In the end where they go to the Grand Hotel there is this band with blackened faces and the drummer is twitching his eyes.There's some tension there.Hitch hasn't also forgotten the romance, and from time to time it's also quite funny.Something for everyone, I could say. "},{"Title":"Among the Best of Early Hitchcock","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I enjoyed this movie as much as any of the British Hitchcock films. It is actually more suspenseful and believable than The Lady Vanishes which gets the better rating among the critics.Nova Pilbeam's performance is the best of any actress in a Hitchcock film. She was only eighteen at the time, yet she manages to steal the whole movie. She shows more of an emotional range in a single scene than most actresses show in an entire film. It is really a pity that Hitchcock never used her again.The ending also might be the the most startling and unexpected of any Hitchcock film. "}{"Title":"What Did I do With the Belt? .........","Date":"11 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Young and Innocent aka The Girl Was Young is rarely mentioned in the same breath as The 39 Steps or The Lady Vanishes but it is nevertheless one of the more underestimated films from the master of suspense with all the ingredients of a Hitchcock classic.Alfred Hitchcock loved the theme of a man accused of a crime he didn't commit and used this successfully in other films like The 39 Steps which preceded Young and Innocent and later, Saboteur and North by Northwest.He wanted to introduce a fresh approach in this film with stars that were young and relatively unknown (and cheap). Nova Pilbeam had featured a few years earlier in The Man Who Knew Too Much and was a fairly prominent child/teenage actress and Derrick De Marney had had some moderate success but both actors were not well known overseas.Hitchcock added his usual array of interesting character studies which typified so many of his films. I always thought that he never wasted a character in any of his films with even the smallest bit part being used effectively. Young and Innocent is no exception with a couple of wonderful cameos from J.H Roberts as the myopic solicitor who advises his client We mustn't be depressed on a day like this after he has been accused of murder.George Curzon as the villain plays an aggrieved, black faced drummer who has been two timed by his actress wife who he dragged out of the gutter to make a star. Curzon hams it up to the hilt complete with a twitch which eventually leads to him being exposed as the murderer.Edward Rigby is the quintessential tramp who dons an uncomfortable tux to enter the Grand Hotel in another fine cameo role. Basil Radford and Percy Marmont as the kindly Police Chief are also very impressive in their small roles.The film closes with one of Hitchcock's most impressive scenes from all of his films. He loved the concept of furthest to nearest with the camera moving slowly from a very wide shot through the hotel to finally focus on the drummer. He used a crane to achieve this in Young and Innocent and it must have been an extremely innovative and logistically difficult task in 1937. He used the concept again in Notorious and other films to great effect.Young and Innocent has all the charm and humour that typifies so many Hitchcock movies and is set in another world - country England in 1937.I have always thought that Hitchcock's English films from the mid to late 1930s produced some of his best work and this is a forgotten gem that helped progress him to Hollywood.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Hitch With a Twitch","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Many of Hitchcock's early films share story elements because he used the same writer (Charles Bennett) for the screenplays. So you find Young and Innocent sharing the beginning of Sabotage by immediately revealing the identity of the villain/murderer, turning both films from mystery/thriller into simple thriller. And it shares with The 39 Steps a hero on the run with a reluctant heroine, as they work to clear his name they fall in love. A woman is found dead on a beach, the police determine that she did not drown but was strangled with the belt of a raincoat. Robert Tisdall (Derrick De Marney) is the prime suspect, in part because he was observed running from the scene and in part because he is known to have owned a similar type of raincoat. Robert's claim that his raincoat was stolen at a lorry station a few days before is not believed and his court appointed barrister does not inspire confidence. So he escapes and with the help of Erica Burgoyne (Nova Pilbeam) dashes about the countryside seeking the elusive raincoat in order to clear his name. As a further complication Erica's father is the chief constable.Like The 39 Steps, the story has a lighter tone than most of Hitchcock's thrillers; nicely blending comedy with suspense. It lacks that films interesting technical elements but does feature a nice climatic sequence where a continuous crane shot moves slowly over a crowded dance floor to end inches away from the twitching eyes of the murderer who has not been shown since the opening scene of the film. The film seems to be hacked up a bit, jumping in and out of scenes at inappropriate times as if a poor job of trimming was done and incompletely restored sometime in the almost 70 years since the original edit. This is disconcerting but not fatal, as the themes of disguise and visual impairment are still quite clear. Robert escapes from the courthouse by donning his defense lawyer's glasses-which impair his vision; Old Will dresses up in a new suit in order to infiltrate the hotel but is too concerned with the police to spot the murderer, the murderer appears in blackface but has trouble seeing because of a nervous tick in his eyelids. Ironically it is the medication he takes for this condition that causes Erika to finally notice him. Hitchcock's skills in casting and directing actors is rarely mentioned but he had a amazing ability to select an actress at the perfect moment of her career for the performance he needed. Nova Pilbeam was only 18 during the filming but she had considerable experience as a child actress. This allowed her to play a confident and capable heroine, and yet project a charming naïveté. Her resemblance to Kiera Knightley is almost spooky, going beyond simple appearance into speech and mannerisms. This time the MacGuffin is the raincoat and it enables Hitchcock to have a double chase for most of the film, as Robert pursues his raincoat he is being pursued by the police. For those who have never heard this, a MacGuffin is Hitchcock's term for a plot device (often used in thrillers) that motivates the characters and advances the story-but has little other relevance to the story itself. Unlike other types of plot devices it is not important what specifically the object is, anything that could serve as a motivator could be used. And from an audience perspective the MacGuffin is not the point of the story. Thus in Young and Innocent the hero and heroine pursue the raincoat only to discover than it will not be useful for the purpose they intended. It then goes from central focus to insignificance. Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "},{"Title":"Neglected gem.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Excellent film from the late British period of Hitchcock's career. Plot is the innocent man accused of a crime, on the run, and befriended only by one girl....sound familiar? Hitch used this story-line at least seven times that I can think of off the top of my head. It always worked for him and it does the trick again here. Nova Pilbeam is scrumptious and the other cast members are adequate. Odd that this one isn't better known, as it is far better than some of the later films like STAGE FRIGHT or I CONFESS. "},{"Title":"just a charming British Hitchcock","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Here is one of the British period Hitchcock movie, while the director was slowly building his reputation for the jump over the water to become the most famous master of suspense of all times in Hollywood. Squeezed in between the earlier '39 steps' and 'Sabotage' and the later 'The Lady Vanishes' and 'Rebecca' 'Young and Innocent' tries to be easy entertainment, and certainly succeeded to be such at its time although the touch of Hitchcock is not completely missing.There is less to make it through the time from this film. Maybe the British society changed two much after another big war, and we are nowadays too rough to enjoy the subtle humor and innocence in all meanings of the heroes. And certainly the plot here has too many holes if you take one minute to think about it - the background setting introduction scene has little connection with the rest of the film, there is no credible motivation given for the crime, and we have no clue why the criminal did not just throw away the coat that became the turning point of the intrigue rather than selling or giving it and building such the trail for his own catch. So, the two memorable scenes - the one in the abandoned pit kind of anticipating 'Indiana Jones' and the final orchestra - yes, another orchestra scene - are indeed very good, but not enough to satisfy today's viewer even for a 85 minutes film. "},{"Title":"A Tested and Proved Formula","Date":"24 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Sir Alfred Hitchcock, England's stout, good-humored master entertainer, elaborates upon a Josephine Tey story for another of his early snappishly paced, exceptionally acted thrillers. Although it pines for the nerve-shredding anticipation, the feverish exhilaration of The 39 Steps and The Lady Vanishes, this bridging piece between them has a more muted appeal that fulfills his intentions, and ours, practically as well.Hitch had the wicked gift of breathing dread into the ordinary. A tranquil English countryside under his gaze swiftly becomes murky and menacing. A railroad yard can be made as portentous and shadowy as Dracula's Transylvanian castle. A swarming dance floor in a hotel dining room turns out to be ominous and tense. When murder disfigures a sleepy English village, Hitch can be relied upon to see that histrionic justice is restored.In this brisk retread of The 39 Steps, a woman's corpse drifts ashore along with the belt of a man's raincoat, to corroborate Scotland Yard's premise that she had been strangled not drowned. Her young charge is arrested, swearing his raincoat was pinched in a pub one night. Hitchcock jerks his baton and allows the jailbird a getaway, to provoke the concern of the chief constable's daughter. Together they trail the hunt for the stolen raincoat, the old china mender and the mysterious man with the twitching eyes who gave the coat away.These are the sensational everyday things that the cinema's great producer of goosebumps has warped and laced into a tight pelt of escapades and melodrama. He is privileged in the avail of his co-conspirators. Nova Pilbeam plays the constable's daughter with a fresh-faced and surprisingly spontaneous allure and a pleasant effortlessness. Derrick De Marney, as the wrong man, is enjoyably light-hearted in the silhouette of the death axe, but what really makes it a relentlessly moving adventure story is what it has in common with other Hitchcock pictures a committee of charming characters surrounding the leads. I especially appreciated exasperatingly bright counsel J.H. Roberts, seedy old Edward Rigby and the various bumbling constables and Yard men. But mainly, sure enough, I appreciated Sir Alfred Hitchcock. "},{"Title":"Fast-moving and enjoyable light thriller","Date":"28 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" When this film was released in the U.S. its title was altered to The Girl Was Young, which implies that somebody in America misunderstood the significance of its British title Young and Innocent. The word young in the title refers not to a girl but to a young man, and he is innocent not in the sense that he is naive (which the phrase young and innocent normally implies) but in the sense that he is not guilty of the crime of which he is suspected. The theme of a man wrongly accused of a crime was to become a familiar one in the works of Alfred Hitchcock, and he had already used it in another film from his British period, The 39 Steps from two years earlier. The two films, in fact, have many similarities, although Young and Innocent, unlike The 39 Steps or The Lady Vanishes, does not deal with espionage. The body of a young actress named Christine Clay is washed up on a beach somewhere on the English coast. It is discovered by a young man named Robert Tisdall, a friend of the dead woman, who runs off to get help. Unfortunately, he is seen doing so by two girls, who assume that he is the murderer and call the police. Robert is arrested and things begin to look bad for him when it is discovered that Christine was strangled with the belt from an overcoat similar to one he once owned. To make matters worse, it comes to light that Christine has left Robert a large sum in her will. (Why she should have done this is never made clear, given that the two were friends but not lovers. Presumably this detail was inserted to supply a plausible motive).Of course, Robert is not the real murderer. Hitchcock, generally, did not deal in Agatha Christie-style whodunits in which the identity of the killer is kept from the audience until the very end. Here it is made clear from the beginning that the real culprit is Christine's obsessively jealous husband who, for some reason, is not suspected by the police. The police, in fact, are here shown as bumbling and incompetent, as they often are in Hitchcock's films. Robert's barrister proves to be equally inept, so Robert decides that his best course of action is to go on the run in an attempt to find the evidence which will prove his innocence. Like Richard Hannay in The 39 Steps he goes on a cross-country odyssey accompanied by a blonde young woman, in this case Erica Burgoyne, the daughter of the local Chief Constable whose men are searching for Robert. In both films the fugitive's female companion is initially forced to go with him against her will, but later comes to believe in his innocence and falls in love with him. Like a number of Hitchcock's films, Young and Innocent combines a basically serious theme- Robert is, after all, accused of a crime which in 1937 could have sent him to the gallows- with a good deal of humour. Some of this humour is satirical, aimed at the incompetence of the police force and court system, although there are other humorous scenes, such as those involving Erica and her three younger brothers or the one at the children's party.Derrick De Marney is not a very charismatic hero, not in the same class as Robert Donat from The 39 Steps or Michael Redgrave from The Lady Vanishes, although the young Nova Pilbeam, only eighteen at the time, makes a fresh and charming heroine. Nova also played the kidnapped teenager in Hitchcock's The Man Who Knew Too Much from three years earlier, although her acting career seemed to fizzle out in the forties, and I often wonder what happened to her. (She is, apparently, still alive). The film does not contain any great Hitchcock set pieces except perhaps for the finale in the Grand Hotel when the murderer is eventually unmasked. (This scene has caused some controversy in recent years because of the presence of a dance band performing in blackface, although this would not have been seen as controversial in thirties Britain). Overall, I would not rate Young and Innocent as Hitchcock's greatest film from his British period, but it is still a fast-moving and enjoyable light thriller. 7/10 "},{"Title":"As a total package it is not perfect but it is typically strong and has some classic moments","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" When Christine Clay is found dead on the beach, a couple of girls see Robert Tisdall fleeing the scene. He claims to have discovered the body and have been running for help but the police think otherwise, Tisdall's missing coat and belt helping to convince them that he strangled Clay himself. It is the day of Tisdall's trial where luck and a bit of judgement help him slip away into the crowd and make a break for it. Tisdall turns to Erica Burgoyne for help and she reluctantly gives him a lift despite being the Chief Constable. Quickly he wins her over and, against her better judgement she helps him as he tries to recover his missing coat and prove his innocence.This film opens with a wonder scene that is just one of the things that makes me love Hitchcock so much. As we look at the murder weapon (the belt) being pushed around by the sea, it forms a near perfect question mark, symbolising perfectly the mystery to be revealed behind this simple object. From here we are given a story that is similar to The 39 Steps in regards the innocent man turning to a female for help in fleeing the law. Unlike that film though, I didn't think that this mystery gripped me as much as I would have liked and it wasn't till the final third where I felt that we were getting into it.It doesn't matter too much though because for the first sections it does have a solid pace and charm despite the lack of urgency that comes with these. It is perhaps a bit too slight for modern audiences but for me it was a delight to see Tisdall's wonderfully English escape (almost apologetically slipping into the viewing gallery of the court) and the way he almost carelessly flees across the country while flirting with Erica. It is enjoyable but I did miss the lack of mystery and was glad when we got into it near the end. Not only did it get more exciting but it also produced a brilliant reveal shot that deserves to be considered as one of Hitchcock's classic shot as we slowly go from a wide shot of a ballroom right into the eyes of the killer on the other side; it is a brilliant shot and made all the better by having the cheeky Drummer Man being sung at the same time.De Marney struggles to inject urgency into his character in the same way as the material prefers the charming fun of the piece. He does fit the bill though &#150; not as charming as Cary Grant (for example) perhaps but he is nicely English without being uptight or stiff. Pilbeam is a stunning woman. Her performance isn't brilliant but again it does just what the film requires and she works well with De Marney. Radford shows up in a solid supporting cast that includes turns from Marmont, Rigby, Clare and others.Overall, a typically strong Hitchcock movie that as a total package doesn't stand up to his best films but it is enjoyable nonetheless and does have at least two scenes that should be mentioned when listing classic Hitchcock moments. "},{"Title":"A Great Film","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" It is strange that this film often isn't mentioned amongst other classic Hitchcock titles as Young and Innocent is an excellent thriller loaded with many of the master's elements we've come to love. It tells the story of a young man who has been wrongly accused of murder and is on the run with the assistance of a young woman. As the couple struggle to stay one step ahead of the police while the searching for clues that could prove his innocence, we are treated with a wonderful visual style, wit, humor and suspense. The film is fast paced, especially considering the time in which it was made, and contains an incredible tracking shot that ranks amongst Hitch's most memorable ones. The actors are charming and charismatic, the story is engaging and it's understandable why Hitchcock considered this to be one of his best films.Watch for Alfred's cameo outside the courthouse. "},{"Title":"Funny and Sunny","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This film came as a delightful surprise to me. I had just seen The Lodger, Rich and Strange Number 17 and this is far more rewarding in nearly every way. In this one, we have clues about the way Hitchcock would develop in later films the seagulls' screeching superimposed on a woman's scream as compared to Frenzy when the secretary's reaction to her boss's corpse is drowned out by sounds from the street as the camera retreats, the helping hand in the mine and a scenes at the end of North By Northwest, the villains eye tic vs the man with a missing finger joint in The 39 Steps and, most delightfully Hitchcockian, the McGuffins! We don't really care about WHO is guilty or WHY the crime occurred. These reasons and their clues are truly irrelevant. Quick now, what were the criminal motives in Vertigo or NorthBy Northwest. Does anyone care? I was surprised to hear that so many British viewers prefer the British films to the American ones. Robin Wood certainly wouldn't agree with them there. There was more sunlight and music in this film and very little dark than in, say, The 39 Steps although there is humor in both. As a matter of fact there is black humor to be found in Psycho throughout the film for those willing to look for it. For the record, although never shown specifically in the film, Tony Perkins was popping candy corn in his mouth during the grueling encounter with Janet Leigh in the office of the motel and the stuffed birds on the wall!Curtis Stotlar "},{"Title":"A case like this is most exciting","Date":"9 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The characteristics of British cinema back in the classic days tended towards a self-referential sense of playfulness. There was exaggeration, but not with the baroque weirdness of German Expressionism, and Pinewood seemed to take itself a little less seriously than Hollywood. Take the thriller. All thrillers, regardless of how high-mindedly they ostensibly dealt with death and danger, are essentially excuses for excitement. The British thrillers of Alfred Hitchcock are simply an open acknowledgement of that fact, and no matter how gruesome or twisted their subject matter are always rolled out with a disrespectful sense of fun.Young and Innocent is a bit of an odd hybrid for the Master of Suspense&#x99;. As with nearly all of his later British works it takes the form of a fast-paced adventure, in which a male and female protagonist are thrown together by circumstance, and is typical of the screenplays of crucial collaborator Charles Bennett. However it differs in that, rather than being about spies and international intrigue, the catalyst for the adventure is a murder, something Hitch would have far more dealings with in his Hollywood career. This aspect makes Young and Innocent a very visually dynamic picture, as the director gets to indulge his streak of morbid sensationalism. The picture opens with a series of startling sounds and images; a couple arguing, faces moving into the frame, a close-up of seagulls screeching as the body is discovered. It's a classic Hitchcock murder &#x96; grisly, fascinating but never tragic. This attention-grabbing prelude pays off later on, because once the adventure is underway the details of the slaying fall by the wayside, and yet because of those close-ups we are able to recall them easily when they become important again at the end of the picture.As the title would suggest, youth and innocence are written upon the faces of the two leads. Fresh-faced Derrick De Marney is both charming and trustworthy in one of his earliest lead roles, making a likable if not exactly rugged hero. The one to watch here however is Nova Pilbeam, who at eighteen genuinely was a youngster. Perhaps because of her youth, she really embodies the sense of adventure, and makes it seem completely plausible that she would gladly run off with a man accused of murder. In her one emotional scene she does not resort to the hysterics of many actresses of the time, and her believable breakdown into tears reminds me very much of similar performances by Judy Garland. De Marney and Pilbeam are accompanied by Edward Rigby as a lovable old tramp. Rigby is not a bad substitute for Edmund Gwenn (who normally got these roles), and his appearance as British-stock-character-turned-unlikely-hero is really a joy to watch.And it is things like this Rigby character that are at the heart of Young and Innocent. You just wouldn't get that in an equivalent picture from the US. In Hollywood, a bum is a bum, and he wouldn't just start running round helping the good-looking young leads (unless of course he smartened himself up a bit like William Powell in My Man Godfrey). It's that good-natured willingness to make your serious picture slightly undignified in the name of fun. "}{"Title":"a little remembered Hitchcock gem","Date":"20 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is a super little movie, adapted from the book A Shilling for Candles by Josephine Tey, an under-rated novelist excelling at detective fiction. The film stars Nova Pilbeam, who made a graceful transition from the child actress in Little Friend to the teenage actress in this film. I have read that she was to have been the second Mrs. DeWinter in Alfred Hitchcock's Rebecca but he thought she photographed too young. I think she would have been very impressive in that film.Young and Innocent is a breezy mystery. The first scene has nothing in common with the rest of the film. The body of a well known actress is found washed up on the beach with a raincoat belt. Robert Tisdall (Derrick De Marney) finds the body but because he is seen running from the scene he becomes implicated in her murder.Alfred Hitchcock's cameo is as a reporter at the steps of the court house. Robert gives his captors the slip with the help of his lawyer's glasses and stows away in a car owned by Erica (Nova Pilbeam) the chief constable's daughter. The chief constable is played by Percy Marmont, who made a few movies in Hollywood in the 20s - he starred opposite Clara Bow in Mantrap (1926).The film has a lot in common with Hitchcock's earlier The 39 Steps. Searching for clues to his innocence (the raincoat was stolen from Robert the night of the murder), their journey takes them to Tom's Hat - a truckie's diner where his raincoat was stolen, then on to Nobby's Place, a doss house where the man who was given the raincoat hangs out. How they catch the blinking man is exciting and unusual. It is a great movie that deserves to be remembered. "},{"Title":"Best of the Best","Date":"6 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I am a big fan of Hitchcock's work, (well who isn't?) and though I haven't seen a huge number of Hitchcock movies, I personally found this one more enjoyable than all the others. Hitchcock's heroes are usually either the bad guy, or else they're so bold they get really obnoxious. Robert Tisdall, on the other hand, is outgoing, but not to the point of immodesty. He's gentlemanly and fun and masculine. Erica is modest and feminine and kind and feeling, not bratty and selfish like some of the other Hitchcock heroines. The chemistry between the two is just perfect. Also, in most of Hitchcock's movies that I've seen, the ending leaves you with a note of sadness. To each his own, but I've always preferred the more straightforward endings, where just what you've been hoping for all along happens, and no good guys get killed or lose anything in the process. Young and Innocent has such an ending. Sure, they have to suffer along the way, but there's no lasting sadness that the movie leaves them with for the rest of their lives. It's just a satisfying movie to watch, with great characters that you can really fall in love with, and pain with, and smile with. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock before Hollywood","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Because the Master of Suspense made so many memorable films it's easy to overlook some of his earlier, embryonic gems. But for anyone except a Hitchcock completist this rarely seen relic from the director's English period will hold only academic interest, anticipating (in some cases by several decades) specific highlights from later classics. The film may lack the trademark perversity (and occasional Freudian overkill) of his Hollywood features, but it still shows plenty of humor, suspense, and (by then already a signature) at least one astonishing camera move. The plot itself is pure Hitchcock, with a typically unexpected MacGuffin the belt of an incriminating raincoat sought by a fugitive wrongly accused of murder. When seen today the only real liability to the film is its absurdly low pre-war budget. Hitchcock was always a thrifty director, but some of the miniature model work shown here is laughably unconvincing. "},{"Title":"More comedic...","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Though Hitchcock is no stranger to comedy in his films, this film strikes a particular resonance in that it is a lot more slapstick, a lot more oddball, and just overall a lot more funny than most of his films. Depending on what you think of his films (and it's probably that he's a master of the form and that all his films are amazing, because that's what everyone thinks), this might be interesting or... it might not. Why not Hitchcock take a comedic approach? Hitchcock is God! Okay, what am I saying? Anyway, this film has the usual collection of circumstances... a man on the run, wrongfully accused of a crime... a blond who gets involved with him but also has to deal with her own dilemmas beyond his de jure guilt... birds... suspense... but it's all a lot more light-handed and airy, with a lot more emphasis on fate and chance that makes it funnier than serious. As the characters go on their oddball romp through the world, it's in a way a lot more interesting to watch their various chance encounters than to get caught up in the common man who is wrongfully accused of something. I'm not saying Hitchcock's other work is bad, I'm just saying it's nice to have this added in as well.It's not quite as precise and formed as a lot of his other work, but it still maintains a high level of discipline and still is a well-crafted piece of work. Definitely enjoyable.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Nice Film from Hitch","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Young and Innocent (1937) *** (out of 4) Nice thriller from Hitchcock has an actress being murdered by her jealous husband because of her affairs with young men. The next day one of those young men (Derrick DeMarney) finds her body on the beach and is arrested for her murder. He eventually escapes and takes a young woman (Nova Pilbeam) with him so that they can try and prove his innocence. This film has a very similar story to that of THE 39 STEPS but that doesn't take away from any of the charm or drama here. The movie works very well as a thriller and as usual, Hitch manages to throw in some nice dark humor. The best case of this is early one when the man is trying to claim his innocence but Hitch shows the reaction of the crowd, none of whom believe him. The look on their faces is priceless and this dark scenes comes off very funny. Another good running gag is the girl's dog who keeps getting in the way or in some cases getting left behind to where the duo must stop what they're doing and wait on him. Some of the humor doesn't work and most of this deals with the cops being made to look like idiots and one scene where the cops have to ride with some pigs. The writing is quite good from start to finish and the master does a very good job making it into his own. There are countless good scenes including the wonderful ending. I didn't care for how the killer gave himself away but everything leading up to it was very well done. Pilbeam is terrific in her role as is DeMarney and both have wonderful chemistry. By the end of the film you can't help but believe and enjoy the romance they've worked up throughout their adventure. "},{"Title":"Pretty Decent Little Comedy","Date":"15 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" One of Alfred Hitchcock's recurring plots involves the man who innocently tries to help and ends up the accused in the crime. This is an early one. The main character finds the body of an actress on a beach. Because he is seen running for help, it is assumed he did the crime. He is interrogated by a bunch of buffoons, given an idiot lawyer, and escapes, accidentally through their incompetence. He then takes on a partner, the constable's daughter and a romance begins. There are serious elements here that drive the story forward. We so fear for this man's future or even life. There are some great scenes, including an actual cliffhanger. There is also a subplot where the young woman, who loves her father and her brothers, must almost betray him because she knows what is right. The bad guy is a loose cannon with a serious tic, twitching and contorting his face. The roots of the Hitchcock canon are to found here. Maybe it could even be called a mature work. "},{"Title":"Easy going, suspenseful film with one brilliant scene towards the end.","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  A film not to be taken too seriously as there are more holes in the plot than on a golf course. This film is worth watching just for the tracking shot towards the end if not for anything else. The way the camera swoops across the ballroom to within 4 inches of the drummers eyes is superb. This was one of the first scenes to be filmed at the newly opened Pinewood Studios in England and for the time the film was made, 1937, it is an outstanding piece of cinema. It is a shame that more money could not be found in the budget for this film to improve the rather primitive model shots seen earlier. I must have viewed Young and Innocent more than a dozen times and the ballroom scene dozens of times more, and I still get a thrill each time I see it. "},{"Title":"Lesser known but still great Hitchcock","Date":"17 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" An innocent man named Robert (Derrick De Marney) is accused of murder. The constables daughter Erica (Nova Pilbeam) believes him but nobody else does. He escapes from the police and, with Erica's help, tries to find the murderer before the police catch him.The plot is familiar (and a partial reworking of Hitchock's earlier The 39 Steps) but this one is very fast-moving and short (about 85 minutes). It's full of some very great sequences--a mineshaft accident and the climatic dance are easily two of Hitchcock's best set pieces. There's also a lot of charm and some very welcome humor. Most importantly you like and care for Robert and Erica. It's made clear from the very beginning that he's innocent and you're on his side hoping he'll catch the killer. Also De Marney and Pilbeam are good actors and play very well off each other. Their romantic scenes are completely believable. The only sour note is a band in black face at the finale. That was perfectly acceptable back then but, in this day and age, it comes across as incredibly racist. Still this is a great Hitcock movie and deserves more recognition. I give it a 9. "},{"Title":"Master director Alfred Hitchcock shows how patience is always rewarded albeit in the end.","Date":"15 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Apart from being a decent crime thriller, Young and innocent functions as a character study of its protagonists as Hitchcock shows viewers their presence of mind and ability to understand each other's sentiments. They are perfectly aware of risks they are taking as they are running from police. It is the risk which brings them closer to each other. Their innocence also speaks a lot about their backgrounds as the girl puts her father's reputation in danger as she decides to help a man who has been unjustly accused of killing a famous actress. Mystery and suspense become a key component of this film's scenario as viewers are immediately led to witness what happens after a crime has been committed. This film has been listed under great director Alfred Hitchcock's filmography as The girl was young but it is better known to some of his inveterate fans as Young and innocent. This title makes perfect sense as a guilty person is punished only once for evil deeds. This is not the same in the case of an innocent person who is punished more than once as the threat of having been framed unjustly looms large over his/her head. "},{"Title":"Underrated, overlooked, exciting British Hitchcock movie!","Date":"25 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Following the classic Hitchcock themes that he was well known for in The 39 Steps and his later works, Young and Innocent is a well made movie with strong tension, great characters, exciting premise built up terrifically within the opening minutes and is an exciting adventure of a wrongly accused man attempting to his clear his name from wrongdoings. Nova Pilbeam and Derrick De Marney are absolutely terrific in the lead roles, having great chemistry back and forth, a romance story that is both interesting and necessary and a script that easily allows them to convey their thoughts. It is said that this is indeed Hitchcock's favourite British film and whilst this is a little far stretched, it is to me, one of his most exciting and overlooked films. "}{"Title":"Another gem from the British Hitchcock period, much more than a minor entry","Date":"18 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Not one of Hitchcock's best films, but certainly one of his most overlooked. Despite being seemingly treated as a minor entry, Young and Innocent does show a master at work and is lots of fun as well as nail-biting. It's only let down by the presence of the black-face band towards the end which will leave a bad taste in the mouth nowadays for most, up to then Young and Innocent was actually without fault. As always with Hitchcock it is a very well-made film and has Hitchcock written all over it, that's how strongly his direction and unique touches come through. It is in Young and Innocent that has one of his most ingenious touches, which is the travelling shot to the murderer's twitching eye, chilling and audaciously shot, proving that not only was Hitchcock the unparallelled master of suspense but one of the masters of film technique too. The music is haunting, the atmosphere tense and nail-biting to the end and the dialogue snappy and not giving anything away. The story moves quickly and without a pacing lull, with many memorable scenes, the children's party scene will effectively jangle the nerves as will the scene in the mine. The climax is also suspenseful and nerve-shredding, helped partly by that travelling shot but mostly because of the atmosphere. The story also succeeds in how you care for the lead characters every single step of the way, and the acting is strong. Derrick De Marnay and Nova Pilbeam(much improved from her acting in The Man Who Knew Too Much) are likable leads, and the supporting cast don't put a foot wrong either, nobody gives one of the all-time great performances in a Hitchcock film but they didn't try to. To conclude, a great film and deserves more attention. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A romance, not a whodunnit","Date":"6 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This isn't the 'Alfred Hitchcock thriller' that modern-day viewers may be expecting; and it's barely a gesture towards an adaptation of Josephine Tey's novel A Shilling for Candles. With detective, murderer, motive, method and all the red herrings stripped from the source, what remains is a handful of character names, a car, and a new film built of this basis -- an enchanting romantic chase comedy.The shadow of the gallows is, wisely, all but omitted during this pursuit what counts is the sparring between the two young protagonists, the conflict between the heroine's growing convictions and her family loyalty, and the comic relief that undercuts the tension. The bumbling police have a habit of heading straight for the heroes' secret hideaway when an express train roars down on an oncoming car, it is played for comedy, not gasps. And when the girl escapes seemingly certain death, she promptly runs back for her pet dog -- and gets caught.The real achievement of this picture is its winning charm. All too often I find myself resenting the perceived manipulation of romantic comedies, particularly the hackneyed 'they love each other because they hate each other' variety. But here, with the drama of the chase substituted for the required 'will they/won't they' structure, Erica's headstrong loyalties blossom unchecked towards one so good-looking and so ill-used (as Tey's sardonic Inspector Grant would gently observe).Theirs is an unusually equal screen partnership, with Erica taking the lead in scenes up to and including the finale while Robert must perforce keep a low profile; yet we see her co-conspirator also mature from the callow, protesting boy of the opening scenes through flippant youth to the protective and resourceful companion who is ultimately prepared to sacrifice himself rather than destroy her life in a hopeless cause. Nova Pilbeam and Derrick de Marney are both outstanding in their portrayal of the young pair in comedy and in romance, and they make a delightful couple in whom one can believe wholeheartedly.Notable also is Mary Clare in a small but memorable part as Erica's Aunt Margaret, in whom the family detective instinct clearly runs strong, with a brief appearance from Basil Radford playing 'Uncle Basil' as a well-intentioned ally. Comedian Jerry Verno has a largely 'straight' scene as a lorry driver who provides Erica with a clue (and here, as in moments elsewhere, the repartee is actually lifted directly from the schoolgirl book-Erica). Percy Marmont makes an impression as Erica's father, caught between a wayward daughter and an unsolved murder.The actual crime and its victim take a relative background position in this story, with the opening scenes -- with their melodrama, consciously arty camera cutaways, and stilted performances -- being the weakest. All investigations lead nowhere, and ultimately the only way to clear the hero's name is for the totally unsuspected villain to confess. This is cleverly managed via a series of coincidences that ratchet up the tension, but even then only a fluke prevents his getting away with it as the protagonists exit baffled a detective story this isn't! (And it's never explained what earthly motive -- or opportunity -- this man had to steal the coat in the first place...) It does, however, provide the excuse for a mesmerising sequence featuring the hotel band, whose personnel are normally as ubiquitous as invisible as the milkman in The Thirty-Nine Steps, and a song especially written for the purpose by Lerner, Goodhart and Hoffmann, who were responsible for a number of film hits in the 1930s.This is an unpretentious and entertaining picture that wears its heart lightly on its sleeve and handles occasional moments both of emotion and of tension with a deft touch. If you can last out through the first few minutes, you may find you have an absolute delight on your hands. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock' s only film in 1937.","Date":"5 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The original title YOUNG & INNOCENT is an 83 minute Alfred Hitchcock mystery. A young writer, Robert Tisdall(Derrick De Marney),finds the body of a pretty actress washed up on the beach. He was checking about writing another movie for her...not needed now. What He needs is an alibi. As he runs for help, two young women witness him running away and assume he is the killer. He actually finds someone willing to believe he is innocent; her name is Erica(Nova Pilbeam)and she happens to be the local constable's daughter. Thanks to a mix-up at the courthouse, Robert manages to escape and is certain he can prove his innocence by proving the only evidence actually belongs to someone else. Reluctantly at first, Erica helps the young man in staying a few steps ahead of the law. Very brisk pace with likable characters. Other playersPerry Marmont, John Longden and George Merritt. "},{"Title":"Hitch and the Twitch","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Dashing Derrick de Marney (as Robert Tisdall) sees the body of an actress acquaintance wash up on the beach; and, this being an Alfred Hitchcock film, he is directly accused of her murder. Attractive and resourceful, Mr. de Marney escapes from the police, when it becomes obvious he's about to be tried and convicted. Outside the courthouse, he meets likewise attractive blonde Nova Pilbeam (as Erica Burgoyne), who reluctantly helps him escape. The two are mutually attracted, and Ms. Pilbeam eventually comes to believe the police are wrong, and de Marney is Young and Innocent.This relatively unrecalled, but excellent film, is one of the most quintessential Alfred Hitchcock pictures. Many of the films from Mr. Hitchcock's reign as one of the world's most acclaimed and successful directors borrows something from Young and Innocent, especially (but not limited to) his films of the 1950s. The Wrong Man-themed films include numerous references to this one. The suspenseful abandoned mine rescue climax is revisited most obviously in Rear Window and North by Northwest. A close-up of seagulls seems flown in from The Birds. Even The Trouble with Harry is represented (boy with a dead animal). And, it's all fresh in Young and Innocent.********* Young and Innocent (11/37) Alfred Hitchcock ~ Derrick de Marney, Nova Pilbeam, Edward Rigby, Mary Clare "},{"Title":"Classic Hitchcock Thriller!","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Young and Innocent is probably not the best known of Alfred Hitchcock's British films, but it a classic thriller in every sense.The story begins with a quarrel between movie star Christine Clay (Pamela Carme) and her boy friend Guy (George Curzon). Later, Ms. Clay's body washes up on shore. A casual acquaintance of Ms. Clay. Robert Tisdale (Derrick De Marney) discovers the body and learns that she has been strangled. He runs for help but is seen by passers by and is subsequently accused of the murder. The murder weapon was apparently the belt from Tisdale's raincoat which he claims was stolen from him.At the police station, Tisdale passes out and is attended to by Erica Burgoyne (Nova Pilbeam), the attractive young daughter of the Chief Constable, Colonel Burgoyne (Percy Marmont). She takes pity on him and aids in his escape during a disturbance at the court house. He explains the situation to her and vows to recover the lost raincoat, identify the real killer and prove his innocence.She at first is skeptical but comes to believe his story. He hides out at an abandoned mill. When Erica brings him food they are discovered by the police. Robert flees but Erica is brought to her father who is about to tender his resignation over the incident.Erica and Robert soon get together again and set out to find the missing raincoat. After stopping off at her Aunt Margaret's (Mary Clare) home, she is forced to remain for her niece's birthday party. Uncle Basil (Basil Radford) arrives and fins Robert waiting outside and brings him inside. Aunt Margaret becomes suspicious. Just as Robert is about to be discovered, they manage to leave.Robert and Erica trace the missing raincoat, with the belt missing, to an old tramp named Old Will (Edward Rigby). He claims to have been given the garment by a stranger with a noticeable twitch in both eyes. In a memorable hair raising sequence, as the three try to hide from the police in an old abandoned mine, Erica's car begins to sink slowly into a mine shaft. Robert manages to rescue her in the nick of time.With Old Will the only one who can identify the real killer, the trio eventually learn that the suspected killer has been staying at a posh hotel. The scene where the camera slowly pans in on the killer is classic Hitchcock.Plenty of intrigue and suspense. Watch for Hitchcock's longer than usual cameo outside the court house. "},{"Title":"Early but classic Hitchcock","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Suspense, suspense, suspense is the recipe in this cleverly crafted story. Four script writers are credited and it's clear the script has been polished and stripped down to essentials.  Direction is assured and carefully draws the viewer in to share the uncertainty and suspicions of the heroine, on the run with a suspected murderer.  Just how deep a hole will she dig for herself and will she ever climb out again?Yes, the acting is a bit stilted at times and yes, some special effects are done with unconvincing cardboard models, but these are minor distractions from an otherwise relentlessly gripping 80 minutes of mystery.  "},{"Title":"Chase it down","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A film escapes its creators and takes refuge in a cinema. Why wasn't the alarm sounded? Here it is. This is the one you want. Over here!! Exceedingly witty. That's the script done then. Spatially inventive. That's the directing wrapped up. Unique characterisations. Acting put to bed. Dark cliffs and sunny drawing rooms. Cinematography sweetly swept away. What a glorious work of art. Hitchcock can sleep well in his little lodging house in the sky, and those able to view Young and Innocent should spread the gospel. Chapter and verse. This is the film that never legged it to the hills, cause no-one was chasing it. Please, hunt it down. The end. "},{"Title":"Where Was Naunton Wayne?","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  For me one of the pleasures of movies is to recognise bit part actors who appeared in other movies.In this case Basil Radford who plays an avuncular figure to Nova Pilbeam but where was his regular film partner Naunton Wayne who appeared with him in so many other films, e.g. Night Train to Munich?I think most people will not have heard of the male & female leads and I was surprised I had not considering I'm now 58 and have seen countless films from many decades.Yes, it seems to have the basic 39 Steps and North by North West plot so beloved by Hitchcock.What attracted me was being able to see one of Hitchcock's  films for the first time.Certain enlightened video dealers have taken to regularly hiring St. Albans town hall (Hertfordshire, England) on Saturdays and apart from the usual modern titles, to include some obscure and old ones that never get transmitted on tv, even on vintage movie channels.As stated by other reviewers, the long tracking shot in the dance hall to the drummer close up is the highlight and a patent Hitchcock device.I rated it 7/10 based on 1930s material I have seen "},{"Title":"A younger, more innocent Hitchcock","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  It's clear why Young and Innocent has been - to an extent - buried by the passage of years.  Don't get me wrong it's a good movie; I even place it third among Hitchcock's British works (after the two obvious ones).  It's just one of those unfortunate things.  One of Hitchcock's trademarks is that amazing single-take set piece - think of the staircase descent in Notorious or the backtracking shot after the rape in Frenzy - and often it's the highlight that everyone remembers.  There's one such shot here. Unfortunately a musician performing in Al Jolson makeup plays a prominent part in it, which strikes a slightly sour note.  It's not an aesthetic flaw; it doesn't make the film any worse; but it does, I think, explain subsequent neglect.  The one image that Young and Innocent burns into people's minds is, in a small way, embarrassing.(Also damaged by the guilt of association is the song that the blackface musicians are playing, which is quite catchy.  I like it.)Still it's a great tracking shot, and the rest of the film is as sunny as The 39 Steps.  Indeed, it IS The Thirty-Nine Steps - although the hero on the run covers much less ground, he manages to walk into situations that are equally awkward, if not quite as tense.  -He's just one young and innocent.  The other is his ally, the daughter of the chief of police; and there's also something young and innocent about the style.  The relationships between men and women in the later, American Hitchcock, would verge on the Victorian.  Young and Innocent is more Georgian.  Women in this world are strong enough to be able to consort with legal fugitives, without having to justify themselves quite so much. "},{"Title":"One-Trick Hitch...But What A Trick!","Date":"13 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This early talkie from Alfred Hitchcock would stand a little taller in his catalog had it not come two years after his greatest wrong-man chase story, The 39 Steps.This time the wrong man is Robert Tisdall (Derrick De Marney), in trouble when a female acquaintance washes up on a quaint English beach while he is walking by - along with a coat belt which choked the life from her and apparently belonged to him. Rather than trust John Law to sort things out, he runs off to find the story behind the belt, taking with him Erica (Nova Pilbeam), the young and innocent daughter of the village police chief.If The 39 Steps is about the man running away, Young And Innocent a.k.a. The Girl Was Young, is about the woman helping him. Young Pilbeam (as of this writing the earliest Hitchcock heroine still alive) radiates unusual low-key beguilement for a Hitch blonde with her strong Martha Plimpton cheekbones, trim build, and fetching eyes. Unlike Madeleine Carroll in The 39 Steps, she's never not on Tisdall's side in some way, and the suspense of Young And Innocent is less for that. But she keeps you watching her.Poor De Marney is more like a stick of wood, though, reminding me of a grown-up Freddie Bartholomew and not surprisingly called a boy a few times. He distractingly treats the whole ordeal as something of a lark.I can laugh because I'm innocent, he tells Erica. You don't believe me. I wish you did. Eventually, of course, she does. There's a fun scene at a children's party the two fugitives are trying to escape, where Basil Radford in a wimple offers unlikely aid. J.H. Roberts' defense attorney gets his client off despite his ineffectuality - easily the funniest incompetent solicitor until Henry Winkler's in Arrested Development. Hitch's cameo here is rather more fun than most - it's one of his longer bits, and involves some animated expressions.Hitchcock finds the funny and sets a steady pace, but allows a dodgy story to get away from him more than usual, averaging one contrivance every five minutes. The anti-cop animus is heavier than usual, for example when he sticks a pair of friendly constables in a pig truck. He even allows Erica's dog Towser to disappear mid-scene without explanation. The Scottie Vanishes! The finale is the one trick Hitch pulls out of his hat, an utterly masterful one, probably working even better today because of its in-your-face South Parkean political incorrectness. Not going to ruin it, just bemoan the fact that after the big reveal, the resolution itself is another one of Y&I's underdone moments.But this is a good opportunity to observe Hitchcock's early mastery of the setpiece, and his mingling of suspense and comedy. Just don't ponder the holes too much - Hitch sure didn't! "}{"Title":"A romantic murder-mystery drama! How terribly, terribly exciting. Now be a good chap and pour me a drink.","Date":"28 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Nova Pilbeam plays plucky chief constable's daughter Erica Burgoyne, who becomes involved in a murder case when she helps prime suspect Robert Tisdall (Derrick De Marney) to prove his innocence. In the search for Tisdall's missing raincoat, a piece of evidence that might clear his name and point the finger of blame at the real killer, the pair risk life and limb while narrowly avoiding the law.Chock full of terribly, terribly plummy British actors, loaded with terribly, terribly overwrought melodrama, and with just a little evidence of the terribly, terribly stylish direction Hitch would become known for, Young and Innocent is a quaint little mystery from a much simpler time. As such, some of Hitch's film-making techniques are a little crude compared with his later movies, and the story creaks at times (a children's party scene is interminably dull), but for fans of the master of suspense, the film provides enough fun and intrigue to make it worth a watch.Especially enjoyable moments include a terribly, terribly exciting scene in which Erica almost comes a cropper in an old mine, and a well executed finale in which the beastly killer is identified, Hitch using a particularly impressive crane shot to close in on his face (which, incidentally, is blacked up as part of a minstrel show. How times have changed!). "},{"Title":"Hitching and twitching","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This early Hitchcock feature resembles his earlier hit The 39 Steps it could have been called The 40 Steps. Again we have an innocent young man charged with murder who goes on the run in tow with a pretty young female who at first dislikes and disbelieves him but who before too long has fallen for him and helped clear his name.The best thing in front of the camera is the 18 year old, strikingly named Nova Pilbeam, (wonderful name for a debutante!) who is pretty, sunny and charming in equal measure. The equally wonderfully named Derrick De Marney, who plays the man on the run, Robert Tusdall, on the other hand, I found to be a bit more gormless with an odd smirk on his face which never quite goes away. Together they mesh reasonably well if you can excuse their frightfully posh clipped English accents of the time. There are some nice Hitchcockian touches that as a fan I enjoyed, like the way he starts the film right in the middle of a bitter argument between the soon-to-be-murdered film actress and her jealous, twitchy, in more ways than one, husband, the way Tisdall distracts the courtroom staff to make his escape, a ruse similarly played out in more than one subsequent Hitch feature, most notably North By Northwest's auction scene, the saved-by-her-fingertips rescue of Pilbeam after the car crashes down an old mine shaft, featuring a subjective face-shot we'd see again in Saboteur and of course North By North-west plus most famously the great tracking shot near the end which literally eyeballs the guilty man.Lots of the rest of it, to be honest is a little stiff and creaky, like the scenes with Pilbeam and her family round the breakfast table and of dull, plodding policemen on their tails. There are some awful model shots too, one in particular of Tisdall running away from the camera had me giggling out loud and the fact that the show-band is playing in black-face certainly jars with modern sensibilities.But otherwise, you can see Hitchcock forming his style here, although it would take an Atlantic crossing a few years later for the Master to deliver a mostly superb run of films throughout the 40's and 50's on which his reputation largely rests. "},{"Title":"another (near) classic from Hitchcock's British years","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Maybe not with the same quota of laughs as The Lady Vanishes or the same level of daring-do as 39 Steps, Young and Innocent (called The Girl Was Young somewhere, I guess) was another of Alfred Hitchcock's films about a murder, a chase, and plenty of intrigue and double crossings and such. It's also hard to find a good print, unfortunately, as it's fallen into the public domain and has yet to get the Criterion treatment. Luckily this story of a policeman's wife and a writer on the run - the latter is accused of committing the crime of a murder (a woman who is found on a beach right near the waves, an evocative image as any).Two things really stand out here, years after seeing the film first are the performances from Nova Pilbeam and Derek DeMarney. They're not any kind of marquee names from the period like Robert Donat or Vivien Leigh, but they get into these characters the best they can and make themselves a charismatic couple with chemistry and good timing. The other thing is a particular reveal during a ballroom dance sequence. It's sometimes very hard to ever get particular shots that Hitchcock pulls off out of your mind, and there's one in this film for sure as people dance and the band plays on, Hitch and his DP fly over the audience - not so high ala the shot in The Birds or something, but high enough that we can view over the people dancing - and we suddenly see that there is a character in the line of sight a band member (the drummer, I believe) who is the actual culprit! If one wasn't sure who it exactly was at this place, the clues being what they are, now we know.How Hitchcock uses his camera to create a visual grammar for that moment - in words for the audience to really go Oh! in a moment - is a testament to his cunning and clever abilities as a storyteller. That's a moment of pure cinema that stands out in this very good (if not totally great) effort. "},{"Title":"Likable Hitchcock film one of his forgotten gems from his artsy British days.","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" If you analyze the Hitchcock films of the pre-Rebecca days, you will notice more artistic qualities in them that not entirely disappeared as he became more commercialized in his Hollywood work. While The Man Who Knew Too Much, The 39 Steps and The Lady Vanishes are all considered masterpieces, others, like Sabatoge and Young and Innocent, have been neglected, but in further study, are quite influential in many of the technical aspects and different ways of moving the plot forward.For Young and Innocent, Hitchcock uses a plot line he later altered for 1956's The Wrong Man in which a man (Derrick De Marney here) insists he is not guilty of the crime he is accused of, in this case murder. Nova Philbeam is the innocent young woman, the daughter of the local police chief, who reluctantly gets involved in aiding him, and eventually comes to believe in his innocence. There are so many great moments here, especially De Marney's clever escape from the courtroom, the scene in a mine where a car collapses into a sink hole, and the final scene with a big band involved in wrapping up the plot line. Then, there is the shot of Hitchcock, the ham silent actor here, outside the courtroom, that is quite amusing for fans always anxious to find him in his own movies, like an early Where's Waldo? puzzle.This is a film of particular interest, not only because of the breathtaking photography, but because of the sly writing which keeps you glued, and the fact that the two stars are not extremely well known actors. This makes their adventures and exploits all the more suspenseful. I've always thought that the British filmmakers had a headway on new methods of the technical art in films, and were sometimes more daring than the American major studios of the time. It is seeing films like this that continue to convince me that this is true, and you can see those influences in American films later on as a new wave style took over the screen. "},{"Title":"When Nova Met Derrick!","Date":"15 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A man is seen running away from a dead body, when in fact he going to get help. So he says, in this tale of murder, courtesy of director Alfred Hitchcock. In fact, we do see him first encountering the body, and only after that do two young ladies, going for a walk on the beach, find it as well and him running away from the scene of the crime. The body had apparently washed up on shore. But, when the circumstances look bad for the young man (it didn't help that he knew her, but of course), he manages to escape so that he find out who really did it. Of course, he meets the chief constable's daughter, who is Young and Innocent. There was also another title for which this film was known, The Girl was Young, but by changing it for whatever reason, the title could now be construed to mean both of the leads, but presumably more him, due to the fact he's accused of murder. But also, she's young and naive, which probably was the original meaning. At first, she feels her duty to turn him in and all that good stuff, but of course he gets to her. They travel together with means of looking for his raincoat, which was stolen from him and of which its belt was the means by which the murder victim was strangled. The chemistry between the leads are very good and believable, which makes the film very enjoyable. Despite the fact this older Hitchcock film has gotten overlooked by other Hitchcock films with more stature and shock value, like Vertigo, The Birds and Psycho, this little winner should be seen more often. If you find Young and Innocent, you won't be disappointed. Let's be young and innocent together! "},{"Title":"My 6th favourite film of all time.","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" 1997Whilst I had been a fan of cartoons and animated movies since I could remember,I had never taken any particular notice to the directing/cinematography aspects of the TV shows/movies.Catching the ending of a video that my dad was watching,I found myself being completely mesmerised by a breath-taking shot in the movie,which involved the camera moving across a dance hall until it stopped right in front of the mysterious baddie.2014Despite having had the chance to view 100's of amazing films over the last 10+ years,I have always found the initial excitement that I experienced when catching a small glimpse of the title to still be burning bright,which led to me deciding that for my 600th review,I would once again meet up with the young & innocent.The plotWalking along the beach, Robert Tisdall finds the dead body of a women laying by the shore.As Tisdall rushes to get help,two near-by women spot a mysterious man (Tisdall) running away from a murder victim.Returning to the shore,Tisdall talk to the police on the scene who reveal that they have found a jacket belt near the body,which appears to be from Tisdall's (lost) coat.Being the prime suspect,Tisdall is taken to the police station.Fearing that he has a less than capable defence lawyer,Tisdall decides to sneak out undercover,and go on the run.Desperate to get away from the cops,Tisdall gets hold of Erica Burgoyne (who is the head police officers daughter) and jumps in her car,in the hope that he will track down the murderous owner of his missing jacket.View on the filmWhile the tremendous crane shot (which took 2 days to film!) is the set-piece of the title,director Alfred Hitchcock and cinematographer Bernard Knowles superbly build up the uncovering of the killer right from the start,with Hitchcock and Knowles using focus for the seagulls flying around the dead body,which creates an eerie feeling of vulture's circling their prey. Largely keeping away from giving the movie any hint of doom & gloom,Hitchcock perfectly matches the brisk nature of the screenplay by wrapping the title in a light 'N fluffy atmosphere,with Hitchcock using excellent,long-take tracking shots which display the deep sense of unease that Burgoyne's family have around each other.For their extremely loose adaptation of Elizabeth Mackintosh's novel A Shilling for Candles, (with the writers only following one-third of the book,and then going off in their own direction)writers (deep breath!) Charles Bennett, Edwin Greenwood, Anthony Armstrong, Gerald Savory and Alma Reville expertly balance the films frantic man on the run with a joyful comedic edge,which goes from the sly, (a group of cops sitting in the back of a tractor filled with pigs) to the more overt,as Tisdall and Burorgoyne strike with rapid-fire,almost Screwball Comedy dialogue.Along with the lively comedic dialogue,the writers always make sure to keep the delightful murder mystery bubbling along,as Burgoyne goes from bring desperate to take Tisdall to the cops,to being determined to track down the murderous owner of the missing coat.Meeting her future husband on the film,the pretty Nova Pilbeam gives an excellent performance as Burorgoyne,with Pilbeam giving the character a charming shot of sass,which shines across the screen as Buroygoyne starts to get close to Tisdall.Finding his scroll on the beach to be one that could end in a murder rep, Derrick De Marney gives a fantastic performance as Tisdall,as Marney shows desperation in Tisdall's eyes to clear his name,whilst also bouncing off fast one-liners with Burorgoyne,in a film that remains young & innocent. "},{"Title":"Angry Birds","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Sandwiched between The 39 Steps and The Lady Vanishes, Young and Innocent is an oft neglected thriller by Alfred Hitchcock. Released in 1937, the film stars Derrick De Marney as Robert Tisdall, a struggling screenwriter who is wrongly accused of a crime. On the run from the police, Tisdall sets off to both prove his innocence and locate the film's true culprit.It's a familiar Hitchcockian plot, but Young and Innocent nevertheless contains a number of excellent moments. These include an elaborate, now famous crane shot, and an audacious cutaway to a flock of birds, angrily screaming as a corpse tumbles into view.Bizarrely, Hitchcock paints Tisdall as a man who, though innocent of murder, nevertheless feigns innocence in order to win the heart of a naive teenager (directors Eric Rohmer and Claude Chabrol would flat-out label Tisdall a weasel and male gigolo!). In this way the film's title has a double meaning Tisdall, innocent of crime, but unscrupulous enough to prey upon the genuinely young and innocent. 7.5/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Young and Innocent!","Date":"11 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Sir Alfred Hitchcock was coming into his own as a film director and genius visionary. Thank God for sound and voices instead of soundtrack. In this film, Nova Pilbeam does a fantastic job as Erica who gets caught up in the murder mystery of actress Christine Clay. The prime suspect suddenly appears to be innocent and wrongly accused of the crime. Erica plays detective despite being young and female. She searches to exonerate the suspected killer. This film may not be one of Hitchcock's classic films but it's fine to watch. I especially enjoyed the scenes with Erica's Aunt (played by the wonderful Mary Clare, a British stage actress). I don't recognize many of the cast members and this film was done in London, England before World War II. This film is fine if you want to view Hitchcock's range of film directing. "},{"Title":"Hardly Valuable In And Of Itself","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock went time and again back to the chase for the McGuffin formula involving a wrongly accused man and a woman tagging along because she's intrigued. The McGuffin being Hitchcock's own coined word for whatever is being sought by hero and/or villain. In this case it's a raincoat and the man that's wearing it. Hardly valuable in and of itself, but they can prove Derrick DeMarney innocent of the crime of murder.DeMarney is accused and in the tradition of Madeleine Carroll who was physically handcuffed to Robert Donat in The Thirty Nine Steps and later followed by Priscilla Lane and Eva Marie Saint, Nova Pilbeam who also happens to be a cop's daughter gets dragged into DeMarney's quest for innocence. Hence the title Young And Innocent. It could equally apply to both.Young And Innocent is not as well known on this side of the pond as other Hitchcock work because it contains no players who became international figures like Robert Donat or Michael Redgrave or American imports like Sylvia Sidney and Robert Young. Nevertheless a good chemistry developed between DeMarney and Pilbeam and the audience in the theaters in 1937 would have caught it.Best scene, ranking as one of Hitchcock's best in terms of suspense and excitement is DeMarney and Pilbeam being rescued from a mine cave in where they sought refuge. Today it will be done with computer graphics, but they can't match what Hitchcock staged back in the day.As for the ending, Hitchcock liked the ending of Murder so much that he modified it for Young And Innocent. In the former film remember how Herbert Marshall cornered the female impersonator there and the breakdown that followed. Not as spectacular as in Murder and there are no female impersonators in Young And Innocent, but the perpetrator is in a disguise of sorts.Definitely a must for Hitchcock fans especially those of his early British period where he did not have the Hollywood budgets for his work. "},{"Title":"self-imitation","Date":"15 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I'll start by admitting I'm not a great fan of Hitchcock. There is innate artistry in his use of the camera and illustrator-like imagery,more art than technology.I had not seen this film before, a late night arrival on TCM.There is an almost primitive quality to the plot, the actors and most of all,the staging. At one point we recognize that we're looking at a model train set with plastic figures. The black-face scene alluded to in an earlier review is more bizarre than racist; a minstrel group in an elegant hotel makes no sense at all.It furthers the plot, but is truly ludicrous.Hitchcock makes his obligatory appearance in a relatively prolonged scene, staring intently while holding what looks like a cheap Kodak camera.But, to address my summary statement, the real eye-opener is watching Hitchcock imitate himself with references to 39 steps and a preview of North By Northwest in a dramatic attempt to save the girl from plunging to her death. There are several of these borrowings, but i think it's more fun for viewers to spot them for themselves.Despite my generally less than admiration for Hitchcock, there is always entertainment and memorable use of the camera.The film is worth watching as a peek at a master's sketchbook. "}{"Title":"Early Hitchcock is more interesting than entertaining, but worth watching","Date":"17 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Good directing, pretty good script, and great cast combine to make Young and Innocent well worth watching, but I didn't find the total so great I'd champ at the bit to see it again.The basic story, by crime story veteran Josephine Tey, is more than interesting, and provides a realistic enough scenario that one should be moved to object strenuously to capital punishment.The accused in a murder really does have a strong case against him, and one cannot blame the police for suspecting him, and if it were to get to a jury, one could not blame it for convicting him.The cast is much more than adequate, and only because the performers are not well known to a modern United States audience would there be any hesitation in offering them as reason enough to watch Young and Innocent. Of course, there is the usual fun in looking for Hitchcock's cameo, and the only serious carp I offer is the apparent lack of motive in the crime.I won't explain further, so as not to ruin anyone's fun. "},{"Title":"characteristically Hitchcock","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Recently viewed this, without getting to see the credits, and therefore did not know beforehand who was the director. But, not far into the film, I knew it just had to be pre-Hollywood Hitchcock. IMDb just confirmed that to me. The classic Hitchcock elements in the film include, interestingly, the almost-scary close-up shot of the ---- birds!!! Tippi Hedron would certainly recognize the avian art of the master's hand in this little scene (see Tippi as the lead actress in Hitchcock's The Birds 1962). There are several Hitchcock characteristic zoom shots, or shots of things moving toward the viewer. Also, typically, the protagonist is in a jam and is innocent and there is great urgency in a race against time (this angle reminded me of Hitchcock's 1972 Frenzy)to save a life in jeopardy - in this case the protagonist. And also in this case a great urgency to get the bad guy. I was disappointed in the somewhat unlikely appearance and discovery of the bad guy, with his tell-tale identifying facial quirk. I liked the high quality black and white film -- it had the rich look of those films shot in color but released only in black and white (or seen on your black and white TV back in the days before color TV was affordable to most folks) - depth, texture, atmosphere. Also, the blackface make-up (like the old time minstrel shows) worn by the jazz band will probably unsettle many folks nowadays. When this film was made, blackface was not thought of as racist, but today's audience no doubt looks upon the practice unfavorably. I also liked the sound of the band - great period music! Which prompts me to wonder if there has been much attention to the musical compositions and sound tracks of Hitchcock's films. Just sit back and enjoy this one! "},{"Title":"Flawed Studio Production","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  A story about an innocent man accused of a crime he didn't commit. With the assistance of the Chief Constable's daughter, they set out to find the real murderer. The script is good. The movie is entertaining. The ending gave the film salvation from the horridly cheap studio production. The most obvious examples came from the scene just before and after Robert Tisdall (De Marney) went inside Nobby's Boarding House. The railway and surrounding buildings were easily identified as miniature models. Hitchcock even used toy people and toy cars. It was a very clumsy and ugly substitute attempt. As Tisdall dragged Old Will out of Nobby's, you will know they were running on a treadmill. You will also notice shadows cast by the lighting over the actors in front of a projection screen used for the background.I still recommend the film. It has a good story and it was well acted.The flaws were academic. 6/10.   "},{"Title":"Minor Hitch thriller","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  An early, minor classic from the Master, with all the touches that makes his films so enjoyable and satisfying, time after time. Combines suspense with rustic charm of 1930s English locations. Familiar 'innocent-man-on-the-run' theme, as in the earlier '39 Steps' (and later films) but with additional complication of the Chief Constable's daughter in tow. Has dated badly in places - blacked-up jazz musicians and pronounced English accents, together with some unconvincing model scenes and back-projections. Still, the zooming crane-shot that identifies the murderer is a masterstroke. "},{"Title":"on the run","Date":"2 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" a man is wrongly accused of a crime he didn't commit,, and it all stems from a raincoat that he left at an establishment,, turns out a tramp got hold of the afformentioned coat,, gave it to someone,, and there you have it,, he does get some much needed help from a young woman who is insistent in his innocence and stops at nothing to prove his innocene. he takes her on a wild goose chase for part of the film, looking for clues to where he left his raincoat,, or anyone who might be able to prove his innocene. later on the two of them have to stop at her family's house for an impromptu party, where her aunt becomes very suspicious, and starts to nose around,, digging for information,, and trying to trick the poor guy with a bunch of pointless questions.. not a bad movie to watch... "},{"Title":"Falsely accused of murder gets help from pretty girl","Date":"1 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A man is falsely accused of a murder based on circumstantial evidence (a belt to a raincoat). The chief constable's daughter helps the accused man after he escapes from jail. They locate the missing coat and the guilty man.As other much more knowledgeable reviewers state this is one of Hitchcock's lesser films. The plot contains too many holes but none the less it is tightly filmed and not that boring to follow to the end.Hitchcock always disappoints me....there is a huge build up and the solution always disappoints. Some random occurrence happens that allows the protagonist to win. This film= a man is identifiable by his nervous eye twitches he happens to be in an orchestra and the female protagonist rushes to give him first aide after he takes too many tranquillizers...No it is flat and unbelievable. The last one I watched Dial M for Murder...some ridiculously over machined plot involving latch keys that look the same. The synopses of the films sound much better than they are. Overrated!Not bad but mediocre entertainment is my verdict. Maybe humor has changed but I found things like the water fountain bouncing up and down boring and not funny and it went on far too long. In any case, where does that sort of light humor come into play in a murder intrigue plot? It is incongruous almost mind bend stuff.I don't really care for Hitchcock for reasons stated above...yes maybe the filming is good that is about it. In these old films the sets are often so fake looking like the toy trains used but that was state of the art 1937---I really don't know why people are such fans of Hitchcock. Perhaps the aura of the man is so great that they think they are getting absolute perfection which is anything but what you get in this film.Don't recommend unless nothing else available. "},{"Title":"Good, '39 Steps' type flick.....","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Very enjoyable; quite similar to '39 Steps' and 'It Happened One Night'-complete with blonde ingenue on the road, Wronged Innocent psuedo-Cary Grant being chased by the law, etc. I enjoyed the rich aunt/uncle(Basil Radford was great), their sprawling families, the old Hobo-mindful of Clarence the Angel huh?-the crane shot in the Hotel, etc.  Also enjoyable are the two old codger Bobbies and the Mill scene.You don't really believe the police would charge him on such flimsy evidence, you don't really buy the 'escape' bit-Look! It's Clark Kent!-but so? It's fun and not meant to be taken too seriously. Typical touches of that era-Hitchock's cameo, the Asta like dog, the train miniatures...quite fun.Nova Pilbeam was only so-so, really VERY young, the blackface band scenes quite unfortunate, and there were times where a few scenes seemed to be missing-where was the Hero at during the whole staking out the hotel scene? They show the Hobo and Nova, but not him...the cops just up and nab him. And there is the Mine scene-great stuff involving a sinking car, a lunging save of the heroine-but the guy just shuffles off outta sight when the cops come in...weird.Anyways, it's a fun flick, if dated. Well worth yer while if ya like either Hitch or that time and place.*** outta **** "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original book","Date":"18 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This movie is based on Josephine Tey's A Shilling for Candles.' The original story was very good and very different than the plot in this movie. I am not sure why it is supposed to be based on the Josephine Tey book, as, except for the character names, there is little similarity in the plot and the movie suffers for it. Nova Pilbeam is slightly older than the character of Erica Burgoyne in the book, and so they have changed this into a love story that was not in the book. The original story had many twist and turns, and the reader knows much more about the murder victim. This knowledge makes the action of the story make sense If Hitchcock had followed the plot of the book, he would have had a much better story and much better movie. This love story-man on the run movie is just mediocre where it could have been really good. I'm sure they could have made Erica act younger and made Tisdale more of a loser (as he is in the book), and this would have been so much better. "},{"Title":"The Villain with the Blinking Eyes","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  From a screenplay point of view, I felt that this film had all of the ingredients necessary to demonstrate the three act structure of a film. In the first ten minute you are introduced to the antagonist who is provoked into murdering his wife. His main characteristic is the fact that he has a nervous blink. From this point on, you are waiting for the classic Hitchcock moment when the cinematographer pans the camera in from the entrance to a dance hall to the antagonist disguised in minstrel cosmetics playing the drums in a band. Although this was a reflection of the live entertainment of America at the time with minstrelsy, it was a perfect mask to hide behind as an antagonist. Both the set up and the resolution had quintessential Hitchcock ingredients, but the exploration of the Act 2 story was left somewhat wanting. It was merely the protagonist and the detective on the hunt for the antagonist, dragging the audience along with them. Although this was not Hitchcock's last British film, it did demonstrate that he managed to find his own style before leaving for the US where he could break away from directing stuffy British films. "},{"Title":"Black & white countryside","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Following Rear Window, The 39 Steps and The Lodger, this is the fourth Hitchcock film that I have seen. Of these four, Rear Window is of course the most memorable. However, I mustn't compare it with the earlier films because of the totally different time frame. Personally, I am not so enthusiastic about the early Hitchcock. I am aware of the fact that many scenes and cinematographic elements in these kind of films are seen as classic or revolutionary. This is largely a result of the fact that these elements are often used for the first time. This film has a number of cool things going on. First of all, the heroine. She can ACT. The hero is mostly a bit annoying, he is too good-humored. The car-sinking scene is done very well. And naturally the drummer scene, cited by many here.Take a good look at the car/train scenes are they real or are we looking at a miniature world? "}{"Title":"Minor Hitchcock...","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Another one of those films that Hictchcock filmed in the Uk before he made it to Hollywood. The story of a false guilty, a man who has to probe his innocence after he's been charged for committing murder. Young and innocent has lots of funny situations and dialogs, in fact it's rather a comedy, not a thriller.It's entertaining sometimes, and I recommend it only for those who feel like they have to see each and every work of the British genius. As for me, I think it's a minor work.*My rate 6/10------------------------------------- "},{"Title":"No-one can like the drummer man....","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  There is one detail I really love in the otherwise flawed YOUNG AND INNOCENT.  A struggling writer (Derrick DeMarney) seeks to find the man who really strangled a woman.  In true Hitchcock fashion, the writer is falsly accused of this vicious murder.  There is all this build up- who is the killer? who? who?  We are figuring it is going to be menacing brute much like a Karloff or Tod Slaughter, somebody not safe to go near.  When the audience is proven wrong as to the killer's personality, it is quite the revelation.  Hitchcock keeps the dark humor going, especially around dinner tables (An Alfred favorite!) Otherwise, it's 39 STEPS lite, a tense situation with half the tension.    "},{"Title":"Young and Innocent!","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Young and Innocent is a very good and unique Alfred Hitchcock film that has a great cast! The acting by all of the actors is very good. The action and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising. The movie is filmed very good. The music is very, very good. Great direction by Alfred Hitchcock! The film is really good and the movie really keeps you going until the end. This is a scary and thrilling film. If you like Alfred Hitchcock and he many classic films such as Psycho, Rear Window, The Man Who Knew Too Much, The Trouble with Harry, The Birds, Vertigo, Strangers On A Train, Spellbond, The Rope, his other classic films, Horror, Mystery, Thrillers, Crime, Dramas, Comedy, and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today! "},{"Title":"Second Tier Hitch","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Young and Innocent is a not quite first grade Hitchcock picture from the late thirties. It's a man-on-the-run film, typical enough for the director but less original than his other films with similar stories. Star Derrick De Marney is not to be blamed for his this; his performance in the lead is quite adequate. Nova Pilbeam is good in this one, too. It's difficult to figure what went wrong, or perhaps, more charitably, what didn't go quite right enough. There are some good scenes scattered through out the movie, and a minor character who seems to have stepped out of a Dickens novel who, though entertaining, doesn't seem quite the right sort for the director, who seemed more at ease with upper middle class and wealthy characters. That the English setting is more provincial than usual for Hitchcock may have been a factor in the picture not being quite up to par, as the directed seemed to prefer either cosmopolitan settings or stories with international intrigue of one sort or another. The climactic scene featuring a twitchy drummer is well worth the wait, however, and one of the finest set-pieces in the director's career. "},{"Title":"Unexceptional Hitchcock fare.","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Young and Innocent is a passable but unexceptional Hitchcock thriller; it is inferior to his preceding (Secret Agent) picture and FAR inferior to his following (The Lady Vanishes) one. There isn't enough suspense, and the script is devoid of surprises; in fact, the whole story is so exceedingly SIMPLE that the film feels slow-moving, even though it's only 80 minutes long. And Hitchcock collaborates here with one of the least appealing female leads of his entire career. Still, the picture does improve in the second half, and the much-talked-about scene where the identity of the killer is revealed is indeed a magnificent, unforgettable shot. Hitchcock also handles the increasing nervousness of the twitching killer exceptionally well. Why couldn't the rest of the film be equally inventive? "},{"Title":"Very, very similar to THE 39 STEPS","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This movie, made in 1937 by Alfred Hitchcock, reminds me an awful lot of Hitchcock's 39 STEPS (1935). Both have very similar plots involving ordinary men who were accused of a murder they didn't commit, and both concern the man escaping and ultimately finding a sympathetic lady who helped them track down the real killer. Because it is essentially the same film in so many ways, I can't see giving the film an especially high score. In addition, while the story at times is fun and the movie is a decent time-passer, there were just too many clichés and plot problems. I hate when I see a suspense or mystery film that could have ended shortly into the movie if the characters had just behaved realistically. For example, when the tramp who supposedly stole the hero's coat was located, they did not go to the police but continued to play amateur detectives. One of the only big stand out scenes that I really liked and found exciting was the cave-in scene--similar to the excitement of Robert Donat making the getaway on the train.Overall, nothing terribly original or believable but fun to watch and is a good film to see if you are a fan of Hitchcock--just understand that it's one of his lesser films.DO NOT READ IF YOU LIKE TO TRY TO SPOT HITCHCOCK'S APPEARANCES IN HIS OWN FILMSAs many of you know, the director loved inserting himself into the films in tiny cameos. Many times they are VERY tough to locate. For anyone looking, when the lead makes his escape out of the courtroom, Hitchcock is standing by the entrance fiddling with a camera about ten minutes into the film. "},{"Title":"Boring Hitchcock?!","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I must say I was surprised by this one- surprised how slow and boring it was! It is not a 'bad movie' by any means, but certainly not on par with the likes of Psycho, Rear Window and Dressed to Kill (just kidding on the later!). But, in all seriousness, there are some good moments here particularly the climax which could have been filmed on the streets of New Orleans. I seem to gather that Hitchcock did not truly hit his stride until The 39 Steps and such. I would say this is the weakest Hitch I've seen though To Catch a Thief is a close second. "},{"Title":"An insidiously disturbing film","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Beware spoilers!!!Another set of variations on the favourite Hitchcock themes of women, sex, violence and repression.Do not be fooled fundamentally, this is not the &#145;light comedy' it appears on the surface to be. (There are one or two excellent comic sequences - Robert's interview with his feeble lawyer, afraid of contradicting police evidence; and the young cousin's birthday party. )But beneath the surface lies the potential tragedy that may result from the choices thrust by fate on the girl. Erica, at the start of the film, is painfully alone. In particular, horribly bereft of female support. Where, to start with, is her mother? (One hopes not dead - perhaps she is abroad, chasing &#145;boys' of her own.) How long has Erica managed without her (or some credible substitute)?Neither, seemingly, has she a sister, or a best friend. We see a housekeeper serving lunch, but there is no sign of the maternal warmth of a Jean Cadell in the 1938 &#145;Pygmalion', for instance. (A film where the heroine starts with no mother and ends up, in effect, with two!)The portrait of her family, seated round the dining-table, places Erica as Matron of a third-rate boys' boarding school her brothers are pleasant enough, and - after her capture by the police - are seen trying to offer her encouragement. But one couldn't expect them to be able to support her in her emotional travails. (In fact, she rather seems to rebuff their overtures.)And her father is more like a grandfather in age and apparent attitude. We see evidence towards the beginning, and again at the end, of the film of their mutual affection. He is clearly far from authoritarian - he lets her drive around the countryside in an &#145;old banger' that might die on her in the middle of nowhere; and he has no qualms in principle about her dating - without a chaperone, either! But one feels he would balk at providing romantic advice.(None of her family appear to register that Erica has left the table (and the house) to take Robert some food - a rather chilling indifference.)Not surprisingly, she seems at ease in ordinary male company (she'd have had enough practice, given her father's career to date) she gives as good as she gets in Robert's fainting scene in the police station, and again at the &#145;carmen's shelter' Tom's Hat. But romance, if that's the word, is a different matter. Hitchcock casts much doubt on Robert's &#145;intentions' and suitability the various accounts of his relationship with the victim that he gives to the police, and then to Erica, are pretty fishy. His judgement appears warped on several occasions (as when he tells the police sergeant on the beach not to be silly!). And he seems to be a washout as a provider. Most tellingly, he is almost twice Erica's age. His youthful features and rather adolescent behaviour only serve to emphasise this difference. He is neither &#145;Young' nor &#145;Innocent', and there is no one around to point this out to her. (The fact he is innocent of the murder doesn't mean there aren't other things he's not so innocent of.) And, at the end of the film, when his clear paternal duty is to put a brake (at the very least) on the Erica-Robert romance, her father seems happy to shake his hand, almost as if welcoming him into the family. (Even without the murder, the difference in ages alone would have urged great caution.)As one murder is solved, it seems another is being set up one story of Robert's after another fails to find a buyer, more (and cruder) pressure on Erica to press her father for money, accusations of disloyalty (&#145;You'd ask him if you really loved me', etc). Perhaps her sexual inexperience would lead him to seek lovers - with whom thoughts would naturally turn to collecting on Erica's life insurance!In his English thriller &#145;series', Hitchcock had already presented marriage as tragedy ending in violence (the crofter's wife in &#145;39 Steps'). There, the scene of violence is shown but only up to the striking of the first blow (off-screen) in &#145;Young and Innocent', he&#145;s more indirect, merely setting up a situation which might well lead to violence.The unevenness of the film, and of the performances of the two leads, only make it more disturbing the absurdly theatrical opening sequence, for instance, with the homicidal husband shouting as if to be heard at the back of the stalls (his telltale twitch is equally exaggerated); and the crassly absurd crime story (neither the police case nor Robert's hold up under two minutes' scrutiny).Pilbeam (Hitchcock's Great White Hope at the time, but soon after unceremoniously dumped) is only fitfully sympathetic. She is passable in comic scenes, but tends to self-parody when things get emotional her &#145;terribly...terribly tired' in the car hidden behind the freight train is embarrassing. But that embarrassment only adds to the sense of the girl's &#145;innocence' (or &#145;unworldliness', perhaps), and thus serves the film indirectly.Lastly, there's the Towser question. I don't think we ever see her pet actually being petted by her. Or talked to. Even before she gets involved in the manhunt. (Robert redeems himself somewhat by taking the dog on his lap in the car and stroking it from time to time.)This despite the sterling work he does in alerting her in the old mill to the approaching police, and nosing out the raincoat several layers down on the tramp.Though he appears to escape from the land-slip in the old mine workings, she seems to forget him thereafter.Even more bizarrely, Towser seems equally indifferent to her. It's as if she's so emotionally frigid that she repels even the instinctive affection of a dog, poor girl!All in all, a film well worth critical and repeated viewing. "},{"Title":"This One Won't Go Super Nova","Date":"15 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Another freebie, one of six given away last week with The Times. It's marginally less hard to take than some of the others and the story - man accused falsely of murder, goes on the run, meets a nubile girl who, for no reason whatsoever, decides to help him - was creaking even in 1937 yet even Mank would use it in Escape several years later. Like most of the stuff Hitch was churning out at this period it has its share of notable actors, in this case Mary Clare in a quasi sympathetic role, Basil Radford playing himself again and the two leads Derrick de Marney and Nova Pilbeam. As is often the case with Hitch it is shot through with improbabilities - the scene for instance where De Marney nonchalantly flips a wrapper through the window of the mill in which he and Pilbeam are hiding, at the EXACT moment that a local plod happens to glance in that direction, but the best moment of all is when we discover the real murderer (about which we have been told nothing other than that he killed his wife) playing drums in an orchestra in which everyone with the exception of the leader is working in 'blackface', with the burnt cork reaching only as far as the neck and the hands completely untouched. Okay, Hitch needed a gimmick to make it tough for the only witness to recognise the villain but this was ridiculous. "},{"Title":"When drumming becomes fierce","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Boring acting in this early Sir Alfred-movie but with one of film history´s really memorable ending scenes. The young couple chasing a murder to prove ones innocence ends up at a dancing place and as a viewer you are sitting stunned when the camera slowly are zooming in the bands drummer, or should I say the murder !  "}]