[{"Title":"What's with the recent bashing of this film?","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"83 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's not just a classic - It's a timeless one! Katharine Hepburn (by her own accounts) was in two minds about playing screwball comedy. But she pulls off the characterization of the mad-cappest heroin/heiress ever portrayed on film. It's NOT Kate. It's Kate brilliantly breaking out of her 1930s typecast. The pace is fast, Cary Grant is brilliant as the professor Kate harasses/helps/falls in love with throughout. And what about Susan's aunt and the major? Priceless! Kudos to Baby, as well. I think maybe a few reviewers have been taking their humor from watching 1930s European comedies. Unless it's all out and out vaudeville or cabaret transpositions you're watching, I wouldn't recommend making those your standards for judging Bringing Up Baby. Worse still if you're judging by American/European standards of the 21st Century. I'm not saying you're wrong, I'm just saying since you can't compare this to virtually anything of those, just enjoy the ride. The Acting you CAN compare, though. And I put my money & soul on Hepburn, Grant & Baby every time.10/10 "},{"Title":"Magnificent, joyous japery.","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"61 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bringing Up Baby is a film I unconditionally love; it is so utterly sublime a comedy that I was truly sighing, awed, 'it can't get better than this...' at many points. Yet it regularly does; Hawks keeps the momentum going majestically; it is one incredibly surreal, bizarre tangent going off unexpectedly into another, at every juncture. He photographs and presents his actors in the most charming and amusing possible ways, and the film is certainly a more leisurely, perfectly pitched film than His Girl Friday, which I nonetheless admire. There is a beauty in the photography and simple choice of perspectives and angles that matches the There is not one actress in the annals of film who I adore more than Katharine Hepburn; she is a compelling performer, of great charm, intelligence and wit; of very real, idiosyncratic looks that to this eye are beautiful, vivacious, impish. In Bringing Up Baby her Susan Vance is a very interesting diversion from her more usual type of character - the slightly superior, in-control ice maiden, as shown in say The Philadelphia Story. She is phenomenal in that film, yet here beguiling in a completely different fashion, playing a slightly scatterbrained, sprightly, charmingly delinquent woman, who seems to have no control over anything; least of all her feelings for Grant. Her giddy, breathless exuberance and anarchic helplessness are really endearing; it's a wonderful film that stretches out the credulity of Grant's wonderfully straight-laced character's resistance to Miss Vance. The ending is a gorgeous, satisfying pay-off, as he finally gives way, as would we all! It's a charming, suitable ending that rectifies the slight fall-off of the preceding jail section of the film. That is very amusing, but in a more predictable, slightly laboured way. In stark contrast to the first 70-80 minutes of the film, which amounts to about the finest sustained American comedy I have seen of that length - Way Out West and Duck Soup being shorter in total. Cary Grant, truly an institution of a comedic player, is very different to his more remembered persona of later years. It's remarkable to see this absurd little man, bespectacled, unworldly and cutting an orthodox figure played so perfectly by the suave Grant. This is gleefully played on with the sublime scene where Hepburn and Grant are trying to catch the leopard - Kate butterfly net in hand! She accidentally happens to break his glasses and is even more taken with him without them... The tension between how we usually remember Grant and the character he is playing here does add an extra layer of amusement to the film. Need I really add that the rest of the film's company are note perfect? Charles Ruggles, Barry Fitzgerald and many more really give the perfectly matched stars a fine backdrop.I shan't spoil too much of this heady, sublimely silly film... just go and watch it and see Howard Hawks, a master craftsman, at his best - there are no pretensions but making a quite wonderful character comedy - and Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant on insurmountable form. With these delightful stars and anarchic, scintillating comic material, what we have on our hands is an unutterably fine film, one of my very favourites of all time. Where else are you going to get such plot threads running simultaneously as a hunt for a rare archeological find buried by a dog, an absurd upper-middle-class family dinner and an escaped leopard?Rating- *****/*****  "},{"Title":"Wild, crazy, hysterical, FUN!","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"43 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Those people who don't like this movie seem to miss the point; IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE RIDICULOUS AND MAKE NO SENSE AT ALL!  THAT'S WHAT MAKES IT FUNNY!  Now that I've gotten that off my chest, I want to say that I really did have a laugh a minute.  Both Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn are very adapt at this kind of comedy, in top form here, and work very well together.  They have a great, very funny supporting cast, as well; though most are long dead and forgotten, many were well-known character actors in the 30's.  They knew their craft, and are great at it here.  Howard Hawks must have been some director to be able to fashion such a great movie out of a madcap pace and a script in which everyone talks at the same time and is always ad-libbing.  (I've heard those were his trademarks, though.)  One scene after another at breakneck pace, but never a dull moment.  As soon as one laugh stops, another one begins.  In case you haven't gotten the point, I highly suggest you see this movie.  It may be 60 years old, but it's still hilarious.   "},{"Title":"Belated Brilliance.","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"39 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A complete disaster when it was released, BRINGING UP BABY is screwball comedy to the extreme absolutely absurd, crackling with dialogue moving faster than a bullet, and unapologetically zany. Starring Katharine Hepburn in her only real foray into playing a scatterbrained heiress and Cary Grant as a befuddled paleontologist who's life she disrupts from the moment they meet on a golf course, the story looks almost seems like deliberately crazy plotting An uptight paleontologist loses the last bone he needs to complete his reconstruction of a dinosaur to an heiresses' dog. This heiress is Katharine Hepburn, and she doesn't make it easier for him, since she's totally self-involved with her own eccentricities, and in one hilarious montage after another we see Grant trying to fetch his bone while getting entangled in the wildest of circumstances, one in particular which includes a tame tiger that is meant for Susan's aunt (May Robson).Featuring one classic comic scene after another, BRINGING UP BABY is a prime example of a film that was reviled when it came out, most notably because of the arrogant personality of the lead actress and her stature as box-office poison, but one that with repeated views over the years has gained a strong critical praise. While it may be a little too fast in dialogue (and in self-referential in-jokes that only hardcore movie fans will point out) for some people's tastes, just the absurdity of the situation makes it worth watching, and of course, the remarkable chemistry of an athletic Hepburn paired with a dashing Grant.Remade horribly in 1987 as WHO'S THAT GIRL? with Madonna and Griffith Dunne, it's always good to seek this one out on TCM (which plays it often). Lunatic, but fascinating. "},{"Title":"Utter perfection. Howard Hawks, Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant make the most exquisite comedy of the sound era","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"45 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In his glorious Bringing Up Baby, Howard Hawks ratchets screwball comedy up to its tautest and springiest level. In clumsier hands, screwball all too often gallops into the frenetic, fraying the nerves; Hawks maintains a presto pace, but never lets the mixups and misunderstandings grow implausible &#150; he just glides serenely to something else. (And he makes it look easy, which it isn't Peter Bogdanovich fumbled in his loose remake What's Up, Doc, making it labored and literal-minded.) Hawks could barely go wrong with Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant as his leads, but the rest of the cast he assembles, human as well as animal, can't be faulted either (with the redoubtable May Robson earning extra credit). And while he draws on stock characters and stereotypes that probably date back to commedia dell'arte &#150; the stuffy professor, the blithe rich girl, her crusty dowager aunt, the bumbling sheriff &#150; he freshens each one up, making them distinctive, memorable and endearing.Behind a pair of repressive spectacles, Grant plays the single-minded paleontologist whose path crosses with that of madcap Hepburn, never again to uncross. The plot revolves around a leopard named Baby, a million dollars, an intercostal clavicle bone, a dog named George who buries it....well, it all makes perfect sense while you're watching.Underneath all the antics, Hawks never loses sight of the pastoral romance that Bringing Up Baby at its core really is (at its most magical in the woods under a full moon, and captured by Russell Metty's lovely photography). Grant's been rooting around in the dirt for so long looking for dinosaur bones that it takes him forever to 'get' Hepburn &#150; an airborne sprite who never comes down to earth. (Their alchemy here is rarefied, not the commoner sort of reaction they kindled in the stage-bound The Philadelphia Story.) Last but not least, the movie features the canine talents of Asta (né Skippy), who appeared as himself in the Thin Man series &#150; Nick and Nora Charles' lovable cur. Here he plays George, who, barking his stubby tail off, has no qualms about tangling with Baby the leopard. Is there any question that this high-strung wire-haired terrier is and will forever be (pace Rin-Tin-Tin and Lassie) Hollywood's top dog? How fitting that he should lend his considerable talents to Bringing Up Baby, the most exquisite comedy of the sound era. "},{"Title":"Arguably the funniest movie ever made","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"60 out of 97 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" They certainly don't come any funnier than this film. The hilarious golf course scene at the beginning is followed immediately by the equally riotous nightclub scene. This is followed by more memorable set pieces & quotable stick-in-your-mind-forever lines than any movie I can think of, including Bank Dick & Night at the Opera. Grant & Hepburn are brilliant & innovative. I read some place that when Cary Grant was having trouble finding the David character, Howard Hawks gave him the horn rims & told him to do Harold Lloyd. Which he does. Brilliantly.I can watch this repeatedly with no more flagging interest than listening to a Beethoven symphony or sonata.Hard to believe it was a big flop when it first came out. "},{"Title":"Baby, Oh Where Can You Be?","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"30 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Casting Katharine Hepburn in the role she plays her would have been unthinkable years later when her image as a feminist icon was cast in bronze. But she's doing some serious poaching on a young version of the kind of roles Mary Boland or Billie Burke would play. Think of the parts these two women played and you can definitely see Hepburn in Bringing Up Baby if you imagine Boland and Burke years younger.Bringing Up Baby is one of those beautiful films that really doesn't have a plot. Try to tell someone verbally the plot of this, it cannot be done. From the moment airheaded Kate gets into uptight Cary's car in that parking lot with him chasing her, it's just one madcap situation after another. Howard Hawks directs this film with the appropriate light touch the material requires.Cary Grant is not the usual suave sophisticate you normally find him cast as either. He's an uptight paleontologist who's biggest thrill up to that point is the arrival of a brontosaurus vertebrae so that he can complete a skeleton. He's also getting married, but the woman he's engaged gives him hints that married life will not be any bed of roses for him. Whether he knows it or not he's ready for the romp Kate has in store for him.Thirties audiences definitely loved seeing the rich at play. Bringing Up Baby is the definition of escapist entertainment. But one who hasn't the means shouldn't indulge it what Hepburn is doing. They've got a padded cell waiting for anyone who's not rich who indulges in this kind of behavior. Only the rich can afford to be eccentric.Baby by the way is a tame leopard who Kate's brother sends up from South America. That would be a jaguar by the way, but that's just mere details. Anyway Baby escapes at the same time another leopard from the circus escapes and he's dangerous. I won't go into the confusion there, I couldn't describe it in any event.May Robson and Charlie Ruggles lend good support. Ruggles who was normally cast against Mary Boland teams up well with May Robson. And my favorite in the supporting cast is Walter Catlett as the small town constable who doesn't know quite what he has on his hands, but is determined to bluff the situation through. "},{"Title":"Classic Screwball Comedy","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"31 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Maybe the prototypical example of the breed, in fact. Zoologist Grant (we'd call him a paleontologist nowadays) goes to a golf course to try to wrangle money out of a potential donor along the way he meets up with Katherine Hepburn, and they have all sorts of wacky misadventures.Grant's great, though it's not a typical role for him -- he's uptight, buttoned down, smothered. He's clearly the superego character, straitlaced and repressed and anti-life (it's no accident he works with bones). Hepburn was never lovelier than she was here -- she's the id character, all action and movement. There's a dedicated minority of people who hate this movie, mostly I think because they see the things Hepburn's character does as cruel. That's the point. Hepburn's not supposed to be nice -- she's id. We laugh partly because Grant needs to be loosened up, but partly because some of Hepburn's actions are shocking. Ideally, we should be in the same position as Grant in the movie  half-attracted, half-afraid.Great rat-a-tat dialog in the classic Hollywood tradition. I can't think of many screenwriters today who could deliver such dialog. Highly recommended, one of the great Hollywood comedies.  "},{"Title":"Great comedy","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"25 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this classic screwball comedy. Grant was brilliant as the exasperated zoologist and Hepburn also shines as his troublemaking foil. The supporting cast is also uniformly excellent. The entire cast is of course blessed to be working with first rate material. Baby starts slowly and gradually builds momentum before becoming a comic frenzy. It's hard to believe today that this Howard Hawks masterpiece was a bomb in 1938, causing RKO to drop Hawks and Hepburn. I don't usually gravitate towards films of this sort but I'm glad I gave this gem a chance. I was thoroughly entertained. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Screwball at its most brilliant and frenetic","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw Bringing Up Baby for the first time just under a month ago, and have since rewatched it about five times. Not only does it stand up to repeated viewings, it seems almost to *require* them; there's no way to absorb everything at one go. The best part is that the funny bits are just as funny on the sixth viewing as they were on the first, if not even funnier, because you've grown to really love the scatter-brained chatterbox Susan, and the befuddled, confused David.It's impossible to imagine anyone else playing either Susan or David Hepburn and Grant are perfect for their roles, and their characters are perfect (foils) for each other. Most people would consider Hepburn a dramatic actress, largely because of her later body of work (e.g. The Lion In Winter). But BUB proves she is a dazzling, charming comedienne, well able to go toe-to-toe with the funniest men in the business. Grant is wonderfully generous in allowing her to dominate the movie by playing the straight man, and he does so wonderfully as well.Watch this for Hepburn, watch this for Grant, watch this for Hepburn *and* Grant... and, oh yes, watch it for the leopard. ;) "}{"Title":"The paleontologist and the socialite","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"19 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Howard Hawks, the director of Bringing Up Baby, was not a name one associates with screwball comedy. Watching this perennial favorite the other night, one wishes Mr. Hawks would have made more comedies like this one because he shows a tremendous capacity for entertaining his audiences. The screen treatment, by Dudley Nichols and Hagar Wilde, made this movie the classic it became to be after not being embraced by the public when it was originally released.The pairing of Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn paid off handsomely. Both actors were at their best in the film. Mr. Hawks got excellent performances of his two stars. Cary Grant's paleontologist, with his glasses, and nervous energy, matches perfectly the the socialite that has designs on him. There is a high level of energy in the film that was a requirement for a movie of this genre.The supporting cast is also one of the things that make this film the fun it is. Charles Ruggles, May Robson, Barry Fitzgerald, George Irving, and the rest of the cast do a marvelous job in the roles they created. Even Asta, the Charles' dog, made a valuable contribution to the proceedings by appearing at key moments, even fighting Nyssa, the tamed leopard that is the baby of the title.The best way to enjoy the film is to let the magic Howard Hawks created put its spell on you. It's one of the best films of this genre. "},{"Title":"A classic of screwball comedy","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bringing up Baby is an absolute classic of screwball comedy, starring Cary Grant, Katharine Hepburn and the eponymous Baby. Grant plays stuffy palaeontologist Dr David Huxley who is due to be married, and is trying to obtain some money for his museum, but all his carefully laid out plans start to unravel when he first meets Susan Vance (Hepburn) on the golf course. From this point on Huxley is subject to an almost continuous series of humiliations and misfortunes.Those who claim that Bringing up Baby isn't funny because of the cruel way that Hepburn's character treats Grant's are missing the point. If the film's events were taking place in the real world then many of Hepburn's actions would be inexcusable, but the point is that these events are happening in a world without consequences where anything goes, and this is the premise on which much of the film's humour is based.The presence of a tame leopard called Baby provides further evidence that the film is trying to distance itself as far as possible from the boring predictability of reality. Much humour is derived from the contrasting attitudes of Hepburn and Grant towards the leopard. Whereas she reacts as if it were a small kitten, despite it's need for massive quantities of raw meat, Grant seems genuinely terrified, even though the animal shows no signs of aggression.One of the most remarkable things about Bringing up Baby is the extent to which it remains enjoyable today. While many films regarded as classics in the 30's seem somewhat dated now, Bringing up Baby seems as fresh as it ever did, thanks largely to the energetic central performances. Grant is terrific as the professor who gradually loses his inhibitions, but Hepburn steals the show as a self-absorbed young woman who wins the audience over through her lack of inhibitions.Films such as Bringing up Baby became far less common as America geared up for World War II and people began to lose interest in screwball comedy. This makes the film all the more significant, as it is undoubtedly one of the defining examples of a genre which never re-emerged in quite the same form again. "},{"Title":"Definitive Screwball","Date":"28 September 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is the definitive screwball comedy. Grant is perfectly cast as a mild-mannered paleontologist who has his world turned upside down by Hepburn. Hepburn is delightfully zany as an heiress who decides she is going to marry Grant, ignoring the inconvenient fact of his imminent wedding to another woman. The supporting cast is wonderful, particularly Ruggles as a big-game hunter and Robson as Hepburn's rich aunt. Also good are Baby, the leopard, and George, the dog. Hawks masterfully orchestrates the zaniness, keeping everything moving at a madcap pace. The witty dialog is interspersed with slapstick, guaranteeing laughs throughout. "},{"Title":"The leopard wins","Date":"27 June 2011","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm sitting there watching this thinking, So this is what people liked to watch back in 1938. Then when I get through and look at the trivia section of IMDb, I find out actually they didn't. This movie almost destroyed several careers. So it appears, given the rave reviews here, that the movie audiences back then were actually more discerning than today. No wonder, given the wonderful movies being produced back then, especially 1938 and 1939. They had caviar to pick from, and Howard Hawks was serving hot dogs.Why doesn't this work? For one thing, there is hardly any change of pace, and not enough grounding in reality to set off the comedy. Most of all, I didn't like the Hepburn character and didn't care what happened to her. And I felt sorry for the poor schlemiel Cary Grant was playing. But the bottom line was there wasn't enough depth to the characters. The only characters I truly cared about were Baby, played by Nissa, and George, played by Asta, the star of the Thin Man series. Bringing Up Baby has its moments, and is mostly bearable, though you start looking at your watch after awhile. I suppose it would go down better after a few glasses of wine or tequila.From the reviews here I have to wonder what some people see in screwball comedies like this. Perhaps after being brought up on modern lame brain comedy, this looks good. It is a lot better than most modern comedies.At the heart of the screwball formula appears to be a misunderstanding, preferably one big, central one, and many little ones. This is definitely not the best old screwball comedy. I can think of several contenders, but the winner, I believe, goes to Harvey. For a romantic comedy closer to this that works, see My Man Godfrey, which does right what this does wrong. For an example of a modern screwball comedy that works, see The Russians are Coming! This is not the worst major screwball comedy, a title that belongs to Twentieth Century. What a stinker! On the other hand, if you like that one, you're going to love Bringing Up Baby. When you boil this down, you've got to wonder, what were the studio executives thinking? They're sitting around the conference table, executives enveloped in cigar smoke, writers coughingLet's do a movie with Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn. OK. A comedy. Hmmmm .... Hepburn as a flighty socialite. Sounds good. Grant as a paleontologist. I can't see it. Just give him glasses. We need something more. We'll add in a pet leopard. Why? People love animals. And a dog. That Asta from Thin Man. Asta and the Leopard will chase each other around and fall in love. What about Grant and Hepburn?They'll chase each other around, too. Or, rather, Hepburn will Chase Grant, and Grant will keep trying to get away. They will, of course, fall in love, but Grant won't know it. The audiences will love it! Can't lose!The writers deserve some credit for managing to build a movie on this thin foundation, but it needed more than just a bunch of good lines; it needed a plot. The performances by Hepburn and Grant were good enough, although Hepburn seems out to win an Oscar for fastest talker; it was the script and directing that failed. The real winner was the leopard.Bringing Up Baby turned out to be a warm up, a practice run for Philadelphia Story two years later, which has plenty of screwball elements, but which slows it down a bit and which has a story where you actually care about the main characters, and how it turns out for them. And it is actually funny. If you define a screwball comedy as a movie where the comedy gas pedal is stuck to the floor, Bringing Up Baby qualifies. But there are few comedies that can keep up such a frenetic pace and make it work. I think it's generally better to vary the pace of comedy in a movie, or the viewer is liable to fall asleep out of sheer exhaustion. Good night. "},{"Title":"The movie American Humane Society inspectors wake up at night screaming about","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Let's cut to the chase I love Howard Hawks, Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant. But this movie is a flop and can only be recommended to completists. Because just being old, and having famous people in it, doesn't already make it a classic.Cary Grant plays a muddle-headed professor yet again, Katharine Hepburn a wealthy and capricious 30-year-old spinster like a ditzy twelve-year old. Especially Hepburn has always been a bit of a hot potato as an actress, she has a strong personality which is perfect for some, but also unsuited for many other roles. Here she's supposed to come across as quirky, but she plain got on my nerves. There is not much of a plot to speak of. Basically Hepburn's character has got a leopard (the baby of the title), which of course escapes, and various predictable japes ensue. That's it, folks!Unfortunately the studio decided to steam-roller this movie out to 1h40 instead of keeping it more palatable at about 1h10. I think that it could have been improved greatly by keeping it short and sweet, but they chose to make it more of an evening-filler, and therefore also a bit of a time-waster. "},{"Title":"Wonderful classic screwball comedy","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Katherine Hepburn and Cary Grant are wonderful together in this classic comedy. Even though it is 62 years old, it still delivers plenty of laughs and wonderful moments. Baby adds some great scenes to their chemistry as well. Watch with a bowl of popcorn and and enjoy!  "},{"Title":"The best romantic comedy ever...","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so terrific.  Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn are both terrific and make a great team.  A simple story made truly hilarious by the performances of the stars.  Once Grant and Hepburn meet, the movie takes off and never stops being funny.  Grant in a nightgown and Hepburn in prison are classic scenes.  They don't make movies or movie stars like this anymore and it's a real shame. "},{"Title":"A screwball classic","Date":"24 June 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Howard Hawks' Bringing Up Baby was not well received at the time of its release. In fact, its failure was one of the reasons why Katherine Hepburn was labelled 'box office poison' before rebounding in The Philadelphia Story a couple of years later. However, time has been kind to the movie and it is now considered a classic.The story concerns a mild mannered zoologist who is angling for a million dollar endowment from a wealthy dowager. Unfortunately, his efforts to make a good impression are continually wrecked by a woman who turns out to be the niece of his would-be benefactor. The 'Baby' of the title refers to a pet leopard who instigates much of the action.Within this simple framework, screenwriters Dudley Nichols & Hagar Wilde spin an invigorating tale full of numerous farcical situations. The award-worthy script moves at a breathless pace and is rife with clever dialogue.The stars, Cary Grant & Katherine Hepburn, are both exceptional. Given the poor response to the film, neither of them got any awards attention but it certainly wouldn't have been undeserved. Grant convincingly played against type and Hepburn supplied an energetic, multifaceted performance. The supporting cast is also particularly solid, especially Charles Ruggles, Walter Catlett & May Robson.The direction is trademark Howard Hawks, with the chief attraction being the effortless handling of the film's frantic action. The other technical elements of the film are well handled but the focus is squarely on the comedy, as it should be.All in all, I think that Bringing Up Baby is a highly entertaining comedy that has aged well in the 70+ years since its original release. That being said, humour is very subjective so if you decide to check this out make sure you're in the mood for something broad and fast paced. "},{"Title":"I don't want another lunatic in my family, I've got enough.","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The very essence of screwball comedy, Bringing Up Baby may be even more frenetic than Cary Grant's 1940 vehicle His Girl Friday, especially in the second half of the story. There's no question Grant went out on a shaky limb with his antics here; where else would you see a leading man risk his reputation by dressing up in a feathery negligee? And did I hear this right - his response to Aunt Elizabeth (May Robson) on why he had the nightgown on - Because I just went gay all of a sudden! Probably one of the earliest uses of the term to denote a sexual preference in film, not to enter the popular vernacular for at least another couple of decades.Katherine Hepburn is surprisingly funny and witty as Susan Vance, and dare I say it, actually attractive compared to her more mature roles opposite Spencer Tracy later in her career. I'm not sure if she might have been the best choice to play opposite Grant though; mentally I was picturing Rosalind Russell or Ann Sheridan in the role. But you have to admit, her comic timing kept up with Grant and may have passed him by a couple of times, so whatever director Hawks did to coach her through it worked splendidly.As for Baby, I was once again amazed how a picture of the era put one over on the viewing audience. It was common enough in jungle films featuring characters like Tarzan and Jungle Jim to challenge geographical integrity by regularly referencing animals to locations where they did not belong, such as tigers in Africa. At least here, the story line prefaced Baby's arrival with a letter from Susan's brother in Brazil, so when the 'leopard' later turned out to be a jaguar I wasn't surprised. Actually, it looked like both a leopard and a jaguar were used in the picture. The Baby wrestling with George, the intercostal clavicle stealing pooch, was a jaguar, identifiable by those spots within the larger dark circular rings on the body. A leopard's 'spots' don't share the same characteristics, so unless Baby did a quick wardrobe change, there had to be more than one.Notwithstanding the obvious physical humor and improbable situations, it's almost impossible to miss the obvious anatomical references played to the hilt with every mention of the word 'bone'. Not only was Grant's character misrepresented by the unfortunate name, but he seemed to be having a lot of fun while on the chase for the elusive brontosaurus piece - My bone. It's rare. It's precious. What did you do with it? How many takes do you think it took to get through those scenes? You know, there was something very predictable about the finale when Susan Vance climbed the ladder in the final scene. I was fully expecting that bronto skeleton to wind up in a pile on the museum floor, but not the way Cary Grant made the save with Hepburn swinging at the end of his arm. Could that have been the inspiration for Schwarzenneger and Jamie Lee Curtis in True Lies? "},{"Title":"The Best Romantic Comedy Ever Written","Date":"9 June 2011","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Personally I think Bringing Up Baby is the best romantic comedy ever written! It is completely hilarious; the dialogue is so witty and fast paced and the story is so mad. Every time I see it I spend the entire movie laughing, although it is exhausting to keep up. But what gives it the momentum is the romance, these two very, very different people are being brought together through the craziness and that is the most ridiculous and wondrous part of the it, that is what draws you in.She is the one to chase him, deciding early on that she loves him and doing everything she can think of to keep him near her. There is something quite striking about that both because she is a woman, and it is men who usually do the chasing, and because she is richer and of a higher class than him. Mostly again, in fairy tales and Shakespeare for example, it will be the character of lower class who falls desperately in love with someone from a higher class and has to prove their worth. Even in more modern movies (Titanic and the Notebook for instance) it is the poorer characters (who are in fact also male) who first notice and woo the richer characters.The leads; Katherine Hepburn, my favourite actress, and Cary Grant are just incredible and work wonderfully together. The leopard, Baby, is also lovely to look at.I, honestly, cannot understand why anybody wouldn't like this film. I can see why some people would like it more than others, being more enchanted perhaps by the romance, but how someone couldn't like it I do not know. Surely anyone, of any age(I watched it first time when I was 10 with my 8 year old sister and we both loved it), would find it funny?! I have discovered through user comments and reviews on IMDb that there are people out there who don't like it and think it's dated. At the time of release it was a commercial failure. I think there must be something in the humour which produces positive reactions among some and negative reactions among others. I have yet to actually meet someone in person who did not enjoy the film if they had seen it. "}{"Title":"No doubt one of the funniest films ever made","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is no doubt a classic, funny, screwball comedy. The movie is about a zoologist (Cary Grant) who is waiting for his new dinosaur bone to be delivered to him. Just coincidently, he meets this woman (Katharine Hepburn) and everything just seems to go wrong with him. This movie was just hilarious. This is funnier than Rush Hour 2 and Rat Race and those kind of movies. This movie is for everyone to see and and just about everyone will like it.10/10 "},{"Title":"as funny as any other film ever made","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I never really cared for the way a character in a Howard Hawks movie delivered their dialogue. I liked everything else about his movies - the direction, the actual dialogue, and the plots, but that rapid-fire delivery had turned me off in the past in such films as His Girl Friday, The Big Sleep, and The Thing from Another World (which Hawks was rumored to have directed). Here, though, in Bringing Up Baby, everything is absolutely perfect. There is not the tiniest bit in this film that misfires. Everyone and everything is hitting bullseyes. You know how difficult that is to do when you're working with two leopards and a dog? And it's so effortless it's almost scary. It's years ahead of its time - the only comparable talkie I can think of is Some Like it Hot, but I think Bringing Up Baby is actually better than that classic.  "},{"Title":"Hands down The best screwball comedy ever.","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, you look perfectly idiotic in those clothes. These aren't my clothes. Well where are your clothes? I lost my clothes! Well then why are you wearing these clothes? Because I just went GAY all of a sudden!One of the funniest scenes in film history is this one, with Cary Grant dressed in a woman's bath robe.  You'll laugh 'till you cry.The whole movie is a laugh riot though.  With Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn at the top of their game.  The plot and acting are above and beyond, and after the film is done, it will leave you saying, 'They don't make 'em like they used to.' And they sure don't.   "},{"Title":"The Best Screwball Comedy Ever Made!","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" No, it's not hyperbole; it truly is the best screwball comedy ever made. The timing is impeccable, the situations are hilarious, wonderful character actors abound and who can resist Baby and George? Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant have great chemistry together and it is obvious that they enjoyed making this film. In my mind, Kate is less strident than in some previous films; her voice is softer and more girlish. As for Grant, I am continuously amazed at what a wonderful actor he was. Because he was so handsome, Grant was underrated as an actor; people always seemed to think he was just playing himself. If you'd like to get a better idea of his acting range, watch this movie and Notorious; those two performances couldn't be more different.What I would love to know is how they filmed the sequence of Baby (played by the leopard, Nissa) and George (played by the terrier, Asta) playing together. It is real - no trick photography there. It is possible that Nissa grew up playing with dogs, but Asta probably never played with a leopard before in his life! They have different trainers, so it's doubtful that they grew up together. I slowed the DVD down to watch them play together, and I realized that Asta is the aggressor! He leaps on Nissa and grabs her ear ... all classic dominant dog play.As for the Because I just went GAY all of a sudden! remark made by the Grant character, it's my opinion that the general public thought of the term gay as only meaning happy, carefree. They, and most likely the censors, never picked up on the double entendre.This film is a must see, so grab your popcorn, sit back and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Started out a flop and remains a flop","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"18 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have sat through this screwball comedy two times and I never laughed. I remember watching one of those dreadful Police Academy movies which left me guffawless, chortleless. In short, when you make a comedy, it's supposed to be funny.I understand that people find this film a screwball comedy classic. When the movie premiered in 1938, it was a flop. Now, some seventy years later, it is considered one of the best movies of the screwball genre. How much of this is revisionist Hollywood history is anybody's guess.Of course we all miss debonair Cary and the great Katharine Hepburn.But you can't turn a sow's ear into a silk purse, and this movie remains to me a sow's ear. Let's get right to it. Katharine Hepburn has no flair for this type of comedy. She is devastating perfect as Tracy Lord in The Philadelphia Story. Lovely, vulnerable, fully in command, Hepburn was born to play the pompous socialite. There is much humor in the story's telling, but it is all quite natural.Bringing Up Baby looks like a movie, sounds like a movie. I seem to be constantly aware that Hepburn is trying to be funny. I don't believe her for a moment as a scatterbrained dunderhead.I don't even enjoy Cary Grant as Dr. Huxley. The whole movie seems forced. I do believe this is Hepburn's one attempt at screwball comedy and thank God for that. Grant is hilarious in Arsenic and Old Lace. The energy he generates seems genuine. Although the film is a bit stagey (since it came from Broadway), I do find the gallows humor of Arsenic a fine comic turn for Grant.One reviewer who loves this movie says that it's not supposed to make sense, like I am not getting it. I could say that easily about Duck Soup with the Marx Brothers. That also was considered a flop at the time, but is deservedly recognized now as probably their best film. The Marx Brothers were Jerry Seinfeld sixty years earlier. Duck Soup is truly about nothing, makes no sense and is all out Marxian anarchy. And perhaps I am a bit too enamored of one Carole Lombard, who was gorgeous and funny at the same time. That is no mean trick for a woman, but Carole could do it. You want to see one of the best screwball comedies? I suggest Nothing Sacred with Fredric March and Lombard. Twentieth Century with Carole and John Barrymore.Of course, art is so subjective. One man's meat is another man's poison. I do not find Bringing Up Baby funny. Not at all. "},{"Title":"An absurdly overrated movie that flopped on it's 1938 release","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"29 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A poor script quickly establishes the main characters as unsympathetic, and Baby just never works with any normal audience.  People who have been brainwashed to believe it is a great film are simply afraid not to like it. Cary Grant and Kate Hepburn both do their best under the adverse circumstances, and the slapstick with the leopard towards the end of the film is genuinely funny.  This is one of a series of films that contributed to Kate Hepburn's reputation as box office poison.  After boy friend Howard Hughes bought her the rights to Phillip Barry's play,  she then rescued her career with her big hit The Philadelphia Story (1940).During the 1950s Cahiers du Cinema hailed director Howard Hawks as an auteur, and resurrected all of his lesser films as would be masterpieces. This film was the main beneficiary, changing from a 1938 box office flop to a supposedly classic comedy.  It is perhaps the most striking example in film history of critics parroting received opinion to turn a flop into a masterpiece.  In my opinion the 1938 audience got it right.  There were many great screwball comedies made during the 1930s, such as It Happened One Night, My Man Godfrey, and The Awful Truth.  Unfortunately, Bringing Up Baby was not one of them. "},{"Title":"A Shakespearean Comedy","Date":"26 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant star in this inspired comedy about a madcap heiress with a pet leopard who meets an absent-minded paleontologist and unwittingly makes a fiasco of both their lives.Bringing Up Baby is an comedy that is directed by Howard Hawks.Charles Ruggles,Walter Catlett,May Robson and Fritz Feld co-star to play key supporting roles.The screenplay was adapted by Dudley Nichols and Hagar Wilde from a short story by Wilde that originally appeared in Collier's Weekly magazine.David Huxley is the stuffy paleontologist who needs to finish an exhibit on dinosaurs and thus land a $1 million grant for his museum. At a golf outing with his potential benefactors, Huxley is spotted by Susan Vance who decides that she must have the reserved scientist at all costs. She uses her pet leopard, Baby, to trick him into driving to her Connecticut home, where a dog wanders into Huxley's room and steals the vital last bone that he needs to complete his project. The real trouble begins when another leopard escapes from the local zoo and Baby is mistaken for it, leading Huxley and Susan into a series of harebrained and increasingly more insane schemes to save the cat from the authorities. Inevitably, the two end up in the local jail, where things get even more out of hand Susan pretends to be the gun moll to David's diabolical, supposedly wanted criminal. Naturally, the mismatched pair falls in love through all the lunacy. This film is a total delight, and the performances are so invigorating that it can withstand many multiple viewings without losing its sparks.With Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant at their effervescent best, it is a seamlessly assembled comedy with enduring appeal.Director Howard Hawks plays the complications as a breathless escalation of their love impulse, yet the movie is nonetheless romantic for all its speed. And going back to the lead stars,Grant and Hepburn are a match made in movie heaven, in sync with each other throughout.Added to that,this narrative and thematic directions have much in common with those of Shakespearean comedy.Though it's almost impossible, try to sit back sometime and enjoy this Howard Hawks masterpiece not only for its gags, but for the grace of its construction, the assurance of its style, and the richness of its themes. "},{"Title":"I can't give you anything but love baby!","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favourite films, starring two of my favourite actors, and is therefore always a joy for me to watch.  Hepburn streaks through the film with a breathless energy, and an endearing infectious zaniness. Her Susan Vance carries out such ridiculous scenarios with such steadfast, self confident conviction that you can't help but be intoxicated by her. While Grant is at his most charmingly disshevelled and bemused, playing the absent minded stuffy proffessor who is eventually liberated by the madcap antics of Hepburn's  flighty, manic heiress. This is one of the most hilariously witty and zany movies of all time, and it just gets better and better with each viewing! "},{"Title":"Quintessential screwball","Date":"1 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This isn't the first or last screwball comedy -- but it is one of the best.Cary Grant does an absolutely fab-oo-lous job as the mild-mannered professor who falls in to the traps set by zany Katharine Hepburn. The story moves from one wonderfully silly situation to another. The scene with Grant in a woman's nightgown in a true classic and gloriously funny. "},{"Title":"The love impulse reveals itself in conflict","Date":"16 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The screwball comedy, classic romantic sub-genre of the 1930s, may not have one hard and fast definition, but almost all of screwball comedies revolve around the same idea. A man and a woman are thrown together by circumstance take an instant dislike to each other, and yet it is immediately obvious to us that they are made for each other. What follows is simply the fun and games they go through before they realise it themselves. It seems that the closer a screwball follows that pattern and the more it makes those elements work, the better it is.Bringing Up Baby is a perfect example, although rather daringly it pushes the antagonism between the leads further than ever before. With this wild and witty screenplay by Hagar Wilde and Dudley Nichols, it's not simply a case of personality clash. Katherine Hepburn's character is a genuine disaster area, leaving a trail of destruction behind her that puts her on a par with Harpo Marx. And like Harpo, she has that quality that means she would be infuriating in real life, but is instantly likable on screen. Cary Grant, as a relatively regular and rational man, ought to be the character we sympathise with, and yet it's delightful watching him getting wound up by Hepburn's antics. A real turning point occurs in the story when we realise Hepburn is falling in love with him. She suddenly becomes our heroine because we want her to gloriously sabotage his wedding to the frumpy Virginia Walker, and we'll enjoy watching her do it.Of course a lot of this likability and chemistry comes from the actors. Hepburn had occasionally demonstrated a flair for comedy in her earlier films, but never before had she been able to really throw herself into such an oddball creation. The trick to her appeal here is the way she uses her typical Hepburn sophistication to make it look like she knows what she's doing which, along with her impeccable comic timing, makes it all the funnier when things fall apart around her. Grant on the other hand does a perfectly styled reasonable-man-driven-loopy act, his reactions crazed, but no more so than situations he finds himself in, meaning he is both funny and believable. The fact that we can laugh so much at these two tussling makes us want them to become an item.The extra factor here is director Howard Hawks, who had a great touch with comedy. Importantly, Hawks doesn't cut into the scene with two many close-ups or angle changes, generally keeping all the characters in the shot at once in long takes, so that everything is just allowed to play out before us. Whenever he does focus on one character, you know the moment is really important. This is not to say Hawks doesn't pay attention to the intricacies of shot composition. He has a great use of space especially when it comes to the eponymous leopard. Whenever Baby is about to appear, Hawks often has a conspicuously empty spot for him to walk into, for example when he sits down next to Barry Fitzgerald. Earlier, when Grant first encounters him, the leopard is already in shot in the foreground. These brilliant entrances are all the funnier for how Hawks arranges them, in what is a kind of visual and spatial equivalent of comic timing.What's perhaps best about Bringing Up Baby is that it is almost continuously funny. I'm reminded again of the Marx brothers, who a few years earlier saved the talkie comedy by showing that verbal wit that could be just as madcap as slapstick. With its overlapping dialogue and dialogue running alongside action Bringing Up Baby is a fast-moving and witty treat, with barely a quiet moment in it. It proves that contrary to what many modern critics and filmmaker manuals say, this isn't a purely visual medium and actions don't always speak louder than words.Sadly Bringing Up Baby was not received well in its day. This is partly because Katherine Hepburn was not at her most popular, and the sharp change in her screen persona was perhaps a little hard to accept after all the dainty teenage roles with which she had made her name. Mostly however I suppose it was because it took screwball too far into the wackiness and anarchy of more riotous comedy forms, this being an era when breaking a genre's mould generally meant poor box office takings. But often, genres are recognised in retrospect, and it's now possible to see the chaotic silliness as what brings the characters' charms to the surface, and Bringing Up Baby as screwball comedy's finest hour-and-a-half. "}{"Title":"You throw an olive upward and I end up sitting on my hat!  Why does that sound normal to me?","Date":"30 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Because of its box office failure after one or two other films a bunch of expert movie house owners called Katherine Hepburn Box Office Poison on a notorious list in the late 1930s. Fred Astaire and Marlene Dietrich were also on that list. One would love to know what other great prognostications and viewpoints this bunch of yokels made over the years. Did they predict Dewey would beat Truman too? Or that Sputnick proved the Russians would land on the moon first? I only hope that they ended up being laughed into oblivion by their families and friends. For Bringing Up Baby was one of the funniest movies of the 1930s. It is not flawless - the Katherine Hepburn character is the supreme example of the spoiled madcap heiress of the genre of madcap comedies of the 1930s. And she certainly gives the viewers much to laugh at, such as her impossible readiness to steal objects from golf balls to automobiles, or to try to wake sleeping people up by throwing pebbles at a window, or trying to calm a leopard down from the roof by singing with Cary Grant, I Can Give You Anything But Love. In no other comedy she made is Hepburn so ditsy. But the behavior of Hepburn is the sole problem of the film. She does such a number of things to keep Grant under her control while she derails his marriage plans that she almost makes the viewers dislike her. But Grant is such a dud personality from the start of the film that one can understand why she has such an easy time pulling him around.Howard Hawks made several comedies with Grant, most notably His Gal Friday. But in two of them Grant plays men who each end up being a yo-yo for the women who love them. The other one is I Was A Male War Bride, where Hawks paired Grant with Anne Sheridan, and puts him through a series of humiliations that go all the way to the conclusion. Both are equally funny films, but both are set in their times, one a peacetime film the other a post-war comedy. But the conclusion of Bringing Up Baby is more memorable - when the life's work of Grant, the anthropologist, is shattered. The fall of the brontosaurus (again caused by Hepburn) is so famous that it was reused in On The Town (early in that film) when Jules Munshin knocks down a similar brontosaurus.Here we watch David Huxley (Grant) plans to get a million dollars for his museum and his plans to marry his assistant Alice Swallow (Virginia Walker) go down the tubes from his constant collisions with the easy going but determined Susan Vance (Hepburn) first on a golf course, then at a restaurant (she causes him to fall by trying to catch an olive which he trips on - see the summary line), to her apartment (where he meets her new pet leopard, Baby), to her shanghaiing him to Connecticut. In the end he has to wear a woman's robe (shocking Hepburn's dowager aunt May Robson), pretend he is an insane big game hunter named Bone (and get bored by tales of big game hunting from Charlie Ruggles), dig up a lot of the estate looking for a dinosaur tail bone, wrestle one leopard and release a second one, and deal with a somewhat confused town constable (Walter Catlett in a lovely absent minded performance) and an understanding psychiatrist (Fritz Feld). The film works despite being really a series of loosely tied together events. They flow from one to another, but due to the standard of lunacy involved the chunks of the film remain in our memories rather than the connecting links. But those are truly golden chunks, and make the viewers simply want to see more. This film is a real keeper for any fan to want to watch. "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am a 18 year old male and I thought that just because this movie was old and in black and white, that I must be stupid.  I sat down and watched it with my parents, and I thought that it was absolutely hilarious.  It is one of the funniest movies that I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"This movie is totally great and one of a kind!","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you haven't seen this movie, you have to! I get annoyed when people say it is overrated. It is definately very funny and worthwhile! Grant and Hepburn make a great team-one catastrophe after another. This is one of the great screwball comedies you can't miss! Kate Hepburn is hysterical as Susan Vance, a flutter-brained girl who is set in her ways to get Dr. David Huxley (Cary Grant), a zoologist whom she is in love with. It's a great movie filled with adventure and charm. It's funny to watch Grant and Hepburn chase after a leopard. I have seen this movie so many times, since I am a huge Kate Hepburn fan. Hepburn is at her best in the 'Swing'n Door Susie' part-don't miss that! -D Just two word for you-watch it! "},{"Title":"Kate and Cary's finest hour together!","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Of the four films Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn made together (inc. Sylvia Scarlett, Holiday, The Philadelphia Story), this has to be their side-splitting best! Based on a story by Hagar Wilde and Dudley Nichols, Bringing Up Baby is true slapstick comedy in the classic screwball tradition. Hepburn, in her only foray into screwball, plays Susan Vance, a zany heiress whose flighty mannerisms get her caught in often hilarious situations. Grant plays David Huxley, a straight-laced paleontologist engaged to an equally straight-laced bookworm (Virginia Walker). David and Susan first meet at a golf course, and a series of unplanned circumstances (usually involving Susan's pet leopard Baby and dog George) keep the unlikely duo attached. Classic scenes include Grant tearing Hepburn's evening gown, parading about in her nightgown, and Hepburn imitating a gangster's moll while imprisoned. It's a shame this film wasn't better received at the box office when released, but now it is finally getting the fine recognition it deserves. Hepburn's comic timing is so impeccable, she could've easily matched the likes of Carole Lombard, Rosalind Russell, Irene Dunne, Jean Arthur, and Claudette Colbert. A cinematic work of art. "},{"Title":"I resolved not to comment on a movie unless I had something new, different, or interesting to say. But for this one, I felt obligated.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yes, I have nothing innovating to say about Bringing Up Baby. Like many others, I really enjoyed this movie. It is quite funny (and as for the previous review, I am much, much younger than the age of 30). I usually prefer the more risque jokes in movies, but for this one I laughed hard, and it's a film the whole family will enjoy. This screwball comedy is absolutely timeless. Unlike some other older films, I can both appreciate it for being such a classic AND get my own personal enjoyment out of it. All the plot twists create a very good story and the dialogue is hilarious. I would highly recommend this very funny film. "},{"Title":"Leopards, laughs and excellence!","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If there was anyone underrated in the whole Baby cast, it was the poor old leopard. He did have Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant to contend with, so it is a bit hard to see why he couldn't match up, but the sleek creature played such an important part in the movie that it just cannot be done without giving the animal some credit. The great Howard Hawks was the director of the film, a man of many versatile talents. It was regrettable, after films like Only Angels Have Wings and His Girl Friday, that he turned to film noir like To Have and Have Not and The Big Sleep, despite the fact these pictures were big hits and made lots of money for Warner, care of Bogie and Bacall. One of the movies great strengths is its hilarious screenplay. No one could have brought it out better than Cary and Kate, experts of comedy. This was Kate's only 'slapstick' comedy film but she and the rest of the excellent cast seem to go about doing it as though it were all completely normal. The second of their collaborations after the even more disastrous Sylvia Scarlett (Holiday and The Philadelphia Story followed) was their best. It was Kate's last film at RKO, the studio that discovered her and at which she had won her first Oscar. It is almost hard to believe this film could have failed. But it was a little too up market for the majority of the audiences, and Katharine Hepburn was in the box office poison period, which obviously drove the audiences away. Could there be a better classic than this brilliant comedy? It truly does deserve its title as the finest screwball comedy ever made. It's my favourite comedy and film of the 1930s. You'll never see a better film featuring a zany zoologist, a mad cap heiress, a Brazilian tame baby leopard, a dinosaur bone, a dog with bad burying antics (recognise him? He's ASTA from The Thin Man series!) and what appears to be the entirety of the American population gone insane.Rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"Perfectly marvelous comedy","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Screwball comedy of the 30s kind, released when the public's taste for it was on the wane. Add perfect production values, absolutely brilliant comedy writing, a cast of those inimitable 30s character actors, Howard Hawks in the director's chair, and last but certainly not least, the scintillating team of Grant and Hepburn in the leading roles...and, voilà! 100 minutes of uninterrupted, exhausting, exhilarating zaniness! To use a publicity phrase of the time, this is a true laugh riot! The real surprise here is Hepburn herself. She plays this character with so much vulnerable panache, completely believing every minute of conniving, manipulative behavior, trying desperately to make Grant's character love her as much as she loves him, that, like Grant's clueless clod of a professor, you end up loving her out of sheer exhaustion, just as much as he does.This is certainly some of the best work of Hepburn's long career. No self-conscious posing, none of the brittle mannerisms of her later work, just straightforward, brilliantly timed, generous comic playing, using her well-trained athlete's body in the service of comedy as perhaps no one of her generation could. What a joyful, effortless-seeming performance, and what a joy to see it again after decades! "},{"Title":"A Great Cure For Depression","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you know anyone suffering from chronic depression, simply screen this screwball film classic Bringing Up Baby for them and watch their tears evaporate and turn to laughter. I couldn't disagree more with the reviewer who wrote that this film compares unfavorably with the likes of our modern day entertainments like The Simpsons, Seinfeld and Frasier. Give me a break. That junk isn't comedy, it's simply gutter writing in a pathetic attempt to get a cheap laugh. Why compare the drivel of today to the clever writing of yesterday? Although this film bombed at the box office when it first came out, it's more likely that people's sense of humor has evolved and matured over the decades and now this film has caught up with the audience and can be appreciated as the unique comedic film that it is.Bringing Up Baby is timelessly humorous and gets its laughs from CLEAN humor always the best kind of humor. Cary and Kate have perfect chemistry together, they are both such airheads that they are perfectly suited to one another; so what that Kate breaks up the engagement with that sour-faced prune lady? The animals are fantastic (esp. the dog!). And Walter Catlett is an added plus as the sheriff, I love to watch his mannerisms and his timing.Enjoy this movie...again and again and again and again.... "},{"Title":"Very overrated classic","Date":"18 June 2011","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've tried. I've really tried. But the charms of this so-called screwball comedy still elude me after four viewings over the years. Don't get me wrong; I love both Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant, but just not in this film. The humor, if one can call it that, is forced, and the physical comedy is painfully unfunny. Grant plays his role far too broadly, and Hepburn is at her most strident. Viewing it tonight on TCM, I actually fell asleep in the middle of the film!Such feeble laughs as there are come from the supporting cast, including Charlie Ruggles, May Robson, and Barry Fitzgerald. But their efforts can't save the film. Sorry, but the movie-goers when it was originally released got it right. Don't waste your time with this one. "},{"Title":"An irritating classic?","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Grant and Hepburn are as charismatic as you could want in this movie, and there were lots of jokes.  I found myself getting irritated after a bit, though - two or more characters shouting at each other and not listening is the center of almost every scene.    And after that, I found myself getting annoyed that no effort was being made to develop any of the many relationships or incidents of the story - the leopard, the aunt, the dinosaur, the fiancee, or even the mayor.   They were all like scenes racing by a train window.   It was really like one long ad-lib duet on a single theme.    "}{"Title":"Mind-numbingly stupid","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I love classic movies and I like to make a point of seeing ones that have huge stars such as this one. Hawks is also one of my favorite directors but Hawks, Grant and Hepburn can't rescue what amounts to the largest collection of non-critically thinking characters I have ever seen. The characters in this movie are flat out unabashedly stupid people. It's like being in a dream where people do things that don't make any sense. Every scene is centered around someone misunderstanding someone else and nobody even bothering to explain themselves, or when they do, another character interrupts to obliterate any budding coherency. I found myself literally wishing Susan (Hepburn) would stfu. Sure this might have hindered the comedy but it would have given my brain 5 seconds to breathe. Because of the time when this film was made there is absolutely no soundtrack music so it is Hepburn's grating voice at a high decibel level almost non-stop throughout the movie. It is literally fatiguing to listen to. Also at 102 minutes it feels like 45 years. In summary great cast, great director, torturous film. "},{"Title":"Pure Entertainment","Date":"30 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" With these types of screwball comedies you have to go into the movie knowing that your in for some wild things and some things that make no sense. But that's okay because it's just meant as pure entertainment. This movie is awesome, and especially for a film that is over 75 years old. For some people it's hard to go back and watch old classics and still have fun with them. But with Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn you know your getting the best of the best performances.And to be quite frank, this may be Cary Grant's best performance, at least that I've seen. Usually he plays the slick guy who investigates, or leads the women out of trouble. But in this film he plays a character who is insecure, and never accomplished something in his life, and of course unsure of marriage. That is until Hepburn comes in and steals his heart. I liked her in this role even more than The Philadelphia Story, which is considered to be one of the greatest rom-coms in history. In my opinion Bringing Up Baby is better. For a 1938 film, it actually had me wondering how they filmed some scenes, especially with the leopard. Filming a leopard on screen with Oscar nominated actors is more impressive than some of the FX current filmmakers do today.Seriously though, this movie is pure gold in terms of comedy. And normally for old movies like this it has the same old premise, but in fact Bringing Up Baby is a much different film and at times unexpected. It's a 75 year old film had me laughing several times and that is something that's hard to do for someone who's not keen on comedies. It's a highly re-watchable film and among my favorite classic rom-coms. I highly recommend watching, it's a great time at the movies.10/10 "},{"Title":"Good morning, David. Do you want a leopard?","Date":"4 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I haven't seen this film in so long, I forgot how much I love it. Having seen quite a few screwball comedies, I'd have to say that Grant and Hepburn have some of the best on screen chemistry EVER. This is the kind of film where you're not only laughing, but the sheer amount of chaos catches and keeps your attention throughout. It provokes such a strong reaction, you want to shout at the characters don't do that! or oh not again! And they make you wait in suspense with no respite, for the resolution. That's the main reason this film works so well, as a viewer you're not satisfied until all the little plot twists have been worked out- it's maddening. But that's also what makes it great. Normally, I would have a problem with Hepburn's character traits, but she acts the part in such a way that it's funny rather than annoying. One thing I would very much like to see is a reversal of the typical personalities for men and women in screwball comedy, just for kicks. For some reason, I'd really like to see a ditzy Cary Grant, and KH as a slightly geeky paleontologist. As for formal aspects, I'll give a nod to the cinematography and lighting, camera etc. there were shots that were rather nice. Overall however, screwball definitely pays more attention to plot than anything else. "},{"Title":"Howard Hawks shows Katharine Hepburn how to Have a Baby with Cary Grant","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Madcap socialite Katharine Hepburn (as Susan Vance) snares handsome zoologist Cary Grant (as David Huxley) while they search for her escaped leopard Baby and a bone he loses while showering. Honest. Bringing Up Baby should have been a big box office hit and secured industry and critics' awards for its co-stars, director Howard Hawks, writers Hagar Wilde and Dudley Nichols, editor George Hively, at the very least. Watching Mr. Hawks and his crew tickle so many funny bones, it's difficult to comprehend this witty classic's failure to catch fire. But, this was just before Cary Grant reached his super-star status, and the public had decided Katharine Hepburn's affectations were tiresome. In this case, those who laugh last, laugh best.********** Bringing Up Baby (2/16/38) Howard Hawks ~ Katharine Hepburn, Cary Grant, Charlie Ruggles, Fritz Feld "},{"Title":"No matter how much you want to strangle Kate here, you can't, 'cause you're laughing too much!","Date":"11 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of those films that you must re-visit perhaps once a year, because in spite of its place in Hollywood as a legendary failure (that resulted in Katharine Hepburn being listed as box office poison), it is one of the 10 funniest movies ever made. Hepburn and Cary Grant are an opposite sex version of Laurel and Hardy here, so dumb they're smart, and so over-the-top, you can't get enough of them. Grant is an expert on dinosaurs, and is missing the one important tail bone he needs to complete a 10-year project. That bone will go missing, thanks to George, a spunky pooch (who happens to look like Nick and Nora Charles' dog Asta) who grabs it then gets distracted by playing with a lovable leopard named Baby. If George and Baby weren't enough to drive Grant to wish he was extinct like the dinosaurs, then Hepburn might, yet there is something about this dizzy heiress that makes him remember that he's a man, not a bone chaser.O.K., I admit that I would be greatly annoyed to be stalked by a character as wacko and interfering as Hepburn, but watching Grant deal with her is a delightfully witty voyage. From the moment she steals his golf ball, dents his car, then tears his tuxedo jacket, you know she's attached to him like glue to a Popsicle stick. And when he accidentally retaliates and rips her dress, that sticky situation leads to even more. They are not quite the only insane ones here. Everybody has some neurotic disorder about them, even the psychiatrist (Fritz Feld) whom Hepburn and Grant encounter in a fancy restaurant and later in the country where Baby has taken up temporary residence on Feld's roof. May Robson is perplexed from the moment she sees Grant wearing a frilly ladies' robe, and Charles Ruggles adds more befuddlement into the mix when he shows up. A dipsomaniac caretaker (Barry Fitzgerald), frustrated sheriff (Walter Catlett) and Grant's jilted fiancée (Tala Birell) are others involved in this mix, which also includes a second leopard whom even Baby might run from if they were to encounter each other in the dark. Director Howard Hawks mixes everything together seamlessly, resulting in a film of sheer perfection.Why this flopped in its initial release has never really been identified, except perhaps that Hepburn's involvement in a comedy after so many serious dramas seemed like something to skip as a misguided shot in the dark. She really proves her meddle in comedy when she pretends to be a gangster's moll, utilizing an accent that is downright hysterical. But the movie audiences in 1938 would have to wait for its rediscovery later on, and like so many other films, this one has risen above its initial failure to become one of the all-time classics, a pleasure from start to finish. Peter Bogdanovich's What's Up Doc? pretty much updated the plot, replacing the two leopards with identical suitcases, yet utilizing the same ensemble types of wackos to make it almost equally as enjoyable and one of the best modern comedy classics. "},{"Title":"Occasionally entertaining but mostly annoying.","Date":"29 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Directed by one of the golden age's most prolific directors and featuring two of its biggest stars, Howard Hawks' Bringing Up Baby (1938) tells the story of David (Cary Grant), a paleontologist who's led into a series of zany events by the wild and bubbly Susan (Rita Hayworth). The bare-bones plot involves David having to retrieve a dinosaur bone for his museum from Susan's dog while the two try to manage Susan's pet leopard (the titular Baby). Presented via Hawk's trademark dry and no-frills directing style, Bringing Up Baby is an often funny but ultimately grating experience.The film has some great positives; it really shines in a few stand-out comedic scenes. One sees David attempting to save an ignorant Susan from embarrassment in a restaurant, and another an awkward dinner table scene that makes perfect use of dramatic irony for hilarious effect. Each of these scenes are meticulously crafted and extremely entertaining in their own right. To many critics, the film's box infamous office failure remains something of an enigma. Despite extremely positive reception from test screenings, the film failed to make its budget back during its initial run. Hawks himself felt the film had a great fault and I learned an awful lot from that. There were no normal people in it. Everyone you met was a screwball and since that time I have learned my lesson and I don't intend ever again to make everybody crazy. I agree. There isn't a single relatable feature in any of the film's characters, and as a result it feels emotionally void. We're supposed to believe that the gawky David needs the irresponsible Susan to show him how to have fun, and that Susan needs a man to marry, but the lack of any emotional investment means the film plays out unconvincingly and the plot feels simply set up in order to allow for crazy antics to happen.This isn't helped by the movie's cut-throat pace, which, while moving things along quickly, leaves little room for character and story development, and little breathing room for the audience. Combined with the constant machine-gun like barrage of words pouring from the actor's mouth, the movie can be quite irritating, even at its modest runtime of 102 minutes.In fact, Bringing Up Baby may be a film more interesting than entertaining. Typical of the screwball comedy, gender roles are reversed, with a male character of questionable masculinity suffering from a dominant woman who makes his life misery. Of course, they fall in love in at the end. What sets this film apart however, is Hawks' ability to take this reversal to new extremes. Martin Scorsese calls directors who manage to slip in messages pass censorship smugglers, and in Bringing Up Baby Hawk's luggage is positively stuffed. Having a great understanding of the genre after his film Twentieth Century (1934) acted as a prototype for it, Hawks uses phallic and fetishized imagery to chart his male protagonists' quest for manliness, the most obvious being the dinosaur bone, that, from a modern perspective, are quite shocking to see in a film made during a very conservative time in America. Also quite shocking is the amount of power women hold. David is almost always interrupted by a female character and its Susan's aunt who holds the million dollars that David needs for his museum, in addition to the bone. Hepburn's character is even seen wearing pants in a few scenes, not a dress or skirt. A rare sight in 1930s cinema. Furthermore, several historians believe the film contains one of the first mainstream uses of the word gay in a homosexual context, improvised by Grant during a very funny scene involving his character unwillingly wearing a women's négligée.Another very funny scene involves Grant's David trying to buy a large sirloin steak for the leopard. Perhaps the experience of watching Bringing Up Baby can be summarised by the experience of eating a giant steak. At first you're excited by the humour and innovation of having a steak so big, but after a reasonable number of bites, you just want to eat something else. "},{"Title":"Still as funny in 2011 as in 1938","Date":"15 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have just watched this movie on BBC television, it is fantastic, the acting is charming, not only from Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn, but all of the supporting cast as well. Most films from the pre-war years do not wear well with age, but this one does, it is so fresh,lively and entertaining, that one tends to forget it was made 73 years ago. This film shows that a film to be extremely funny and engaging does not have to resort to swearing, nudity or sex, something the modern day directors and actors could do with learning. The plot is very simple and does not really contribute much, but the acting and direction is so superb that one does not really care. It is a silly film and unpretentious, just the sort of film to watch when one needs cheering up or a good laugh for a good laugh's sake. I watched it today and laughed pretty much non stop all through. "},{"Title":"Maybe not for all, but I love it","Date":"18 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I love comedy, old and new, as long as it is funny and ticks all the other boxes. Bringing Up Baby is one I love. I slightly prefer The Awful Truth, His Girl Friday and Monkey Business, and I can completely accept why people don't like it, but I am one of those who loves the film. Of course the humour is very broad, but I for one found it refreshing in that sense. The film is brilliantly written, the script is full of memorable quotes and always puts a much needed smile on my face after a hard day. The story is probably the film's weakest asset, but it goes at a snappy pace and it holds my interest. Bringing Up Baby also has some fabulous direction from Howard Hawks and the acting is great. Cary Grant has wonderful comic timing and gives not only one of his best performances but one of the all-time great comedy performances. I can understand about what people say about Katherine Hepburn, her character Susan is tiresome but the more I see the film the more I warm to Susan, also I got the sense that Susan was meant to be a sort of flawed character in the first place. Just for the record, I really love Hepburn in this, once you get past her character's annoyances, you see a great actress giving a great performance with equally impressive comic timing. So all in all, while I can understand why people aren't so receptive to Bringing Up Baby, I for one am quite fond of it. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"So Funny That You Might Miss Some Of The Comedy, While You Are Laughing","Date":"4 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Spoilers This is possibly the funniest movie I have ever seen. Watching it more than once, I discovered each time, that there were more lines to laugh at, that I missed because I was laughing so hard the prior times I saw it. I recommend it to anyone who wants to laugh. It puts together great lines like Yes but don't you feel a little chilly out here without a GUN, Elizabeth? and Constable Who did you work with on that job? David Mickey the Mouse and Donald the Duck! Constable Yeah. Now were getting somewhere! Mickey the Mouse and Donald The Duck, make a note of those names! and David standing in a prison cell and talking about a woman's ability to get him out of prison Yeah! Look, she got me out! "},{"Title":"The magic of Hepburn and Grant, in addition to an intelligent script makes an excellent Screwball Comedy!","Date":"8 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The story is simple an archaeologist, is waiting to receive a bone for his museum collection, but through a series of odd circumstances keeps running into a woman who seems to do anything to get his attention.What makes this movie is the chemistry between Katherine Hepburn and Cary Grant. This is only the second movie I have seen either of them and both make the film. Hepburn fulfills the female role of the Screwball comedy with sheer perfection as a dominating, fearless, lighthearted, and larger-than-life Susan Vance. Cary Grant likewise transforms into the nerdy, single-minded Dr. Dave Huxley, who is always trying to avoid Hepburn but is eventually seduced.Without giving too much away, it is not only about the performances between Hepburn and Grant, but also follows along the American Comedy lines of release of the repressed.In a sense, through the witty and intelligent innuendos and subtleties, Susan represents nature, as does her pet leper Baby and the dog George. With the power of all three and the adventures they undertake with Dave, they release the repressed soul of Dave who is stuck in a life of all business and no fun, reviving the elements of nature in him such as enjoying life and the desires of the flesh.The average person may not catch onto this, but after seeing this movie, it is hard not to miss due to the many symbolisms and subtleties that reflect Dave's desire of being a free man. To keep the movie going, the actors deliver one witty line after another, in addition with hilarious sight gags. Bringing Up Baby in my opinion is not only an excellent movie, but also a classic example of the screwball comedy with an intelligent script and plot. "}{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is great, with an unexpectedly good comic performance from Katherine Hepburn.  Cary Grant is also good as the straight man.  I saw this movie for the first time and laughed out loud through the whole thing! It's just great! "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I've ever seen","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bringing Up Baby is the funniest movie I've ever seen. Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn are perfectly cast in this film. Looking at how wonderful they are in this and The Philadelphia Story, I wish they'd made more than 3 movies together. This is a crazy and fun movie directed by Howard Hawks. It gets more and more wild as it goes along. I laughed almost all the way through. There are many hilarious and memorable scenes, particularly the ones involving the dog and the leopard, Baby. They nearly stole the show from the humans in this film. This is a very enjoyable movie and a true comedy classic. "},{"Title":"Katharine Hepburn shows her comedic talents","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Cary Grant is one of the best comedic actors of all time.  In Bringing Up Baby, Katharine Hepburn surprised me with her ability to keep right up with Grant.  What a delightful classic! There isn't a movie made today that can make me laugh as much as this one.  Great fun; a perfect 10. "},{"Title":"Best screwball comedy","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best comedies ever made. Hepburn and Grant are so funny in this film. I could watch it over and over and not get tired of it. The scene with Grant in the nightgown is one of the funniest scenes ever.. a classic that anyone would enjoy. "},{"Title":"An absolute comic masterpiece.","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Basically, an almost perfect comedy. The timing of both Grant and Hepburn is genius. I just wish I could be involved in such a 24 hours. Rarely am I this gushing about anything but I laughed constantly and the battle of the sexes commentary, under Hawks direction, is very cleverly observed. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies ever made!","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best movies ever made! It proves that people can be funny without having to use curse words in ever other line. Grant and Hepburn are wonderful together. If any two people were meant to be together (in the movies anyway) Cary and Kate were it! One of the best scenes and when Cary is in the nightgown. I love it! If you have not seen this movie, DO NOW! "},{"Title":"Sophistication is Passe'","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Back in the late 30's, commonplace people went to the movies to forget their boring and mundane lives...it was called 'escapism.' Pseudo-sophisticates, such as Cary Grant, Katherine Hepburn, Nick (William Powell) and Nora (Myrna Loy) Charles were the stars of screwball comedy, but, today they are bland, even to those who are rich, famous and well-educated. Being a 'blue-blood' in this modern age is considered superficial.I never liked Katherine Hepburn and couldn't understand why a blue-collar Irish/American guy from Milwaukee, such as Spencer Tracy, would be interested in a skinny, flat-chested, flat-assed, shallow (as in 'shall we dahnce' or 'simply divine') boorish bi**h from Connecticut. While I'll take Kate and Myrna over a typical Jeff Foxworthy 'redneck' for a neighbor, with rusted-out cars in the yard, surrounded by pink flamingos, I'd prefer earnest neighbors with something to say other than small talk and who's aunt was the most obese or brother-in-law who married his ten year old 'kissin' cousin.To me, the dialogue in the screenplay was trite in the manner of Neil Simon, the acting was contrived and, it can be easily seen, that the people who owned the cast were the studio execs. "},{"Title":"Undeserving of its Reputation as a Classic","Date":"8 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have got to agree with the reviewer Jadedalex on here whose critique of this flop is spot on. There are very few laughs in this film, maybe two, and both of those were ad-libs that Grant brought in. I cannot for the life of me understand why anybody would think the script fine! It is tedious, with the gags very broad and so drawn out that they continue for several minutes after the punch line has already occurred. The bit about the leopard's mating cry is atrociously dumb and unfunny and goes on literally forever! Cary Grant is a wonderful performer and he does his best here but it can't save the flick from being a turkey. Evidently the writers fell in love while working on the script - too busy getting off with each other to turn in a decent job perhaps? The script stinks! It's no surprise to me that people didn't rate this film when it first came out nor that it languished for 20 years until Bogdanovich revived it. It is DEFINITELY a case of Hollywood revisionism (as Jadedalex put it) that this third-rate nonsensical caper is now somehow regarded as one of the best movies ever made. That claim is far, far funnier than anything in the movie! I watched this film today, well aware of its reputation and eager to catch a great film classic. I was very disappointed and was left feeling completely bewildered by the (belated) rave reviews. The condescending person on here who assumes that people who don't find the film funny are lacking in film knowledge is completely incorrect. Personally, I love old movies from the 30s and 40s and understand the differences in style and so forth. But unfunny is unfunny, regardless of genre, time period, style, or whatever. The best thing about the film is Skippy, the terrier who also starred as Asta in the Thin Man films, and is a wonderful lively presence; his scene playing with the leopard is adorable. Skippy also has some of the best lines woof, woof, woof. Far wittier than 99% of the human dialogue. It bothers me that people think is a great film. "},{"Title":"I didn't enjoy it","Date":"29 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I just recently watched Bringing Up Baby, and I wasn't a fan. I understand the time period in which it was made and I understand the whole idea of screwball comedy, but I just couldn't really get interested in the film. I wasn't a fan of Cary Grant's character as an absent minded professor, and I thought that Katharine Hepburn's character was a bit much. In theory, the way two main characters acted should have complimented each other perfectly with the easy going, not a care in the world Susan (Hepburn) and the work oriented Dr. Huxley (Grant), but I just didn't enjoy the film. I guess if you're a fan of screwball comedy then I'd recommend the film, otherwise I wouldn't. "},{"Title":"Divine comedy","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Critics have argued that although it may not be Howard Hawkes best comedy, it is certainly his funniest. I can't agree, I think it IS his best, and his funniest. In fact I can't think of any comedy film that gives such consistent laughs or has a warmer heart. Watch out for the side comments and small details. Watch out for the throw-away line from the delivery man near the beginning of the film, it's a gem. On set Grant and Hepburn may not have warmed to each other straight away but Grant accepted that Hepburn had the sort of magnetism that meant you couldn't ignore her, even when you might want to! Hepburn is certainly not the typical ditsy heiress. In fact her willful performance was partly blamed for the box-office failure of this film. But today you can't help but respect her comic timing and the intelligence she brings to the role. If you haven't seen it yet, you're really missing out! "}{"Title":"Best Screwball Comedy Ever Made!","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bringing Up Baby pairs two of the best actors of all time (Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant) together at their best to make one of the best films of all time! This is THE best screwball comedy of all time and one of the best movies of all time to boot. Hepburn couldn't be more funny as the accident-prone scatter-brained Susan Vance who chases Cary Grant all over creation, leading them into one adventurous accident after another.I couldn't pick a favorite part because this movie is full of them (Cary Grant slipping on the olive, the jail scenes, Grant in a frilly white ladies bathrobe shouting Maybe I just went GAY all of a sudden!).There is not a dull moment in this movie, thanks to the clever and humorous dialogue and the mass of physical comedy (and I do mean physical, Hepburn and Grant are literally running, jumping, and falling all over the place). You can't help but fall in love with this movie.10/10 "},{"Title":"Smart comedy","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's now a classic screwball comedy - deservedly so - even though it flopped when it premiered.  Katharine Hepburn's unpopularity at the time was probably the reason.  Bringing Up Baby is definitive because its elements are what make up a screwball.  You have rapid-fire delivery, double entendres, witty dialogue, nonsensical events that drive the plot.  And I would include a certain sense of innocence giving the movie a joyful luster.  Maybe it was made for the depressed Depression-era times, but it never fails to make me laugh out loud.But why, oh why, is this NOT on DVD????  It's amazing that with both Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn, it hasn't been released yet.  This movie paved the way for the slightly tamer (although equally wonderful) classic screwballs like It Happened One Night and His Girl Friday to become standards.  It's a shame that the fight over rights is stopping a great film from finding a wider audience. "},{"Title":"Inside The Padded Cell","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" With a plot and characters straight out of a lunatic asylum, this deliciously daft and frenzied comedy has palaeontologist David Huxley (Cary Grant) trying to recover a valuable dinosaur bone which has been stolen by the dog of potty heiress Susan Vance (Katharine Hepburn). There are also leopards, circuses, assorted aunts, big game hunters, judges and doctors, all of them certifiable.Hepburn can sometimes appear cold and remote but she pitches her performance perfectly here with just the right amount of eccentricity and a strong dose of tomboy enthusiasm thrown in for good measure. Grant looks completely bemused and affronted throughout. He's the only remotely normal person in the movie and all be can do is watch on in completely bewilderment as the situation gets more and more hair-brained. With such a richly comic set-up from screenwriters Hagar Wilde & Dudley Nichols and such polished performances from the cast, all Director Howard Hawks has to do is point his camera, stand back and film the ensuing chaos.Rightly considered the consummate screwball comedy and cruelly under-appreciated in it's day (Hawks was fired from the studio and Hepburn labelled 'box-office poison' by distributors following it's disastrous performance), BRINGING UP BABY is surprisingly modern and seems to improve with age being as fresh and sparkling now as it was when first released. An interesting homage appeared in 1972 in the shape of Peter Bogdanovich's WHAT'S UP DOC? but it only served to illustrate that you can't improve upon perfection. "},{"Title":"My Ultimate Feel-Good Film","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film was the beginning of my love affair with Cary Grant.....so suave, sophisticated......clumsy and funny.Irish television recently showed it again and I managed to tape it. Having not seen it for years it still made me laugh.Can't recommend it enough!! "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you didn't necessarily associate Katharine Hepburn's name with comedy before this film, then you certainly will afterwards. To be fair though she's been been in some belters with Spencer Tracy, 'Woman of the Year' and 'Adam's Rib', plus the excellent Philadelphia Story also with Cary Grant. But she genuinely excels in Bringing Up Baby, alongside a flawless Grant.I was actually very surprised to see some poor opinions of the film in this comments list, some people obviously have no taste at all - although common sense has clearly prevailed given the very impressive average score and a secured place in the top 250. And there is some real genius to be had along the way here - the use of the leopard is comedy gold dust, putting glasses on Cary Grant is an inspired move, and to have David casually miss his wedding day to spend it digging holes in a 26-acre garden, the whole thing will leave you wondering just WHY you haven't seen this film sooner.The cast is universally excellent but the pick of the support was undoubtedly Charles Ruggles as Major Applegate - or Appletree if you were listening hard enough - he turned in a fantastic and hilarious performance during the dinner scene.I can't praise this film enough and it's one of my favourite comedies of all time, no doubt. 9/10 "},{"Title":"top comedy","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A great teaming in this classic screwball comedy Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn.  She may have made more films, and had more chemistry, with Spencer Tracy, but the few films she made with Grant are excellent, haven't dated at all &#150; &#145;Bringing Up Baby' was 1938! &#150; and are hugely enjoyable.In this movie, directed by Howard Hawks, Hepburn plays ditzy Susan, who hits on stuffy professor David (more at home with his dinosaurs), and takes charge of a leopard, called Baby.    From their early sequences, where their identical cars cause problems; to the brilliantly constructed ending, this film is a joy.  This is probably one of Cary Grant's best roles &#150; there are effective supporting players, too, including Charles Ruggles, Barry Fitzgerald, and May Robson, not to mention the leopard herself.Hawks had already helmed a classic comedy of the early 1930s &#150; &#145;Twentieth Century' &#150; and would go on to Bogart's first teaming with Bacall (&#145;To Have and Have Not') and Montgomery Clift's debut (&#145;Red River').  &#145;Bringing Up Baby' is certainly one of the best.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious screwball comedy; but dubious social and sexual politics","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I find myself in two minds about this movie. Superficially, like most people, I can enjoy it as a screwball comedy par excellence, and laugh at Cary Grant's and Katherine Hepburn's quickfire comedy acting, the crazy situations and amusing animal antics. At the same time, however, I find myself taking a rather dim view of the Hepburn character's selfish and spoiled nature, and being exasperated by the Grant character's weakness and compliance. Then again, I would be more willing to accept the movie as a farcical illustration of the victory of natural free spirits (symbolised by Hepburn's leopard) over dusty convention (Grant's brontosaurus), if the anarchic tendency wasn't cushioned by wealth and privilege. Perhaps, when it comes to 1930s films on the spoiled heiress theme, I simply prefer Frank Capra's It Happened One Night, in which Claudette Colbert and Clark Gable are more equally matched.    "},{"Title":"Strange Pelt","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Here's a lesson in humor. There are many comedies that some people like and some just think are failures. But when it is a fresh entry, that reasons for liking a film or not are too tied to convention and belonging to be teased out. Here we have a seventy year old comedy.When it was new, it was so disliked it drove Hepburn out of Hollywood. Hawks, the director was shunned for a while. Hepburn stopped sleeping with and being paraded by Howard Hughes, determined to change her image. Hawks and Grant considered it a disaster and for their next pairing (His Girl Friday) were careful to get an actress and script that really could carry the weight of a screwball comedy. I'm with them Friday was a masterpiece of screwball frantic timing and highly abstract situations. This is a disaster in all but one dimension.And yet there are people today who think this is hilarious. Enough even to place this on several best of lists. Its one of the great puzzles in life, this. I mean its a mystery as big as the sun why people laugh in the first place. But why they laugh at different things, just boggles.In my opinion, Hepburn does a fine job in looking truly attractive in a sugared nutcase sort of way. Her incompetence in handling the character sort of works with her one strength how to manage what's dangled, what's seductive. But her comic timing is all off, and it throws Grant off too. No one can see what Grant and Russell did in Friday in how they established a rhythm that Hawks could extend into the container of the banter, no one can see that and think this worked. But they do. The only explanation I have is that we now are used to intended incoherence, and we as moviegoers accepted Kate in her re-engineered state. So we project modern measures back on this.I didn't laugh. Perhaps you will.There's an offhand remark at the beginning. Someone is to make a donation of a million dollars. Grant's character says That's mighty white of them.Wow.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"How can all these things happen to just one person?!","Date":"28 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Wild and crazy comedy is rarely recorded. Silly comedy with a similar characteristic are certainly present. Hawks is brave enough to direct one crazy movie. The attitude of the director and major actress I put in the background. BRINGING UP BABY is amazing comedy which in the heart of the story has a leopard. Hawks movie is full of life. Maybe it's too much for my taste genre standardized. Simply, broadminded and crazy rich girl haunts clumsy scientist is quite cheap. The product is great, but I think in the end they were satisfied neither the actors nor the director. For the common man movie will at times appear rough and irritating. Hawks is a little too far. However, if you're moving fast and exciting story, but at the same time have a great comedic pair that complements unbelievable, success is guaranteed.The film abounds in hilarious situations astonishing rate, captures the irresistible atmosphere, brilliant replicas and sense of the absurd.Cary Grant as Dr. David Huxley is clumsy and confused scientist who at times act embarrassed, somewhat hysterically and all in all crazed. Perhaps the distinctive Grant reluctantly accepted the role, but fit very good. Grant's character was inspired by the image of a classic silent comedian Harold Lloyd.Katharine Hepburn as Susan Vance is in its implementation independent, although the pair works great. She is a great comedian. Susan is a pretty demanding character. I would point out great May Robson as Elizabeth Carlton Random, Susan's aunt. Certainly Walter Catlett (Constable Slocum) in hilarious performances.The director has gone too far with humor. However, I like it. The pace and speed are amazing. This can be especially felt through Grant's performance. This movie simply elicits a smile on your face. "},{"Title":"What a true thrill!!","Date":"13 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In this film, we have paleontologist David Huxley trying to secure a million dollar grant to his museum. Only to have him meet Susan, electrically portrayed by Katherine Hepburn! It starts out with her simply mistaking his ball for hers, then to his car not a minute later, all the way to getting him roped into transferring a leopard to another state where he not only misses his wedding, makes a nut out of himself in front of the million dollar donor who happens to be Susan's aunt, and the hysterical trials just go on from there. We learn that Susan has found herself in love with David, truly, madly, in love with him. Emphasis on the madly. Despite how irritating and tendency for things to go wrong in her presence, much like David towards the very end of it all, we find her maddening ways endearing. Even when she destroys the T-Rex skeleton David spent years working on. The panning shots allowed us to really feel as though we were seeing it ourselves first hand, and even further the brilliant yet realistic acting by Cary Grant's annoyance to her presence, as if we were being followed ourselves. The mid-shots and close proximity of the two actors adding to our experience and ability to empathize. I felt more empathetic to David, probably because he felt more real, and we've all been there where someone simply WILL NOT leave us alone. We've also all been there when we want someone to leave or disappear, but we grow to appreciate them, as they change who we are and how we see things. They broaden our horizons, despite however they might be narrowing them at the moment. Hilarious film that had me laughing and very engaged throughout! "}{"Title":"A Typical Screwball Comedy","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is about a paleontologist who is loved by a crazy woman. In the film, first, the paleontologist who has a fiancée is loved by a crazy woman. Second, she begins to raise a leopard named Baby, it causes some incidents around the man and the woman. Finally, after they chase Baby which escapes, their relationship is changed. Actually, when I watched the first scene in which the crazy woman appeared, I didn't like this character. However, now, I like her because I think she is necessary character who makes the film very funny. Furthermore, I enjoyed seeing that the paleontologist is changed by the crazy woman. In contrast to her, in the beginning of the film, I feel the man is a commonsense person. However, after he meets the crazy woman, he becomes crazy as well as her. I think the process which changes him makes the film funny too. I recommend people who want to watch a screwball comedy should watch this film. This is because it is a typical screwball comedy. "},{"Title":"You tried it in the tail yesterday and it didn't fit.","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Director Howard Hawks' opening scene features his real-life sister-in-law, actress Virginia Walker, responding to Cary Grant with the ribald double-entendre line I've quoted in my title above, answering his seemingly innocuous question as the befuddled paleontologist holding a unmistakably phallic-shaped dinosaur bone in his hand, asking Walker where it should go. Somehow, director Howard Hawks slipped this juicy little prank right by the puritanical, blue-nosed, Hayes Code censors. At showings at revival theaters, Walker's deadpan yet saucy rejoinder to Grant always gets a good laugh. The voluptuous Mae West could never have gotten away with that line, but the usually beautiful Walker pulls it off (if you'll forgive my double-entendre), largely because Hawks had her dressed-down to resemble a dowdy, bespectacled middle-aged spinster. Walkers' character is named Alice Swallow, a tasty irony that Hawks probably felt he shouldn't try to get away with exploiting. Pic personifies Hawks' subtle yet substantial comedic genius. Sadly, the studio later fired Hawks because pic had such poor B.O. (box office) and bad reviews of what is now universally considered an archetypal screwball comedy. Studio suits back then could be as dumb as they are these days.Grant was Kate Hepburn's equal in all of their films, not the least of which is The Philadelphia Story, in which Cary came in just under all of the theatrical, over-the-top perfs of his co-stars, and thus stole every scene he was in. Bringing up Baby is no exception. Grant's channeling of Harold Lloyd as an absent-minded professor is just right, mixing sex appeal and comedy without resorting to slapstick or shtick. Having stated that, the collapse of the dinosaur skeleton at the end, with Hepburn swinging from Grant's arm up in the scaffolding, is the perfect physical comedy button to pic (Grant was actually an acrobat in his early years, and needed no double for the strenuous task of hauling Hepburn up to safety with a single arm).In 1971, Peter Bogdanovich later paid a loving homage to Bringing up Baby in his wonderful What's Up, Doc? borrowing, among other things, sight gags and dialogue from the original. There's the scene in which Barbra Streisand (channeling Katharine Hepburn) grabs Ryan O'Neal's coat tail from behind and rips it up to the collar, just like Hepburn did with Grant. Bogdanovich even uses some of the same 'Thirties music in Bringing Up Baby.If you get a chance to see pic in a local revival theater, do it, even if you've seen it several times before on television. Cary Grant has a palpable chemistry with Katharine Hepburn - no small task with the headstrong, independent actress who was decades, if not centuries, ahead of her time. "},{"Title":"The Finest Example of a Screwball Comedy","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Funny how time has turned Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn into untouchable legends. In our minds, they're heavyweights stars with the capability to play any possible role, comedy parts among them but not our very first thought. We think of Hepburn as the ball-buster of Woman of the Year, the transcending force of Eleanor of Aquitaine in The Lion in Winter, Grant as a suave leading man of Notorious and Charade days past. We don't altogether forget how good of comedic actors Hepburn and Grant are. Rather, we underrate them, considering them to be masters at the top of their game instead of comedians capable of giving Bob Hope and Lucille Ball a run for their money. Excuse me while I sound off like an old-timer that continually yaps about the good old days &#x97; but present-day actors are really, really truly nothing in comparison to Hepburn and Grant. We have great actors around, no doubt, but the majority of actors are excellent in one genre and a deadbeat in the other. Daniel Day-Lewis is fantastic in drama, but can you imagine him headlining a screwball comedy? Many can perhaps stay alive in a comedy, yet they aren't stirring the pot; they're usually sidelined with a quote-on-quote comedic actor who does all the heavy lifting for them.Hepburn and Grant are shining jewels of the cinema, humorous or otherwise. They don't just say their lines and hope to get a laugh. They become the dialogue, physically, emotionally, instinctively. Like the Barbara Stanwycks, James Stewarts, Rosalind Russells, Jack Lemmons of the day, a particular genre does not come as an obstacle. It's hard to even call Hepburn and Grant actors &#x97; to label them as chameleons seems more like it. In Bringing Up Baby, Grant portrays David Huxley, a mild-mannered paleontologist hoping to finish his dinosaur exhibit through a potential million-dollar grant. While golfing with the primary donor, Peabody (George Irving), his plans are put on hold by the nutty Susan Vance (Hepburn), who steals his golf ball, his car, and, later, his heart. After causing a number of blunders in his life, Susan, who is under the impression that he is, in fact, a zoologist, persuades him to come to her aunt's Connecticut home to lock up Baby, a leopard she received from her brother. Consider that David is also supposed to get married the following day to the stuffy Alice Swallow (Virginia Walker). Consider that Susan's aunt (May Robson) is another benefactor for the grant, and believes that David is someone other than who he is. Consider how much trouble David will be in after it is discovered that Susan's dog has stolen and buried a rare dinosaur clavicle. Consider &#x85;The plot of Bringing Up Baby is so thickened with misunderstandings and physical comedy races that is comes as a surprise that its abundance of energy never lets up, like a puppy who accidentally drank five Red Bulls and found its way onto a treadmill. It is the best screwball comedy ever made, being the funniest, the most lively, and the best acted. It should come tumbling down, considering how many comedic situations it has interacting at once, but Howard Hawks' direction is so sharp that the madness is nearly orderly. Arguably, Bringing Up Baby positively explodes during its climactic jail sequence; after yet another misunderstanding, the local constable arrests David, Susan, her aunt, and her aunt's dinner guest &#x97; later arriving is Baby, Susan's dog, and a second leopard who the characters think is Baby. Susan, hoping to trick the guards into releasing her, puts on a gun moll act that ends with her escaping out the window, befuddling everyone in the room. And then Peabody shows up. And then Alice Swallow shows up. And then &#x85;Bringing Up Baby never slows down; it gets kookier (and better) as it goes along. It's a solid example of a perfect film. Hawks gives the material the zip it needs, Hepburn and Grant live the screenplay (ad-libbing and all), the supporting actors kick any chances of fatigue in the crotch &#x97; everything, and I mean everything, fits together flawlessly. In 1938, it was a flop, a critical shrug. In 2015, it's a masterpiece, a cinematic diamond. "},{"Title":"Bringing Up Baby!","Date":"20 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Easily the best film I've watched so far (at least, best comedy) Very fun and charming, keeps you interested the entire way through.Zoologist David Huxley needs a $1 million in funding to complete his 4 year project and reassembling dinosaur relics. While attempting several times to meet with the possible donor, a beautiful young woman Susan seems to get in him way, making him look foolish in front of the donor.This film was very charming and funny. Both actors Katherine Hepburn and Cary Grant were such a joy to watch and seemed to have great chemistry with one another. Although the film had its redundancies at times, it was just enough to keep you watching. "},{"Title":"Mayhem galore in this wonderful comedy","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There can be little doubt about this being a screwball comedy. It has all the elements. The woman who befuddles the man. Witty dialog and repartee between the two. Their emerging attraction. Crazy antics with very funny slapstick. The two characters bump, trip and fall their way into romance. And, talk about chemistry &#x96; Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn have it in Bringing Up Baby. The entire cast shine in this wonderful RKO comedy. Katherine Hepburn is the frenetic Susan, and she nails the character beautifully. Cary Grant is a perfect model of an absent-minded professor. In this case, he's otherwise preoccupied most of the time. His Dr. David Huxley is the most unlikely match for Susan, but it works exceedingly well. Charles Ruggles is hilarious as Major Applegate. May Robson is ideal as Aunt Elizabeth. Virginia Walker plays Alice Swallow. She is the type of person one might expect a no-nonsense professor to have as a fiancé. On their honeymoon, they might label bones or search for fossils on the seashore. This was Walker's first movie and she didn't make another until 1945. She got bit parts in four films that year and then died at age 30 in 1946. Little information is available about her or the cause of her death. A newspaper notice said she died after a long illness. One of the funniest scenes in Bringing Up Baby is when Susan and David are in the restaurant. She accidentally rips the back of his suit jacket. Then he accidentally rips the back off her dress &#x96; exposing her girdle from behind. They hurry out of the restaurant, walking in step against one another, David in the back. The extras in the restaurant got a charge out of it as well. I don't see how a director could shoot such a scene as though the people around them wouldn't notice. Everyone must have had great laughs on the set that day. David has a line toward the end of the film that sums up their relationship. Now, it isn't that I don't like you, Susan, because after all, in moments of quiet, I'm strongly drawn towards you; but &#x85; well, there haven't been any quiet moments.For his short appearance in the film, Barry Fitzgerald is in one of the funniest short scenes. He plays Mr. Gogarty. Toward the end when the mayhem has many of the characters gathered in the jail house, Gogarty is ready to go fisticuffs and a big deputy just picks him up by the collar and seat of his pants &#x96; as if he were a sack of beans &#x96; and carries him into a cell. This film is wonderful escapist humor for the times, and it's just as funny today. It is madcap action all the way, with one funny sequence after another. "},{"Title":"Comedy Subverts Reality","Date":"26 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After 200+ reviews, it's hard to add anything. So, just a few comments. Good thing Hawks keeps events moving, that way we don't have time to think about the implausibles. Sure, if story elements are analyzed apart from the film itself-- as many critics do-- the madcap is lost, and not much is funny. But that's why film is a different medium from analytic prose. There're a visual, pacing and editing dimension to film that can carry viewers along regardless of reality. The situations in Baby are highly contrived and bear only passing resemblance to real situations. Yet the overall artistry is what diverts attention away from could this really happen.Now, I'm no fan of Hepburn's for many reasons that others have. Yet, again, Hawks' rapid-fire pacing plus constant talk never give her time nor focus to be stagy or emotive. Overall, I thought she and Grant worked the madcap wonderfully. Then too, catch that final scene that's not only poignantly funny but also serves as a fine visual metaphor of redemption&#x97;she knocks down his obsession with old bones, while he lifts her out of gilded isolation. I guess my only complaint is the over-extended jailhouse scene that's padding Catlett's screen time, but weakens the movie's narrative structure.All in all, I'm with those who think the movie a madcap classic, thanks to Hawks, Hepburn, Grant, and a fine furry friend. "},{"Title":"Bringing up Baby Review","Date":"1 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bringing up baby is a fun movie with great characters. I really enjoyed the comedy in this movie and I think that is all due to the fact that Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn have such great chemistry on screen. They both complement each other in Grant being the more serious type just trying to get out of the presence of Hepburn but she plays a sweet goofy type that after all just wants Grant to stick around with her and all her crazy hijinxs. That is what makes the movie so much fun are these two and the comedy is great with the leopard and one scene that stands out it when Grant is buying meat and the butcher thinks it just for him and they think he is going to eat 10 pounds of raw steak. Overall, Bringing up Baby is a funny little movie I enjoyed and gets a 8/10. "},{"Title":"Constable, she's making all this up out of motion pictures she's seen!","Date":"21 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Mild-mannered paleontologist (Cary Grant) meets free-spirit (Katharine Hepburn) who turns his world upside down in this classic comedy from Howard Hawks. This is the quintessential screwball comedy. It moves along at a breakneck pace with one zany, wacky scene after another. The characters are likable and fun. Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn head a great cast. Both prove what marvelous talent they had at comedy. A big flop at the time of its release, it's since gone on to be recognized as the seminal classic that it is. Definitely recommended for everybody. If you are new to Grant and Hepburn films, this is a perfect place to start. "},{"Title":"Silly quick talking rom-com","Date":"19 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Dr. David Huxley (Cary Grant) works at Stuyvesant Museum of Natural History. He's excited with the incoming bone to finish the brontosaurus skeleton. He is going to marry his proper and proficient assistant Alice Swallow. He needs a large endowment from Mrs. Carleton Random, and needs her lawyer Alexander Peabody. He is constantly bothered by the wild Susan Vance (Katharine Hepburn). She thinks he's in love with her. Meanwhile he can't get away from her fast enough. Little does he know that she's a close friend of Mr. Peabody.Capers, a leopard, misunderstandings, and quick talking are all the hallmarks of this movie. I do wonder if the Susan character is way too flaky. Although it does lend itself to great slapstick comedy. I like Hepburn's ability to quick talk, and she's wacky like a loopy clueless teenage girl. It's probably her silliest character ever. She's a MPDG before the phrase was coined. "},{"Title":"A true screwball comedy","Date":"14 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There are a lot of films from the 1930s and 1940s that are incorrectly referred to a screwball comedies. This film ought to almost be considered the textbook example of a screwball comedy. Unfortunately, Howard Hawks, the director, didn't even quite get his own film! He though it didn't work because there were no normal characters in the film...which exactly makes it a screwball comedy.Think of our two main characters. Cary Grant who is a brilliant scientist with very few social skills. Katherine Hepburn who has no intellectual prowess whatsoever, but who has oodles of social skills, though they are a bit unusual. A perfect pairing. Then you have Hepburn's aunt, who now owns a leopard as a pet...who is running after Charles Ruggles, a big game hunter (of sorts). And then you have dinosaur bones versus a dog. What more do you need for a screwball comedy? One of the funniest scenes in film is in this movie -- where Katerine Hepburn's dress falls apart, and he covers it up first with his top hat, and then with his own body...as they walk through a ritzy restaurant! This comedic role is one of Grant's best. His acrobatic/athletic skills fit some of the slapstick perfectly, and his general demeanor is what you never see in any other Cary Grant role. Hepburn reportedly had a lot of difficulty with the comedy, but she comes across well as an almost total airhead. The primary supporting cast is terrific -- May Robson as the eccentric aunt, Charles Ruggles good as the big-game hunter, and a couple of great scenes with veteran comic actor Walter Catlett as a constable. You'll briefly see some other faces -- Ward Bond, and Barry Fitzgerald has a small part.Most every scene in this film made me at least smile, and a few times I laughed out loud, and that's something I rarely do. I wasn't thrilled with the swinging ladder scene at the close of the movie. That was just stupid, and they could have gotten to the same conclusion with something that would have seemed more realistically possible. But, overall, the movie's a gem...a true screwball comedy. "}{"Title":"The animal inside ...","Date":"20 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Animals play a significant role in Bringing Up Baby, adding absurdity to the comic situations and its theme ofcrazed infatuation. When we first meet him, palaeontologist David Huxley (Grant) is preparing to marry his co-worker Alice Swallow (Walker). Alice, we learn, is a rational, no-nonsense woman who sees marriage as a convenient and rational transaction rather than as an expression of love. As the film opens, David and Alice are putting the final touches on a brontosaurus skeleton that he has been working on for five years. The skeleton seems to be a symbol of the couple's relationship - dry, brittle, tenuous, old and, most importantly, dead. Enter Susan Vance (Hepburn), whose wild anarchic nature is just what the doctor ordered. She seems, on the surface, hair-brained - and this may be true - but her ditziness is the result of being absolutely, utterly, ridiculously head-over-heals in love (at first sight, as is the case with most l'amour fou scenarios) with David and doing whatever she can to sabotage his plans to marry Alice. Susan's leopard, named Baby, is the symbol of her love for David, for the moment the leopard lays its eyes on him, it is instantly affectionate and follows him around, just as Susan does. Jittery David is, of course, terrified of the beast and all that it represents. The leopard becomes an increasingly useful symbol as the film continues. At her aunt's estate in Connecticut, Susan releases another leopard its cage, thinking it is Baby captured by zoo officials when in fact it is a rogue leopard from the circus on its way to be gassed after attacking someone. With two leopards on the loose, the analogy becomes unmistakable - the wild leopard that Susan releases is David's libido, free at last after being repressed for so long in a loveless relationship. Indeed, towards the end of the film, when the wild leopard traps the host of characters in the local jail, it is nervous, terrified David who steps up and boldly saves the day. This I suppose is just one way of reading and enjoying a film like Bringing Up Baby. i think it's interesting that the film announces its interested in exploring psychoanalysis with the inclusion of a character who is a Freudian therapist (Dr Lehman played by Fritz Feld). Psychoanalysis was, of course, very popular among Hollywood screenwriters between the 30s and 50s who adopted all manner of coded symbols for sex after Joseph Breen's Production Code so tightly reasserted control over what could and couldn't be represented on screen. But the fact that Dr Lehman's diagnoses are so far off tells us that the science of the mind is no match for the power of l'amour fou, which turns men and women into wild, irrational carnal beasts. "},{"Title":"screwball comedy is not for everyone","Date":"22 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" By design-of-nature and my environment of upbringing, I incline to keep a sensible mind with regard of viewing films, so when a screwball comedy goes it its extreme with uper-rapid pace and madcap characters, it is pretty understandable why initially this Howard Hawks film bombed tragically by its acceptance both commercially and critic-wisely, albeit Grant and Hepburn's dedicative endeavor, a well-crafted film script and its astonishing achievement of the animal (a leopard and a dog) performance (credits to their trainers as well). But now generally hailed as a paragon comedy by consensus, I wonder maybe I was born in a wrong era. I am not saying I dislike the film, it is a tongue-in-cheek urban tale which generates unsolicited laughters abound, but the off-putting disposition of Hepburn's Susan does impede me from fully appreciating this work. The story is a straight arrow zoology professor David (Grant) meets a scatterbrain wealthy girl Susan, who is inexplicably smitten with him, they first met in a golf field and without any context, once Susan sets her eyes on him, she is playing all the manipulative tricks to keep David from getting married and as stereotyped as it sounds, after a succession of zany slapsticks (mainly concerns finding a pet leopard and a barking dog), the two prove they really deserve each other. Grant is quite proficient in his usual orbit of a harmless gentleman with a double chin, plagued by laughter-induced mishaps when he is die hard trying to procure a million dollar donation for his museum, inconveniently the benefactor turns out to be Susan's auntie (Robson). Hepburn, never exemplifies herself as an excellent comedian, makes a great effort to match Grant's comic timing with her hotheaded whimsy, but the result is rather a hyperbole than a substantial stretch. Supporting players are basically expendable, Charles Ruggles' hunting-drivel-talking leopard-growl-mimicking dinner guest is the essence of what a bore a bourgeois boffin could be, and for whom we should all weep.Hawks manages to show off some camera artifices to shot the scenes between human cast and the carnivore feline, it is still magically done although we all witnessed the CGI tiger in LIFE OF PI (2012, 10/10) with awe and amazement, I suggest a remake with swapped sex, a well-heeled young man possessed with a priggish female zoologist, I doubt anyone could take the challenge, sex equality is still a halfway deal, and it goes without saying there will be a slew of CGI beasts around them. "},{"Title":"adorable","Date":"24 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" if you believe than all 30 years comedies are same fruit basket, you are wrong. if you see Katherine Hepburn only as feminism icon, you make a great mistake. because this film is out of ordinaries rules. a great, amazing, chaotic, seductive comedy. out of expectations, full of flavor of its period but, in same time, real special. it is an adorable surprise. nothing more. a man, a woman and a lot of crazy adventures. entertainment but, in same measure, a story of love with different bricks and spices. it has something from Russian comedies but, in same time, it respects the law of Hollywood. a precise chaos. that is it. like a firework. or, only, like a splendid birthday cake. "},{"Title":"Good writing, great comic performances and many laughs along the way.","Date":"12 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Film Review &#x96; Bringing Up BabyHoward Hawk's screwball comedy, Bringing Up Baby (1938), that entails a series of misunderstandings occurring one after the other between a polite paleontologist, a gorgeous clumsy woman and a leopard named Baby. After their run in at a golf course, Susan (Katharine Hepburn) convinces David (Cary Grant) to help take care of her auntie's pet leopard, as she believes David is a zoologist rather than a paleontologist. A series of comical errors ensue throughout the film played out by excellent overall performances by the entire cast. The plot was at times very frustrating to follow, due to the absurd misunderstandings that consist of stupidity too hard to believe. This is most prominent towards the end when somehow everyone involved ends up in trouble with the police. However, aside from that, the film is a joy to watch for the brilliant acting and screen presence of Cary Grant and for the wonderful comic timing by Katharine Hepburn. Hepburn and Grant share great on-screen chemistry which at first seems to elicit the dynamic of a brother/sister friendship. Though as the film progresses, their bizarre relationship unfolds into quite an unlikely romance that didn't seem entirely convincing. In many scenes, Hawks and the editor, George Hively, deliberately showed long durations between cuts, eliciting a dynamic that resonates with an on-stage play. This decision was cleverly made to accentuate the acting skills of the cast members, particularly Hepburn and Grant. The camera lets the comedy unfold through their performances without interruption. This technique allows them the freedom that two great actors require to get the best out of their talents. It is a technique that has since been used throughout cinema for decades. Bringing Up Baby is a classical film that consists of good writing, great comic performances and many laughs along the way. "},{"Title":"Zany","Date":"7 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bringing Up Baby is a charming film, starring legends Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn. It's a zany film, with crazy characters and unreasonable situations that play out perfectly for the protagonists. Hepburn is funny as Susan, a character oblivious to Grant's dismay. But Grant, whose only other movie I've seen is North By Northwest, is hilarious as the awkward and soft- spoken paleontologist. He's the most funny part. The constable is also funny, with his cloudy perception.The plot's just silly, with money and leopards. But it's not really special, we just kind of watch the events play out and laugh a bit. I'm a hard critic when it comes to comedy, so I didn't laugh too much. Don't let its age fool you, Bringing Up Baby is a fun film- it's just not a very special one. "},{"Title":"Typical good for a rainy day sort of  comedy...","Date":"17 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When I entered the movie hall to watch Bringing Up Baby i had a feeling of deja vu !! I thought it would be very similar to Mr. Blandings Builds His Dream House but NO! it ain't omkara.. The only thing similar in both movies is the village!! Debutant Cary Grant wastes no time in setting up his drama, throwing you into the story immediately, never wasting more time on unnecessary links.Ishqiya is pure delight.. Both in terms of the narrative that moves from one tangy twist to another and in terms of the performances.. The film's USP is its lingo and witty dialogues which keep you tickling all the time! Added to that the biggest star of the movie is the script per se! Set in the village of gorakhpur ishqiya deals with two small gangsters Cary Grant and female Katharine Hepburn who make a plan to kidnap a small burmese tiger to earn money and return to the head! But then the thing which will blow you away is the chemistry between the trio! Cary Grant with his great comic timimg and abusive dialogues will win numerous accolades! Barry Fitzgerald is the legend as everyone knows but in this film he shines in a great manner in his romantic scenes with Hannah!And of course Virginia Walker oh what a performance she has given in this film! She has carried away a widow woman full of vengeance in a superb way..The climax of the movie is fast paced and is full of twists and turns but the scenes between Grant and Hepburn are hilarious! Go have a blast! My Rating 8/10 Thanks and Regards.. "},{"Title":"Breakneck pacing, brilliant dialog, and great comic acting, setting the standard for decades to come","Date":"14 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a film I hadn't seen since my teens, back in the early '80s, and I am blown away anew by it now, having just watched it on DVD. The film's a masterpiece of American cinema. The great Cary Grant is in his element as the victim of a series of madcap circumstances -- his reactions throughout are priceless, as are his verbal responses (many of them ad-libs)-- and Katherine Hepburn is absolutely adorable, not the way she normally plays it, in her crazed role. Both actors turn in a very physical performance, too, including some falls that must have left a mark.Howard Hawks was unquestionably one of the best film directors of all time, and one of the most influential, though largely unheralded during his life. He could direct anything, it seems, and this is a prime example of his facility with comedy. Not just comedy, either, but frantic, madcap, slapstick, screwball comedy, comedy of a type so unrelenting and fast-paced that it could easily undermine the film or create fatal viewer fatigue were it not for the fact that it was written (and subsequently improvised upon) so perfectly sharply and featured such great actors in every role. The lines voiced by the actors are superb, but some of the unspoken communication is even better. Even the leopard (a jaguar, actually, as would be expected from a South American origin) was great, and one beautiful cat, as was the terminally annoying little yappydog that I was hoping Baby would eat. Just as Hawks was under-appreciated during his career, perhaps in part because in hindsight we can now see how far ahead of his time he always was, so this film suffered upon original release; indeed, this film was detrimental to the career trajectories of its director and two stars.To say that they don't make 'em like this any more would be an understatement. The fact is, really, that they NEVER made 'em like this, though some other highly entertaining 'screwball' comedies of the time (including Cary Grant properties) also provide excellent viewing even today. The dialog is not only rapid-paced but very edgy and loaded with double entendres, and overlapping dialog paved the way for similar devices by the likes of Robert Altman and the makers of Hill Street Blues and other works intentionally grounded in non-cinematic reality.The two main stars, of course, make the film, but every part here is cast to perfection. In the DVD commentary, a very interesting Peter Bogdanovich (he seems a fascinating dude, too) points out that all of the characters in this film are off-center and that Howard Hawks later realized that was the fault with the film and in the future never repeated his mistake, always including characters who were more 'normal' just to provide a basis for comparison. Regardless, every one of the quirky and halfway-nuts characters in this film is perfectly executed and adds to the whole; somehow, the film succeeds brilliantly despite, or perhaps because of, every player being way off-kilter, a feat perhaps not possible with actors of lesser caliber.My one concern here is that, eventually, someone will get around to pitching a remake of this with Ben Affleck and J Lo in the lead roles... "},{"Title":"The (Big) Cat's Pajamas","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Even with a bad print - like the one I've just seen - the class shines through. It's mind-boggling to think that just after she made this gem Katie Hepburn acquired her infamous sobriquet 'box-office poison' so quit Hollywood and persuaded Philip Barry to write a vehicle in which she could appear on Broadway (the result, 'The Philadelphia Story' was such a smash that MGM bought it and the film version was shown in a double bill with 'Baby' earlier today. In his first screen writing credit Hagar Wilde (who shared a writing credit with Dudley Nichols) hit one out of the park. The script follows the Rules of farce; an introductory scene, more or less 'straight' which makes as many plot points as possible followed by a rapidly spiralling series of off-the-wall incidents that have their own demented logic. The opening scene establishes David Huxley (Cary Grant) as a zoologist who's spent several months assembling a creature from the Jurassic Age who even as we watch receives news that the final piece, an intercostal clavicle, has been located and is in the post. We learn also that he is engaged to Alice Swallow (Virginia Walker) who we know he will never marry if only because Katie Hepburn is Grant's co-star, they will marry on the morrow but tight-haired eyeglass-wearing Walker makes it clear that there will be no conjugal relations and reminds Huxley that he is due to play golf with the lawyer of a possible benefactress who may very well donate a sorely needed million dollars to the museum. From here we can go either way and Grant did just that in North By North West which he began as an equally normal citizen but this time became embroiled in dramatic rather than screwball progressions. Those first few minutes are the only thing even remotely resembling normality. At the golf course Susan Vance (Hepburn) plays Grant's ball and holes it on the 18th green and not content with that gets into his car instead of her own and writes it off before they both drive off leaving the lawyer - on the first hole - to his own devices. They meet again that evening in a night club and a third character, the 'crazy' psychiatrist (Fritz Feld) is woven into the plot and we still haven't got to 'Baby', a leopard that Susan's brother has sent her from Brazil. It's easy to see why the French have so much time for Howard Hawks; in his time he proved himself a master of several genres with such credits as Only Angels Have Wings, I Was A Male War Bride (Grant again), Ball Of Fire, Red River, Rio Bravo, etc. Here he keeps all the balls spinning in the air as the likes of Walter Catlett (Constable Slocum), May Robson (Aunt Elizabeth), Charlie Ruggles (Maj Horace Applegate) and Barry Fitzgerald (Gogarty) keep the plot spinning just this side of out of control (for good measure future names Jack Carson and Ward Bond make uncredited appearances. Though we may question exactly how much the usually sombre Nichols (The Informer, Stagecoach, etc) contributed to this zaniness it's really academic; we have the finished product, that's all that matters. "},{"Title":"Sorry, not the greatest screwball comedy","Date":"26 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I couldn't take it any more and had to finally write a review for this movie after getting tired of reading other reviews claiming funniest film ever, one of the greatest film classics, or what film were you watching?(the latter in response to negative reviews). I just forced myself to watch it carefully for maybe the 4th time before I wrote this review and have to say I found Hepburn and Grant more annoying than the previous times I viewed the film. Others rave about the dizzying pace and nonstop zany dialogue, but I found it grating on my nerves. Grant seems to be reprising the same over-the-top character he played in Arsenic and Old Lace and Hepburn plays a scatter-brained, intellectually challenged woman who is endlessly running around yelling David over and over again that for me became repetitious, tedious and curiously lacking in humor. And the coup de grace for me was the jail scene where the most irritating and obnoxious buffoon of all, the constable, headlined an extremely painful, interminably long and unfunny sequence centering around whether or not Susan had an aunt. It reminds me of some of the over-the-top unfunny sequences in highly regarded Preston Sturges comedies. I'm no stranger to screwball comedies and have watched many of the best movies of that era, so I have a rather extensive frame of reference for this type of film. I rate movies on whether I could watch them over and over. This movie is not one of them. The first thirty minutes were very promising, but the rest of the movie was inconsistent and periodically tedious. Cary Grant has always been one of my favorite actors, but I don't think this movie can hold a candle to two of my favorites starring him--The Awful Truth and My Favorite Wife. I much prefer Irene Dunnes more subdued style in these films to Katherine Hepburn. Don't try to tell me I don't understand the point of the film hell-bent mayhem or such. It just doesn't work for me and I'm not drinking the kool-aid. It's amusing, but please, please don't call it the greatest screwball comedy ever made! "},{"Title":"Possibly THE Very Best American Comedy Ever - Certainly In The Top 10","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am a movie buff. So to say that this is my #1 favorite movie comedy of all time is saying something. But I don't think any movie critic could ever argue against putting this film - at the very least - in the Top 10 very best comedies ever made. Nor is there a comedy, I believe, that has a greater chemistry than exists between the main characters (including the delightful contributions by character actors May Robson, Charlie Ruggles and Barry Fitzgerald). You might then wonder why I'm going to confess I would not put it amongst the Top 10 ROMANTIC comedies. It is, at least on the surface, a romantic comedy. But the romantic side of this doesn't work quite as well as the comedy - for my money. Yet, that being said, I'd still argue it should be listed in the Top 50 top romantic comedies ever (which is still saying something). This is not to take away from the film but to say that romance really isn't a strong component of this film - nor was it (I believe) meant to be. It's just a framework upon which to create a comic work of genius. (I'm not sure many would say Hepburn and Grant had a lot of romantic chemistry here. In other words, unlike When Harry Met Sally or The Shop Around The Corner, the resulting romance at the end of this film doesn't warm your heart quite as much; it's not as convincing or moving as other romantic comedies on a romantic level.) But that's a trifle. To fault it for that is just quibbling. Because here you have two of the greatest actors ever - Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn - at their very funniest. You have a screenplay by Dudley Nichols and Hagar Wilde that crackles with wit and hilarity. You have a pace that's like a roller coaster and laughs that will have you on the floor at times. No male actor was better at comedy than Cary Grant and here he sets the standard for how to do it. No actor can best his performance here, nor have they come close - in my humble opinion. (Grant, of course, put in incredible comic performances earlier in The Awful Truth and later on in Arsenic And Old Lace and other movies; yet I still think he laid the law down especially in this movie. This is how you do it.) Katharine Hepburn - who was as good a comic actress as serious - was absolutely inspired in this film and was never better. Was there a better female acting performance in a comedy before this movie - funnier, more convincing, with more energy and sophistication? I'd argue not (although Claudette Colbert was brilliant in It Happened One Night and Irene Dunne was stellar in The Awful Truth, etc., etc.). And you'd be hard-pressed to find a better female comedic performance in a movie afterward - although TV's Lucille Ball and Carol Burnett would later raise the bar even higher, on the tube. But I wouldn't be surprised if they learned some lessons from Hepburn here. This is just a joy ride of genius that - like all great movies - is worth seeing again and again. With its sophisticated side and its more vaudeville-inspired physical humor, this fires on every cylinder and delights over and over again. "}{"Title":"Baby Is The Star.","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Howard Hawks directed this famous comedy that stars Cary Grant as zoology professor Dr. David Huxley, who is awaiting a brontosaurus bone that will complete the skeletal reconstruction for his museum, which is hoping for a big grant from a rich donor. David is also looking forward to his forthcoming marriage to his assistant Alice Swallow(played by Virginia Walker) His efforts at securing the money are repeatedly thwarted by crazy heiress Susan Vance(played by Katharine Hepburn) and her pet leopard named Baby... Overrated comedy has two big problems First, it tries much too hard for madcap comedy, when it merely comes across as forced, contrived, and absurd. Second, the romance between Susan and David is most unappealing, since this crazy woman repeatedly wrecks his life, and he seems so oblivious to it that he loses all viewer sympathy; the person I really felt sorry for was poor Alice Swallow, who seems like a much better woman to me! (But that would be a different film altogether...) "},{"Title":"Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn shine","Date":"2 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" this was a terrific comedy,in my opinion.Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn have great chemistry together.the dialogue is sharp and witty,and flows beautifully.the whole movie is basically one very funny misunderstanding after another.the romance angle works well too,as it's not overdone,but played just right.i love Dr. Huxley's(Grant)droll wit paired with the playful feigned(?)naive innocence of Susan Vance(Hepburn).they are a perfect match for each other,and you can't help but root for them to get together before it's all over.it all adds up to one really fun 102 minutes.i was sad to see it end.for me,Bringing Up Baby is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Silly, but funny and entertaining.","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There isn't much to comment on this movie. Just that it's a 1930's comedy with a lot of funny gags that almost started a genre - the screwball comedy.The plot is about a museum caretaker that goes to a golf match trying to raise money for the museum, but he bumps into Susan Vance, a woman that falls in love with him, and does everything to keep him around. It's really one big mess, with even leopards appearing, but that's why it's very funny. It doesn't make a whole lot sense, but it's nice to watch. You don't get bored one minute of it. The main leads here are Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn. They are both great in their parts. Cary Grant doesn't play his usual kinda of guy - here he is weird, with a big glass, etc, but he has a great comedy timing. Never saw him in a comedy movie before, but he gets the job done. Katharine Hepburn is also nice, but not as great as her male counterpart. Howard Hawks' also does a nice job directing.So, this is a funny, light and entertaining 30' comedy, the type of movie you watch on a Sunday afternoon with the whole family - but that's it. There's nothing more to it.8/10 "},{"Title":"Grant, great again!","Date":"16 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cary Grant was great. He's always good. But the movie? It was a little bit better than okay. I was amused. I didn't love it, and some of the jokes were lame and annoying, but it was amusing nonetheless. Katharine Hepburn was also good as well. But there is only so much someone can do with a weird and out of control script like this. An actor can only make it as good as he or she is. Either way, I really liked watching Katharine Hepburn and Gary Grant in their scenes together, they had a good amount of chemistry, and lit up the screen when they were next to each other. It's definitely not my favorite, but I would consider watching it again. I can only imagine how a remake would come out. "},{"Title":"Good Stuff","Date":"7 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" To be honest, I wasn't too sure how I would feel about a screwball comedy from the 1930's. I used to picture these films using lame humor that might have been funny for my great-grandparents. As it turns out, I really enjoyed this movie. I tend to really enjoy films where the dialogue is quick and snappy. Catherine Hepburn was and Cary Grant were exceptionally sharp in their zany back-and-forth conversations. The dialogue reminds me of the 1994 movie Clerks. The humor is much different but the delivery from the actors is very much alike. I recommend that movie, as well. It wasn't a box-office hit; in fact it was a total flop. However, people in the 30's were kinda going through a little depression; they were ticked off all of the time. Intelligent and equally hilarious dialogue is everything, in my opinion. This movie has that ten-fold. "},{"Title":"Not what I thought it would be.....","Date":"29 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have been a film geek for many years. During my childhood I read every Mad magazine movie spoof that I could, knowing classic films before I ever saw them. Then my father started to let me rent films I would not be able to with my mother. And now I watch films from all over the world. One era of films I never really dabbled in was anything before the mid 1940's. Bringing Up Baby was made in 1938 and stars two of Hollywood's greatest actors, well, at least that is what I have always been told. Katharine Hepburn is always praised for her amazing acting, and this being a screwball comedy, I feel that I don't get a chance to see her shine. I have not seen much of her work, but I am willing to. I just didn't feel that this was a good vehicle for me to be introduced to her. Carey Grant on the other hand was wonderful. Prior to seeing this I was told that he and director Howard Hawks were very close and Grant would try anything for him in his films. Knowing this I payed close attention to Grants performance and was glad that I did. His facial expressions and reactions to the situations he was in were great. Besides the two of them the plot was somewhat solid but to plain for my taste. The older films have a lack of what I am used to, and because I was not familiar with more of them until now, I feel I am set in my ways and need to get out of them if I can. There is a lot of silence in the film, due to a minimal musical score and sound effects, and at times the actors seem to be talking way too fast, probably because it was a screwball comedy. Now I had seen Preston Sturges Sullivan's Travels a few years ago and loved it. I want to now go back and re-watch it so I can compare the two films as screwballs. I am sure that I will watch Bringing Up Baby again sometime because my mother and grandmother think it's wonderful. I want to sit and see what they think is so wonderful. "},{"Title":"Best Film to Date!!","Date":"28 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Narrative, plot, and patterns are what makes a classic movie interesting to watch. Good acting and suspenseful climatic scenes are what pulls viewers into the movie, making them feel like they're in the scene with them in wonder as they're curious about what's going to happen to each of the characters.Bringing Up Baby is an example of how narrative, plot, and patterns are used at its best in a comedy-romance film. Hepburn and Grant's acting skills were excellent and funny with great comedic timing in every scene, including the various climatic scenes within themselves and the animals, in a prince saving the princess saving mode manner. The comedic timing and the use of animals in the movie in their training was excellent. The animals were great comic devices that add a whole new dimension to the acting scene. Watching the animals and the characters in the comedic scenes made me laugh, smile, and kept me wondering what was going to happen to them. The plot of the film flowed well with the scene changes and the great acting.I would recommend this movie to anybody that's interested in a great comedy and is in need of a great laugh. Overall, an excellent movie!! "},{"Title":"''Probably the best comedy in the world...''","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw thousands and thousands of movies in my life ... but that was the best comedy I have ever seen. Two titans of the movies industry... Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn ... they were so perfect together. O comedy with style...two people so different end up loving each other and were brought together by destiny and passion. The ''crazy'' Katherine brings back to life the boring Cary and shows him how to live again. A lot of very funny moments , along with fascinating acting .... made up a masterpiece. Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn... they never got married , although they were parters in movies many time.... too bad. Cary Grant is the best actor that ever lived ... I'm sure. "},{"Title":"Hysterically funny","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is the way comedies were meant to be. Great comedy has got to be a bit ridiculous (but not too much so) in order to really get some laughs out of the audience. Bringing up Baby satisfies that aspect of great comedy in a really big way. I just love how this film quickly moves from one bizarre situation to another. All comedies should be as fast-paced as this one and should not make their audience sit around waiting. The situations the characters find themselves in here are not supposed to be overly realistic or believable, so don't expect them to be when you watch this film. Some of the funniest scenes in this movie include Grant and Hepburn running around looking for their leopard. There just happens to be two leopards roaming around outside, ironically after Mr. Horace Applegate (Charles Ruggles) said there couldn't possible be a leopard in the state of Connecticut. That's just a taste of how funny this film can be. It is a film that must be seen to truly laugh at everything in it. Though I have read some reviews of people that did not like this film, I have no reason to suspect anyone would not enjoy this. If all you've ever been exposed to is the crude and annoying comedies of today, see this and you'll laugh hysterically for the first time.***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"No if's why's or bone's about it!","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" (Some Spoilers) With things looking up for nerdy paleontologist Dr. David Bone Huxley, Cary Grant, all of a sudden out of the blue, or better yet the green, nutty socialite Susan Vance, Katharine Hepburn, walked into his life! And Bone or David's life would never be the same again!Having finally found the last piece of a four year jigsaw puzzle, a full skeleton of a 100 foot long brontosaurus, the elusive inter-coastal clavicle bone David is happy as a little boy to hear that the rich and animal loving Elizabeth Random Mary Robson, is to give his money starved museum a $1,000,000.00 grant to keep it aloft. It's the screwy Susan, who just happens to be Mrs. Random's niece, who turns things upside down for David by not only getting him on the outs with his stuffy and narrow minded, in her obsession with the museum, fiancée Alice Swallow,Virginia Walker, but her Aunt Elizabeth as well! David is also driven insane during the entire film by Susan's pet leopard Baby. Baby happens to be a gift from Susan's brother the Frank Buck like big game hunter Michael to her Aunt Elizabeth. It's Susan's job to see that Baby gets to her Aunt Elizabeth by the very next evening which incidentally coincides with the luckless David's scheduled marriage to Alice Swallow!Laugh a minute screwball comedy with both David and Susan getting caught up with getting Baby safely back home, to Aunt Elizabeth, and at the same time David's precious one of a kind inter-coastal clavicle bone stolen by the, Aunt Elizabeth, family dog George! Both David & Susan run themselves silly chasing George all over Aunt Elizabeth's 26 acer estate trying to got George to dig up the bone, the inter-coastal clavicle, that he buried there.It's really Baby who steals the movie from right under it's two legendary stars Cary Grant & Katharine Hepburn's noses in the few scenes he's together with them. Baby has the time of his life driving everyone in the movie either crazy of fearing for their lives. It's later that the tame and lovable Baby is mistaken for an escaped, from a local carnival, and vicious leopard who's anything but the friendly type kitty cat that Baby is! And it's then when things in the film, if they didn't already, really start to go bananas!One of the best screwball comedies of all times with both Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn, in what was to be her first of many comedy roles, at their very comedic best. Remade some 45 years later with Ryan O'Neal and Barbara Streisand in Peter Bogdanovich's hysterical and modernized What's up Doc the movie Bringing up Baby is still the one screwball comedy that all other screwball comedy's are measured by. And as far as I can see will never be equaled much lass eclipsed by any of them.P.S The lovable and mischievously cute leopard Baby didn't look like a leopard at all looking more like a baby or very young jaguar. With his bull-like neck and muscular jaws, the most powerful of all the big jungle cats, and body as well as his over-sized and diamond or rosette-like spots inside of spots coat Baby had far more of a Jaugar then a leopard, who's far thinner and more streamlined, appearance. In fact Baby was said to have been captured by Susan's brother in the Amazon jungles of South America where jaguars, not African or Asian leopards, are in abundance! "}{"Title":"A very sweet film.","Date":"17 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is my first Cary Grant film - and I was not disappointed! Even though Bringing Up Baby has quite a deal of tense humour, slapstick and farce, it is enjoyable and worth watching for the acting, the plot and the animal training (the leopards, of which one of is Baby and George, the dog, are very well trained). Whatever you like, you will enjoy this film (unless you are on officially grumpy person). In this old black and white film, Cary Grant stars as an obsessed paleontologist, who has been constructing a dinosaur skeleton in the Mueseum of Natural History for five years. He just needs one bone to complete his work. As well as all this, he is going to be married the next day and his wedding gift to his future bride is the next dinosaur bone. However, the tables turn when a little later on, a young woman with a fiery personality, acted by Katherine Hepburn, spots him and falls in love with him. She does her best to make sure that he stays with her...I particularly recommend this film to people who do not mind tense humour, slapstick and farce, to people who like good acting, to people who like old black and white films and to people who like leopards. The recommended age is 11+. Enjoy Bringing Up Baby! -) "},{"Title":"a lot of fun, but maybe not as great as its newfound reputation","Date":"26 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When originally released, Bringing Up Baby was a commercial and critical flop, and was discarded for some time as something not quite as worthy as other works in Howard Hawks's body of work. Today, after years of rediscovery by fans of the stars Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn, it's considered a classic of the 'screwball' school of comedy, where the timing was graceful and the structure solid in the midst of madcap madness and silliness that involves specific, quirky personalities that should but don't quite always meld (hence the blueprint for many a romantic comedy for today). For me, it's not a flop nor is it quite as classic as I expected. It's a very fun escapade with two stars who often shine with their qualities to subvert (Grant) and meet (Hepburn) expectations of what they have to offer.Grant is akin here to Clark Kent, nerdy and awkward and just wanting to be left alone, but somehow being drawn into trouble (and, after all, wouldn't Grant make a good Kent/Superman?) Hepburn, meanwhile, can be very charming and lovable and also annoying in equal measure (though I'm sure the latter is part of the point with her character). They're a solid, combined force for Hawks's mildly crazy tale of two people who shouldn't have anything to do with one another but are put together under circumstances of the zany and funny a dog with a dinosaur bone, and a baby leopard that's tame and actually a pet but is at first thought to be out of the zoo (that is, until, its doppleganger shows up in the last third of the movie). We're led along on their adventures over a day and night to find the bone and the leopard, and how they confound and amuse and annoy those around them from family to policemen to possible betrothed (Grant's character).There are some classic moments, to be sure; I loved how Hepburn talks her way out of prison by sinking down to the level of mimicry that is totally lost on the cop; the chemistry between the two stars fluctuates wonderfully, depending on the scene or situation, like by the fire out in the wilderness; Grant is often so uncomfortable that we forget (for better or worse) how charismatic he usually is in place of this bumbling, meek but curious character; the dress gag, simply, is a riot, as is the bit with the robe (I'm gay! is a line that gets a laugh for other reasons today). But at the same time it's not totally a riot all the way through, with some moments falling kind of flat or just oh, that's funny as opposed to laugh-out-loud variety. It should appeal heavily to those who eat up romantic comedies like Hershey's kisses, as should die-hards for the two stars, and if it's on TV on a rainy day it's surely a must-see for at least a few minutes. That it's maybe not quite one of Hawks's best is up for minor debate. "},{"Title":"Noir photography and screwball situation reconciled!","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As light as a feather that fell from a mallard that the eponymous leopard ate is Howard Hawks' Bringing Up Baby. All genuflect before Hawks as the greatest of all cinema's entertainment directors!Kate Hepburn and Cary Grant shine as the screwballs in this zany, fantastical and weirdly chiaroscuro dreamland that's somewhere in this US of A. Soon-to-be-married Dr. David Huxley (Grant) is engaged to a career-supportive what's-her-name (her appearances are so fleeting that she's more like fog than a supporting character) &#150; everything is in place for a satisfying career in paleontology for the dorky doctor&#133;except for the grant, that is (this first scene features a full-scale brontosaur skeleton which becomes a metaphor for Huxley's future prospects). Off he goes to see about collecting those much-needed funds from some wealthy socialite who has money to burn. No sooner is he out golfing/begging does he run into the free-spirited Susan Vance (Hepburn). Through a series of bizarre, implausible encounters and misunderstandings do these two keep each other company - and the audience intrigued by extension.Interesting how Hawks' later feature His Girl Friday is the inverse reflection of this movie. Cary Grant's Huxley wants to further his career and Rosalind Russell's Johnson is looking to get out of hers &#150; both making ultimate decisions unexpected to themselves but all too obvious to the audience. Was Hawks conscious of his equal treatment of both genders in their relations to their careers? It's ruminations like these that keep his work so fresh, so&#133;democratic?Sure Bringing Up Baby skims the surface of life, but don't almost all movies do the same thing? Our interest, on the other hand, is held by the axioms presented to us in tolerable doses &#150; the mysteries of serendipity and coincidence that have the faculty to alter lives. This movie is inexplicably principled on reality. Is it at all surprising that our chief leads who strive to break the mold of quotidian existence end up in prison? "},{"Title":"Grant & Hepburn, Dinosaur Bones & Leopards - What More Could You Ask For?","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Howard Hawks classic Bringing Up Baby might be the perfect screwball comedy.  It features two great performers (Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn) in the lead roles, a supporting cast filled with talent, a manic, fast-paced story, and wonderful plot devices like dinosaur bones and two beautiful leopards.  For fans of the old 30's-style comedies, it doesn't get any better, and it also stands up well against anything made since.David (Grant) is a harried paleontologist who dreams of getting the final bone that will complete the dinosaur skeleton he's been working on for so long, while Susan (Hepburn) is a carefree socialite who takes a liking to the scientist and makes things up as she goes along.  When she acquires a live leopard, everything is in place for a series of crazy events.  There's a lot more to the plot than that, but it's much more fun to watch it than to analyze it.The comic timing of the director and the stars is flawless.  The supporting cast is perfect, and is an important part of making this such a great film.  Charles Ruggles, Barry Fitzgerald, May Robson, and the rest are all hilarious.  The excellent writing is also an indispensable part of the picture.All of the characters, plus both leopards and a dog, eventually come together in a wild climactic sequence full of non-stop laughs, capping off a great time.  Bringing up Baby is a must-see for anyone who likes classic comedies. "},{"Title":"You Can't Give it Anything But Love","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  And that's the honest truth! Bringing Up Baby is a ditzy, screwball, hilarious romance that leaves you laughing and swearing They don't make 'em like this anymore! Anyone at this website to find out if they should watch the movie or not should totally ignore the remarks of users Preston-10, Chike Jeffers, Hanichi, or GOB-2. This movie is wonderful! Some say that Hepburn was miscast, but she was absolutely amazing. I can't imagine another actress in this role who could have done it like she did. And Cary Grant! It's so funny to see him in the days before he played suave, polished gentlemen. He has real talent and it's really wonderful! Anyone who hates this movie is living back in the '30s, when it bombed at the box office. This is one of the best movies ever made, and definitely one of the funniest. So go watch it!   "},{"Title":"Good Hawks movie, great screwball comedy.","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"    Bringing Up Baby rightly deserves to be considered one of the best movies of all time. This classic screwball comedy contains all the essentials, including a strong-willed woman and a lower man.    This film though isn't director Hawks's best. Hawks typical theme of a group of professionals is very vague here. Hawks seemed to of skipped the rest of the group of archaeologists and decided to just focus on Grant's character.  Hawks would have been better showing what Grant's actions caused on the rest of the group a little more.    Now to acting. It is terrific all around. Grant and Hepburn are terrific with all the phyisical stunts and with the word humor, especially Hepburn. If you haven't seen it, go see this movie now. "},{"Title":"JEEPERS!!","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of the greatest comedies of all time. Grant and Hepburn are the perfect mis-matched couple. So many scenes are classic moments, and it is without doubt one of the best in cinema's first 100 years. The film ends with the perfect romantic ending. Not overdone, subtle to perfection; and still continuing the comedy.  "},{"Title":"Incredibly Funny!","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought that Bringing Up Baby was one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. Katharine Hepburn was so funny. She did a great job playing the cooky Susan Vance. Cary Grant was also great as David Huxley. I loved every seen that had to do with Baby, the leopard especially the parts when they sing to him.   "},{"Title":"The best Screwball comedy ever!","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant lead this hilariously funny romp.  Grant gives one of the best performances of his career.  Hepburn (my second favorite classic actress, first being Grace Kelly) gives a crazy, wacky performance as the nerotic Susan Vance, an heiress that falls for Grant.Watch for Grant's historical line -- I just went GAY all of the sudden -- while dressed in a lady's robe.  "},{"Title":"Pathetic!","Date":"8 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think this is one of the most pathetic of Katherine Hepburn's movie I have ever seen. I had a feeling her movies are overrated, but this movie beats them all.What surprises me is that this movie is in IMDb's top 250 list. How can anybody rating this movie be so oblivious to aesthetic sense. Depicting comedy or errors is always welcome, but the errors in this movie aren't comical, they get irritating. The plot is as flimsy as they come, twists all repetitive and copied from previous movies. I had to summon all the patience I have got just to get through this movie. One thing I recall wondering most while watching this movie -- Is this lousy movie ever gonna end! "}{"Title":"Can't Give You Anything But Love.","Date":"20 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cary Grant is a quiet paleontologist in New York who has never seen anything except the inside of a museum. He's waiting anxiously for the arrival of the bone, the intercostal clavicle, that will enable him to finish his four-year reconstruction of a Brontosaurus skeleton. Meanwhile he's trying to coax a million-dollar contribution to the museum from Mrs. Carlton Random. He's never met the elderly woman but has been dealing with her lawyer. During a friendly golf game with the lawyer, he bumps into Katherine Hepburn. She twists his uneventful life into knots. By the end of the movie he has apparently lost his million-dollar grant, his fiancée, his reputation, his new bone, his Brontosaurus reconstruction, and his eyeglasses -- except that at the last moment Hepburn shows up and restores everything to order. Well, almost.It's a delightfully silly movie with no aim other than to make the audience laugh and it succeeds wildly.Director Howard Hawks was educated at prep school and an Ivy League university and was not much of a scholar, so he dropped out. He appears never to have forgiven the eggheads who gave him bad grades because he took it out on intellectuals for the rest of his life. Intellectualism became for him a kind of false consciousness that needed damping -- or better yet extinction -- by giving in to impulses drawn from subcortical structures. I don't want to mix Marx and Freud but that's called regression in the service of the ego, or having a good time.It's often said of an admired old movie that they don't make them like this anymore. That's nonsense. They remake old classics all the time. They just do a lousy job at it.In this instance I'm not at all sure that they COULD make it again even if they tried. (And they have imitated the style -- Peter Bogdanovich's What's Up, Doc?) But who could direct such an up-tempo film today? If you stopped a DVD of the movie at random, it would likely freeze on three people talking at the same time. The style may have died with Billy Wilder. And who could replace Cary Grant? Katherine Hepburn is good, but she can be imitated by people like Jennifer Jason Leigh (The Hudsucker Proxy). Nobody could replace Cary Grant. Nobody did befuddlement better. And on those rare occasions when Grant acts goofy without knowing that he's doing so, he's spectacularly naive. Scene Grant walks into a butcher store to buy food for the leopard. He orders thirty pounds of sirloin steak. The owner gawks and asks if Grant wants it sliced or ground up. Neither, Grant replies nonchalantly, it's going to be eaten raw. And when he finishes that line, he's smiling pleasantly and he nods, slightly but emphatically, as if the reasoning behind his part of the exchange is immediately obvious to everyone else. The actor doesn't exist who could reproduce that gesture.The others in the cast are irreplaceable too. Fritz Feld as the all-knowing psychiatrist with a twitch. Walter Catlett from vaudeville as the cross-eyed chief of police. Barry Fitzgerald as the feisty drunken Irish gardener. There simply aren't those kind of character actors around anymore. And no such type would be accepted by modern audiences, let alone an entire cast full of nothing but such types. And the audience has become used to larger, splashier, more expensive films. Would they pay ten dollars to watch a movie in which the Connecticut woods are obviously on an RKO sound stage? In black and white? The indisputable success of this movie raises questions about the nature of comedy itself. How come we laugh at stories like this? (Step carefully, please. We don't want to disturb Freud again.) Well, considerations of space preclude an answer. For a full explanation, see my forthcoming book, Laughter Triumph or Disaster?, in which I demonstrate conclusively that the ludic impulse in man frequently manifests itself in terms of conflict. "},{"Title":"A milestone in film comedy","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A glorious marriage of dynamic set-pieces and hilarious misunderstands, BRINGING UP BABY is director Howard Hawks' comedic masterpiece and it unarguably remains one of the greatest film comedies ever committed to celluloid. This is a film that makes absolutely no pretensions about being anything other than a slapstick comedy, and it is never afraid of being too ridiculous or absurd in order to accomplish it's goals. BRINGING UP BABY only exists to make audiences scream with laughter, and it does so more effectively than practically any other motion picture comedy before or since. The hilarious screenplay by Dudley Nichols and Hagar Wilde is overflowing with madcap situations and rapid fire dialogue, and the phenomenally talented cast never misses a beat.The almost impossibly handsome Cary Grant delivers an uproarious performance as our tight-laced protagonist. The fact that Grant was arguably the most gorgeous man who ever lived only makes his portrayal of the film's stuffy palaeontologist even funnier. A major aspect of Grant's enormous appeal was that he never seemed to be depending upon his devastating handsomeness to be effective, and this dynamic has rarely been displayed better than in BRINGING UP BABY. The ever-glamorous Katharine Hepburn is so maddingly endearing as the film's scatter-brained heroine that it seems impossible to fathom why she was commonly referred to as box office poison by so many critics and theater-owners at the time (Hepburn would make a startling comeback in 1940's THE PHILADELPHIA STORY, and would remain a major box office star throughout the late-sixties).The rest of the cast rises to the same level as Grant and Hepburn, with veteran character actors Charles Ruggles, Walter Catlett, Barry Fitzgerald, and May Robson each turning in superb characterizations that rank among their very best work. The animal performers, including the canine Asta and feline Nissa (a leopard), are expertly trained and deliver performances that are every bit as impressive as the human actors with whom they share the screen. In the end, however, this is director Hawks' movie, and his inspired direction pulls off the impossible feat of repeatedly making every scene and every joke seem to top the one that came before it. Though BRINGING UP BABY was a box office failure at the time of it's release, it has since become highly regarded by virtually all major critics and most film fans as the comedy milestone that it is. "},{"Title":"Pure Craziness from Start to Finish","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is probably the craziest of all 30s screwball comedies, and it seems almost impossible today that it could have bombed when first released in 1938. I'm not sure Katharine Hepburn was ever much of an actress--I think she was good at picking roles in which she could just be Katharine Hepburn. But when she set her mind to playing ding-bats, she could be as ditzy as the best of them, and her character here may just be the ditziest ditz ever captured on film.Cary Grant was sort of a male Kate Hepburn in a way. He was never really called upon to act; directors just hired him whenever they needed someone to play Cary Grant. But the befuddled, exasperated character he creates in this movie is sensational, even if it didn't require Grant to flex his acting chops.Together, Grant and Hepburn are an unforgettable pair, and they make an unforgettable movie. It seems pointless to mention specific classic scenes in a movie in which every scene could rightfully be considered a classic. But my favorite just may be when Grant and Hepburn go charging around her family home's extensive grounds, chasing after the dog George.Not to be missed by anyone who enjoys film comedy.Grade A+ "},{"Title":"Zany. Madcap. Screwball.  Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn in their 30s, a smart comedy.","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Cary Grant is assembling a dinosaur, missing only one bone, and due to be married in two days. Life is simple and wonderful, until Hepburn stumbles into his life. A bone, a dog, a leopard, the wrong golf ball, and a case of mistaken identity. Grant is his usual great straight man, and I never realized Hepburn was such a comedienne. Nonstop fun and a great old flick.SPOILERS follow, for my own recollection, quit reading now, OK??Grant and Hepburn meet on the golf course as she hits his ball, he follows her to the 18th green, absolutely zany dialog, she seems like a complete airhead, but right away, we find out later, she determines to marry him, takes off in the wrong car, his, and in the process bends a bumper and dents a fender. They meet again at a restaurant, more zaniness, she rips his tux, he accidentally steps on her dress, ripping off the back, they end up at her place, he loses his clothes, later gets a package with the missing dino bone, it later comes up missing, the dog took it, also a leopard from Brazil, 'Baby', shows up, trying to find a home for it, call zoo, then find out it really is her aunt's, everyone searches for the tame leopard, meanwhile a wild leopard is also on the loose, everyone ends up in jail cells, in a funny scene a man is imitating a leopard, while others say a 'loon' is outside, 'It still puzzles me why a loon would answer a leopard's cry.' Everything Grant and Hepburn try turns into a comedy of errors, and at the end, when she visits him at work, knocks down the entire dinosaur skeleton.  But they get each other!! "},{"Title":"the best commedy of 30's","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is the best comedy i saw in my life, i like so much Katherine Hepburn and Cary Grant, it is a very funny movie...when i saw this movie i forgot all my problems of my life, and i laughed so much...great movie "},{"Title":"Laughed all the way through","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A great comedy that had me in stitches from the start.  Cary Grant is so suave and yet so bungling at the same time, and Hepburn is innocently mischievous all the way through.  Great movie... one of the classics.  "},{"Title":"Gender Relation in Screwball-Comedy","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This screwball-comedy is one of the best examples for the new marriage-concept in the 20s and 30s, the concept of companionate marriage. It shows a relationship that is based on friendship, fun, physical attraction and a more'equal' gender-relation. The man learns from the woman, that his logical and rational behavior is doomed to failure in a irrational world. In such a world the best strategy for survive would be to act irrationally. This strategy seemed to be acceptable for an audience, that lived in a time of Depression.  "},{"Title":"Perfect, Brilliant","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" That is in fact all to say about Bringing Up Baby.The cast is perfect, brilliant. Who else could have been as convincing as Grant and Hepburn or Hepburn and Grant. Both add a subtle touch of intellect to this screwball comedy. Some kind of depth, that goes far beyond ordinary comedy. A touch of class! Hawks understood that. The director (one of the best ever) does everything to support his cast. And succeeds, simply unarguably succeeds.The story isn't flat, but it is as well absolutely nonintellectual. But it is fun, if you find actors and filmmakers adding chemistry to it.And that happened here. There is no thinkable way of doing any better classic screwball comedy. Bringing up baby is THE prototype, the synopsis of SCREWBALL.In order to understand how fantastic it is, just imagine other prominent actors of that time as main characters. Would this movie excel with Clark Gable? Would it shine with Claudette Colbert? It would not. It wouldn't be as light hearted as it is.Watch it, watch it again, and know you've seen the best of it's kind. "},{"Title":"Stands Up to the Test of Time","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It has come to my attention that this movie was a dud when it came out. That shouldn't surprise me,I suppose(wasn't Casablanca also a flop when it was released,too?)but I still feel like audiences had to be either unforgiving for comedies or just plain had no sense of taste because this movie is about as textbook Comedy film as they come.PAleoentologist Dr. David Huxley(Cary Grant,a natural here)needs to get funding for his museum,and on the day before his wedding to a prim and proper lady his path crosses with a daffy heiress named Susan(Katharine Hepburn,who,young and vivacious,is quite the vision to those of us who are only readily familiar with her as a quavering elder actress). Susan has in her care a fairly tame leopard named Baby,hence the title. PLenty of mistaken identities,pratfalls and complications ensue. BAsic stuff,to be sure,but still the comic timing is so crisp that hardly any time lags between gags. Solid supporting work from,among others,Charlie Ruggles as a loopy constable,fill out this film,which may seem quaint by today's raucous and raunchy film comedy standards,but will tickle anyone who has an open mind for movies that attempt to create kinetic comedy. A must-see for anyone who's into classic film-making and/or good old fashioned light comedy. "},{"Title":"Words fail...","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  to possibly describe how great this movie is! It seems like Cary Grant is currently  undergoing a reappraisal both in Film studies and in general perception - a week of  screenings on BBC2 and the impending (and well timely) two month season at the NFT  seem to indicate that Cary Grant is once more back in vogue. And once you start to  watch his films in any number you realise why - because he's a damn fine actor, if not  one of the all-time greats.This film ended the BBC2 week, and what a finale! This film is superb - funny, warm,  well-told and highly entertaining. I laughed constantly from start to finish and I guess that  with repeat viewings it will get better as you pick up more of the dialogue. It's not often  that I instantly want to watch a film again, but this certainly made me want to - this is  Golden Age cinema at it's finest - oozing with grace, style and flair. A truly wonderful  film... "}{"Title":"Hepburn and Grant have a great funny side.","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was my first meeting with the Great Cate.  I've never seen any of Catherine Hepburn's work before, but have only heard of her once when a biography of Audrey HEPBURN told the story of how the famous designer Givenchy mistook the then-aspiring Audrey Hepburn for Catherine.  Audrey Hepburn has always been a great favorite of mine, and that incident somehow kind of make me resent Catherine, of whom I have never seen.  Then there was Bringing Up Baby on TV, with nothing to do so I just sat down and watched it.  It left me speechless!  Susan (Catherine's character) has left such an imprint in me that I base all of Catherine Hepburn's characters in the rest of her movies on (and Catherine is the model that I've often compare every actress I've ever seen on).Catherine Hepburn was so great that it's as simple as Catherine IS Susan. Why it struck me so was that my image of the classic star is always aloof, unreachable, dignified, and kind of cold.  It actually seems true most of the time in the movies I've seen, and here is Susan Vance, a down-to-earth, unconventional, outgoing, warm, and finds-joys-in-all-things type of girl. The first time I've ever seen a famous star making a fool out of herself and seemingly enjoying it!  It's actually true to Catherine, she is said to be an unconventional woman, never follow rules and care not what people say.Cary Grant also did an exceptional job in this movie, proving he is a great actor in all fields comedy, romance, drama, or thriller.  The scene where Susan stole his clothes and he ended up wearing her furry, lacy, and much too feminine dressing gown is a classic.  I've never seen anything more hilarious.  Watching the two characters interact is like watching a disaster bound to happen, with many funny trips on the way.But what irks me the most is when this movie came out, it received awful reviews and flopped at the box office.  It did so bad that the director was fired and Catherine Hepburn's contract was canceled.  Movie was probably too unconventional for people back then.  To me, and the 2000+ reviewers who gave this 8+ stars, Bringing Up Baby is a splendid movie! "},{"Title":"Quite simply,the funniest movie ever made.","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film never fails to make me laugh. I have seen it more than 50 times. The writing and performances are superb. If you have even a minute appreciation for comedy, this film is a must. You must watch it 3-5 times to pick up all of the subtleties of this film classic. After that it only gets better. If you like this one, be sure to check out HIS GIRL FRIDAY. Cary Grant is again the star and Howard Hawks once again is the director. BRINGING UP BABY is the better film because of the great Katharine Hepburn. You will laugh at BRINGING UP BABY, I guarantee it.                                                 "},{"Title":"i'm rolling my eyes so hard i think i popped a blood vessel","Date":"20 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" An entertaining plot, but i could not get over how annoying and controlling Katharine Hepburn's character Susan is. She is what keeps the movie pushing forward, but the character is too much. where does she get off stealing cars? transporting leopards? ruining weddings? i found that instead of enjoying the movie, she just stressed me out and i felt like i was just waiting for it to be over so i could be done with her. thank god it had Cary Grant in it... the balance he provides makes the movie slightly more tolerable. i was surprised by his use of the word gay. its not something i would expect from a 30s movie, especially before the term was common. "},{"Title":"Not Screwball, Just Silly","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have watched this film many, many times over the last 45 years or so, and I have the same reaction every time. This film is highly over-rated. It is not really a screwball comedy at all, but simply a farce. The plot device of mistaken identities is probably older than Shakespeare, but to apply this device to two LEOPARDS coincidentally on the loose in the same New England locale is preposterous! In fact, the premise that somebody could actually just ship a live leopard, as if it were some stuffed toy, directly to a private address in the United States is beyond credulity to begin with, thus completely undermining the rest of this farce. True screwball comedy doesn't rely on such completely impossible plot devices - unlikely ones, maybe, but impossible ones, no!In BUB, Kate Hepburn is so annoying, that it is impossible for me to see how Cary Grant could possibly fall for her. Both Hepburn and Grant seem absorbed in their own eccentric characters. They seem to be acting in separate vacuums, instead of developing any palpable affection. In order to convince me that they are truly falling for one another, they needed to develop a lot more chemistry as the film progressed. Whatever chemistry they do have reflects conflict, not growing affection. In the end Grant seems to succumb to Hepburn with an air of weary resignation - not love! (That's, okay, Cary; she wore me down, too!) The love story is lost in all of the buffoonery and unbelievable antics and then seemingly tacked on as an afterthought.In fairness to Hepburn, I enjoyed seeing her portray the madcap heiress, even if she doesn't really convince me of her growing love for Grant. And Grant's Harold Lloyd knock-off is rather interesting - but more peculiar than funny. This film would have worked better with a real character - not a parody. In the truly classic screwball comedies, one of the main characters is loopy - not both. With both leads portrayed as nuts, there is nothing to ground this movie.Given the unbelievability of the plot, the writing is quite good. The dialog is very good; that part of the film is up to the standards of its contemporaries - both comedies and dramas. But to call this a screwball comedy is an affront to true screwball comedies. This is a farce, plain and simple - and as silly as they get.The film, Merrily We Live, released the same year, is a far better screwball comedy. It boasts a far stronger ensemble of actors than Bringing Up Baby. Despite its fabulous cast, from top to bottom, it is unfortunately under-appreciated and almost forgotten today. I wish TCM would show it half of the time it shows Bringing Up Baby. "},{"Title":"Best Screwball Comedy on film, a delight!","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw this film for the first time in a University film production class, as the best example of the screwball comedies of the 1930's. There are other screwball comedies to be sure, but this is the best. Cary Grant shows his outstanding comedic timing he was to display also in Arsenic and Old Lace, Philadelphia Story, and other films. Of course the entire cast performs brilliantly, Kate Hepburn, Charlie Ruggles, Barry Fitzgerald, Walter Castlett, among others. I remember from the film class the professor saying that these films were a tonic for the sad reality of the Depression, seeing wealthy people with apparently nothing better to do with their time. Form a technical standpoint, this film exemplifies the beauty of black and white films. The film would not be as good in color. Being filmed in black and white one can focus more on the tremendous scene framing, use of depth of field, and of course the beautiful set designs. The script is crisp and delivered perfectly by the cast, in Catlett's case a side benefit of his years in vaudeville. Really looks like a stage play on film, which in this case works perfectly. I have seen this movie countless times since that first viewing in college, and I pick up on new dialog and nuances each time I watch it! In my opinion, a perfect film. "},{"Title":"best comedy ever","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The best comedy ever done. Each moment of the film is delirious  The golf match, the party, the dinner at Connecticutt, the leopard Baby, The dog George, and, of course, the actors Katherine Hepburn, Cary Grant,  and all the rest. Perfect.  "},{"Title":"katherine hepburn annoying","Date":"21 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In the first minutes of the movie, Hepburn takes Grant's car and acts like someone rich,entitled and spoiled. She can take whatever she wants and acts any way she wants. If you find this funny then this film is for you. This film originally flopped and you can easily see why. I believe it became popular later only because Hepburn was a strong liberal and so any work needed to be classified as fantastic. Someone can mention it was ranked in the top 100 all time, but ask yourself who created the rankings. Experts with a bias. Cary Grant does show why he is fabulous. He plays the professor perfectly. Very believable as a nerdy type. Yet he plays such suave roles in other movies. "},{"Title":"Screwballin","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" David a paleontologist is trying to secure a one million dollar donation when his efforts are interrupted by Susan a very care free woman who although is extremely clumsy means well. The two playfully argue throughout the film while coming into taking care of a leopard named baby. Their journeys take them high and low, sometimes even into the dirt.This film is great Kathrine Hepburn does an amazing job portraying her character in a movie that doesn't make any sense at all, however still remains a very solid comedy. Cary Grants performance is also notable, together Hepburn really kicks the upright scientist in the butt in the most sincere way. "},{"Title":"Hilarious movie...","Date":"5 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bringing Up Baby is a comedy movie in which we watch a man who is trying to secure a $1 million donation for his museum and in this try he has more troubles and one of those troubles is a flighty and often irritating girl. This girl is also the heiress of a big amount of money so everything change. In this story we have also a leopard and things become more complicated.I truly liked this movie because of the plot which I found simply magnificent but also for the direction which made by Howard Hawks and it was very good. I have to admit that this movie gave me two really nice hours with plenty of fun and many laughs. Cary Grant who played as David was very good in this completely different interpretation from this that I used to watch him. Another good interpretation made by Katharine Hepburn who played as Susan and she was equally good.Finally I have to say that Bringing Up Baby is a very good movie to watch and I am sure that you will have a great time while watching it. This movie combines very well comedy with romance and the result from this combination is a perfect movie. I strongly recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"Screwball Comedy on Steroids","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I make it no secret that screwball comedy is my favourite genre of film. I can never get tired of these films; to me this is the most un-boring genre ever. Whenever I'm watching a great screwball comedy I'm on cloud 9, and when it's over I'm always left wanting more. Sometimes I wish my life was a screwball comedy. Being the quintessential daffy dame/stuffy gentleman movie (a formula often imitated but never topped) I find it endlessly fascinating the premise of how this woman constantly infiltrates this man's life and just won't go away. You think it would be easy that he could avoid her but she keeps coming back into his life is comedic brilliance. Like many great comedies, the jokes always take me by surprise no matter how many times I see it. I don't think Katharine Hepburn ever looked more staggeringly beautiful than she does in Bringing Up Baby, I even find myself infatuated with the outfits she wears and her hairstyles in the film. Bringing Up Baby is the only screwball comedy I can think of which involves it's cast interacting with a dangerous animal; I'm unsure why this never became a common screwball trope, I guess studios wouldn't allow their cast and crew to be placed in such danger.My title may sound hyperbolic, but I'd pair Bringing Up Baby with You Can't Take It With You as the most over the top, steroidal, off the wall screwball comedy ever. Watching Bringing Up Baby is like watching a movie with the fast forward button turned on, the film is over before you know it. Old movies are slow and boring? Whoever came up with such nonsense? "}{"Title":"No leopards in Brazil","Date":"8 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'ts a fact this film is too old and his old-fashioned ways. But I can understand its rate because I know the old classic use to be overrated (I do it too).Well, this move has rhythm, good performance by two of the biggest stars, good work but Hawks who knows how to do it in this field (I have to say I prefer him in westerns by far). OK, it got its points. Though the addition of ridiculous situation (not a surreal or absurd theme), people's reaction and the trivial problems of the elite provokes in me indifference, big indifference, boredom I could say. Maybe I'm not made by this kind of movies, romantic comedy not my genre, I don't like Julia Robert's or Sandra Bullock's most movies (most screwballs are like this two actress movies today). Still I can recognize the merits of this old production, buy I may say not old times were better and not old-made things have to be better than today's made. "},{"Title":"Bringing Up Baby (1938)","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bringing Up Baby is about a zoologist, Dr. David Huxley, who has spent the lat our year putting together a brontosaurus. He life was finally coming together; he was about to get married, he just received the intercostal clavicle bone (the last bone for his dinosaur). He was also about to get a million dollar grant for the museum. Then he meets this woman, Susan, who just causes problems for him. During the film Susan acquires a jaguar and convinces David to help her bring it to her aunts house. The situation just keeps getting more ridiculous every scene, especially the jail scene (I don't want to give away too much of the movie). This film is so funny; you will be laughing through out the whole movie. I give this film a 9 out of 10 just because I like this type of film and it's just a great film overall. I would recommend this film to anyone who enjoys a good laugh. "},{"Title":"I've got my head, I've lost my leopard","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bringing Up Baby is one of my favorite movies of all time. I saw it on TV when I was very young, and back then, I only watched it because there was a leopard in it. But as I got older, I realized the (obvious) reason why this movie is so perfect Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn. Two of Hollywood's greatest stars of all time, combined with the brilliant writing of Howard Hawks; this movie is so classic, it's intimidating. It has all the elements of a classic screwball comedy and never lets up. I know I may be taking a risk saying this, but Bringing Up Baby is the greatest movie in this genre. I know people would say movies like It Happened One Night or The Philadelphia Story are better, but I'm still sticking with Bringing Up Baby. The movie is that classic opposites attract story (which has been done dozens of times even up to present day comedies), and it's done with two of the most likable characters in film history. Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn work off each other perfectly in this movie. Cary Grant is the nervous, spineless stick in the mud who can't ever seem to get a break, and Katharine Hepburn is the eccentric, fast talking wild child who seems to be in control throughout the whole movie. This movie has too many great moments, too many great characters, and too many great lines to count. If you were to ask me, What's the best moment in Bringing Up Baby?, I would probably respond The first 102 minutes. The writing and acting in this movie is so funny, I could watch it a hundred times in a row and not get tired of it. The romance in this movie is really good to. It is a 1930s I just met you a few days ago; let's get married romance, but it is the most believable I've seen in this genre. And back in the 30s, marriages did happen like that. People were being shoved off to war every day, so some marriages did happen that fast. There's just something about these two characters that make a perfect match. Their chemistry is something that can't be explained (which is the case of a lot of romances), and that's what makes it feel so human, and that's why we want these two to end up together.Katharine Hepburn does steal the show, but she wouldn't be able to do so if it wasn't for her working off the everyman, Cary Grant. I don't think I'm taking a risk in saying this; Katharine Hepburn is the greatest and most important actress of all time. Yes, there were big important actresses before her, but Katharine Hepburn showed that women could be just as funny, if not funnier than men in the Golden Age of Hollywood. What really makes Hepburn stick out is how she was never written as a woman, she was written as person. And not only in Bringing Up Baby; in The Philadelphia Story, His Girl Friday, and African Queen, she's a person first, and a woman second. This was over 70 years ago, and Hollywood still can't get female characters down right. You just watch Katharine Hepburn, and you immediately want to be just as witty, just as carefree, just as nice, and just as diverse as her. There's just so much life in these characters, they leap right off the screen. Did I mention there's a leopard? Like I said, this is one of the greatest movies of all time. It has great characters, great writing, great acting, great story, great slapstick, great everything. Bringing Up Baby is one of those movies that is so great, I feel the need to bow down to the screen every time I watch it. We are not worthy of this film's greatness. "},{"Title":"Comedy At Its Most Screwball!","Date":"13 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Quirky characters, fast paced dialogue and equally fast comic situations, Bringing Up Baby is where any viewer can become absorbed into the hilarious madness which ensues and inhabits the narrative.All beginning when Palaeontologist David Huxley is seeking funding for his project he unexpectedly runs into Susan Vance, whose assertiveness beings to dominate the more feeble David the moment they first meet. From here Bringing Up Baby becomes a romantic story with a difference. It is the female who vigorously seeks the male for romantic desire rather than the usual vice versa and through comically deceitful means. And it all works to perfection thanks to the chemistry of the two leads.David is a passive and easily led person opposed to Susan's persuasive strength and cunningness. If it was any other genre besides comedy then the relationship between such contrasting characters would be bleak however in this case Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn give to their respective roles warmth and likability that for the audience helps Bringing Up Baby to be a greatly engrossing film. The same can be said for the large amount of peculiar and zany situations the characters find themselves in. Chasing a pet leopard all over the woods, going to desperate methods to hide a gigantic rip in Susan's dress and Susan mocking the Police Chief with a fantastic parody of a gangster's moll, we go from one dynamic situation to another at such an alarming rate you can't help but enjoy the experience being offered.The non &#x96; stop pace and abnormal events evidently makes Bringing Up Baby memorable viewing and a comedy which you can still appreciate. "},{"Title":"One of Film's Best Comedic Duos","Date":"11 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What I love the most about this movie is, while I grew up mostly knowing for Katharine Hepburn for her dramatic work and for winning more Oscars than any other actor, she has amazing comic timing. It's especially impressive considering director Howard Hawks had to hire people to teach her to be funny. Playing an early manic pixie dreamgirl prototype, she finds herself bumping into Cary Grant in increasing outrageous and embarrassing situations, then eventually she begins to lure him, using her mischievous pet leopard, Baby, as bait. The two are a delight together, probably my favorite cinematic duo because they are two of the biggest film stars ever, and they share the screen so effortlessly, neither one ever trying to steal the spotlight for themselves. http//amandalovesmovies.com/2012/02/16/bringing-up-baby "},{"Title":"One of the greatest screwball comedies ever!","Date":"26 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is on the National Film Registry and is considered as one of the best screwball comedies of all time. Curiously, some people actually hate it! It is extremely fast-paced and witty almost to the point that it exhausting to watch. There is a nervousness to the pacing that can be annoying at times, and that is why I rate it a 9 not a 10. Like Marx Bros. & W.C. Field's classics, some people just won't find it funny. For the rest of us, this is an inspired romp into nonsense and many of the comedy bits in this film have been re-used in countless movie and T.V.plots, but in 1938 it was fresh; the stuffy psychiatrist and confused sheriff are classic comic supporting roles. Charles Ruggles is priceless as the befuddled big game hunter. There are a lot of comic stereotypes in this movie, even a wacky gardener! (Barry Fitzgerald).Katherine Hepburn is extremely young, athletic and beautiful (!) in this film. She speaks incredibly fast! Except for the beginning plot exposition,there is never a dull moment. Obviously, many of the scenes with Baby the leopard (actually a jaguar) are matted-in, and George (really Asta, the dog from The Thin Man series) steals the movie. The collapse of the dinosaur bones at the end of the film is repeated in the film What's Up Doc several decades later, and it is still hilarious. "},{"Title":"Incredible!","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Behind a pair of repressive spectacles, Grant plays the single-minded paleontologist whose path crosses with that of madcap Hepburn, never again to uncross. The plot revolves around a leopard named Baby, a million dollars, an intercostal clavicle bone, a dog named George who buries it....well, it all makes perfect sense while you're watching.Underneath all the antics, Hawks never loses sight of the pastoral romance that Bringing Up Baby at its core really is (at its most magical in the woods under a full moon, and captured by Russell Metty's lovely photography). Grant's been rooting around in the dirt for so long looking for dinosaur bones that it takes him forever to 'get' Hepburn &#x96; an airborne sprite who never comes down to earth. (Their alchemy here is rarefied, not the commoner sort of reaction they kindled in the stage-bound The Philadelphia Story.) "},{"Title":"An excellent screwball comedy","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Despite its age, I was able to find this comedy quite funny and enjoyable. The entire concept of a girl who just doesn't get it and constantly gets in the way without realizing it is a great formula for some screwy events to happen. Susan is a lovable character due to her erratic behavior and exotic tastes, which in turn leads to even more screwball moments to take place. The fact that she doesn't see the error of her own ways adds to the screwyness, and in some ways allows the viewer to sympathize with Dr. David. At other points it just makes you wonder how anyone could be so oblivious, like when Susan steals David's car, then proceeds to ram and tear apart the 2 cars next to her along with the car she is driving without a care in the world. Overall, I loved this movie, and would very much like to watch it again. "},{"Title":"Rapid-fire ridiculous rarity.","Date":"6 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" For a brief period in the 40s, directors discovered the comedic value of rapid, cross-firing dialogue, a technique forgotten until television's Gilmore Girls resurrected it. Bringing Up Baby ranks among the best of the films that used the technique with Hepburn and Grant spraying the supporting cast with witty retorts and sharp one-liners. Grant plays the nebbish paleontologist much against type and Hepburn to that point in her career had no comedic chops. These elements kept both performers off-balance and this unevenness contributes to the comedic mayhem. Although to the modern audience most scenes involving Nilsa II, the leopard Baby of the title, clearly reveal themselves to be wipes of the cat added in during editing, there are enough actual scenes of Hepburn stroking the beast to produce some real frights. The movie maintains a degree of freshness lacking in most other films of the era because of certain daring chances it took for its time; the most memorable of these involves Grant opening a door dressed in a silky woman's robe and proclaiming I just went gay all of a sudden! This line elicits shocked titters even today and must have been a right scandal back in the day. In short, comedies tend to age more rapidly than dramas but this one continues to deliver and is worth watching. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"27 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There I went with my usual young person's ignorance, going into this film thinking it was going to be terribly outdated. But no! I was completely charmed and laughed out loud plenty of times.Cary Grant is brilliant as the museum owner who meets Katherine Hepburn who falls in love with him and leads him on crazy tangents so that he is always near her. It's fast paced and the way the chaos escalates is beautiful. Grant's gradual exasperation is hilarious.In real life, Hepburn's character would probably drive me crazy but I loved her in the movie. Completely nutty but lovable indeed.AND IT HAS A FRIENDLY LEOPARD IN IT! How could you go wrong?See it. "}{"Title":"Two thumbs up!","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Howard Hawks' Bringing Up Baby (1938) was the first definitive screwball comedy I've seen. I have seen many comedies that follow the style of this film; a guy and girl are meant to be but aren't together for whatever reason and by the end of the movie the guy gets the girl. That description alone is a recipe for hilarity and disaster. Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant star in this film with a tamed leopard. In the beginning of the film I could not get over how outrageous and rude Susan (Hepburn) was acting. I hated the role she was playing and couldn't stand the fact that David (Grant) had to put up with it. As the film went on Susan started to grow on me and I got over the fact that she was completely crazy and was messing up David's life (for the better of course). Susan ended up bringing out the best in David, he came alive for the first time. By the end of the film I loved Susan, her fast delivery of the lines made it a smart and hilarious movie.Bringing Up Baby is a fast paced film with even faster dialog. Hepburn and Grant make a great team! The more outrageous the gag, the bigger the laugh. I realized that this is what screwball comedies are all about, they're meant to be shocking and extreme. And I've come to love them once I realized this. I can't get enough of them! "},{"Title":"bringing up baby","Date":"13 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I ready like bringing up baby. I thought the scenes were well put together and they were fast and witty I like the screwball comedy. The one thing that annoyed me was the woman she drive me nuts which made it funny she was great for the part. Fast funny and annoying all in one. As for the man I can't believe he didn't just blow right up a her.She got him in so much trouble. I think the scenes with the real tiger were amazing you could tell that the man wasn't really that comfortable and the woman was fine with it. I think the lighting was good and the movie flowed pretty quickly.I believe if you watch it again you will find all sorts of different things that you missed the first time. The humor was really good this was another movie that i stayed late just to see the ending . Meg "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"6 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I cannot believe that this movie received such bad reviews and did so badly at the box office when it came out, because I think that it is a fantastic movie, especially since I thought I didn't like this type of comedy. The movie was well made and tight. The chemistry between Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn was wonderful. All the more so because they were prevented from kissing or expressing passion. There was more chemistry between them then between Carey Grant and Rosalind Russell in His Girl Friday. Katharine Hepburn's character played golf, sat at the bar, was unafraid drove her car (and everyone else's!), wore pants in one scene, pretended to be a criminal, and was generally an independent woman. In contrast, Grant's character was the opposite, afraid of the leopard, faints, and is confused most of the time. There was also a physicality, movement, and great timing to the movie, which made it easy to watch and to laugh at! For example, the way Katharine Hepburn would fall or when her or Grant's clothes would rip, as well as her driving everyone's car. I thought the supporting characters added to the comedic effect. I've found that I like this type of movie after all! The twist at the end (when there were two leopards) was a surprise, more surprising than their proclamations of love. "},{"Title":"A great screwball comedy~","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I thought this film was great for the time it was created in. Howard Hawks did a great job throughout the whole film. This was a fast paced movie (as a screwball comedy should be. Each and every scene was well thought out and executed. The movie really kept the viewer very interested, almost at the edge of your seat wondering what was going to happen next and what else was going to get messed up along the way. This was the first movie I have seen in this time frame where the movie was so fast paced, even the actors spoke very fast, you had to really pay attention to the movie to catch everything. But it wasn't hard to pay attention to the movie closely since it was so interesting. A few parts I really like in the movie was in the very beginning, I thought the wife to be of David was very sarcastic (and I liked it) when David was more concerned about getting the final bone to complete his dinosaur than being interested in the marriage he was about to embark in the next day. I loved her sarcasm toward the honeymoon stating his job is more important and he should do that instead of going on the honeymoon. Also, I loved all the different diversions the director came up with to keep David away from what he was trying to do. Each one was very smart and thought out. I loved the wonderful comic release throughout the whole film. Overall, I thought it was great! "},{"Title":"Comical","Date":"29 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bringing Up Baby was the first screwball comedy I have ever seen and I cannot say I was disappointed by any means. I felt like the entire movie at least for Grants character had Murphy's Law written all over it. Anything that could possibly go wrong for that poor guy did but in the end it all worked out. From what I researched this was Hepburns' first screwball and I thought she was excellent. All her lines were delivered well and this movie just seemed like it was made for her role. I loved how awkward and quirky Grant was throughout the movie and how Hepburns' character sort of brought him out of his shell. Even though a man and woman were the leads in the film throughout the movie I kept thinking of The Odd Couple the chemistry and comedy between the two really reminded me of it. The movie was written wonderfully especially in a time when America needed to laugh. Overall I gave the movie an 8 and I would definitely watch it again. "},{"Title":"HIST American Film","Date":"29 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bringing up Baby is the perfect definition of the phrase, screwball comedy. Like many others who have watched this movie, I felt it was very over the top and absurd. That being said I believe that it's absurdity was entirely intentional and brilliantly executed.Katherine Hepburn and Cary Grant are both incredible actors and when paired together in Bringing up Baby their talent is portrayed at new heights. Cary Grant seems so naturally awkward, nervous and madcap while Katherine Hepburn's performance as a crazy, yet adorable lady-lunatic, appears amazingly fluid and effortless. Hepburn's perfect comedic timing and quick wit and tongue fit perfectly with the extreme speed of the movie. As over the top and screwy as this comedy is, I believe it to be an undeniably charming and timeless film. "},{"Title":"Bringing up Baby a Timeless classic","Date":"29 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bringing up Baby (1938) is one of the more famous of the screwball comedies coming out of the depression era. It is interesting to see what sort of films were created in the times of turmoil of the Great Depression. Bringing up Baby the sort of film America needed in these tough times, a funny, somewhat mindless, entertaining movie. The characters are well developed and the roles fit the parts quite well. Katherine Hepburn plays a character who is interrupting at the perfect moments throughout the film, her acting is superb throughout. Cary Grant plays a buttoned-up paleontologist who is about to get married. His role is one of the quite, reserved groom to be, a character many can relate with. The great part of the direction and acting in Bringing up Baby is the foil that the two actors create, at times it is almost hard to watch. For those unversed in older films (Pre-1950) it is hard to understand that there was always a comedic element to these early films. Comparing modern comedies to movies like Bringing up Baby one can see that the producers and directors of modern comedies, and almost all modern films, have learned a lot from the movies of the past. Relying only on witty scripts and solid acting old films like Bringing up Baby are timeless classics, not much can be said about the movies of our modern era. "},{"Title":"Full of laughs and emotion","Date":"29 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed the actors in this film, but I thought that the roles limited the actors. It kind of made the film seem annoying after a while in that respect. However, the comedy made up for that, even though it wasn't what I am used to. I found myself laughing a lot throughout the entire film. I was especially intrigued by the scene with Baby and the dog playing because I couldn't figure out how it was created without the dog dying. It was very creative and suspenseful. I found the story interesting because it was tied together nicely; from the dinosaur bone being buried by the dog, the leopard actually belonging to the aunt, to the fact that an actual leopard had escaped from the zoo and almost maimed Hepburn. In addition to the humor, the film did give the general impression that you should marry for love, which is always a good message. There was a lot of commotion in the film and I think that the camera captured it beautifully. "},{"Title":"One of the best in the screwball genre","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I love comedy, especially good screwball. My grandmother had mentioned this movie and so I finally saw it. This movie about a nerdy (I'm not sure this word was used in those days) scientist who is befriended by a somewhat eccentric socialite and the antics that follow, hit a home run with me. BRINGING UP BABY doesn't pretend to have any underlying personal or social themes. However it was written by Dudley Nichols and Hagar Wilde with real sophistication, wit and tongues in cheeks.Director Howard Hawks directed this masterfully. He obviously loves his actors and, even in the goofiest moments, they are very likable. Hawks also knows is comedic timing. Some of these scenes under another director's hand might not have worked very well.Of course adding to all of this are the incredible charm and talents of the movie's two main actors, Cary Grant Katherine Hepburn. They have one of the best on screen chemistries that I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Endearingly Sweet","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Catherine Hepburn plays well as the beloved flibberty-gibbet who will do anything, and I do mean anything, to be near her man. Many fans do not like Cary Grant's comedic attempts, preferring instead his tough-guy man's man roles. I have to say that I do enjoy his comedic efforts just as well as his actioners, this being one of his best, and at least on par with Arsenic and Old Lace, with Hepburn taking the place of those madcap insanely endearing aunts.This runs a bit like It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World meets Silver Streak, but without the train. I love Cary Grant's whole library, and the same goes for Catherine Hepburn's, so I can't say this is one of my favorites, as they're all my favorites. I don't own this one, but if I did, I'd watch it often.All in all, this is fun, clean, wholesome family viewing anytime, day or night.It rates a solid 8.4/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"V. Funny","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think this film is very funny. i started watching it when I accidentally changed channel on the t.v, but it made me laugh so much I just kept watching it and then I went straight online and bought it on DVD. The whole silliness of it is what makes me laugh. I love Cary Grant not only is he very good looking but hes a great actor too, He done a great job of playing the part of David and I think the whole business with the bone is very funny. This was the first film I had seen Katharine Hepburn in as I must admit that I do prefer her sister. But I think she played the part of Susan awfully well. I would very much like to watch other films that she has been in. Would very much recommend watching it! "},{"Title":"Good Cary Grant movie","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Directed by Howard Hawks, Bringing Up Baby is one of the best comedies in the world. Starring Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn, this movie is about a doctor who works at a museum. Acheologists had found the remaining bone to a four-year long search and assembly of a dinosaur, but the bone is discovered by George, a dog that belonged to Susan. He buries the bone in his yard.Dr. David Huxley (Grant) is engaged, but another woman (Hepburn) wants him to take care of Baby, a full-grown leopard. Before he can say, Baby, Dr. Huxley and Susan are looking for Baby, and one misadventure leads to another.THis is a good comedy. If you're a Cary Grant fan, you'll love this movie! "},{"Title":"Goofy, Glamorous Golden-Age Gonfalon","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bringing Up Baby is the standard for timeless screwball comedy, clever, charming, with tons of heart. It's also probably the most satisfying comedy in both Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant's careers, together and apart, which is really saying something.Grant plays David Huxley, a nebbishy dinosaur expert who plans to get a million dollars for his museum and marry his icy fiancée Alice. Hepburn plays ditzy but determined Susan Vance, who sets her sights on upsetting Huxley's plans so she can have him to herself.What could be a protracted exercise in frustration comedy, or else a humorless excursion into the stalking habits of the rich and nutty, is made joyous instead by the way Hepburn pulls us into her zany character and makes us root for her to reel Huxley in. After telling David, who wants nothing to do with her, that she has a leopard in her apartment, Susan trips in mid-call and then gets the bright idea of pretending she's being mauled by the beast.Oh, David, the leopard! she screams, rubbing the phone's mouthpiece against a fireplace grate for added terror.David takes the bait. Be brave, Susan. I'll be there! he shouts as he trips for the door. Kate's merry smirk is the perfect scene-capper.Susan is brave, in her convention- and logic-defying way, and one can trace the line from Jo March to Grace Quigley right through her in the panoply of strong, feminist-icon Kate Hepburn roles. But while Hepburn was amusing in other parts, she was never as much so as she was here, taking pratfalls and throwing off non-sequiturs like a Vaudeville clown. Warm, too I think one of the film's secret strengths is the notion a nebbishy guy could end up with a beautiful, self-assured woman despite his best and worst efforts. The hell with macho This is one romantic comedy where the guy winds up fainting in the gal's arms.Of course it helps if the nebbish looks like Cary Grant in glasses. Grant did play fusty characters in other films, but there's something about him with the pretty but frigid Alice (Virginia Walker, director Howard Hawks' sister-in-law but a good performance anyway from someone not much seen again), who tells him there will be no honeymoon or domestic entanglements of any kind. This, she says, gesturing at the brontosaurus skeleton he has been painfully assembling over the past few years, will be our child. Oh, it's nice, David replies, sadly and submissively. He is in definite need of screwball intervention.The film is one of those classics that could only be made in the 1930s, when everything could be played in a light and airy fashion without any pretense of reality. 1972's What's Up, Doc is a classy replay of Baby in spirit if not script, but while I enjoy that film nearly as much, it's not hard to see the problem director Peter Bogdanovich had on his hands trying to make us accept such nutty behavior in living color.Bogdanovich's commentary on the Baby DVD is insightful and worthwhile, and I agree with him that the subplot involving Barry Fitzgerald's drunken gardener is the weak link in this otherwise fine film. I also worry about poor George playing with Baby; does anyone else notice that nasty gash on the poor dog's side? I wonder how many Georges Hawks went through before he got the scene as filmed.The other secondary characters are terrific all the way through, especially May Robson as Aunt Elizabeth (the one apparently sane character until she complains about waiting for her new pet) and Walter Catlett as the constable, which I have a soft spot for beyond his beetle brows and his way of slapping his hands together like a mad auctioneer. Anyone else notice he shares a last name with Harvey Keitel's lawman in Thelma & Louise? Given Kate's lawbreaking performance here, I wonder if that was intentional... "},{"Title":"Fantastic!  Wish I had of known about this film earlier!","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After a Movie of the Week rating in a TV Guide I tuned into this last night expecting the best, and received much, much more!  My sides are still aching today!I cannot add more to what others have said here.  While not au fait with many older movies (I'm a beginner buff ;-)), I love Hepburn and Grant, and together they are simply mesmerizing.  This movie is so full of belly-aching laughter moments and characters you adore and at the same time find hilariously funny.Go and see it ASAP if you have not!  "},{"Title":"A joy","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's such a joy to watch these two consummate film actors playing against type and having so much fun doing it, Hepburn as the dizzy whirlwind who talks a mile a minute (she reminds me a bit of Carole Lombard in My Man Godfrey), Grant as the absent-minded scientist who, bemused, always seems to be following two steps behind her. Hepburn's line readings are hilarious. I laugh out loud just remembering the look on her face and the way she says, Wait a minute! There's nothing up there. There's NOTHING up there. Real life is just as absurd as the plot of this movie, but never as much fun. Thank God for the movies! "},{"Title":"-)","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of all, Cary Grant in glasses is a very nice sight to see.  Nowthat that's out of the way, this is truly a good movie.  Really funnymasterpiece that has aged marvelously over the years.  KatherineHepburn is funnier than I ever thought she could be, and CaryGrant is funny as always.  Then you've got this big old leopardcausing trouble...the movie is great fun.   "},{"Title":"Great screwball","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  David Huxley (Cary Grant) is waiting for a bone to his museum collection but he runs into a woman called Susan Vance (Katharine Hepburn) and a leopard called Baby.These three run from adventure to another and David's not having any fun.Bringing Up Baby (1938) is a great screwball comedy from Howard Hawks.The actors are great.Cary Grant is excellent in the male lead.In this movie you get to see Cary in a woman's nightgown in one hilarious scene.Katharine Hepburn is amazing in a woman lead.Great dialogue just keeps coming from her mouth and it comes there fast.This lovely actress turns 95 years old next May and she has had a great career in acting.She quit in 1994 when she was 87 years old already.I recommend this funny comedy with great dialogue for everyone who loves true classics. "},{"Title":"Slow-pace masterpiece","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The acting is absolutely superb, not only the acting, but how did they get the animals to do such things? It must have taken months of training!Anyway, the film is funny and relaxing, I wouldn't let the video I have go out of my sight (not even mother can borrow it!) I think the way that Hepburn and Grant work together is great, they could not have chosen any other two to portray them.My full approval, watch it! "},{"Title":"Sex is Making Me Insane!","Date":"31 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" One problem in appreciating a comedy like this is you have to approach it with the right mindset. 20 years ago, I would have insisted that Animal House is a much funnier movie. But once you understand the conventions of the 1930's and 40's--particularly how people dealt with issues of sex (specifically, how they repressed their sexual desires)--the screwball comedies of that era are hysterical. Repression screws you up, man. That's why they're screwballs. To get the humor requires a level of maturity and knowledge that most teenagers simply don't possess. Sexual repression is something adults do. Kids are like, hey, want to see my ass? Animal House is like your crazy id battling against the superego of Dean Wormer. Bringing Up Baby is the exact same conflict, except it's all bottled up in the character of Cary Grant. This woman is driving him crazy. She's stalking him, she's ruining his career and his wedding. She's trashing his life. And he's so polite and chivalrous about the whole thing. And his id is screaming, let me out! let me out! I want to strangle her or have sex with her or both, anything, I'm going crazy all bottled up in here. So Grant is starting to stutter. This battle, this little war between his id and his repression of his basest desires, this is what makes Bringing Up Baby the epitome of the screwball, and a brilliant film. When I was young I didn't laugh at this. Now it puts me in stitches. It's funnier every time I watch it. Hawks is a genius. "},{"Title":"Most Disappointing Screwball Comedy I've Ever Seen","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Mild mannered zoology professor Dr. David Huxley (Cary Grant) is excited by the news that an intercostal clavicle (a made-up bone) has been found, but things quickly go from amazing to disaster when an annoying, selfish, narcissistic woman named Susan (Katherine Hepburn) shows up.Directed by Howard Hawks (who I like to think of as a Wisconsin native), I do not know what to say. His directing here was fine. He is interesting to me, because I find that although I like him as a director, he still makes films I do not necessarily care for. This being one, but also I am not big on Westerns.This movie stars Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn, neither of whom I am particular fond of (though I do like Grant's comedy films). Grant is here a bit more self-deprecating, and for that I like him. Hepburn is younger than in other things I know her from, and that gives her a bit more charm... but she still plays an annoying monster.Hepburn's voice is grating and incessant, driving me nuts. The only character more annoying is possibly the dog with his barking, but even that is hard to say for sure. I'm not surprised that Hepburn was labeled box office poison after this or that it flopped so hard. One of the worst screwball comedies of its era.There were a few redeeming parts, such as the question, Have you ever had jungle fever? And I appreciate they used an actual leopard. Then there is Grant going gay all of a sudden... I thought I took it wrong, but I did not. He really did mean what it sounds like. Today, maybe not funny, but at the time, very funny.I know that a lot of people and organizations put this on their lists for best movies or best comedies, but I have to respectfully disagree. As Hawks himself said, Hepburn tried too hard to be funny and without a straight man the characters seem too madcap. There is just too much going on, and nothing keeping it under control. "}{"Title":"Complete insanity!","Date":"13 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I don't think I've ever seen a movie as fast as this one. Not even His Girl Friday or The Awful Truth. It appears faster, because the characters are so completely nuts! The first time I watched it I just found it totally annoying (which was maybe due to bad dubbing). But the second time around I just loved it. And the more I watch it the better it gets. The multi-layered dialog just seems to be a never-ending source of surprise and fun. The performances are excellent. Cary Grant has never been more confused and agitated and Kate Hepburn's character is a complete loony. She bursts with that insane energy, it's electrifying. So if you want to have a lot of fun, buy this movie. It's worth it! "},{"Title":"Silly but fun of course.","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is simply a fine enjoyable movie, despite not making an awful lot of sense to me with its story. I wouldn't quite call this a screwball comedy, even though it is listed basically everywhere as one and the movie is basically one big heap of strange and unusual but funny circumstances.To be frank, the story and the way it progressed doesn't make much sense to me. Why on earth does Huxley keep seeing Susan, although he obviously doesn't like her too much and all she ever does is getting him in trouble. And why does he ever take all those things Susan says to him and asks of him. She's too wild and uncontrollable for him.Cary Grant began his career with movies like this but ended up getting later more serious roles, for which he now days is also still best known, though always with a certain comical undertone. Katharine Hepburn is exactly known for her comical talents but she pulls of more than alright in her role. She had a lot of training prior to starting and during the filming of this movie to get her comical timing right, which paid off obviously.The movie goes from the one strange situation into the other. This is basically all that Bringing Up Baby is all about. It doesn't exactly make this the best or most well written comedy but it obviously doesn't prevent the movie from being an enjoyable one. It's a movie that almost constantly entertains and the acting performances also make sure that the movie works out with what it tries to achieve, without ever getting tiresome or lame. It features some moments that will surely make you laugh.An enjoyable movie from director Howard Hawks.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Bringing Up Baby","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When first we see Cary Grant in Howard Hawks' classic screwball comedy Bringing Up Baby, he sits under a nearly constructed brontosaurus skeleton, dwarfed by the aged relic. What we witness in his final appearance in the film's final scene is Grant now positioned above the skeleton, which lies in ruins on the floor below him. These images nicely parallel the journey of Grant's character, scientist David Huxley, throughout the film. At the beginning we see him as a somber man enslaved to his work and uptight fiancée, Miss Swallow (Virginia Walker). He ultimately finishes as an emerging free spirit, open more than ever to the sometimes zaniness of life. The catalyst in this change, of course, is Katharine Hepburn in a brilliant portrayal as the irrepressible socialite Susan Vance. Through the misadventures David experiences with her, and a certain leopard named Baby, he is finally able to experience the freedom of skirting the rules and living life as he sees fit.It's such a delight to watch this film and revel in its madcap situations and witty dialogue. Made under the constraints of the recently enforced Hays Production Code, it's equally fun to watch (and listen) for its veiled indiscretions and naughty innuendos. The storyline of Bringing Up Baby is kept simple enough. It practically has to be, or the viewer wouldn't hope of catching the copious jokes that fly by at a breakneck pace. Like the narrative, the film's score is also kept minimal, drawing heavily on repetitions of the popular song I Can't Give You Anything But Love, Baby, all but once sung by the characters themselves. The film has some clever visual touches too. Watch for the fun it pokes at Miss Swallow, the character who is constantly reminding David of the obligations he must adhere to, as well as proper social etiquette, in stark opposition to Susan. The film takes full advantage of the costuming of the two actresses, with Susan wearing light and flowing gowns, while Miss Swallow is constricted to tightly fitted black dresses.Despite the fact that in 1938 America was still dealing with the Great Depression, one would never know this looking back upon Bringing Up Baby, without outside historical knowledge. The world inhabited by the characters of the film is one of successful occupations, leisurely afternoons on the golf course, nights at stylish hotel clubrooms, and talk of million dollar inheritances. This, coupled with the carefree antics of its central characters, make the film a perfect specimen of the cherished escapism of the time. This isn't to say it doesn't hold up well today. In fact, that couldn't be further from the truth. The film perfectly suits lovers of both highbrow and lowbrow comedy, what with its irresistible blend of sharp dialogue and outright slapstick. The film draws from the full spectrum of what makes us laugh. And what more can you ask for in a comedy than that? "},{"Title":"Baby an unlikely high water mark in screwball comedy","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bringing Up Baby(1938) is the adventurous screwball comedy about a madcap New England heiress, Susan Vance (Katharine Hepburn) who, after accidentally running into stuffy zoologist, David Huxley (Cary Grant) is determined to land him as her husband. Not that David would notice. He's too concerned with acquiring a bone for his museum collection - go figure. But a gregarious little terrier named George (actually Asta from The Thin Man series) intervenes in David's plans, burying the irreplaceable fossilized bone somewhere on Sue's country estate. Meanwhile Baby, Susan's leopard, threatens the whole show by tearing up the scenery, as leopard's will do, after escaping from her cage. Naturally the whole mess winds up in front of a local authorities, who lacks the ability to put two ideas together and come up with one coherent thought.The supporting cast is a who's who of crazies, including Charles Ruggles as Major Applegate, a pompous big game hunter, May Robson as Sue's dotty rich aunt, Elizabeth Random, and Barry Fitzgerald as the congenial scatterbrain, Mr. Gogarty. Director, Howard Hawks infuses his film with every screwball gag in the book - and a few never before seen - delivering the overwhelming and riotous laugh a minute that has made Baby one of the unique highlights in film comedy history. Not that anyone knew it at the time. On the contrary, Bringing Up Baby was widely panned by the critics and did only modest box office on its initial release. But hey, what did they know? Time has proved that Baby is the one to beat; a high water mark of comedic prowess that only the likes of someone like Preston Sturges could hope to match.Warner's 2-disc special edition of this vintage comedy is a welcomed treat for DVD-philes. The black and white image is astoundingly solid. The gray scale has been impeccably mastered from very clean film elements. Contrast levels are superb. There's a hint of edge enhancement now and then, but nothing that will distract. Fine details are fully realized. Film grain is kept to a bare minimum. Aside from the very thorough commentary track by Peter Bogdanovich, disc 2 of this DVD contains two feature length documentaries; one on Howard Hawks, the other on Cary Grant.There's also a couple of vintage short subjects and a gallery of trailers from other Howard Hawk's films. Very nice. Bottom line Bringing Up Baby is a sheer delight and this new DVD expounds twice the good time in its beautifully rendered picture and sound quality from the good people at Warner Brothers. "},{"Title":"One of the best of its genre","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bringing Up Baby, Howard Hawks' 1938 film that paired Katherine Hepburn and Cary Grant is certainly one of the best films of the screwball genre that permeated Hollywood in the 1930's & 1940's. Grant plays Dr. David Huxley, an anthropologist on the brink of completing a dinosaur skeleton (he's down to needing one bone, which is to be shipped to him the next day), and is about to be married to his colleague and fellow scientist. The day before his marriage, he arranges to meet with an attorney who represents a client that has one million dollars to bequeath to an organization, and in order to schmooze him, goes to play a round of golf. At the course, David literally runs into Susan Vance (Hepburn), a flighty debutante whom he ends up encountering throughout the evening (in many a silly situation) and into the next day when, after realizing that she's fallen in love with him, Susan tricks David into helping her transport a panther (Baby) that her brother has shipped to her, to her aunt's house upstate. Of course, it turns out that the aunt is the person with the money to donate, so scene after scene of high hilarity and mix-ups ensue.It is really hard to summarize this film in a coherent paragraph because there are so many madcap moment and weird plot devices that even attempting to do so would probably short circuit my brain. One of the main points of the screwball comedy genre, however, was physical comedy and misunderstanding/confusion, with the plot being secondary to the action. Bringing Up Baby was Katherine Hepburn's first attempt at comedy, which is pretty surprising since she is simply excellent in it. Her timing, flair and charm are absolutely flawless. Cary Grant, no stranger to comedy by this time, is also wonderful in the straight man role. The two look like they had a lot of fun making the film, which makes the fact that it was a box office failure even more of a disappointment. I'm not entirely sure what made the film gain enough exposure to become one of the most beloved films of all time (it is routinely on best of lists, including the IMDb Top 250) but it has found a secure place in film history.I had the wonderful opportunity to see this film on the big screen several years ago, and though I had seen it already as a child, I found myself laughing so hard at it that my eyes were running. The neatest thing about the experience however was the absolute adoration the audience had for the film. My nearly constant laughter was completely drowned out by the other 100 or so people, and it was just an overall cool thing to witness. Unfortunately, when I watched the film again two weeks ago, it was an audience of two, and my boyfriend, who doesn't seem to be a fan of the genre, sat pretty stone faced throughout the film while I was slapping the couch and crying from laughter. (Hey, I can't criticize, my reactions are very similar to what his was any time I see 99% of the comedy films or television shows out there, it's just not my bag) But, the classics are my thing, and while it's certain that the frenetic pacing, the extremely fast dialogue and screwball situations are going to turn some people off, particularly those who may not be familiar with that kind of film, it is also going to be a gem of a film for those of us who mostly rely on classic films to make us laugh, since that was when comedy was truly great. 7/10 --Shelly "},{"Title":"Ahead of its time... and it's funny!","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  With filmmakers cranking out a seemingly endless amount of remakes in the past few years or so, why don't they take a crack at this one?  First, carefully cast it with truly talented comedians.  This loving pair should convince us they're wrong for each other, in every sense of the word but, by film's end, we truly believe they're right.  In this 1938 film, a paleontologist (Grant) is in the process of putting together an apatosaurus skeleton for a natural history museum.  He soon meets a young lady (Hepburn) who finds him irresistably attractive in every sense, and won't leave him alone.  Relatively speaking, the gags and dialog are not overdone, and the film made me chuckle hearty enough to warrant its placement on my personal top-ten list of comedies.  Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Why just because they're a man and a woman do they have to fall in love?","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As a comedy, &#145;Bringing Up Baby' is truly remarkable.  The classic screwball, slapstick antics that I know and love from Bugs Bunny and the like play so crisply between Katherine Hepburn and Cary Grant.However, I have one particular peeve with the film.  Susan (Katherine Hepburn) is an absolutely loathsome character.  She represents everything I've come to dislike in people.  Susan is manipulative to the point of cruelty.  Rude and impatient.  She never stops talking.  And what's worse she does countless terrible things to David (Cary Grant), who happens to be engaged, in the name of love.  Before getting lost in a tirade about the ills of this character, I should give her some credit.The juxtaposition of David and Susan is what makes the comedic sparks of this film happen.  David's frustration ebbs and flows so perfectly, he is a pristine object for the viewer's sympathy. The emotion in David that doesn't move or grow as well as it may is his love for Susan.  In the end of the film, David and Susan end up together.  There is no development of David's feelings (apart from frustration) towards Susan whatsoever.It's funny, yeah.  But the romantic subplot was distracting and infuriating.  How could David fall for Susan?  She ruins everything, and isn't even that coquettish in doing so. Without this weak attempt at romance, this would have been a quintessential buddy comedy.  Two unlikely companions engage in hilarious antics.  Why just because they're a man and a woman do they have to fall in love?  "},{"Title":"Maybe I've just gone gay all of a sudden!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There's one very interesting and startling thing about this movie. It's the line where Cary Grant says, Maybe I've just gone gay all of a sudden! when a lady asks him why he's wearing a woman's white frilly dressing gown. This line really shocked me. I mean, in 1938 the word gay didn't have the same meaning as it does today, did it? It simply meant happy and high-spirited. I wonder, is it this movie that's ultimately responsible for the change in meaning of this word? Did some gay guy see this movie and then start using the word gay to describe homosexuality? I know this movie was well ahead of its time, but gay wasn't used in its current sense until the 1960s. In fact, it wasn't widely used until well into the 70s.So, I wonder, is this amazing line the very first origin of the word gay in the modern sense? If so, this considerably predates the first recorded occurrence, which (according to the Oxford English Dictionary) is 1951. "},{"Title":"A delightful comedy!","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a fantastic movie starring one of Hollywood's most memorable screen teams Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn.  Grant is fantastic as the slightly nerdy David Huxley, and Hepburn is charming as the bubbly and somewhat ditzy Susan Vance.  Susan's pets are also adorable.  Bringing Up Baby is a wonderful romantic comedy caper that I strongly recommend!!! "},{"Title":"Cary Grant can't find his bone... or perhaps it's his manhood?!","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A committed - if rather nerdy - archeologist/museum curator, David (the ever-fabulous Cary Grant) can't find his intercostal clavicle - the last bone he's supposed to have been sent and needs for a jigsaw-puzzle of a dinosaur skeleton he's putting together... and it looks as if eccentric wealthy socialite Susan (Katherine Hepburn at her best) may just know what's happened to it.... Chaos ensues as David and Susan go on a hunt for the bone (It's rare. It's precious...) .. throw in David's fiancee - who rather naturally doesn't understand what the fuss is about and just wants to get him to the alter; a dog that lives to dig up bones; some fun supporting characters and you have one of the most tightly paced screwball comedies around.. Classic scenes include David and Susan starting an evening impeccably dressed for cocktails and ending the night - via some lovely slapstick - barely half dressed... the pair singing I Can't Give You Anything But Love, Baby.. appallingly (well Hepburn is dreadful and on the evidence here you would hardly believe Grant made his screen debut singing his first lines..) to an escapee leopard ... and my personal favourite (and a scene featured in The Celluloid Closet) David answers the door in Susan's silky bathrobe and faces a deluge of questions about his attire to which he finally replies that he just went gay all of a sudden! (proving just how long it's been since the word's meaning wasn't ambiguous).. The pairing of Grant and Hepburn works marvellously, the comic timing is faultless and sparks fly - something director George Cukor realised when he paired them up in 1936 for Sylvia Scarlett then reunited them in Holiday the same year as Bringing Up Baby and then The Philadelphia Story two years later. The supporting cast has a lot of fun but the leads appear to be enjoying the whole thing the most and the writing is strong enough to withstand much repeat viewing - and there's plenty of time to speculate about that lost bone..(eg. is it symbolic of David's lost masculinity?!)... Directed by Howard Hawks (who was intermittently brilliant and dreadful) it's one of his best and a film that makes you go all misty eyed swearing that They just don't make 'em like they used to, do they?That leaves just one question really... What on earth is an intercostal clavicle and where the f*** would it go in your average dinosaur skeleton?! Answers on a postcard please... "}{"Title":"Bringing Up Baby","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Screwball comedy that runs out of steam after the first 30 minutes. After the famous scene with the ripping of Katharine Hepburn's dress, the film falters and becomes rather tedious.  Both stars are still utterly charming and the film is nice to look at.  "},{"Title":"Charming and definitely funny, but not as good as I expected","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I liked this movie a lot, but I think I would've liked it more if I hadn't seen His Girl Friday first. It seems to me that His Girl Friday is a lot better executed as a whole and in its parts than Bringing Up Baby. I understand that this one is the film people bring up when talking about Howard Hawks's screwball comedies, and rightfully so. But when you stand this up next to His Girl Friday, it doesn't read as well, simply because from the very beginning of His Girl Friday we know who the characters are and what their motives will be as the story progresses, but at the beginning of Bringing Up Baby the characters are muddled and confusing. In His Girl Friday, the actions of the main characters are hilarious and the motives behind those actions are complicated and human, and we understand that. Here the actions are also funny, but the motives are simpler. His Girl Friday is more realistic and human, and in my opinion that makes it the better movie.Even so, there is a lot in this movie to love. That's one of the movie's charms- the way that the characters develop from simple caricatures into people we can't help but loving. That must have been one of Hawks's gifts- providing us with characters that are just strange at the start and slowly develop into real people. Sure, Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn are as funny as can be, as expected, and the supporting cast is great. Some of the slapstick gags are a little stale, but there are enough priceless bits to make up for the not-so-priceless ones, especially near the end.I suppose I'll end up in IMDb hell for saying His Girl Friday is better than this movie, but I can't help it. It's intriguing to me that Bringing Up Baby is only 10 above His Girl Friday on the Top 250. Maybe I'll appreciate Bringing Up Baby more after a second viewing, but for now, I have to say that it's good, but it didn't live up to my expectations. "},{"Title":"A series of misadventures from beginning to end.","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bringing Up Baby is admittedly one of my all-time favorite films, and not because I think it's a great film, or that it makes me think, but that it takes me back to a simpler time. A time that to me is idyllic and dreamlike... and it inspires me creatively.Now all that aside, it is a great movie, and proved Katharine Hepburn could not be typecast. The times, the chemistry, the dialog, the craziness. All work together to paint a timeless masterpiece so palpable it has endured for over 65 years.Bringing Up Baby is what happens when 2 actors with perfect comedic chemistry let loose. Much of the script becomes improvised physical comedy, from the high heel's unintentional break, we find these two are able to pull out of any accidental dive without a slip of step or momentum.Cary Grant is David, a zoologist who is supposed to be getting married to a woman who is just so wrong for him, and Katharine Hepburn is Susan, a crazy, manipulative woman with a leopard.This movie is quirky, crazy, and fun.A movie about paralleling mix-ups on every level from golf balls, cars, shirttails and dresses, dinosaur bone, to even a leopard that's escaped from a zoo! This movie keeps raising the ante and the tension, in an effort to bring these two fated soul mates together.Harold Lloyd (Cary Grant) the bumbling bespectacled silent film comedian was the inspiration for Cary Grant's David Huxley. In turn, Christopher Reeve's Clark Kent was patterned after Huxley! Isn't it neat how all this things come together? It's almost uncanny how many comedians and television characters got their start because of Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn. Ross from Friends, Christopher Reeve's Clark Kent, the list is really endless, these two have influenced comedy and film forever.Now it isn't that I don't like you Susan because after all, in moments of quiet I'm strangely drawn toward you, but well, there haven't been any quiet moments Or when the Colonel sees the leopard and says in much distress to Elizabeth, Don't you think it's kind of chilly out here without a gun? "},{"Title":"One of the great comedies","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Cary Grant was one of the great comedy actors.  In Bringing Up Baby, he really shines.  Katherine Hepburn is wonderful as well.  They make the perfect pair.  Unfortunately, so many younger people think of her as some old actress, but in reality, she had style and timing.  This movie is the absolute typical mad cap comedy that Hollywood did so well in the 1930's. Anyone who loves movies should view this movie, as well as one of the Hepburn/Tracy movies.  The thing that makes this movie so special is that you have two people who look so nice, and are seemingly so intelligent, and yet they can be crazy and turn the world upside down.  Imagine  a funny movie without nudity or cursing.  Is that possible??  They simply do not make movies like this anymore. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest damn things I've seen in a long time!","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bringing Up Baby has been on my list of to see films for a long time, and as I had a free evening the other day, I decided to watch it! I'm a great fan of Cary Grant, and I thought he was brilliant as the babbling anthropologist David Huxley, and he made me incessantly giggle throughout the whole film whether or not it was supposed to be funny! In my opinion though, the funniest bit in the whole film was in the party scene quite near the beginning, when Susan Vance (Katharine Hepburn) is being taught a trick using olives by the bartender. She was supposed to flick an olive into her mouth, but she missed and it landed on the floor. As she tries to pick up the olive off the floor, you see Cary Grant walk in and slip on the olive and fall flat on his back! It was hilarious! Perfectly timed, and wonderfully well done! I have to admit that I am the sort of person who rewinds certain amusing incidents and watch them over and over again, and I had to watch that bit many times, and it just kept getting funnier each time!  If you haven't seen Bringing up Baby, please watch it, as it is really entertaining, and I'm sure you'll love it as I do! It is an impeccably timed screwball-comedy with fine acting performances and hilarious direction from Howard Hawks.  Absolutely brilliant; ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"A great, bizarre comedy","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After the famous Hepburn's dress scene (but I would remark the golf scene as well), the movie turns indeed into a bizarre and 'fantasy' intrigue. The scene in the wood in unique; for the atmosphere, for the lack of coherence in the development of time,  easily reminds of Shakespeare's 'Midnight summer's dream'. People goes into and out of the wood, according to a non-sense sequence of happenings; suddenly someone appears or disappears, and everybody is following those two leopards, the good and the nasty. I think the film has an incredible plot. The whole movie is a romantic comedy, but in a very uncommon way; apparently there's nothing romantic in the relationship between Susan and Mr. Bone. Great, great film; impossible to get bored!  "},{"Title":"Hysterical","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Katharine Hepburn and her pet leopard make life miserable for professor Cary Grant.This was a major bomb in 1938. Audiences probably couldn't accept Hepburn in a screwball comedy. Today it's considered one of the best films of the 1930s. It's a true classic--jokes come fast and furious and Hepburn's nonstop talking is just uproarious. Her and Grant play off each other very well--much better than they did in Sylvia Scarlett. Actually the entire cast is great. The script is just wonderful--fast, very funny and piling one mishap on another. Also Grant also says the classic line--Cause I've gone GAY all of the sudden. (Since we now know Grant was gay it makes that line even funnier).Basically this is a true comedy classic. A definite must-see! I give it a 10. "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Let me start by saying that Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn are 2 of my favorite performers. Therefore I figured that since they were together in this film that it should be an incredible movie. That was a mistake I hope I never repeat. First, it was appaling to see someone as intelligent and talented as Katherine Hepburn playing an airhead that NEVER SHUTS UP!!!! Cary Grant's performance was ok as far as the acting is concerned, but all his lines are lame and I thaught his character was almost as annoying as Katherine Hepburn's. Could have been much better. Especially if it was never made. The Shawshank Redemption, Spartacus, or Terminator 2 were much more deserving of a spot on the AFI's top 100 list than this dud. "},{"Title":"Not good, not even for an old one..","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Let's admit We are all biased towards the oldies, including myself. I do enjoy watching them and in fact I feel something utterly naive and unstained in the monochrome world, the childhood of cinema....But not this. A huge fan of Grant and even Hepburn as I am, I could barely stand the plot, an unnecessarily long and weak sense of humor as it is. The same sort of humor is going and going all over again, the characters become unbearable.Sorrily I have seen the film up to the end, tried to like it, and as a person, for instance who considers the Dr. Strangelove as the most hilarious film of all times, I guess it is not my cup of tea. And sorry for that. "},{"Title":"Problematic furball.","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" To say I couldn't stand it would be a little strong, but I was definitely extremely underwhelmed.There are a lot of impeccably written lines, but I feel that Hawks himself was right when he said it doesn't make a good comedy because there are no 'straight men' to ground proceedings. Usually as an audience member you feel sorry for well-intentioned people who are in over their heads, but both of these people struck me as fools right from the very beginning. You can cast Cary Grant as the put-upon social misfit and he'll play it very well, but for me it wasn't appealing to watch. Take away that debonair quality of his and you have someone you sympathise with because you feel superior. That's not a feeling I want my matinée idols to inspire within me.Ultimately if you set out immediately with interesting characters then you don't need to throw a leopard into the mix to create sparks, and if one just happens to be there then don't assign your movie stars the task of trying to 'out-act' it. Slapstick without dialogue is fine; slapstick set around writing as good as this takes the focus away from what's being done well and makes it difficult to concentrate on anything but what amounts to frenzied, unsophisticated mugging. "}{"Title":"Surgeon General's Warning Watching movie will cause irreparable damage to brain","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is by far THE worst movie I've ever seen and I've seen some pretty bad movies.  I honestly don't have any notion of an idea of how ANYbody can like that movie.  It's garbage.  First of all, Hepburn never shuts up!  She just talks and talks practically non-stop through the entire movie.  Gave me one of the worst headaches I've ever had in my life. Second, the story plot isn't that great.  Leopards with mistaken identities on the loose.  It's not even believable anyways.  It's just stupid is what it is.  And then there's a bone that the zany paleontologist can't find. Oh no!  I wonder what sort of crazy adventures they'll get into next.Worst freaking movie EVER!  A Must-Not-See-Even-To-Save-Your-Life.  Stay as far away from this one as possible.  "},{"Title":"You either love it or hate it. I hated it","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What is it with comedy? It is impossible to be judicious about it. If you see a thriller that doesn't thrill, you just shrug your shoulders. But if you see a comedy that doesn't make you laugh, you feel insulted. You hate the movie and you hate the fact that other people think it is a riot.Actually, it is not all comedies that polarise reactions in this way. If the comedy arises naturally from the characters or the situations then movies can be enjoyable, even if they elicit no more than the occasional smile. The problems arise when the characters or situations have no rationale except to be funny. That is the problem here.I find this movie a hopeless, exasperating experience because nothing in it exists except to get laughs and for me it doesn't.The characters are infuriating. Katherine Hepburn never looked better. She is so beautiful it could make you cry, but within about ten minutes I was praying for Cary Grant to strangle this impossible, self-centred, gibbering chatterbox. It probably took Hepburn years to live down the ill-will this movie generated.Cary Grant fares nearly as badly. He was completely emasculated and playing against type. When the Hepburn character falls in love with him you feel she must have been watching his other movies because this ineffectual wimp couldn't possibly have attracted her.Charlie Ruggles is just pathetically begging for laughs. They don't come.Similarly, all the 'comic' situations are painfully contrived. It is one of those movies where people are constantly being misunderstood and constantly doing things that baffle other people. But the comedy is not generated by the perplexing situations in which the characters find themselves. It derives from the fact that nobody can explain any of their actions intelligibly, nobody listens to what anybody else says and nobody is allowed to finish a sentence. If they could or did, it would instantly defuse the situations and kill the comedy. But comedy that relies on relentlessly improbable or unreasonable behaviour is the laziest kind of comedy.To make things worse, the movie has no focus. There are three almost independent comic threads. Firstly, Hepburn is trying to prevent Grant from marrying. This is problematic, because for most of the movie she has no reason to suppose that Grant doesn't love his fiancé; that she doesn't love him; that she is wrong for him; or that Grant really loves her. If this plot element was isolated, the Hepburn character would be left exposed as a highly unsympathetic, manipulative bitch.Fortunately, this dubious premise is diluted with the business of the dog and the loss of the 'intercostal clavicle' (the best comic idea in the picture). Then, on top of that, we get the roaming Baby and the confusion with the second leopard. But rather than this being a rich comic mixture, the picture seems overstuffed and directionless. To paper over the cracks, the movie races along without any variation in pace or tone and seems much longer than it actually is. It might have some good lines in it, but they are all lost in the machine gun delivery that everybody effects. All this frantic activity is trying to cover for a lack of real comic invention. It sweats desperation from every pore.Comedy probably dates more quickly than any other sort of entertainment. We cannot always judge the impact of a comedy film by our responses today. However, this film cannot be excused in that way. It was given the thumbs down by audiences when it was first released.I have to applaud their good judgement. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"13 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the few films on Top 250 that absolutely DON'T belong there. It's so silly, so stupid and so...mean. There is no humor at all and I just feel sorry for Cary Grant. Hepburns character is hopeless and just insane. This kind of embarrassing humor is really something we can live without. Please think about it. Do you really love this crap??? Sometimes many people got the wrong picture...Howard Hawks is one of the great. This was the first of all classics made by him that I got to see. I'm quite scared to see the others. Please, mr Hawks, not more of this!!!The best comedy of this era is The Philadelphia story - a film that has a phenomenal script and even if it's 1940, it doesn't feel old.  "},{"Title":"Bringing up baby","Date":"7 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The 1938 film, Bringing up baby, directed by Howard Hawks is yet another example of a screw-ball comedy. Even though it starred great talent such as Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant, and that it was filmed pretty well, to me the movie wasn't anything special. It was just one forced flat joke after another. Not only that, but the story line wasn't just completely unrealistic, but also not funny at all. I was very disappointed with this production. No wonder the movie was a box office flop, which resulted in Howard Hawks to be dropped from his next production. All in all I mercifully offer, Bringing up baby 2 out of 6 chicken nuggets. "},{"Title":"Pretty good screwball comedy, if you're into that sort of thing.","Date":"27 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is just crazy. Like the sitcom It's Always Sunny In Philadelphia, it keeps surprising the viewer with unimaginable situation after another until you see the plot grow into a crazy situation that is even more unimaginable which in turn brings a lot of laughs because of good acting and directing. Hepburn acts so odd and innocent that she eventually becomes lovable despite having certain blind spots. Cary Grant is good as always and can almost seem as clueless as she is sometimes while still being able to watch out for her. Their Odd Couple pairing keeps the comedy going as long as possible which is the only thing making it interesting which isn't a bad thing. Screwball comedies are all about the antics. There is almost no serious story or romance because of taboos. It can cute seeing the two be in love with each other while not being in love with each other because of the falsity of the movie genre. Though that disbelief can almost disappear after seeing everything come together to create an insane comedy. I'd recommend it to a lot of people because it really is so silly that it's hilarious. Even more so when you know what's going to happen before it does. "},{"Title":"Overrated, but there is still lots of fun to be had","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This screwball classic is one very screwy film indeed. Audiences in 1938 didn't quite get it, but appreciation for director Howard Hawks, stars Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant and renewed interest in the screwball comedy genre have seen it's reputation soar to being one of AFI's top 100 films. While I liked it, I do think it is a little bit overrated. Nevertheless, BABY will continue to win many new fans in the future, and I hope it does, because it is very good.Hepburn and Grant go from mad-cap situation to another. Hepburn plays a kooky, klutzy heiress who makes Cary Grant's life a lot of trouble (yet a lot more interesting) after they meet on the golf course. Cue a leopard called Baby, uncomfortable wardrobe malfunctions, arrests and lots of pratfalls! For me, BABY is very charming for the first hour or so, yet seems to get almost too screwball for it's own good in the final half an hour. Unlike THE LADY EVE, everyone's a screwball, which marks it hard to find a yardstick against the silliness. Still, it's well worth seeing! "},{"Title":"Light But Biting Noir Satire Leads to a Very Funny Howard Hawks' Outing","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As directed by Howard Hawks from an intelligent script by Hagar Wilde and Dudley Nichols, Bringing up Baby proved to be a milestone in the War Between the Sexes. Here, as in other films, Hawks did not invent that war, but merely made himself its Suetonius. Recognizing that as a Freudian psychologist puts the point in the film the love impulse in the male often expresses itself in conflict, he found a way of crafting an entirely new genre of character comedies--which played on U.S. males' repression and conformity to weird statist rules on the one hand and U.S. females willful ignoring of such rules whenever they are after a man they want on the other.In this case, Katharine Hepburn, a screwball daughter of wealth, becomes involved with a professor, played in black glasses by Cary Grant. Grant has a fiancée, a brontosaurus skeleton almost complete after four years of expeditions and assembly, and a need to extract a million dollars from a donor to his museum, through her adviser. When Hepburn ruins four attempts to reach the donor, her Aunt, May Robson, through his own or hers, the story takes a decidedly sudden and strange turn. Her brother has sent her a tame leopard--Baby. From this point in the narrative on, three main elements are interwoven--Grant getting deeper into daffiness because of Hepburn's slowing his chances of ever getting the money; she meanwhile keeping him from the frozen-faced fiancé, ably played by Virginia Walker; and the two trying to find the final bone for Grant's dinosaur, stolen by the Aunt's dog and buried, as both the dog and Baby also go missing. Somehow a Constable, a psychiatrist and his wife, the servants, a visiting circus with its own escaped leopard that is hardly tame, the Aunt's guest and others become embroiled in a well-photographed and memorable sequence of misunderstandings, confrontations, arguments and chases. The film is B/W, well photographed and kept moving by Hawks. Cliff Reed was associate producer for the film, with what music there is being supplied by veteran Roy Webb. With cinematography from Russell Mettey and Van Nest Polglase's Art Direction, Art Department contributions by Perry Ferguson, associate art director and Darrell Silvera's gorgeous decorations for numerous sets, the film is visually lovely. Howard Greer's costumes look stunning on Miss Hepburn who is young, striking and, apart from speaking a bit too fast, very good in this essentially youthful role. Grant is less convincing as a professor, but as a young serious type, he draws on his experience on Holiday to make the most of a long gradual change as he finds himself excited--sedately of course--by Hepburn and his adventures both. Also in the cast are May Robson as the Aunt, Fritz Feld and talented Tala Birell as the psychiatrist and his wife, Barry Fitzgerald and Leona Roberts as the servants, Walter Catlett as the befuddled constable, and George Irving as the Aunt's adviser. Look for Dick Lane, Jack Carson and Ward Bond in bit parts, among many others. The film I find to be attractive, and very funny, but certainly not a Top 100 film owing to its lack of important meaning. It is a light and biting satire on the way people fail to grow up in the U.S., and how this affects their attempts to find the right partner, and to get on with whatever it is they are doing. A failure when it was first offered to an edge-of-the-war public at the end of the 30s screwball treatment, era, like The Court Jester it has today found its audience as a good and rare noir satire. And most deservedly so, I suggest. "},{"Title":"Hepburn + Grant=Perfection!","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Katharine Hepburn had an undeniable big screen charm.Cary Grant had a similar charm.You combine that charm with the fact that these two actors were not only the best of their generation,they are indeed among the best in cinema history.If the two of them are working together,you can rest assured the results are nothing short of spectacular.Throw in a zany plot involving a leopard,and a dog running away with a prize dinosaur bone,and you know that if anyone can make that plot work,it would be these two screen legends.Their comedic chemistry thrives in this film,and their timing is incredible.Bringing Up Baby is romantic,charming,funny,and a grand showcase for the best of the best in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Hilarious!  Unbelievable!","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What can I say about this movie? I am flat-out speechless.Only two words come to mind - Lucille Ball. And she wasn't even in this movie! After seeing this movie I would have to believe that the leading lady was the inspiration for Lucy McGillicuddy Ricardo.It is hard to believe that this movie was made in 1938, it would be completely relative today.Of course in those days a million dollars was a lot of money, but nonetheless this is a MUST SEE MOVIE if there ever was one.Talking about this movie is a waste of time. It has to be seen to be believed "},{"Title":"Grant, Hepburn and Cast - All Grand!","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In the days of the great ad lib actors these two cant be beat. Its hard to find a scene that is funnier than Hepburn walking around with one shoe off while they hunt for Baby in the outdoors.The dialog is quick and very sophisticated for the listener. Its rapid-fire pace and the movie must been seen several times to catch all of its nuances.I rate this movie as one of the top 20 comedy films of all time. Its incredibly funny and I never tire of seeing it.Hepburn always seems to be able to hook Grant in every scene from the beginning to the end.While Grant may seem the patsy he is actually very much in command of his character.The scene with the animal calls is hilarious.The final scene in the museum is also very well done.The jail scene is my favorite. Especially when Hepburn is putting on the police about her and Grant being part of a gang (the leopard gang). "}{"Title":"A must see!","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie! I don't think I've ever laughed so hard while watching amovie. Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant work wonderfully together. Theyhave great chemistry. Katharine's character is crazy! But, a lovable sort of crazy. Cary's character is a great foil for her. I've never seen either one of these characters in these sort of roles. Cary Grant is always cool and debonair men and Katharine is usually ''strong independent women with minds of their own.I was drawn into this film. This is one of those movies that is so good, you don't realize your watching a movie. You're just sucked in to the world of thecharacters and the real world just completely disappears.This movie is a must see for all classic movie lovers!!!  "},{"Title":"A Great Comedy still after 65 years","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie last week. I hadn't seen it in years, and I was absolutely amazed at how it still holds up. Grant and Hepburn are great. Granted, until Kat shows up, it movies a little slow in the first 10 minutes, but from then on, it's classic comedy. It made me laugh a lot more than the junk that passed off for comedy nowadays. A great film, well deserving of its praises. "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I watched Bringing Up Baby for the first time today and I was laughing out loud through the whole movie. Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn are both hilarious. Bringing Up Baby is a true delight to watch. You will be laughing and laughing at the crazy situations that keep happening to Grant and Hepburn. It is a classic comedy. Watch it if you ever have the chance. "},{"Title":"the funniest film ever!","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For those out there afraid of wasting time on b&w movies... you have to see this film, it's a classic and sooo funny... I've seen it so many times that I have to know the lines at this stage, and I still enjoy the laughs... sometimes the simple things in life are always better....  Cary Grant & Katharine Hepburn's timing is perfect and a joy to watch.... don't make them like this any more.... "},{"Title":"Gem beyond compare","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Of the many magnificent screwball films of the era, Bringing Up Baby is a gem beyond compare.  I'm frankly astonished at those who don't get it or dislike the film.  What film were you watching?  Hepburn and Grant are great and all the actors maintain the level of near-lunacy required throughout the film. "},{"Title":"Hepburn and Grant created a comic masterpiece","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bringing Up Baby is one of the finest comedies ever filmed.  The story is kooky and contrived, but who really cares?  Katherine Hepburn is perfect as a carefree New York socialite, and Cary Grant is terrific as the eternally befuddled professor.  We've seen a lot of movies since Bringing Up Baby that have tried to duplicate the witty dialogue and natural chemistry displayed in this film.  Most of these films fall short of the high standards set by Hepburn and Grant in Bringing Up Baby. "},{"Title":"Perfect!","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So so far ahead of its time Bringing Up Baby looks now as a master piece. Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn together at their best with masterly written script and marvelous directing make this one of the best comedy film ever made. It feels now so modern and sharp (filmed 1938!)that I can't anything but wonder. Many today's so called comedy directors and screenwriters in Hollywood should study this film carefully and learn of it.  "},{"Title":"One of My Favorite Movies","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I love this movie. It's a fun classic. It's one of the all-time great screw-ball comedies of the 1930's. This film was made during the depression. Americans had enough to worry about in their real lives. People needed escapist entertainment, and this wonderful ball of warm fluff really delivers. It was never meant to be serious or make an important statement. It was made simply for the joy of entertaining. It allowed two brilliant actors to make people laugh. Grant & Hepburn are fantastic in their rapid-fire conversations and over-all silliness.So, if your feeling a little down, or stressed-out, and want to watch something guaranteed to make you feel a whole lot better, go out and get this film. It's good old-fashioned fun. George, oh George!. "},{"Title":"Why was this movie a box office flop?!","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Everyone remembers Hepburn and Tracy, but here we have what is probably the only example of Hepburn and Grant. And a laugh riot at that. Katharine Hepburn plays a kooky woman who follows nerdy zoologist Cary Grant around and pretends to be his girlfriend. All the while, she has a leopard named Baby, who occasionally causes some screw-ups.Bringing Up Baby is basically a big excuse for 1930's screwball humor. Almost every scene is Hepburn playing some prank on Grant, getting him tensed up. Some of the scenes seemed like they would have been pretty risqué for the 1930's (specifically, at one point, it sounds like Grant says that he's become gay).A perfect old-style comedy. The remake, 1972's What's Up, Doc?, starring Barbra Streisand and Ryan O'Neal, was also quite good. "},{"Title":"Who's that Girl","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you are a fan of actors Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant, this is a must see movie. If you have never heard of Katharine Hepburn or Cary Grant, I recommend that this be your first movie you watch of them. The legendary duo is nothing but perfect in this 1938 comedy, Bringing up Baby. If you grew up in the 1980's, you will see a lot of similarities in Madonna's Who's that Girl. The reason for that is that the 1980 comedy is based on this comedy jewel. Hepburn is most known for her high profile roles where she is the know-it-all rich girl or the elder wise woman who has to educate the rest of the cast. In Bringing Up Baby, she is none-of-the-above. Here, she is brilliant as the bumbling dumbo that is lovable to watch. Grant has no other choice but to fall in love with Hepburn with her childlike charm and innocence. A terrific love story / comedy that is still fresh after all these years. "}{"Title":"A Brilliant Comedy that I am Glad I saw.","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I first found out about this movie from one of the old movie channels that my father has. Since it looked so funny, I recorded it on my Tivo because I had an exam while it was on. So last night I put it on and watched. I'm not sure I have laughed so much in a long long time. The quality of the comedy here is extremely good. Anyone can go ahead and make a movie that has obvious gags in it, but Bringing Up Baby provides high quality laughs continually throughout the film. And many of the times Cary Grant's Dr. Huxley has a joke, he is totally oblivious to the hilarity of his actions/words. Katharine Hepburn really shines as Susan Vance, her playful manner really adds to the effect of her character. The interaction between the two is also incredible. The chemistry is there and it makes the film fun to watch. So many people do not know what they have missed. I wish I could have gone along as a passenger on a journey like theirs. I have no doubt that I will watch this movie again and again and again. 10/10, 5 stars, 2 thumbs up, etc. "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT!!!","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I caught this movie on TV once, and ever since it has been one of my favorites.  Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant are both brilliant.  They deliver their lines excellently, and I just laugh through the entire movie. If you are looking for a sweet, old, screw-ball comedy, this is an excellent one. "},{"Title":"Funniest film of all time.","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you haven't seen this film yet, see it.  Katherine Hepburn plays a rich heiress who falls in love with paleontologist Cary Grant.  As Hepburn tries to woo Grant, he very nearly reaches insanity.  Bringing Up Baby will have you laughing thru its entirety. "},{"Title":"Still funny today!","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Could this picture ever be colorized or remade? I doubt it.I've seen today's teenagers laughing their socks off in front my Tv .What Comedy timing Grant and Hepburn had.There are few other we could compare. I'm even laughing now while running the movie in my mind. few will ever get any better then Bringing Up Baby. "},{"Title":"The history of a not very good screwball comedy!","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When Bringing Up Baby premiered in 1938, the film seemed to break all the rules.  It combined Katherine Hepburn, who had never done anout-and-out comedy before, with Cary Grant, who was known for his debonair leading-man roles.  But director Howard Hawks struck casting gold in Hepburn and Grant, and set out to make Bringing Up Baby the screwiest comedy ever.  The stars barely had time to catch their breath as they raced from one wild situation to another.When production was finished, RKO felt the film was too frenetic for audiences.  In fact, the studio considered shelving it altogether.  When RKO finally released Bringing Up Baby into theaters, the film lost over $300,000.  Hawks was fired from his next scheduled film, Gunga Din and Hepburn bought out her RKO contract and returned to Broadway.However, with the coming of television in the 1960's and VCR in the 1980's, Bringing Up Baby found its audience.  The film quickly won a reputation as one of the funniest movies ever made, and became known as the quintessential screwball comedy.  In 1990, Bringing Up Baby was selected for the National Film Registry of the Library of Congress as one of the most important films in American cinema history.However, I for one, never could understand what was so great about this film.  I think the acting is poor and the storyline is very weak, if not believable.  What is the big deal with this film?  Maybe I just need to see it more...or maybe I've seen it enough.  Who knows?My rating 1 and a half stars "},{"Title":"Screwball comedy at its best","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best examples of screwball comedy I have ever seen!!  There are so many classic moments in this film that you will not stop laughing from beginning to end.  Already being a huge fan of Grant, I was looking forward to seeing this and it couldn't have been better.  Hepburn is the perfect foil for Grant in what could be said to be one of the greatest films of all time. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the greatest movies of all time. Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant (two of the finest actors ever) have a chemistry in this movie that is undeniable. An excellent script and cast make this a film not to be missed. Pure magic! "},{"Title":"Classic screwball comedy","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Straight laced paleontologist David is due to be married and find success with his latest dinosaur skeleton.  However a series of chance encounters with the unconventional and zany Susan leads him to get involved in a series of scrapes involving a leopard, a lost bone, a dog and a web of stories.Despite being `one of the best comedies of all time&#153;' this film didn't do well at all at time of release.  However time has been kind to it and it is not looked upon very favourably as the best screwball comedy made.  And I suppose it is, although the screwball genre has never been one of my favourites.  However I do like the quick fire dialogue that has much in common with the Thin Man series rather than the slapstick edge this also has.However both aspects manage to be entertaining, even if some of it is a little too screwy or silly to be really funny.  Hepburn overplays it a touch &#150; but I guess the character demands it.  Grant however is note perfect as the calm steady man.  Comic support is very much just that &#150; support, but they do very well in some cases.Overall it is one of the best of the genre even if it is a weird genre. The sparkling dialogue still makes this a winner all these years later. "},{"Title":"don't see this movie","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't like comments that don't argue why a movie is bad or good, the reader doesn't get a useful clue about the movie value. But I'm sorry, this movie is so bad, that I feel, I've lost too much time yet watching this annoying thing. (if I only think of the dumb pre-Monthy Python humour and the incredibly irritating voice of the character of Hepburn...). In other words you've been warned. "},{"Title":"The history of a not very good screwball comedy!","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When Bringing Up Baby premiered in 1938, the film seemed to break all the rules.  It combined Katherine Hepburn, who had never done an out and out comedy before, with Cary Grant, who was known for his debonair leading man roles.  But director Howard Hawks struck casting gold in Hepburn and Grant, and set out to make Bringing Up Baby the screwiest comedy ever.  The stars barely had time to catch their breath as they raced from wild situation to another.When production was finished, RKO felt the film was too frenetic for audiences.  In fact, the studio considered shelving it altogether.  When RKO finally released Bringing Up Baby into theaters, the film lost over $300,000.  Hawks was fired from his next scheduled film, Gunga Din and Hepburn bought out her RKO contract and returned to Broadway.However, with the coming of television in the 1960's and VCR in the 1980's, Bringing Up Baby finally found its audience.  The film quickly won a reputation as one of the funniest movies ever made and became known as the quintessential screwball comedy.  In 1990, Bringing Up Baby was selected for the National Film Registry of the Library of Congress as one of the most important films in American cinema history.I could never understand what was so great about this film.  I think that the acting is poor and the storyline is quite weak, if not believable.  What is the big deal with this film?  Maybe I just need to see it more...or maybe I've seen it enough.  Who knows?My rating 1 and a half stars "}{"Title":"Breathless mayhem","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Slapstick comedy from director Howard Hawks involving a flighty heiress, a runaway leopard named Baby, a bumbling zoologist, and a missing dinosaur bone. As the professor, Cary Grant is well in-tune with Hawks' hectic comic sensibilities and he fares all right; Katharine Hepburn, on the other hand, is zany without being charming, and her intrinsic smarts are dumbed down for no apparent purpose (it's a puzzling performance instead of a funny one). Non-stop barrage of chatter and pratfalls was highly influential on many future filmmakers, who may have been able to refine this screwball formula somewhere along the way. Many complained that Peter Bogdanovich's What's Up, Doc? from 1972 was a diluted version of Bringing Up Baby, yet Bogdanovich was able to make the silliness hip and swinging. This Baby doesn't so much strain for effect as it does pitch its inanities too high (it's all on one-note), and the fine supporting players barely have a chance to create genuine characters. Hepburn, flippant and nasal, has rarely been shown to such a weak advantage, though some of the sight-gags are amusing, and the finale in particular is a whopper. ** from **** "},{"Title":"I actually laughed out loud!","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wow, this really is a genuinely funny movie!  Yes, a little over the top in some of the plot aspects but wonderfully acted, very funny and a treat from beginning to end.  Cary Grant is just adorable as a somewhat bumbaling leading man;Katharine Hepburn is suitably vexing as the female lead - other current comedic actresses could learn a thing or two from her timing & delivery.  Fun, fast paced & enjoyable - get the video, don't wait for the DVD - a must have for any Hepburn or Grant collection. "},{"Title":"Bringing Up Baby (1938) ****","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant are marvelous playing off one another in this excellent comedy, with a high energy and many laughs. Hepburn is feisty and endearingly clutzy as she drives Grant crazy with nearly every move she makes. There is nothing to quibble about here, but I'll just mention for the sake of it that I don't care much for the title, as all those bits with 'Baby' (a leopard owned by Hepburn) are basically a side gimmick to the rest of the story. It's shocking to learn that this crowd-pleaser was actually a flop when it was first released (!?). Apparently, legendary director Howard Hawks was even told to beat it. But it's easily one of the greatest of the screwball comedies today. **** out of **** "},{"Title":"When Comedy of Error becomes Comedy of Annoyance","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Frankly, I really didn't like this film.  I had some major problems with it that I have run into in other, more recent comedies, the best two examples being My Best Friend's Wedding and Meet the Parents.  My problems center around Katharine Hepburn's character, Susan.  One can see from her first appearance at the golf course that she is supposed to be the opposite of Alice, the fiancée of Cary Grant's character, David.  Alice is stiff and slightly oppressive, Susan is carefree.  The crazy (and sometimes quite amusing) twists and turns Susan takes David through as this screwball romantic comedy progresses are unpredictable, though we expect all will turn out well and Grant and Hepburn will be in each others' arms.  These are the simple norms of a comedy like this.What I can't stand is the fact that Susan is a thoroughly reprehensible character.  She is not just a scatterbrained chatterbox klutz (as we quickly understand her to be), she is also a careless, selfish, lawbreaking, walking disaster.  This, however, is a character we are obviously supposed to like! It appears to me that the title of the film has a double meaning, referring both to a leopard named Baby and to the incredibly childish Susan.  She steals cars, she hits people in the head with rocks, she loses important things, and every time she commits a horrible act, she shows no signs of true remorse and seems to feel sure of being forgiven.  Let me explain the ties I made to the recent films.  What is true about Meet the Parents and Bringing Up Baby is standard in much comedy; the comedic complications that unfold would be traumatically unpleasant in real life, but as we know we are heading towards a happy end, we are supposed to laugh and take delight in the misery on screen.  The connection to My Best Friend's Wedding is the way both Julia Roberts' and Katharine Hepburn's characters scheme ruthlessly to prevent the male leads from marrying, and the way we are supposed to root for them in this treachery (this is even more true of Bringing Up Baby than of the Roberts film).  Those who completely enjoyed the film will point out that Alice is not right for David.  And Susan is...?I'm not against comedy of errors.  While I found parts like the dinner scene stupid and the search for the leopard tedious, the jail scene was pretty well-done.  Hepburn had me laughing with the gangster moll imitation.  The phone calls, the flustered chief... anyone who's seen the film knows it was some good stuff.  I'd like to add that Grant and Hepburn turn in some great performances and Howard Hawks can be congratulated for the great pacing in some scenes.  Still, my issues with the film made watching Bringing Up Baby an occasionally painful experience.  My favourite part of the film remains when David, unable to shut the incessantly chatty Susan up, stomps hard on her foot.  He begins and ends the film letting others walk all over him, but for this solitary instant, he took control of the chaos. "},{"Title":"Go Back To Bed...","Date":"20 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If this movie was make today Jessica Simpson and Screach would be the main actors. Movies like this drive me crazy. Mrs. Hepburn must be a bit off in real life to play such a ... live killing character. I do applaud Mr Grant for playing the doctors role. In real life if this was to happen to me, I would have just stayed home and shut my phone off.Anyone who would have paid money to view this movie must have had one boring life.The highlight of this movie is when Grant uses the word gay. I'm sure if I was in a theater in 38' and hear him say that I would be all ears. I'm sure that's why he said it... to wake people up. "},{"Title":"Great. One Of The Best I've Seen Kathrine Hepburn In!","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Hepburn And Grant Produced A Great Movie Together In Bringing Up Baby. I Am Enrolled In A Film Class At School, And This Is One Of The Movies Selected For Us To Review. Most Of The Class Groaned And Produced A Half Baked Job Of Their Reports. I Actually Enjoyed The Movie And, Seeing Hepburn, Who's Performance In Previous Roles Left Me Skeptical On Her Acting Skills, In Bringing Up Baby, Certainly Changed My Opinion Of Her. Grant, However, Failed To Impress Me. You May Think That Because I Am A Mere Student I Do Not Have Enogh Experience To Critique These Movies In Such A Way, But, A Critique is Nothing More Than An Opinion, To Which I Am Voicing Mine. While Hepburn Continued To Surprise Me With Her Acting, Grant, In Turn, Let Me Down. I Enjoyed His Roles In The Movies Alice In Wonderland, And Im No Angel, But Im Sad To Say Bringing Up Baby Was Not One Of His Better Roles. So, If You Are A Hepburn Or Grant Fan For That Matter, Then Bringing Up Baby Is A Must See! "},{"Title":"Somewhat infuriating","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" While both Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn are very good in this movie, I found it really annoying and difficult to watch. I'd heard so many things about the movie that I was really looking forward to it, but I was sadly disappointed. It was a screwball comedy, but more screwball than comedy. I only laughed once or twice.Basically, I just don't have the right sense of humor for it. So I don't want to make anyone not watch it who doesn't share my sense of humor, because I'm sure most would enjoy it. However, if you do not like humor that is based on bad things happening to people, you probably won't enjoy this movie. And if you don't like humor and plots that are based on poor communication, especially people refusing to listen to each other, this is definitely not the movie for you. I happen to find the former upsetting and the latter infuriating, so I did not like Bringing Up Baby!Beware--it is not for everyone! "},{"Title":"A classic comedy?","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bringing Up Baby was not well-received in its time but is now considered a rediscovered classic. Unfortunately I never found this movie to be very amusing. The humor is supposed to come from one debacle after another Susan driving off with David's car, the dog taking the all-important clavicle or the characters tearing their clothing or falling into a stream, but I rarely laughed at these incidents or the dialogue. One part that did have amusing moments was Susan's interplay with Constable Slocum and the subsequent fallout, but this is only a short part of the film.Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn give energetic performances and both have had memorable roles outside this film. The supporting cast is decent too, but the story itself just isn't funny. I was interested in this film because of its recent critical reputation, but found the humor in it flat and the 102 minutes of the film mostly tedious. "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I didn't find it as funny when I watched it a second time. I don't think it's as good as Holiday but it's better than The Philadelphia Story. Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn are both great and so is Howard Hawks, who was a perfect director for comedy.  "},{"Title":"Marvelous screwball comedy that is timeless and tons of fun","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was really torn, as I wanted to give this movie a 10 but it's tough when his later film, ARSENIC AND OLD LACE, is even better. These two films as well as HIS GIRL Friday are all definitive proof that when it comes to classic screwball comedy, Cary Grant was a god!The best part of this film is the weird role played by Katherine Hepburn. She plays against type as one of the ditziest dames in film history--sort of like a livelier and dumber version of Gracie Allen! She just steals the show from Cary Grant, though he, too, does a great job in the film. So, if you are looking for Grant's greatest performance, the other two films are more showcases for his zaniness--though later in the film, Hepburn's nuttiness seems to wear off on Cary, just a bit.Cary plays a stuffed shirt paleontologist whose two loves in his life are the dinosaur he's trying to complete and his cold as ice fiancée. When an important bone from the dinosaur is discovered, it represents the final bone and an end to years of work to assemble it. However, shortly after getting the bone, Ms. Hepburn accidentally kidnaps Grant and the missing bone. And, a short time later, her annoying terrier steals the bone and buries it on Hepburn's huge estate! Cary discovers the bone is missing about the same time Baby arrives--Kate's new pet Leopard! Well, much of the movie is spent going on some of the screwiest adventures with some of the funniest scenes of the 1930s. I especially like it when Cary is forced to wear a woman's robe. When someone comes to the door, he has a hard time accounting for the clothes and finally says he has the robe on because I was feeling quite GAY today!. If only he knew what this would mean if said after the late 1960s! Anyway, by the end of the film, Cary is ready to kill Kate. However, despite this he also realizes he loves the excitement being married to such a nut and can't marry his cold, icky fiancée. And in the end, God help him, he chooses Kate.The film abounds with great humor, timing and snappy dialog--it's one of the best films of its era and stars two wonderful actors at the top of their game. "}{"Title":"Rusalka's fifth film review The history of a not-so-funny screwball comedy!","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When Bringing Up Baby premiered in 1938, the film seemed to break all the rules.  It combined Katherine Hepburn, who had never done an out and out comedy before, with Cary Grant, who was known for his debonair leading man roles.  But director Howard Hawks struck casting gold and set out to make Bringing Up Baby the screwiest comedy ever made.  The stars barely had time to catch their breath as they raced from one wild situation to another.When production was finished, RKO felt the film was too frenetic for audiences.  In fact the studio considered shelving it altogether.  When RKO finally released Bringing Up Baby into theaters, the film lost over $300,000.  Hawks was fired from his next scheduled film, Gunga Din and Hepburn bought out her RKO contract and returned to Broadway.However, with the coming of television in the 1960's and the advent of VCR's in the 1980's, Bringing Up Baby finally found its audience.  The film quickly won a reputation as one of the funniest movies ever made and became known as the quintessential screwball comedy.  In 1990, Bringing Up Baby was selected for the National Film Registry of the Library of Congress as one of the most important films in American cinema history.I could never understand what was so great about this film.  I think that the acting is poor and the storyline is quite weak, if not believable.  What is the big deal with this film?  Maybe I just need to see it more...or maybe I've seen it enough.  Who knows?My rating 1 star "},{"Title":"Feeble","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Frankly I cannot see the appeal of this film. Cary Grant has not developed his suave movie matinee persona and is content to be a watered-down Harold Lloyd/Stan Laurel. Hepburn is intensely irritating. The plot is contrived and very unfunny. And any film where an animal is the star - and is expected to have the most laughs - has got to be suspect! When I finished watching it, I thought the whole thing was very feeble.  "},{"Title":"OK, I laughed, but....","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I did laugh during this film.  There are some hilarious bits that make the film worth watching.  That being said, there are some serious problems.  First, Katherine Hepburn just is not right for this part.  It is almost impossible to buy her as a scatterbrained psychopathic stalker.  Its not that she doesn't try hard.  She has several moments of truly inspired acting.  She is just wrong for the part on a deep level.  Compare this part to her part in The Philedelphia Story and you will see what I mean.  Which leads me to the second problem.  Is it just me, or is Hepburn's character completely insane?  Cary Grant should be running from her in abject terror, not going along with her hairbrained schemes.  Which leads me to the third problem.  I just can't believe that Cary Grant could fall in love with this loony woman!  Finally, Cary Grant has to work very hard to not be suave and debonair.  Just putting a pair of glasses on him doesn't suddenly make him a nerd.  He's Cary Grant for pete sake, not Jerry Lewis. "},{"Title":"You choose the funniest places; this is a parking lot.","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bringing Up Baby is just another glowing example of what happens when you place great actors in bad parts. Here we have two of Hollywood's most respected actors demonstrating that they cannot handle such a convoluted story such as this. In fact, give this story to even any of the actors throughout the history of Hollywood this story and I don't think anyone could have pulled it off. Let's get right down to it, the story is what hurt this film. I agree that I don't think Katharine Hepburn should have dabbled in comedy, especially with a script like this, but I guess she could only work with what she had &#133; which was nothing. Air, space, and dead time would have created better viewing than this story did, but alas, director Howard Hawks decides to fill that space with annoying songs, backwards stories, and characters that never quite leap out of the puddles of mediocrity that they sleep in.What really hurts this story is that there is too much happening to allow any real comedy to develop. From the uncharacteristic meeting between David and Susan to the dinosaur bone to the leopard in the yard, I never quite saw the humor in it. In fact, I hardly laughed at this film at all. I felt Hepburn gave one of her worst performances as this annoying rich girl that gets upset whenever she doesn't get what she wants. Grant tries to counter the horrid acting by Hepburn by playing his character a bit low key, but the chemistry never quite develops. There is no spark between the two. I never felt like they were really in love. Hepburn's comic timing was incredibly off in this film, causing most of the film to follow her lead. The rest of the cast would try to overcompensate for her misjudgment causing even more chaos in this film. One scene that immediately comes to mind is when Susan and David, with the dog, are singing to Baby on the rooftop. All of their voices together were like fingernails on a chalkboard. Was this to be funny? I am glad that we have evolved a bit further than this in that genre or it may have died directly after this film was made. Comedy is not something that can be taught. You either have it or you don't, and I do not believe Hepburn had it.No matter how bad the acting was, it still didn't compare to the nightmarish story. Perhaps I missed something throughout my 102-minute viewing, but the elements of this screwball comedy just never congealed together that well. Coupled with the below par acting, this film really never got off the ground. As audience members, we were mislead from the beginning and never quite found our stepping for the remaining moments. For example, during the opening credit sequences and on the discs of the DVD there are images of Hepburn and Grant helping the leopard eat and live life as if it was their child. It shows the leopard in diapers and in other whimsical hijinks, but we were not privileged enough to see that in the actual film. If that had been a bigger part of the story, than I think perhaps the comedy aspect would have been greater. We needed more moments with Baby instead of trying to build a relationship between David and Susan literally out of nothing. With a lacking chemistry, a poor excuse for a story, and comedy that was perhaps written by Baby herself, this 102-minute film felt more like 302 minutes of living, breathing torture.Overall, I just could not get excited about this film. This was one of those movies that took me two nights to finish because I just couldn't wrap my hands around anything substantial. I wanted greater comedy, but outside of Grant, our characters just acted annoying rather than funny. Hepburn was completely miscast in this feature, and the entire twenty minutes at the end of the film seemed rather rushed and aggravating than whimsical. I was hoping that this film would be more about the leopard instead of the people, but director Howard Hawks took it in a different direction, which ultimately hurt the outcome. This should have been a movie about a leopard co-starring Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn, not the other way around. I didn't enjoy this movie in the least, and still wake up sweating at nights after nightmares of Hepburn, the dog, and Grant singing to the leopard. Ughhhhhhh.Grade * out of ***** "},{"Title":"Another Overrated 'Screwball Comedy' Dud","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"19 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There have been few female movie stars more obnoxious, affected and downright annoying to watch than Katharine Hepburn. This way over-hyped movie reminded me of another classic screwball comedy she starred in, The Philadelphia Story, another very overrated film.Critics have labeled this film as hilarious for way too long. It's time to tell it like it is, as Howard Cosell used to say the comedy is NOT funny and in most scenes, just plain stupid. Much of the same can be said for most of those screwball comedies.I gave this film two chances in 20-year period, just to make sure, because I like Cary Grant, Charles Ruggles and some of the other cast members. However, I still didn't find one thing funny in the first half hour and this time just heaved it into the trash can, where it belongs with most of those screwball comedy films which, on the whole, were anything but funny. I was not surprised to hear this movie bombed at the box office. "},{"Title":"Bringing Up Baby","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" From director Howard Hawks (Scarface, Monkey Business, Gentlemen Prefer Blondes), I remember seeing this once before and obviously not appreciating it properly, a second viewing really helped me enjoy it more. Basically Dr. David Huxley (Cary Grant) is the mild mannered professor of zoology close to completing a brontosaurus skeleton he has worked on for four years, with only the intercostal clavicle bone left to go. He is also excited as he will be getting married to his officious assistant Alice Swallow (Virginia Walker) who seems more interested in his work than him as a person, and he needs $1 million endowment from Mrs. Elizabeth Random (May Robson) in order to complete the project. It is her lawyer Alexander Peabody (George Irving ) who will decide for her whether he gets the money, do David needs to win his favour, but he cannot give a good impression because a woman keeps making him look bad. Eccentric heiress Susan Vance (Katharine Hepburn) keeps causing confusion to others and creating mishap around him, so he wants her to go away, and the more he wants this the more she stays besides him. He finds out that Susan knows Peabody, who she calls Boopy very well, and Mrs. Random is her Aunt, but getting to them is not easy, especially with the arrival of a tamed pet leopard named Baby sent by Susan's brother Mark sent from Brazil. Trying to keep an eye on the leopard is naturally not easy, and it ends up escaping and with word of mouth it becomes a hunt for people, including hunting enthusiast Major Horace Applegate (Charles Ruggles). So David is forced into helping Susan find Baby, while also searching for dog George who found the bone delivered to the professor that he has buried somewhere, and another leopard from the travelling circus is set loose too. There is a point when David and Susan are arrested along with a few other characters because of the huge misunderstanding with identities and the leopard situation, Susan does put on a act in order to get out, but the leopards make it easier. In the end David realises his work is not as important as his feelings for the woman he truly loves, no longer Alice, who has also moved on, but indeed Susan. Also starring Walter Catlett as Constable Slocum, Barry Fitzgerald as Aloysius Gogarty, Fritz Feld as Dr. Fritz Lehman, Leona Roberts as Hannah Gogarty, Tala Birell as Mrs. Lehman and John Kelly as Elmer. Grant as always is charming and does humorously well as the constantly annoyed man surrounded by confusion and small disaster, Hepburn is quite affectionate as the overly naive, slightly air-headed and in a way kooky woman who can't let him go, the jokes mostly come from the backwards and forwards dialogue and some small slapstick moments, a likable classic screwball comedy. Katherine Hepburn was number 38, and Cary Grant number 10 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, Grant was number 19 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, he was number 4 on Britain's Finest Actors, he was number 2 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men, Hepburn was number 1 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Women, and Grant was number 23, and Hepburn number 9 on The World's Greatest Actor, the film was number 51 on 100 Years, 100 Passions, it was number 97 on 100 Years, 100 Movies, and it was number 14 on 100 Years, 100 Laughs. Very good! "},{"Title":"A Swing and  A Miss","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I truly have tried to like this movie. I try to watch it and keep finding myself cleaning the bird cage or sweeping the porch before it's over. The truth is, Katherine Hepburn is not a screwball comedy actress. Maybe it's because she always takes herself so seriously, she is always playing at playing Katherine Hepburn and her performance is just plain embarrassing. There were funny comedic actresses in 1938. She was not one of them.Cary Grant is always wonderful. I love the rambling dinner scene. But this is a predictable, insulting attempt to force a round peg into a square hole and make us believe for really and truly the Great Hepburn was up to any challenge. Har Har. "},{"Title":"Bringing Up Baby & Casablanca","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Trust your basic instincts and pass on the chance to view, or re-view this tedious classic. Pushed for decades as the quintessential screwball comedy, BUB is right up there, in my own opinion, with Casablanca, whose cheering sections drown out its legitimate critics and intimidate movie buffs so they march along lockstep. The movie is simply a dated, stagey, endurance test...for the audience. My Man Godfrey is a screwball comedy, and keeps its viewers floating; same for It happened One Night. Will someone please put the Baby out of its misery? Part of the problem is the Katherine Hepburn is a Goddess Society. Sorry, Ms. Hepburn's acting style is more of an acquired taste, like esgargot. Her best work was The African Queen, a true classic. Bringing Up Baby is as funny as great-grandpa's high-buttoned shoes.  "},{"Title":"Classic screwball comedy but not my cup of tea...","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'll admit that Hepburn and Grant give their all to this screwball comedy about a paleontologist (CARY GRANT) seeking a bone for his museum, who runs into an eccentric young woman (KATHARINE HEPBURN) and can't seem to do anything right from then on. It's rightly famous for the scene where her ripped dress causes confusion in a nightclub.But it's mostly a battle of the sexes between two equally stubborn people and I can only say that Hepburn's Susan drives me up the wall--probably one of the most annoying characters she's ever played with all of her Hepburn mannerisms in full gear. Grant wears horn-rimmed glasses most of the time in effort to look like a handsomer version of Harold Lloyd. He certainly has comic abilities with screwball material.There's nothing subtle about the humor--especially when the two are involved with keeping a baby leopard under wraps. CHARLIE RUGGLES and MAY ROBSON and BARRY FITZGERALD do their best to add some merriment to the proceedings, but the endless sight gags are standard for this kind of fluff and become a little tiresome when everything Hepburn does continues to backfire with disastrous results.Howard Hawks deserves credit for keeping things moving along briskly, but it's never been one of my favorite screwball comedies because none of the characters have a grain of common sense--especially Miss Hepburn's madcap heiress. "},{"Title":"Katharine Hepburn at her best","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Katharine Hepburn turns out to be a fantastic comedian in the role of dynamic, self-confident Susan who falls in love with a zoologist and tries everything to get him Cary Grant plays his usual character, an upright man who has trouble through no fault of his own. The film itself is turbulent but, in my opinion, not very funny. I suppose it was in the year 1938 but meanwhile it's become a little antiquated. Watch it for Katharine! "}{"Title":"If baby can eat you, avoid baby.","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think the single overriding factor that makes me dislike this movie is the presence of Baby, the Katherine Hepburn character's pet leopard.  I could never get over the fact that a leopard is a dangerous wild animal, and it bothered me that Hepburn and Cary Grant, two of my favorite performers, were in mortal danger as they acted with that animal.  That kind of danger is not funny.  I was also bothered by the Katherine Hepburn character; she was too scatterbrained to be believable.  Katherine Hepburn looks smart, acts smart, and obviously is smart.  She doesn't make a believable airhead.  When I try to watch this film, I never crack a smile.  What a waste of talent.  "},{"Title":"Several humps I could not get over","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If I would have seen this before seeing Grant in a dozen roles being suave and cool, I could have taken him seriously as a comedian.  Imagine Steve McQueen being silly and stupid or John Wayne.  It just wouldn't work.  My favorite Grant role is in Hitchcock's Notorious, and I guess I couldn't buy into the convention of him acting in this way.  Because of that, I wish I wouldn't have seen this movie.  Also, I hate every movie I've ever seen with Katharine Hepburn in it.  Her voice and demeanor are repulsive to me, but she probably stood tall as a strong woman of her time (which explains her gut-wrenching role in Adam's Rib).  If there were two different actors in the film I probably would have liked it, so if you don't have the same biases I have go ahead with it.  All these people can't be wrong.  7/10. "},{"Title":"Don't believe the hype.  This is not comedy, it's COMICIDE!","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Before I shank hook and eviscerate this sacred cow, let's get a few things straight. First off I like Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn. More importantly, I love comedy. All types of comedy. The Marx Brothers, Bill Cosby, Monty Python, the Firesign Theater, Douglas Adams (The Hitchhikers Guide To The Galaxy), I love them all. In fact I love comedy so much I could recite from memory entire pieces of the aforementioned work word for word. I was inspired by Charlie Chaplin as a youngster and made Chaplin-like 8mm home movies with my friends. I love the grace and pathos of Buster Keaton, the genius of Peter Sellers, the versatility of Jackie Gleason. I even like a lot of Jim Carey's work. I enjoy his insane commitment to the ridiculous. I don't want to belabor the subject, but at school, I was the class clown. I actually make my living in comedy. Also, please note that I am very well read and very well traveled. I enjoy the avant-garde, as well as some more traditional forms of entertainment, everything from Devo to Pavarotti. I love comedy. Therefore, I believe I am somewhat qualified to give the following review of 'Brining Up Baby'...It is not funny. "},{"Title":"a minority view -- I hated it!  Painful!","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've read the user comments here.  Seems that 90% loved it; 10%, including me, hated it.   I'm shaken that so many loved it.  That confuses me greatly.  I feel I'm in another  dimension!I love Cary Grant and Howard Hawks' work -- their His Girl Friday (a screwball comedy!)  is literally my favorite movie.  I respect Katharine  Hepburn's work.  In Bringing Up  Baby, I was amused at the start of the film (Grant's fiance's romantic aloofness) and the  last half hour or so (the mix-up of the two leopards, the jail scene, etc.).  I hated the  rest.  It was stupid and nasty, especially the Hepburn character.  Jerry Lewis' movies are  smarter, more adult and subtle in comparison.  I won't bother to comment on how self- centered, immoral and cruel the Hepburn character is.  Nor will I go into how unlikely the  two could fall in love (showing Grant a looser/fun ?, maybe crazy side of life is not  enough).  What bothered me is that most of what went on was stupid/unbelievable and  not funny.  I could go on and on giving examples.  What is funny about Hepburn stupidly  and unnecessarily damaging Grant's auto?  What is funny about her pulling on his formal  coat to the point of tearing it, or him stepping on the hem of her dress to the point of  accidentally tearing out the back of it?  And then characters, when faced with  misunderstandings, simply fail to do what anyone would do -- speak up and explain the  confusion.  I have seen the film a number of times and found very little humor. "},{"Title":"harmless","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm not sure why, but I never thought this movie to be very funny. In fact I hardly ever smiled watching it. And it's not because I don't like this kind of films, I actually wanted to like it, but compared to 'What's up Doc?' say, this one just lacks any speed and pep. And its humour is just too harmless and predictable.  4/10 (sorry) "},{"Title":"Not many old films do it for me","Date":"31 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This really wasn't my taste. Yes, I know I saw it 70 years after it was made, but that doesn't mean I will like it because of that or dislike it for the same reason. And I will be honest, not many older movies really do anything for me, with exceptions to Reefer Madness and The Terror of Tiny Town.We have a film where a man (Grant), who works at a museum with dinosaur bones, is about to get married. But upon a chance meeting with a woman, is kidnapped by her(Hepburn) and taken on a journey with a leopard. Yes, a leopard.Anyway, its an old comedy with a style that is prevalent in many old comedies. Nothing absurdest in its twists, but just a screwball film. And the only thing I thought was funny was the leopard.The whole who is on first routine grew real old real fast. Overall, did not like it. D- "},{"Title":"I tried very hard to like this movie.","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"9 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn are easily two of the most prolific actors of all time. Likewise, Howard Hawks will remain one of the most underrated American directors of cinema with films like Red River and His Girl Friday. Furthermore, I think slapstick is a seriously underrated art form which should get the attention it rightfully deserves. However, I had a very hard time liking this film. I have no idea why this film is praised to the degree to which it is. There are some seriously funny and memorable moments in this movie. One of the final scenes is one of the most amazing scenes I have seen in a long time. I still felt let down. I felt that the movie did not do a good job in developing its characters even though the genre may not call for this. Likewise, some of the scenes did not transition well. Finally, an excellent actress like Katharine Hepburn, as sophisticated as her acting may be, was just not right for this role in playing a dumb woman. In conclusion, I tried very hard to like this film, but I can not see it as an important American classic. "}]