[{"Title":"May my name be forgotten, if Dreyfus is not innocent.. He is innocent.","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"43 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" In 1937, The Life of Emile Zola was nominated for the largest number of awards, ten. The movie won three including Best Picture. However, sadly and in some ways shamefully, this film has been ridiculed for being dated today, it's ways and means a little obsolete, and it's style rather unusual. That is downright unjust! The style which is portrayed in this remarkable seventy year old film is quite conventional. The dialogue is perhaps overwritten, but the powerful story is there, and the story line is enhanced by intelligent dialogue to say the least, as well as, first rate performances by an excellent cast, preferably Paul Muni (giving possibly his best performance) as Emile Zola and supported well by Joseph Schildkraut as Dreyfus. Not to mention, the film is technically excellent. Editing, costuming, lighting - without doubt, and all the production values stand up beautifully even several decades later.Sure it's a fictionalized version of the life of the great French writer Emile Zola, however, great fiction can make a great film and that is the case with The Life of Emile Zola. One may forget that this film was released in 1937 when anti-Semitism was again sweeping the continent of Europe, and for that very reason, the word Jew is never mentioned and we are only given a short visual reference. To avoid lawsuits from their descendants, only Major Dort and Major Esterhazy names were specifically identified. Others are referred to as the Chief of Staff, the Minister of War, etc. Also, Dreyfus was not freed and restored to rank in 1902, the year of Zola's death, but in 1906 after being found guilty again in an 1899 retrial. These historical errors can be forgiven, because it's the films message which stands and given the current climate, the movie's message is all the more important.The shifting focus of this film doesn't make it a frustrating experience for modern viewers. In fact, the film flows quite nicely struggling writer, gets in trouble for his book, then the film follows Zola's success as he becomes a powerful force in society. Eventually we get to 1894, where many claim the film to zoom away from its subject, where the film begins to focus on Dreyfus. With that being said, if you sit down to watch The Life of Emile Zola, don't skip the first third of the movie, because it's every bit as moving and powerful as the dramatic court scene, most notably in the unforgettable self-defense scene in which Muni delivers an outstanding performance.Unfortunately, had Muni not won the previous year for another biopic, The Story of Louis Pasteur, he would have received the Oscar for his portrayal of Zola. Muni was not only nominated for an Oscar for this role but also received awards from many critics groups. Today many dismiss the significant talent of Muni (one of films first devoted actors), however, one cannot deny he had a great deal with elevating the art of film acting. "},{"Title":"This is a movie that defines the biopic","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Paul Muni, one of the five best actors EVER, is magnificent in recreating the life of one of France's most controversial literary figures.  Zola reveals every facet of the great man's complex personality and personal successes and learning experiences in a manner that delivers rare insights and consummate entertainment to the audience at the same time.  The supporting cast and the direction match Muni's magnificence to the best of their abilities every step of the way.  I recommend this as one of the great forgotten films of all time. "},{"Title":"Still one of the best Hollywood docudramas","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"27 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Handsomely mounted in the Warner Brothers style of the 30's, and topped off with a stirring Max Steiner score, The Life of Emile Zola (***) remains a passionately engrossing experience.  Refreshingly, the film admits upfront right after the opening titles that it's a fictionalization, something that isn't done nearly as often it should be in today's purportedly true story docudramas.  (These days, this disclaimer is often buried in the fine print at the very end of the credits after nearly everyone has left the theater.)  Even so, Zola remains remarkably true to the facts.  It skips lightly over the author's early years in the first 20 minutes and then soars to gripping dramatic heights in the outrageous libel trial that Zola underwent after he published his celebrated J'Accuse which condemned the hypocrisy and corruption of the military establishment as it falsely accused high-ranking Captain Alfred Dreyfus of treason and then attempted a massive cover-up when it realized it had made a mistake.  The movie has been criticized for underplaying the anti-semitic aspects of the Dreyfus prosecution, but it's implied quite neatly in the scene where the camera pans down Dreyfus's resume to his religion while one of his superiors marvels how someone like that could became an officer.  The film does indulge in some pretty fancy compression towards the end.  It implies that Dreyfus was reinstated in the Army right after returning from Devil's Island and on the same day as Zola's tragic accidental death.  However, according to the Encyclopedia Britannica, the real facts are even more disturbing and incredible.  In 1899 after his return, Dreyfus was retried and found guilty again by a court tribunal!  However, he was pardoned by the President.  He was finally cleared of all charges and reinstated in the service in 1906, four years after Zola's death in 1902.  Interesting sidelight  Zola and his devoted wife had no children but he did carry on a 14-year affair with one of his housemaids that produced 2 children.  I guess there's no way the Warner Brothers were going to complicate the image of their hero as a saintly crusader for truth and justice by including this spicy little domestic tidbit.  "},{"Title":"Fine acting, poor history","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"34 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I highly recommend The Life of Emile Zola for the brilliant performances of Paul Muni, Gale Sondergaard, and Joseph Schildkraut.  (Although I still must admit I'm surprised by Schildkraut's Oscar victory...although he certainly does a good job as Alfred Dreyfus, the role doesn't really give him much opportunity to demonstrate his talents.  Dreyfus is not shown in any depth; his role consists almost entirely of protesting his innocence and languishing in prison.)Strong performances aside, though, I do have some problems with the film. It strikes me as very odd that a film that makes such a big deal about the truth is so hesitant at actually depicting it.  One of the key issues of the Dreyfus affair, anti-semitism, is never even brought up.  The only reference to Dreyfus' Judaism is a passing glimpse on his personnel papers. The filmmakers' reluctance to address such an important part of the story does a disservice to history.  "},{"Title":"It has great passion, deep commitments, love, great music, and we get to know a bit  more about French literature.","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  William Dieterle directed  this classic biography and was nominated for an Oscar for his work. This movie had ten Oscar nominations, and won best picture in 1938. Paul Muni (The Last Angry Man) was nominated for an Oscar for his performance as Émile Zola, one of the foremost writers in France. Zola and his best friend and confident painter Paul Cezanne, played by Russian born actor Vladimir Sokoloff (Taras Bulba, For Whom The Bell Tolls), who attend the Moscow Academy of Dramatic Art. The story takes place in  Paris in 1862.  Paul Cezanne and Émile Zola were friends when both were starting their careers. Through ups and downs Zola became financially successful long before Cezanne. He was married and had a successful career as an author. Paul Cezanne then decided to live in the country far away from the city, and told Zola not to be part of the establishment but to fight for truth and justice again.  Émile Zola is living comfortable and even getting fat, and is about to became a member of the French Academy for the utmost writers, and to get honored by the Nobel society. He is approached by  Lucie Dreyfus, played by Gale Sondergaard (Anna and the King of Siam), whose husband was unjustly court martialed and sent to Devil's Island (Papillion's prison home) because he was accused of betraying his country by disclosing military secrets. Mr. Dreyfuss' case is one of those passionate cases where anti-Semitism is also an issue. It is unbelievable that this specially inhumane trial took place in France,  nation for Liberty, Fraternity, and Equality. That what Zola was fighting for.The music by Max Steiner is beautiful. He was also nominated for an Oscar for best music score. Anatole France is also part of the story. My favorite scenes the folding umbrellas, Zola getting his first pay check as a best seller author, the conversations between Zola and Paul Cezanne. The determination of Ms. Dreyfuss and she goes to talk to Zola, her last hope. My favorite quotes There are times when the most courageous thing is to be cowardly. This is a great biography.  It is a Schindler's list type of story!  It has great passion, deep commitments, love, great music, and we get to know a bit more about French literature. Thanks to my dad, who was passionate for literature and majored in languages, I was brought up with a library of books where one could find the internationally acclaimed classics. Émile Zola's works were among dad's favorite. That was what made me purchase the tape. I highly recommend it. You can learn a lot from this movie!  "},{"Title":"Memorable Courtroom Speeches","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Such occasions are not unlike great arias in operas the stage lights softly dim and follow spot brightens as all cast characters (and audience) lean forward to focus on the delivery.Such a moment occurs in The Life of Emile Zola as Paul Muni as Zola steps to the platform to deliver his courtroom defense speech.  Against all the odds of a jeering mob and negative press, he proceeds to offer a seven minute oration.The scene is a set-up for Muni, and the camera, editing, and staging are all designed for the actor to deliver his thespian goods.  He doesn't disappoint.Two other cinematic courtroom speeches are comparable Alec Guiness as Benjamin Disraeli in The Mudlark (1950) enjoyed the rare opportunity of having his six minute, uninterrupted speech done in a single, slow tracking shot; and Gary Cooper as Howard Roark in The Fountainhead (1949) held a courtroom breathless for over five minutes, defending his act of poetic, if not Randian-judicial, justice.In Muni's case, his defense scene turned out to be a highpoint of an intriguing acting career.  From Yiddish theater to worldwide stardom--with fewer that two dozen films to his credit--Muni constantly enthralled some while leaving others doubtful.What's undeniable about Muni is that he achieved stardom on his own power.  He was able to convince a goodly number of people, both peers and public alike, that he was indeed not just a good but great actor.While some held a sneaking suspicion that he was a wee bit of a poseur, having never formally studied his craft, it really doesn't matter.  Muni didn't win his lucrative acting contracts--or his Academy Award honors--for nothing.  Personally, I enjoy his general work, being more partial to roles more close to his own than those of his elders.  In latter cases I felt he often tended to go a bit over-the-top with stereotypical mannerisms.As Zola, though, his earnestness and determination proves convincing, and the film itself is peopled with a powerhouse cadre of Warner Bros. character players.  To the film's credit, a pre-enactment inscription admits to the intermingling of fiction with fact for dramatic purposes.  This also relieves the production of accusations of historical inaccuracy.All in all, The Life of Emile Zola is  a most engrossing biopic of a courageous literary giant who placed the pursuit of justice above the receiving of worldly accolades. "},{"Title":"A Well-Crafted, Worthwhile Memorial to Zola","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This well-crafted film is a worthwhile memorial to Émile Zola, one of the finest writers of his era, and one who deserves to be better-known today outside of his own country. It seems likely that Zola, a naturalistic writer who always used lifelike, genuine characters who had both strengths and weaknesses, would probably have been satisfied with the way he is portrayed by Paul Muni and by the screenplay. Zola is shown not as a flawless hero or as a larger-than-life icon, but as a real person with a talent for writing, who was willing to struggle both to establish himself and to remain true to his principles.The movie makes a good selection of events from Zola's life, looking both at his earlier years, when he was struggling to establish himself, and at his later years, when as a respected member of society he had to fight his own reluctance to remain true to his ideals. The supporting cast have smaller parts, but they generally do quite well. Vladimir Sokoloff has a couple of nice scenes as Cézanne, and his interactions with Muni are quite helpful in defining the main character, especially as he changes once attaining personal success. Joseph Schildkraut makes good use of his scenes as Dreyfus.Zola's lifetime was also an interesting and often tumultuous period in France's own history, and the movie provides at least a small taste of that.There was, for example, even more to the Dreyfus situation than is shown here, but it and other historical events are shown mainly as they involved Zola himself - otherwise, to do justice to the events in themselves, the movie would have had to be several times as long. There's plenty here as it is to make it worthwhile, both as a good drama and as a believable portrait of Zola.  "},{"Title":"THE LIFE OF EMILE ZOLA (William Dieterle, 1937) ***1/2","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Of Paul Muni's three biographical films made at Warner Bros. and directed by William Dieterle (the others were THE STORY OF LOUIS PASTEUR 1936 and JUAREZ 1939), this was the only one which had never been shown on TV in my neck of the woods; ironically, it was the first to make it to DVD - but, then again, it is the most highly-regarded of them! Still, given the film's reputation (Best Picture Oscar Winner, Leonard Maltin rates it **** in his Movies & Video Guide), I somehow expected a masterpiece - but, personally, I feel that Dieterle's THE DEVIL AND DANIEL WEBSTER (1941) and THE HUNCHBACK OF NOTRE DAME (1939) are greater achievements. Even so, it's been sometime since I watched a vintage old-style Hollywood film; of late, I've mostly been concentrating on Euro-Cult and World Cinema stuff - but, really, there's no beating the professionalism and sheer entertainment value of a product from the cinema's Golden Age! The film strikes a good balance between Zola's literary career and his struggles for social justice the latter is mostly devoted to the Dreyfus affair, a veritable cause celebre at the time (cinematically treated two more times in DREYFUS 1931 and I ACCUSE 1958, neither of which I've watched though the latter had turned up some years back on late-night Italian TV!), culminating in one of the finest courtroom scenes ever filmed. Production values are top-notch, the Oscar-winning script appropriately literate (though the constant speechifying and the film's two-hour length - by contrast, LOUIS PASTEUR had been less than 90 minutes but, then, the epic and star-studded JUAREZ was longer still - make for a somewhat heavy-going experience) and Dieterle's handling virtually impeccable; the only unpersuasive aspect, perhaps, is the one-dimensional portrayal of the corrupt French military who callously sent Dreyfus to Devil's Island for treason, and left him there to rot for years - even after they had found absolute proof of his innocence, because that would have meant admitting to a mistake! The cast is filled with wonderful characters actors whose familiarity - and reliability - allows utmost audience involvement every step of the way, despite Hollywood's typically idealized viewing of events. Best of all, naturally, are Muni as Zola (simply brilliant, especially during his show-stopping speech at the trial, and who even ages convincingly!) and Schildkraut (a touching Dreyfus who, in spite of his relatively brief appearance, managed to walk off with the Best Supporting Actor Oscar - though, personally, I would have voted for H.B. Warner in LOST HORIZON 1937!).Unfortunately, the audio level on Warner's otherwise exemplary DVD is rather low; the supplements include three vintage shorts (described in more detail below), as well as the full 1-hour broadcast of a radio adaptation of the script (obviously compressed but also including some minor additions) - presented by Leslie Howard (who, at the end, even interviews William Dieterle!) and featuring Muni himself, accompanied by Josephine Hutchinson (stepping in for Gloria Holden, who had played Zola's wife in the film). "},{"Title":"A Life Worth Living - Zola Entertains As Few Biographies Can","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" In a lucrative and highly successful career that saw him play everyone from Spanish savior, Juarez to a cutthroat gangster in Scarface, character chameleon Paul Muni became French novelist Emile Zola in The Life of Emile Zola (1937). This is perhaps the most legitimate and faithful - certainly, the most serious and stirring - biographical film to emerge from a major Hollywood studio, and so quite unlike anything that had ever been seen on the screen until that time. Warner spared no expense in retelling Zola's early and lingering success as an author and tragic death in a house fire. Embarking in idyllic 1862's Paris with Zola's initial fame, the film delves compassionately into the morbid curiosity and infamous trial known as the Dreyfus Affair. Encouraged by confidant and contemporary, painter Paul Cezanne (Vladamir Sokoloff) to dispel his own comfortable success and, to stand up for truth and justice, Zola decides to take on the case of Capt. Alfred Dreyfus (Joseph Schildkraut), a war hero unjustly accused of disclosing military secrets and imprisoned on Devil's Island. There are so many powerful and haunting moments in this bio that it's hard to pinpoint exactly where its greatness derives. But it is perhaps best exemplified by the dynamic interactions between Zola and Cezanne. These lead into the beautifully realized and justly celebrated court room summation that, once seen, is not to be forgotten.There are times when the most courageous thing is to be cowardly exclaims Zola...indeed. The quiet rectitude of The Life of Emile Zola is a distinct pleasure for classic cinema fans - neither embellished or flag waving, but just as emotionally satisfying and twice as likely to be championed well into the next century. The film's definite slant toward critiquing anti-Semitism is now a time capsule; foreshadowing the growing angst of nations and Nazi terror that was to engulf Europe and cast the world into its second great war. However, William Dieterle's direction is timeless, with slick panache that makes all his points but never heavy-handed or without style befitting a classic biography. The score, by luminary composer Max Steiner, is striking and poignant. In short, The Life of Emile Zola is befitting of the Oscar for Best Picture and very much a relic from Hollywood's golden age worthy of considerable and repeated re-examination. Warner Home Video's DVD is a reason to stand up and cheer. While there are age related artifacts present throughout, and some scenes suffer from considerable grain, the overall image quality is solid, sharp and beautifully contrasted. The gray scale has been impeccably rendered with deep, rich blacks and, for the most part, solid clean whites. Certain brief sections appear to have been duped in from second or third generation elements, but, keeping in mind that the film is 70 plus year old, such lapses should easily be forgiven. The audio is mono but has been presented at an adequate listening level. A slight hiss is detected occasionally. Save a complete and costly digital restoration, no more could have been expected by the good people at Warners on this transfer. It is head and shoulders above anything the film has looked like in years. Extras include a rare audio only recording of Muni doing Zola on radio, a dramatic, and, a cartoon short subject. The one disappointment here is that no time was taken to do a featurette on the making of this classic film. Regardless, it comes highly recommended by this reviewer. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Life of Emile Zola ****","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Marvelous historical biography of Emile Zola, splendidly played by Paul Muni.Always for the poor person, Zola immerses himself in the Dreyfus Affair. Count Esterhazy, the guilty person, is successfully able to frame Dreyfus for passing secrets to the enemy during the Franco-Prussian War. What hurts the most is that Dreyfus, a high ranking official in the French army, was immediately condemned due to a wave of anti-semitism throughout France.Zola shall fight for the exoneration of Dreyfus all the way. In his famous J'Accuse, he drives this goal into total action.Joseph Schildkraut, as Dreyfus, won the best supporting actor award for his portrayal of the condemned man. You feel his hurt and ultimate triumph through every step of the way. His imprisonment at Devils Island is so realistic. His wife in all this is well played by actress Gale Sondergaard, who shed her usual evil-like performances and turned in a remarkable one as the grief stricken faithful wife of the apparently hopeless Dreyfuss.When Dreyfus is ultimately exonerated, tragedy strikes. Zola dies accidentally from poisonous gas seeping through his home. He may be gone but his legacy would live on. "}{"Title":"Paul Muni at his best in a classic barnstorming biopic","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" 'The Life of Emile Zola' is more about the Dreyfuss affair than the author's life &#150; only Nana is given more than a passing nod (Germinal gets 30 seconds of screen time while the rest of his novels are dismissed in a montage of covers) while his demise is signposted from the very first scene &#150; and it does fall prey to the usual biopic problems (Nana, pull up a chair next to Cezanne), but it's such terrific entertainment, who cares? Muni is great value as Zola, much like the off screen young Chaplin in the early scenes before becoming the great man of letters, where he walks the tightrope between over and underplaying, and he's given two great set piece speeches &#150; J'accuse and his address to the court &#150; that are foolproof crowdpleasers that he handles with relish and aplomb. It's like one of Warners' crusading social issue pictures that just happens to have been set in the late 19th century and shot on an epic scale, and it has an immediacy and sense of moral outrage that is surprisingly powerful and deeply felt and even, ultimately, quite moving. Dated, yes, but undeniably impressive stuff despite Donald Crisp's very unfortunate haircut. "},{"Title":"Opulent, well-acted and quite enjoyable...but it's missing a very important part of the story!","Date":"21 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The first quarter of the film is a brief biography of most of the adult life of Zola. That's because the final portion centers on the last years of Zola's life and his attempt to gain Dreyfus his release from prison. Dreyfus had been sent to Devil's Island--convicted of sending French military secrets to foreign powers. Amazingly, when the true perpetrator was learned, the highest officers in the military decided NOT to punish the man responsible and keep Dreyfus in prison so they wouldn't lose face for convicting the wrong man!! I really enjoyed The Life of Emile Zola though could see that a very important part of the story is missing. I am NOT talking about the film taking a few artistic liberties--I certainly expected that. Instead, I am talking about a deliberate effort by the studio to misrepresent a major part of the story to make it more palatable to the general public. You see, about 3/4 of the movie concerns Zola and the Dreyfus Affair--yet it really makes no real effort to talk about the heart of why Dreyfus was convicted for a crime he clearly did not commit--because he was a convenient scapegoat because he was Jewish. The film BRIEFLY mentions he was Jewish but completely downplays this angle--mostly because I assume they were afraid antisemites in the US and abroad might find this unacceptable. Sadly, it makes this exceptional film just a bit less exceptional.What I liked about the film was the overall quality of the picture. It was well written, acted and just screams quality. Plus, compared to many other biopics of the era, this one is a little more accurate--as the facts of the story are essentially true (though rearranged and interpreted for dramatic effect). Still, I find it hard to believe it won the Oscar for Best Picture--though I must concede that Paul Muni was exceptional. If I could have picked, I would have given the nod to either Lost Horizon or A Star is Born. "},{"Title":"Winner of the Academy Award for Best Picture of 1937","Date":"11 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A biography of sorts about the noted French author and journalist Émile Zola (Paul Muni) who is perhaps best remembered for his activism.The film recounts the bulk of Zola's life fairly quickly, beginning with the impoverished period of his life when he became friends with the painter Paul Cézanne. There are a few scenes involved with the publication of one of his best known works the novel Nana, and then we fairly quickly move forward to his involvement in the infamous Dreyfus affair. There is little to no discussion of Zola's other works or his journalism.The most important part of the film is Zola's impassioned defense of Captain Dreyfus a Jewish officer wrongly convicted of treason. Zola wrote an open letter to the French President to which the media attached the headline J'accuse! (I accuse!). For this Zola would be charged with libel and in the course of his defense he would attempt to expose to the world the truth behind the conviction of Dreyfus. The aspects of anti-Semitism in the case are barely acknowledged in the film.While I was impressed with the both performances and the production values (particularly for the period) of the film, I did find something lacking. Perhaps its simply the fact that there have been so many great court room dramas produced subsequently.Paul Muni gives a powerful and effective performance though his style may appear dated to some. Over the course of the film Zola's appearance changes considerably and Muni does an impressive job of virtually disappearing into the role. Muni had one the Oscar in the previous year (for another biographical role in The Story of Louis Pasteur) and would be nominated another 4 times as well, including for this role. "},{"Title":"Rooting for the Underdog","Date":"8 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Émile is like the Julian Assange of 19th Century France, though certainly less dramatic. He comes under intense criticism as his books gain popularity and the censors are under pressure from the government and the French Army to stop them. The Dreyfus Affair was still well-known at the time of the film's release, but as a person watching for the first time 75 years later I got a little lost. I failed to see the connection between the two seemingly unrelated sub-plots and the ensuing period where there was little to no appearance of the film's namesake. This was eventually cleared up for me but the reliance on assumed knowledge was not very forward-thinking. One quibble is that the women did not seem to age, I had a similar complaint watching Cimarron; throughout the decades covered by the film Zola got older and cuddlier, Dreyfus aged even more...yet their wives hardly aged a day. I wish I knew their secret. Snaps for Joseph Schildkraut whose portrayal of Captain Alfred Dreyfus scored him an Oscar® for Best Supporting Actor. It was a good film and certainly highlighted the level of corruption in France at that time, as well as rooting for the underdog. I must procure one of Zola's books and check him out. "},{"Title":"Overcooked","Date":"5 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The first third of this biography, devoted to Zola's rise from poverty to fame, is rather dull. It picks up steam with the introduction of the Dreyfus affair, wherein a Jewish Army captain is falsely accused of treason, although the anti-semitism angle is ignored by the film. Muni is terribly hammy in the title role, playing Zola as a pompous blow-hard. As he showed in The Good Earth the same year, the actor was never able to adapt his theatrical acting to the screen. Schildkraut is OK as Dreyfus, a performance that won him an Oscar, but Sondergaard overacts as his wife. This overcooked drama beat out the likes of Stage Door and The Awful Truth to win the Best Picture Oscar. "},{"Title":"Important Film From the 1930s.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Paul Muni (Oscar-nominated) stars as the titled character in this very good Best Picture winner from 1937. The film is based on the famous French muckraker/author who fought against anti-semitism in the late-1800s and also fought to free the wrongly convicted Dreyfuss (Oscar-winner Joseph Schildkraut), who was sentenced to life on Devil's Island for giving out military secrets. Naturally he was framed by a high-powered French count and it was up to Zola to free him. The film is a genuine biopic that works due to an Oscar-winning screenplay, top-notch direction by the Oscar-nominated William Dieterle and the show-stopping performances of Muni and Schildkraut. High production values and nice cinematography make The Life of Emile Zola one of the best films of the 1930s. It is one of the least-known Best Picture winners and that is a shame. 4.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"In Me You See The Honor of France","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The title for this review is quote I read from Charles DeGaulle discussing the responsibilities he felt in the role that fate thrust upon him. DeGaulle was a military man who stepped up to the plate when his country's fortunes were at their darkest. A whole lot of other more important army figures could have done what he did, but no one stepped to the plate like that courageous if sometimes exasperating junior brigadier general.Another guy who stepped to the plate for France was not a military man, in fact it was the army he took on. The Life of Emile Zola is the story about that man, brought beautifully to life by Paul Muni who was a modern writer who first fought to write life as he saw it and not through some romantic gauze as was popular in the first half of the 19th century. His writings led to a lot of social reform in France.Yet half the film is dedicated to Zola's last struggle, taking up the cause of wrongly convicted Captain Alfred Dreyfus. Joseph Schildkraut won the Best Supporting Actor Oscar of 1937 who when treason was discovered was singled out because he was a Jew as the fall guy.Although Hollywood tends to over-dramatize in many cases this is one where they are telling the absolute truth. I find it hard to fathom myself that even after proof was brought to the French Army's attention that another was in fact the guilty party, they persisted in promoting the fiction about Dreyfus's guilt. Anti-Semitism certainly ran deep in many quarters of French society, the military being only one of them. Keeping faith with prejudice was more important than getting at the truth and getting justice for a wrongly accused man.Muni's address to the court during the libel suit trial the army brought against him is classic. Though many feel his style of acting is outmoded, I for one miss that. I can't think of a player today who could move the audience as Muni did in that address. He was nominated for Best Actor, but he had won that award the previous year for The Story of Louis Pasteur and in 1937 was beaten by Spencer Tracy for Captains Courageous.However The Life of Emile Zola won for Best Picture of 1937 and also won for Best adapted Screenplay. I can't think of better praise to give the film than to say that if Emile Zola could have been interviewed he'd have given the film an enthusiastic rave.France like a lot of countries has had people come to their leadership in an hour of need. In the 15th century it was a peasant girl whom we know as Joan of Arc. During the occupation by the Nazis, France's honor was preserved by Charles DeGaulle. And at a time when corruption and prejudice poisoned the French society, it wasn't a peasant saint or a military leader, but a man of learning and letters who would not give up until truth and justice won out. "},{"Title":"Good movie . . . inaccurate title.","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The Life of Emile Zola tells a compelling story, but it has a title that is not exactly accurate. This is not a story of the life of Emile François Zola, the 19th century writer who railed against the injustices in his native France in books like Nana and Germinal. Actually it is the specific story of the trial and injustice done to Alfred Dreyfuss, the blameless officer of the French army who spent 4 years confined to Devil's Island on trumped up charges of treason. Zola's part in his trial is small at best.In all honesty, this is probably best. Zola (played here in an Oscar nominated performance by Paul Muni) was a figure whose writing was filled with fire and energy, but displaying the writing process on screen is a bit difficult, not to mention dull. Zola speaks of his philosophies and then we see the line-up of his books (which is meaningless if you haven't read them), we see eager patrons buying up copies while others rail against Zola for spreading slander against France.Most of this takes place in the film's opening as we meet the young Zola, a poor Frenchman shivering in the cold while his blood boils over the injustices from a cruel and indifferent government more interested in its image then in its citizens. He shares a drafty attic with his lifelong friend, the post-impressionist painter Paul Cézanne (Vladimir Sokoloff). Their friendship is hardly explored and is probably more interesting than any other aspect of his life.Zola's story takes a backseat once Dreyfus is arrested on a charge of treason. A letter is intercepted and suspicions run that an unidentified officer in the French Army is a spy. The top brass run down the list of possible suspects and only draw Dreyfus' name because he is easy to accuse (the film very quickly and quietly points out the fact that he was chosen as a scapegoat because he was Jewish). Dreyfus is arrested, run through a kangaroo court, stripped of rank and given a life sentence on Devil's Island off the coast of French Guyana in South America.Zola's role in the trial is meager at beast. We see the trial being conducted, in the which judge continually silences the defense and keeps them from presenting key evidence that would prove Dreyfus to be innocent. Emile Zola's role in the trial it to sit by in the courtroom until it is his turn to give the closing statement.The story of The Dreyfus affair is far more interesting than anything we learn about Emile Zola. Paul Muni occupies the title role and he does a fine job, but his interpretation of Zola is mainly just a man of good faith and common sense who spoke softly and ran for his pen when a mood struck him. His performance is nearly identical to that one he played a year earlier in The Story of Louis Pasteur. We don't really get to know the inner-man so much as just the red letter details of his life. We do get the information that he was initially uninterested in speaking on Dreyfus' behalf but there is hardly any real reason. As for Dreyfus, we never get to know him either. We see him unjustly arrested, tried, convicted and jailed. A few times we see him in his cell, but there is never a sense of who the man was outside of his circumstances.Still the movie is compelling in its portrait of how the French government was able to hide facts, silence witnesses and overlook evidence. This may or may not be factual but it makes for an interesting story. It is possible that the story was written with the current world situation in mind. At the outbreak of World War II, with the Nazis bulldozing all over Europe, the story of injustice and government corruption couldn't have been timelier "},{"Title":"Ruffling Feathers in France","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" In 1862 Paris, struggling writer Paul Muni (as Emile Zola) is happy working with a book publisher. Because he writes about corrupt officials, Mr. Muni is called a muckraker and loses his job. However, fame and fortune are around the corner. Muni meets sad prostitute Erin O'Brien-Moore (as Nana) and writes her story. The book Nana is the first of many best-sellers. Years later, Muni sacrifices everything to defend Joseph Schildkraut (as Alfred Dreyfus), a Jewish man made a scapegoat by French authorities...Led by Muni's carefully constructed lead performance, The Life of Emile Zola was a huge success with audiences and critics. Muni won a Best Actor award from the New York Film Critics and Mr. Schildkraut received an Academy Award as Best Supporting Actor. Those organizations named Zola best film of the year; adding its #1 placement on the annual New York Times and Film Daily lists, it was clearly the consensus winner for 1937. Disney's Snow White was the only real challenger...The Dreyfus affair is almost the whole film, making the title seem inappropriate. Also, the film seems shy about naming Schildkraut's character as Jewish. If you blink, you'll miss the piece of paper listing Religion - Jew. Considering the looming World War, filmmakers likely wished the point was made more clearly. Despite its flaws, the production is excellent, with great roles from the cast and crew at Warner Bros. Sometimes overlooked among the more well-known names are outstanding art director Anton Grot and supporting actor Vladimir Sokoloff as Muni's drafty attic apartment roommate (acclaimed painter Paul Cezanne).******* The Life of Emile Zola (8/11/37) William Dieterle ~ Paul Muni, Joseph Schildkraut, Vladimir Sokoloff, Gale Sondergaard "},{"Title":"Je Pardonne","Date":"1 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" You really have to like these Warner Brothers biographical movies from the 1930s. They're in black and white, true, and they may gloss events and invent speeches a little differently from the way you and I might, but they're -- well -- they're EDUCATIONAL. You can learn basic historical facts from them. This isn't an achievement to be taken lightly, not in a country in which 28% of voters believe Saddam Hussein was behind the 9/11 attacks, or in which a substantial number of students think Watergate took place before 1900.I don't mean that the Warners' biopics were academic studies. Far from it. As here, we generally see a hero (or heroine) perform some socially disapproved of act and then being redeemed. He usually dies at the end, either with a peaceful smile on his face, his work on earth now being complete, or with a pen or a pistol in his hand, full of fight. Zola gets the pen treatment.Emile Zola, author of any number of infrequently read French novels (Nana may be his best known), was a famous figure at the time of this story, the end of the 19th century, when he decided to take up the cause of Alfred Dreyfus, an innocent army officer who had been convicted of treason, partly because he was Jewish.Zola and his big mouth intervene after Dreyfus is sent to a living death on Devil's Island. Zola writes an inflammatory newspaper article -- J'Accuse, which the movie helpfully translates as I Accuse -- and provokes a suit for libel. The French Army is mostly a proud and cohesive group and although the evidence against Dreyfus was rigged, nobody wants to admit it. Do Zola's strenuous efforts pay off at the end? If they didn't, Warners wouldn't have made this movie.The formula usually remained the same, with some variations. (Sometimes the resolute hero alienates a former friend, and so forth.) Paul Muni starred in more than one of them. He overacts, but that's part of getting the MESSAGE across. When he gives a rousing speech at the trial, he huffs and puffs, he waves his hands, his chin snaps up and down like a traveling block on an oil rig, and when he's not shouting, he's hissing his lines.The truth is on the march -- and nothing will stop it!, he says confidently. I don't think Emile Zola ever said any such thing. I have doubts that anyone, at any time in the course of human history, has ever said such a thing, although they might have written it in a pamphlet or as a line of dialog in an entertaining and educational movie.Some may notice some irony in the fact that the Army convicted Dreyfus partly because of anti-Semitism but never wanted to admit it, while the movie hardly even mentions it because the studios didn't want to bring up the edgy subject. "}{"Title":"A finely crafted biopic of the famed French writer","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The Life of Emile Zola won the Academy Award for best picture in 1937, thus earning Warner Bros. their first such honour. While ostensibly a biography, the film focuses mainly on Zola's involvement in the infamous Dreyfus affair, wherein he challenged the French government in an attempt to clear the name of a military officer falsely accused of treason.Of the three Oscars that the film won, perhaps the most significant was the award for best writing, screenplay. Co-writers Heinz Herald, Geza Herczeg & Norman Reilly Raine may have taken a few liberties with the truth (which, frankly, is to be expected) but their script stays true to the spirit of the man and his outrage at the injustice perpetrated by the French military. While some have complained that the story is bland and over-earnest I found it compelling, perhaps in part because I wasn't familiar with the Dreyfus case except on a superficial level.Zola is portrayed by Paul Muni and I'd have to say that he did an excellent job. While some of his acting is a bit bold for today's tastes he nevertheless imbued his character with authenticity and passion. He justly received an Oscar nomination for his performance but Joseph Schildkraut did him one better by actually winning an Oscar for his supporting role as Captain Dreyfus. While I don't really recall anything that made him stand out I will say that the general level of acting on display was admirable.Longtime director William Dieterle garnered the only Oscar nomination of his career for his workmanlike direction here. The film was also recognized for its art direction, sound and score (by Max Steiner). In general, the film shows the polish of a serious production in all areas, a fact no doubt instrumental in landing the film its Best Picture Oscar.In conclusion, I found The Life of Emile Zola to be a satisfying film but I can understand why some deride it. It might have been better served by focusing solely on the Dreyfus affair but that would rob the film of important character development. In the end, what makes the film memorable to me is the passion in the writing and the acting that comes through on screen. "},{"Title":"Not as great as its subject","Date":"14 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie beat out such magnificence pictures as Captains Courageous, The Good Earth, and Lost Horizon to win the Academy Award for Best Picture of 1938. I think that was stretching it.What is truly great here is the story it tells, starting about a half-hour into the picture Zola's involvement in the overturning of the condemnation of French army officer Alfred Dreyfus for treason. That condemnation was one of the great stains on French history, an example of anti-Semitism and rabid militarism. When the movie tells that story, all hearts are moved.But are they moved by the WAY this picture tells that story, or just by the story itself? It is the same question one might pose concerning The Diary of Anne Frank. The difference can be seen in a true masterpiece like Shindler's List, where the story, again, is deeply moving, but the TELLING of the story is equally masterful.I don't think Dieterle's telling of Zola's involvement of the Dreyfus story is particularly remarkable. Muni gives a very fine performance as Zola, certainly. But I don't think this script, which won an Academy Award for best writing, or Dieterle's direction of it, for which he got an Academy Award nomination, are particularly good, much less great.If you don't know the story, watch this, most certainly. It doesn't disgrace it. But if you know such great movies as Captains Courageous, Lost Horizon, and The Good Earth (it was a good year for Paul Muni), don't expect this to live up to those.It must have been a strange year for the Academy they also gave Louise Rainer the Best Actress Award, when she was easily bested by all four of her competitors Irene Dunne in The Awful Truth, Greta Garbo in Camille (yes, overdone, but great even so), Janet Gaynor in A Star is Born, and Barbara Stanwyck in Stella Dallas, a weeping but powerful picture. I also don't see how Joseph Schildkraut got the Oscar for Best Supporting Actor for his small portrayal of Dreyfus in this picture against Roland Young as Topper, or even H.B. Warner in Lost Horizon. Why the Prisoner of Zenda got almost shut out of the Oscars that year I don't understand either. "},{"Title":"A Muni-ficent Performance!","Date":"23 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I don't know enough of the details of Zola's life, and the Dreyfus case, to make historical observations. But simply as a film, ZOLA is a superb example of how Hollywood can occasionally reach a height of inspiration. The script is extremely literate, the plot is compelling, and the performers are top-notch, especially Muni, who was robbed by the Academy. His handling of the character through several stages of life, and the wide range of emotions called for, was a praiseworthy effort.Some may say that the film loses focus when the Dreyfus affair takes over the plot thread from the narration of Zola's life as a writer. I see it rather as the summation of Zola's life. He has struggled from obscurity to wealth and fame by exposing the social ills of his time in his controversial novels and articles. But as Cezanne subtly points out, Zola has gotten rich and fat and that only leads to a dulling of talent. The Dreyfus affair is Zola's chance to prove that what he has written, he also truly believes himself. His defense of Dreyfus is the capstone of his work.This is one of the earliest films to tackle the sensitive topic of how much the government is willing to do to cover up its own faults. As such, it is valuable viewing for thinking people today. It's a shame that the studio wasn't bold enough to tackle what was really the central issue of the trial Dreyfus's identity as a French Jew, and the rampant anti-Semitism of Parisian society, which continues today.When you watch ZOLA, keep in mind that to the 1937 audience, the Dreyfus trial was as recent an event as the assassination of Martin Luther King is to us today. It looks like an antique costume drama here in 2007, but in its day, it was still hot enough news that the studio had to leave some names out of the story. "},{"Title":"Muni Was A Big, Big Star In The 1930s","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Kudos to the patience of Paul Muni, who spent hours and hours in the makeup room each day to look the part of Zola. Muni was the one of the biggest stars in the 1930s and I wonder how many people today -other than classic movie buffs - know anything about it. He was a giant in the business for at least a decade. He could have won the Academy Award for this performance, which would have given him two in a row, as he won it for playing Louis Pasteur the year before. My own opinion is that while he tended to overact a bit, I still think he was one of the great actors of the Golden Age. Whatever part he played; you were riveted to the screen watching him.Unlike the Pasteur role, I thought this story smacked of a little too much of what we've seen in the last 60 years going overboard to make a Liberal hero. Even in 1937, Hollywood couldn't suppress its disdain for police or for the military, here making it a point to tell us how corrupt those organizations are. Filmmakers just love it when authority is challenged and defeated. In that regard, this film is way ahead of its day since we've seen this big-time since the 1960s.However, it must be noted the facts support this story. It also does not in any way diminish Zola's accomplishments as a social reformer, getting rid of certain evils. Good for him! I wish they had spent more time showing that, than concentrating on one trial. "},{"Title":"An Early Biopic","Date":"28 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The biopic of the famous French muckraking writer (Paul Muni) and his involvement in fighting the injustice of the Dreyfus Affair.Certain scenes have been interpreted in the context of the time as a reaction to the increasing repression of Nazi Germany. Critic David Denby in 2013 noted that, while the movie featured progressive rhetoric in Zola's last speech, overall it was a perfect example of the half-boldness, half-cowardice, and outright confusion that marked Hollywood's response to Nazism and antisemitism in the nineteen-thirties. For instance, the film never mentioned antisemitism or Jew.I find it very interesting that you can have a film about these topics without ever saying the words. Possible? Obviously. But it seems like you would almost have to go out of your way.One could question the relevance of this film today (2016). Not that the message is not important or anything like that, but who knows what the Dreyfus Affair was? A major historical event, yes, especially in France, but I doubt sincerely that 1 out of 100 Americans knows what it was about. "},{"Title":"Each serves his country in their own way, one with a sword, the other with a pen.","Date":"8 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The Life of Emile Zola transported me to a place that I have never been, yet, is so familiar to me. I was thrust into a world where acting meant something more artistic than it commonly does today. I entered a place with a very theatrical grip on the storyline playing out on screen. The 1937 Best Picture winner directed by William Dieterle took me to that place. It proved to be an interesting and fun journey to see one of the first biopics. I am grateful for Oscar month to introduce me to yet another film that I may not have interacted with had it not nabbed Oscar's top prize. French author Emile Zola (Paul Muni) was no stranger to struggle. His tireless pursuit of his writing dreams left him broke and only able to afford to share a tiny apartment with painter, Paul Cezanne (Vladimir Sokoloff). Bouncing from job to job, Zola had a difficult time maintaining employment due to his outspoken nature. When inspiration and opportunity struck together, Zola was able to create his masterwork, Nana. His outspokenness would rear its head again when Zola entangled himself in the Dreyfus affair; the case of Alfred Dreyfus falsely convicted of giving classified military information to the Germans, a case largely fueled by anti-Semitism. Zola was so outspoken in the case of Alfred Dreyfus that on of his letters to his defense landed him in court for libel. Zola manages to become a successful literary personality while speaking out against the social injustices that plague his time. Some incredible cinematic devices were used to advance this film. To pass time and show the progression of the case and Zola's success, newspaper clippings flashed on-screen. Another show of Zola's success included the increasingly grandiose window displays with each next success Zola released. Both of these methods were extremely effective in avoiding the belaboring effort of slow plot advancement. The acting was great in this film, with each actor embodying a theatrical performance so common in films from this era. The makeup was exceptional as Zola ages dramatically throughout the film. I also found the courtroom speech of Zola berating the underlying issues of the Dreyfus affair to be impactful. With so much in this film to latch onto, there is something in Emile Zola for everyone.Even though anti-Semitism drove the Dreyfus Affair, little of it was mentioned in the film. I don't think that this admission takes away from the film, as there is plenty of implicit evidence as to the reason for Dreyfus's blame. I found the editing most effective in driving the film. The theme of always defending your fellow man from injustices was wonderfully juxtaposed with Zola's increasing success as a writer. With each copy of his provocative books sold, Zola gained a bigger platform for seeking social equality. A socially important film, covering issues that persist today, The Life of Emile Zola was the perfect choice for the Academy to crown as its Best Picture for 1937. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of 1937","Date":"1 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" William Dieterle's The Life of Emile Zola (1937) is the fictionalized biographical account of Emile Zola's (played by Paul Muni) involvement in the Alfred Dreyfus (Joseph Schildkraut, in an Oscar winning performance.) affair saying for Dreyfus's wife (played by Gale Sondergaard)that it was unwise to think that Dreyfus actually was falsely accused of committing the crime of treason. Not only it talks about Zola's involvement in the Dreyfus trial, it also talks about Zola's career as an author, as well as his trial for being a traitor. One of the problems that I have with this movie is Donald Crisp's performance as Zola's lawyer, for me it is a performance that it is a little over the top, the second problem that I have with this film is that it was made in Hollywood when I really do think it should have been made in France. Zola's death in the end of this movie is what shocked me the most in the movie because it was the scene I least expected. But in the end it was an extraordinary story , it had very good acting, writing, and directing, as well as makeup. I think that the writers Norman Reilly Rane, Heinz Herald, and Geza Herczeg should have revised the Donald Crisp performance, and i really think that Jean Renoir should have gotten a grasp at directing it with all of those Hollywood people that were in this movie. "},{"Title":"Hollywood's valiant attempt to save the French Jews . . .","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" . . . was cleverly disguised as a general interest Bio-Pic--THE LIFE OF EMILE ZOLA. This movie glosses over most of Zola's biography, doing the bare minimum to establish him as one of France's most famous and beloved citizens (with no particular affinity for Jewish people). Then he blows the whistle on all the top generals of his country's anti-Semitic Army, which has framed a random Jewish Army captain (Alfred Dreyfuss) for the treasonous espionage crimes of a Christian colonel. Though the colonel is a bitter malcontent turned German spy caught red-handed, the French Army refuses to admit its general incompetence in overlooking such an obvious and damaging traitor so high up on its general staff for so long. Instead, it rips uninvolved bystander Alfred away from his family to an all-but-certain death-by-torture on Devil's (Prison) Island. Just as many if not most Americans, when polled, say they now believe two Texas oil men then in the White House allowed if not facilitated the 9-11 Attacks, Hollywood's non-Christian elite knew that France in the late 1930s was so anti-Semitic that they would welcome any Nazis crossing the French border with open arms, helping them to herd French Jews to whatever form of doom German brains formulated. This, of course, actually came to pass as feared within a few years of ZOLA's release, as the French took a full measure of revenge against their Jews for being so embarrassed internationally by the so-called Dreyfuss Affair. I own copies of Readers' Digest Magazine from this period containing articles which predict most if not all of the main events of WWII, including the sneak attack on Pearl Harbor (let me emphasize these warning stories were published in many of America's leading magazines months and years before the Nostradamus-like predictions came true!). Obviously, the non-Christian segment of Hollywood moguls--as well as the Academy (which voted ZOLA Best Picture of 1937) read their Readers' Digests. ZOLA is even gassed to death himself at the end of this warning cry, showing that the screenwriters knew Germans would prove too cheap to eradicate their millions of victims with individual bullets. As history teaches us, Hitler controlled the oddly nicknamed Grand Old Party in the U.S. Congress, making European Jews toast--despite Hollywood's brave efforts to save millions (for which these same Fascists punished most of the Hollywood heroes the minute WWII ended, with the infamous American Blacklists, as well as a long string of suspicious and shockingly premature deaths among Tinsel Town's human rights sympathizers as names like Wayne, Heston, Kazan, and Reagan came to control American culture and the White House for nearly a century to come). "},{"Title":"The Message is the Medium","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This Movie remains elusive in two regards. Paul Muni, one of the most exalted and honorable Actors of the Thirties (hardly a name mentioned or even recognized among Cinema goers Today) and Emile Zola a Crusader for Human Rights and The Truth who was very popular and influential in late Nineteenth Century France (is virtually unknown, unread and forgotten).But not in 1937, just a few decades after His Death, His Legacy was much more in the Public Conscientious. So, Muni was given the Role (Won the Oscar the Year before as Louis Pasteur) and Zola was given the Royal Hollywood Studio treatment and managed to garner many Oscar Nominations and did Win for Best Picture of the Year.It is a straightforward, Low-Key presentation that is glossy and finely Produced with all the Studio Craftsman contributing to accessibility and appeal as Social Commentary Entertainment. Viewers Today may opine with such things as overrated, unremarkable, slow, stodgy, hammy, and lacking in what has become an ever increasing, over the Years, reliance of less nuance and more crackling and crisp Cinema.But the Message is the Medium here and without doubt it is delivered with intelligence. That is the remaining residue of this Film. A no frills introspection of one Freedom Fighter that used a Pen as His Weapon. It is just as Mighty coming from the Heart and in the hands of Zola and this Hollywood Ography. "},{"Title":"Better than Ziegfeld...but mainly out of significance rather than merit","Date":"4 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Okay, before I begin my review, here's a quick little correction I have to make regarding my Great Ziegfeld review...twice This film is not a Musical. I apologize for the mix-up; they have 2 things in common A similar-sounding title (I always got them mixed up), and a specific genre they supposedly share (again, I always got them mixed up). And that genre is the Biopic, or Character Study as it were.And speaking of which, it was actually better than I thought going into this thing, but I don't know if I'd call it good. I'd certainly watch it over Cavalcade or The Great Ziegfeld, but how many times? What is it about? Well, the title is quite self-explanatory in that light, only trimmed down for our benefit (unlike Ziegfeld), but the question one should ask in this case is, who is Emile Zola? Well, Emile Zola was a French Author and his prolific writing career, including his friendship with French painter Paul Cezanne, and his involvement in the Dreyfuss Affair in which (an espionage-related scandal during the Militarized state of 19th Century France) he plays a part in until his untimely death. There's more to the story, obviously, but if you're curious, you could do one of 2 things Research on the matter yourself, or see the movie.Now is it worth seeing? Well, I'll get to that later. The movie is written okay, it is directed okay, heck, even the acting is pretty darn good for its time. I can at least see why it won Best Picture in 1937, and it is a rather important film in the Biopic genre as it led to the Academy's recognition of the genre in a serious light. The cinematography and art direction is pretty good too (for the time), but it at least does well in the most important elements of the Character Study The acting and the writing. However, the film, while important, is quickly dwarfed 4 years later by a film regarded as the Best ever made (which I'll cover later).With all that said and done, I would probably only recommend this film to hardcore film buffs, fans of character studies as a whole, and those who might be interested in, in more ways than one, the actual life of Emile Zola. This film does have an audience to this day; in fact, back in 2000, it was one of 25 films selected by the National Film Registry for immortalization in the Library of Congress. So it's not like the film is awful or unwatchable. Personally, it's not my thing, but people like it okay, so why ruin it for others. Take it for what it's worth; I'll give it a 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Current Economic crisis..another reason for calling this a classic","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Emily Zola is one of the best courtroom drama movies I have ever seen&#133;It might even compare to Judgment at Nuremberg which had fantastic energy in its script&#133;In Emily Zola's case too we can see how a lawyer argues not just with the opponent lawyer but the Judge itself, who happens to be the President of France also (not sure). The movie shows how friends might fall apart because of change in their directions, status over years. Paul Muni does a great job throughout the movie, playing someone who wants to stick to the right thing despite the costs. A really touchy scene in the movie is when Emily gets a hefty check but still asks for cash from his friend since he is in such bad need of money. It is also reflective of the fact that how government and people in high authorities can change the consensus of people for their own benefit and not let the truth out&#133;something we are seeing in the current economic crisis we are going through&#133;.another reason for calling this one a classic&#133;. "},{"Title":"Should have been titled Dreyffus Affair","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Very interesting old biographical movie that starts very badly,following every Hollywood cliché (young,idealistic and hungry Zola meets a prostitute called Nana,writes a novel about her and suddenly became rich and famous) than turns into high suspense court drama. At first, I was watching it in disbelief, during Zola's hungry years, wondering about deliberate historical mistakes and what would Hollywood make out of my life,for example (Zola was already very successful long before Nana) than I realized script intentionally glosses over his early years and simplifies everything in order to get to the point & heart of the story, famous Dreyfuss Affair. Everything that was false and fake in the beginning, suddenly gave place to completely truthful and realistic description of political scandal that was shaking France for twelve years at the end of 19th century - director Henry Blanke went into such details that more I read about real Dreyfuss Affair, more I understand this is exactly how it happened. Dreyfuss arrest, his public arrest, the way officer broke Dreyfuss's sword on his knee before proclaiming him a traitor, the fact that Dreyfuss and his wife were not allowed to talk in private during her visits to jail, his conditions on Devil's Island (legs chained on a bed,living in a stone house,completely isolated from the world), Zola's involvement and the whole public circus around the court, this is exactly how it happened. I am actually almost sure that Zola was murdered later (it wasn't accidental, his chimney was blocked and forever made me paranoid about open fire).The movie eventually became so interesting that I almost forgot to notice how much Paul Muni (Zola) changes during the story - he starts as young and skinny dreamer and later turns into happy,grandfatherly type visually very similar to historical Zola - his acting is perhaps hammy occasionally but excellent,its a true Oscar worthy role. Joseph Schildkraut (Dreyffus) is so similar to real Dreyfuss that its almost spooky. Because the story has so many judges, lawyers, politicians and army officers, two women's roles are completely pushed in the background, so wives of Zola (Gloria Holden from Dracula's daughter) and Dreyffus (Gale Sondergaard from The Letter) are unfortunately purely decorative and have nothing much to say, specially Holden who basically only smiles trough the whole movie. Excellent court drama that did not need fictional introduction to early Zola - they could simply call the movie Dreyfuss Affair and start from there. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is an extraordinary picture, with wonderful performances. It should be seen by anyone who likes a good drama, but especially by someone who is unfamiliar with the Dreyfus Affair, as it was called. My only complaint is that the title is somewhat misleading. We don't learn a great deal about Zola's life, except that he shared an apartment in Paris with Paul Cezanne, wrote his first major novel about a prostitute he befriended when she was running from the police, was a champion of the poor and downtrodden, and became wealthy from his many books. Eighty-five minutes of the two hour long movie is devoted to the Dreyfus case and Zola's involvement with it, so the title should have reflected that.Paul Muni deserved to win an Oscar for his performance, which he didn't, although he was nominated. The supporting cast is uniformly excellent, as well. "},{"Title":"Decent Biopic, But Doesn't Live Up to Its Reputation","Date":"8 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The Life of Emile Zola is a good if rather bland and simplistic film biography of the famous author, with a great performance by Paul Muni. It gives the basic facts about Zola's life, even as it omits many of the social issues he confronted and fictionalizes other aspects of his life.The strongest part of the film is Paul Muni's performance. He succeeds in embodying Zola both as a young man and an older, established author, bringing a genuine sense of passion to the role. There are also good performances by Joseph Schildkraut and Gale Sondergaard. The film starts out quite well, focusing on how Zola struggled against government censors and the writing of Nana. However, the film then skips a large portion of Zola's life, signified by a series of book titles going by the screen. I would have enjoyed more information about this section of Zola's life.The plot then flashes forward to the Dreyfus Affair, handling it with middling results. Although the film makes us feel for Dreyfus and his family, it fails to deal with anti-Semitism in a meaningful way. The film only twice hints at the role of Dreyfus's ethnicity / religion in the case, once when we see the word Jew written on his personnel file, the second time when an effigy of Dreyfus is shown as a Jewish stereotype. Given what was going on in Europe in 1937, it would have been topical for the film to examine those issues.Also, the film fictionalizes of a number of things, particularly towards the end. It gives the impression that Dreyfus was immediately exonerated after being freed, when that actually happened several years later. Furthermore, when Zola dies, the film depicts a nation uniformly in mourning, when actually many of Zola's enemies publicly rejoiced.In the end, The Life of Emile Zola is a good classic style biopic that may seem dated and simplistic to modern tastes. "},{"Title":"A great early biopic about an inspiring person.","Date":"2 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Emile Zola was besides a famous French writer, at the end of the 19th century, also a fighter for justice and freedom of speech. He often opposed the French government and military top, which made him unpopular in certain circles, while popular in others again.The movie is mostly about the Dreyfuss Affair and not as much about the person Emile Zola. This was not the first biopic ever shot and movies from around this time period normally commonly didn't focused on the actual character but more on the interesting story around him. As for the portrayal of Emile Zola in this movie, he in this movie is constantly being shown as a great and righteous man that always had his answer ready. It's almost superhuman like and therefor not also really believable but if you can look through this, this is a pretty fine movie to watch.For me it's hard to believe that this is the same guy who played tough guys in movies such as Scarface and I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang but he was just as successful and known for his character roles, such as in this movie and other movies such as The Story of Louis Pasteur. No wonder he also received an Oscar nomination for his role in this movie. He received in his lifetime 4 more nominations and he won one. No wonder he was one of the best and most popular actors of the '30's.The most impressive and powerful sequences of the movie are the ones in the courtroom, in which Emile Zola gets prosecuted for his famous 'J'Accuse...!' letter, in which he accused the French government and military of covering up that they had falsely accused army captain Alfred Dreyfus of treason and giving him a life sentence on the notorious Devil's Island, also known from the novel and movie Papillon. Those are some powerful and inspiring sequences, in which the freedom of speech and cry for justice are delivered effectively.It however also has as an effect that the rest of the movie, especially the beginning feels sort of obsolete. It isn't about the Dreyfus affair and concentrates more on Emile Zola's starting career as a writer. This in the long run doesn't really serve enough purpose for the movie though and it makes the first hour of the movie perhaps feel as a waste of time, which could had been spend better to the rebel Zola and his fight for justice, mainly involving the Dreyfus Affair. As a matter of fact, the movie would had probably been a better one if it simply focused on the Dreyfus Affair and the movie would had also been called The Dreyfus Affair, rather than The Life of Emile Zola, since the movie in the long run is also mostly about that and not as much as the other good and revolutionary things Zola did in his life.Besides Paul Muni, also the other actors are all great. Like many movies that are about- and are set in an European countries, the movie has an almost non-English/American cast and the cast mostly consists out of actors from across Europe. Just of course got mostly done for the movie its accent and authentic looks. Yeah, it's cheap to let 'foreigners' portray 'foreign' characters but it almost always works out well though. It's better than having an obvious well known and acclaimed British or American actor trying to speak in a thick foreign accent.A great early Oscar winning biopic, despite its obvious flaws with its story.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Excellent historical drama","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" 1937's The Life of Emile Zola is an overly long but nevertheless wonderful film about the great writer that focuses mainly on his involvement with the Dreyfus affair. Paul Muni is Zola, who as a young man challenged authority through his books. This part of his life is condensed. Later on, with fame and wealth, he becomes somewhat complacent until the Dreyfus affair. It is then that he publishes his famous treatise J'Accuse in which he charges that Dreyfus was framed and falsely accused by the military. Zola himself is then put on trial.This is fascinating history, even with some dramatic license taken. In those days, however, Hollywood was skittish about anti-Semitism - a major part of the Dreyfus case - so it is only touched upon when we see him listed as Jew and one of the officers speaks of a man of his class becoming an officer. The same thing was done in The Mortal Storm, which takes place in the Germany of the 1930s, making no mention of Jews or Nazis, even with Frank Morgan arrested as a non-Aryan. The end of the film is just plain untrue; the two events depicted did not coincide as shown here.Paul Muni does a wonderful job as Zola - he ages very well and, as usual, disappears into the character he creates. This is a different style of acting than what we see today, but for the most part, Muni was an effective actor. Gail Sondergaard has a surprisingly sympathetic role as Mrs. Dreyfus, and she manages to be softer than she is in other films. And Josef Schildkraut as Dreyfus - well, he's nothing short of magnificent in a small role which made him the first foreign-born actor to win an Academy Award. Again, like Sondergaard, he is often the villain. Here, he touches your heart with his sympathetic portrayal of a man unjustly accused and left to rot on Devil's Island.A very impressive film with excellent performances, not what we're used to seeing nowadays, which makes it all the more valuable and important to see.As a point of trivia, both Richard Dreyfuss and Julia-Louis Dreyfus, despite the different spelling of their names, are both related (distantly of course) to Alfred Dreyfus. "},{"Title":"Slow Set-up, but Good Courtroom Drama","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Students of history, take note Movies about real people and real events are not without their inaccuracies. There, now that I have that out of the way, let's talk about The Life of Émile Zola.This movie tries to portray Zola as a struggling writer, an artist who creates only for art's sake. His mission is to expose the corruption of the French government with his writings. To a point, Paul Muni's portrayal of Zola is somewhat believable, but something intangible was missing from his performance.The first half-hour of the movie covers the early days of his career, as a man desperately trying to bring corruption and hypocrisy to the surface, so that all of Paris (and eventually the world) would remove its rose-colored glasses and do something to right the wrongs. But once his first book, Nana, flies off the bookstore shelves, Zola begins his transformation into the kind of person he had been fighting all along A rich fat-cat who would much rather collect fine artifacts and eat lobster at least once a week. Even his roommate from the early days, Paul Cezanne (Vladimir Sokoloff) finds he is forced to end their friendship because Zola can't return to those starving days of youth, while Cezanne himself had never left them. Though hurt by this news, Zola is still content with his life, until the Dreyfus Affair literally lands on his doorstep.The Dreyfus Affair takes up virtually the entire remainder of the movie, culminating in a courtroom drama I have yet to make a comparison with any other film. What makes the Zola trial unique in its presentation is that the defense was limited to a mere six lines of text related to Zola's J'Accuse... article, and that any mention of the Dreyfus case (which was officially closed) was not allowed. Zola is an underdog here and, though he'd been an underdog much of his life, this time he chose to take on the struggle.The performances in this movie are mixed. The standout performance, to me, belongs to Gale Sondergaard, as Dreyfus' tormented wife, Lucie. Joseph Schildkraut, who won the Best Supporting Actor Oscar as Captain Dreyfus, did little more than scream I'm innocent! over and over (but he did do it well).The Life of Émile Zola also has its comedic elements (seeing Zola struggle with not one, but two, umbrellas comes to mind), but they are few and far in between. I would suggest this film for people who like court dramas, especially the way this one was played out.By the way, in retrospect, I believe this was a daring movie for its time. After all, it centers around the persecution of a Jewish officer in a military rampant with anti-Semitism. More, this movie was released in 1937, during the beginnings of the American pacifist movement and the peak of Adolph Hitler's power in Germany. I should note that though no one mentions the word Jew in the movie, we know that Dreyfus was Jewish because it was listed in his biographical information in the military roster used to find the spy.Oh, and that inaccuracies thing I mentioned earlier? In the movie, Zola dies the night before Dreyfus is reinstated into the French Army. In truth, Zola died in 1902, and Dreyfus was pardoned in 1906. I do not profess to know much about the Dreyfus Affair, but I do know that much. "},{"Title":"Amazingly no mention of anti-semitism","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a good movie. However, it exhibits the strange quality of pictures from the thirties and forties in that is almost completely ignores the issue of anti-semitism.At the heart of the Drefuss affair was anti-semitism. The only reference to Dreyfuss's Jesishness is a brief moment when we see the notation that his religion is Jewish.I have lately noticed in films from this era that Jews were an oddly invisible group. Movies about World War II spoke about refugees, but seemed have overlooked the fact that Jews were the particular target of the Third Reich. Obviously this was a conscious decision on the part of the movie makers. Perhaps they felt that the country was not ready to face the fact of anti-semitism.It is in this context that I have come to realize the importance of Gentleman's Agreement. "},{"Title":"Very worthwhile","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film was presented last night on TCM and I found it to be extremely interesting and Paul Muni, HYPNOTIC. Of course we Americans are disenchanted by France's refusal to help us in Iraq as well as their scurrilous acts in sabotaging our efforts and I suppose this film adds fuel to MY fire. We see their late 1800s military echelon as corrupt, despicable, conniving and anti-Semitic. I was mortified by their framing Dreyfus based on convenience as well as a document, his profile which had on it...RELIGION-JEW. But let's keep in mind that unlike Denmark and Bulgaria during World War II, France did NOTHING but to allow the Nazi controlled Vichy Government to rule, to demand the turning over of French Jews for deportation and death in the extermination camps and indeed thousands of French Jews did perish.And so I automatically equated the treatment of Dreyfus to the incidents during W.W.II. This film won a lot of Oscars including Best Picture of 1937 and I feel politics could have played a most important part in it.We were just two years away from the German invasion of Poland signalling the beginning of the war. From Hitler's coming to power on 1/30/33 throughout 1937, the persecution of Jews in Germany was growing while anti-Semitism was on the rise throughout much of Europe therefore this film's making and release might not have been just something on the agenda for Warner Brothers. I feel it created and rightly so,sympathy for the plight of the European Jews by bringing to light the bigoted Dreyfus affair. Just one more notch in the belt of bigoted gunslingers so to speak. The cast of the film was outstanding especially Mr. Muni's role of a great French writer who was at first reluctant to become involved in the Dreyfus affair but then, at the expense of the greatest French honors to be awarded him,decided that human dignity and fairness took precedence over an award which propelled him into clearing Dreyfus's name and to have him released from inhuman Devil's Island confinement.We can all learn a thing or two from watching this film. "},{"Title":"Best Picture Of 1937","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  THE LIFE OF EMILE ZOLA is worth watching if you've ever been interested in the movies that have one the Oscar for Best Picture which ZOLA did in 1937.  It follows French writer Zola's life from age 22 to 62.  Paul Muni creates a sympathetic portrait of Zola, you can't help rooting for the guy. Though the movie suffers from a cornball soundtrack and stagy direction, it is engaging and fun to watch, and much more deserving of the Best Picture award than 1932's GRAND HOTEL (which is awful).  I enjoyed it, but not enough to ever watch it again.  There are no memorable lines, and there is that 1930's quality of watching a filmed play.  Still, it's a worthy movie that shouldn't be doomed to obscurity. "}{"Title":"Two great public speeches by Muni, but skip the rest.","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  As a child in the 1930s I thought Paul Muni one of Hollywood's best, but I can't recall the movies on which this judgment was based.  I don't know whether I saw this film then or not.Now I find the depiction of great writer (Zola) and great painter (Cezanne) in Paris during the 1800s to be a grade school or Sunday school version of life.  Hollywood's description of the Dreyfuss affair lacks complexity, sophistication, reality, accuracy.  The true story abounds in dramatic interest, excitement, conflict and power quite beyond the movie's reach.But we do have two marvelous public speeches, one when Muni as Emile Zola is reading his pamphlet, I Accuse, to his friends and allies.  And the other, when he is defending himself in a hostile court against the charge of having slandered the army.  These alone are worth more than the price of admission. Spend your time hearing them again and again and then get yourself a copy of Zola's pamphlet and a good book from amazon.com on what the Dreyfuss affair was all about.  "},{"Title":"overrated","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I don't see how this could of won best picture, although i don't know what else was nominated that year. This belongs with how green was my valley, oliver, the french connection, dances with wolves, forrest gump, titanic and gladiator as movies that didn't deserve to win best picture.  "}]