[{"Title":"A Triumph For Reginald Owen","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"37 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The wretched life of a disagreeable old man is forever altered one haunted Christmas Eve...Charles Dickens' wonderful Yuletide story, A CHRISTMAS CAROL, is given the full MGM deluxe treatment in this superior Holiday film. The production values & acting are both excellent, with just enough sentiment to appeal to the tenderhearted, and with liberal doses of horror & hilarity stirred into the mix, until, like a fine Christmas punch, the result appeals to all.The film's rather short running time keeps the action moving along briskly, with one famous & beloved episode after another coming alive before the viewer's eyes.Reginald Owen, in his best film role, is perfect as the grasping, clutching, tightfisted, covetous old sinner, Ebenezer Scrooge. Replacing the ailing - and highly respected - Lionel Barrymore, Owen makes the part his own, revealing the old miser's misery & heartache, making the part thoroughly human. When he rejoices in his spiritual regeneration at the climax, so do we.The roles of Bob Cratchit, Scrooge's amiable clerk & Fred, Scrooge's friendly nephew, are both fleshed out more fully than in other versions. The acting skills of Gene Lockhart & Barry MacKay turn them into something very memorable.Special mention should also be made of Leo G. Carroll as Marley's morose Ghost; Lionel Braham as an impressively jolly Ghost of Christmas Present; and Kathleen Lockhart & Terry Kilburn as Mrs. Cratchit & Tiny Tim. All add fine brushstrokes to the overall picture.Movie mavens will recognize Billy Bevan as an officer of the Watch; Forrester Harvey as an ebullient Fezziwig; Halliwell Hobbes as a jolly Vicar; and young June Lockhart, in her film debut, as Belinda Cratchit - all uncredited. "},{"Title":"Entertaining version, though not faithful to novel","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"32 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" We are tremendous enthusiasts of A Christmas Carol in our household and watch virtually all the versions each Christmas, including the modern 1984 George C. Scott and the 1999 Patrick Stewart. Our overall favorite, however, is the 1951 black & white classic with Alastair Sim, who absolutely IS Ebeneezer Scrooge, his conversion ringing the truest. (See my comments on these other films, if interested) This older 1938 version makes a delightful story with a fine, though Hollywood generated, atmosphere. Of course one could never expect in those days to see all the location filming or special effects available today.Reginald Owen, with his stooped figure and awkward gait, makes a likely looking Scrooge. My main problem with this movie is that he simply repents far too early. Before the Spirit of Christmas Past has taken leave, this Scrooge regrets his past miserliness and is ready to give generously & make merry. What is the point of the other two Spirits? In addition to Scrooge's totally premature conversion, however, this movie takes far too many liberties with the novel. To name but a few... First, during Marley's ghostly visit, Scrooge summons to his chambers a trio of police officers from the street below his window. Not only is this unfaithful to the book, but totally destroys the ghostly, eerie, haunted atmosphere of the spectre's visit and poor Scrooge's resulting terror.This adaptation makes no mention whatsoever of the young apprentice Scrooge's sweetheart, Belle, or his tragically failed romance. It does depict his sister, Fan, as younger, in keeping with the novel ...unlike most versions, which erroneously portray her as older, and claim that Scrooge's mother died in childbirth when he was born. However, Fan is, frankly, an annoying little chatterbox here!The nephew, Fred, is supposed to be married, but in this tale he is engaged to Bess, their marriage apparently contingent on an improvement in his financial prospects. Lots of fabricated scenes, with the pair sliding in front of a church. However, I can forgive all this as Fred is wonderfully jolly & hearty, true to the book. In fact, he's one of the best Freds.Bob Cratchit is jolly & likable but a wee bit too plump for the role of the poor clerk! Also, there's a fabricated story here in which Scrooge sacks Bob altogether. Tiny Tim is cute but far too old for the role; he's practically as tall as his father. Mrs. Cratchit is convincing, except that she is actually the one who proposes a toast to Scrooge after their Christmas dinner...quite the opposite of the novel's Mrs. Cratchit, who must be coaxed and cajoled by Bob before deigning to lift her glass to the health of her long-suffering husband's oppressive, stingy employer. That being said, otherwise it's one of the better versions of the Cratchit family's dinner, the goose & pudding scenes all beautifully done.The worst offense is a complete elimination of the 'morning after Christmas' office scene, in which Scrooge normally shows his newfound benevolence to the flabbergasted Bob. This is usually my favorite scene in the entire movie. In this version, Scrooge actually delivers his Christmas turkey to the Cratchits personally himself on Christmas Day, with nephew, Fred, and his fiancée, Bess, both in tow. However, the Spirits are well depicted, Christmas Past a beautiful & ethereal young lady, Christmas Present a hearty & benevolent giant (who sprinkles from his torch the essence of Christmas cheer five times distilled), and Christmas Yet To Come the typical darkly shrouded & foreboding figure. It's all well intended and difficult to really ruin this wonderful story. For all its omissions, embellishments, and deviations, it still makes for entertaining and heartwarming holiday viewing. "},{"Title":"A Cozy Carol","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This Hollywood version of the Dickens Christmas classic is overshadowed by a later British version featuring Alastair Sim. The British film is more realistic, and captures in its incidentals more of Dickens' radical spirit than this more stately American film, which as directed by the able Edward Martin, is done on a more modest scale. I find the American film cozier and warmer. Reginald Owen is a less flamboyant Scrooge than Sim, which tends to make one concentrate more on the story. The movie was made on a medium budget, and it shows. However, this is not a bad thing, for while the later version gives has a dank, drafty Victorian mood,--one can almost feel the winter wind,--this one benefits enormously from its hearth-like intimacy. It's a very fine movie in its own right, with a mood all its own. "},{"Title":"One of the Great Christmas Movie of All-Time!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  More that sixty years after it was made, MGM's 1938 version of A Christmas Carol still ranks as one of the best adaptations of the Dickens classic ever.First, there's that terrific cast. Lionel Barrymore was to have played Ebeneezer Scrooge, when the accident that confined him to a wheelchair prevented it. Reginald Owen, whose career in US films alone spanned more than 40 years, was given the part, and, if not as vivid a Scrooge as Alistair Sim, he is more than up to the task. Terry Kilburn (The little boy who said Goodbye, Mr. Chips! the following year) goes perhaps a bit overboard with the cute stuff as Tiny Tim, but at least he tries. Gene and Kathleen Lockhart (And daughter June, making her film debut at 12) make as good a pair of Cratchits as you will ever see, with Gene Lockhart underplaying more than was usually his wont. Barry McKay and Lynne Carver (The latter perhaps best remembered as Dr. Kildare's girlfriend during the '40's) add just the right spirit as Scrooge's nephew, Fred, and his fiancee, respectively. And, speaking of spirits, there's Leo G. Carroll as probably the out-and-out spookiest Marley's Ghost there ever was, and Ann Rutherford (That's Polly Benedict to you Andy Hardy fans!) as probably the loveliest Ghost of Christmas Past.Atmospherically, the movie is as comfortable and heartwarming as an old Christmas card. As a director, Edwin L. Marin was, frankly, a hack, and, as such, usually handed a lot of forgettable B properties at MGM. With Christmas Carol, though, he redeems himself. One wonders, though, if executive producer Joseph L. Manckiewicz wasn't responsible for at least some of the directing chores, as well. Hugo Butler's screenplay captures the feel of it all perfectly, and Franz Waxman's score is one of his best.A rare treat all around. Don't miss it. But do not, under any circumstances, see the colorized version. The black-and-white play of light and shadow in this film is essential to its' atmosphere.Incidentally, there's a substantial article, including an interview with June Lockhart, on this film in the book AMC Presents the Great Christmas Movies. "},{"Title":"Reginald Owen is the star.....","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  How refreshing to see Reginald Owen as star of a movie.  So what if he was the last minute replacement for Lionel Barrymore.  I have read earlier comments for this movie, and I will give you my take.I first saw Reginald Owen in Mary Poppins, playing Admiral Boom, a character whom I thought was insanely crazy.  I realized, many years later, that Owen was a very intelligent actor who had carried many a movie, mostly in character settings.  Indeed, in Poppins, Owen played along with all the craziness in the story.In A Christmas Carol, Owen plays Ebenezer Scrooge, essaying the lead part well.  How refreshing, indeed.  As an acting student, I noticed how Scrooge's forehead old-age makeup resembled that of what I was taught last summer in a theatre stage makeup class at The Ohio State University.  There is that liquid latex (that has dried, of course) with just enough wrinkle to make his face give the hint of elderliness, whereas in real life Owen was only 51 years old.As for Lionel Barrymore, I glean from my studies of the Barrymores that if they had made enough money on the stage they would never have gone Hollywood, like they did.  I think they had long ago sold out to the moneyed establishment.  Definitely a lucky break for Reginald Owen, who for most of his career played the-glue character parts or second leads.  Admiral Boom is certainly an aside in Mary Poppins.In A Christmas Carol, I noticed that Tiny Tim was played by the boy who played Colley in Goodbye, Mr. Chips.  So what if the actor was too old.  He conveyed the spirit of the story.  He was a good actor.The Lockharts were great, especially Gene as Bob Cratchit.  Lockhart also played the double roles of The Starkeeper and The Graduation Speaker in Carousel, as an older man, and certainly always a rotund one.  Indeed, it was other actors supporting Reginald Owen this time, not the other way 'round.The Ghost of Christmas Present was well made up and costumed.  I liked his hair and beautiful robes -- the robes reminded me of the fur-trimmed outfits of modern Santa Clauses.  He did a good job showing Ebenezer Scrooge the error of his ways.All, it was a heartwarming story about how a wretchedly selfish individual gets shown the error of his ways, and is given a chance to right his self-centered existence.  A charming holiday season movie to watch.  "},{"Title":"A Fairly Pleasant Diversion On A Cold, Holiday Season Evening","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I am a huge fan of Charles Dickens' 'A Christmas Carol'. I have read the short story many times &#x96; Always during the Christmas Season &#x96; Over the past few years, and it is my most favorite piece of literature ever written. It therefore follows, that I am also a huge fan of the major cinematic productions based on the story, which I have seen over the years (Though that doesn't necessarily mean that I like them all).The many different filmed versions of this story are practically uncountable. I have seen most of them, and have chosen the following 8 of them as my favorites, based on their adherence to Dickens' original story. Under the title of 'Scrooge' The rather obscure 1935 version, with Sir Seymour Hicks, the 1951 British production, with Alastair Sim, and the 1970 musical, with Albert Finney. Under the title of 'A Christmas Carol' The new Disney version, with Jim Carrey, the made-for-TV productions 1984 &#x96; With George C. Scott, 1999 &#x96; With Patrick Stewart, and the 2004 musical, with Kelsey Grammar. And&#x85; This one, released by MGM in 1938, which I rank at #4.I must begin by saying, very simply, that Reginald Owen makes a 'pretty good' Ebenezer Scrooge . His performance, and his characterization, overall, are merely average, meaning - In other words - That I've seen better, and I've seen worse.Barry MacKay is excellent, and very likable as Scrooge's Nephew, Fred. Leo G. Carroll plays a rather drab, soft-spoken Ghost Of Jacob Marley, and makes what should be a terrifying character downright boring. Lionel Braham is quite pleasant as The Ghost Of Christmas Present, and Ann Rutherford &#x96; Only 21, at the time &#x96; Does very well with her turn as The Ghost Of Christmas Past, but her screen time is way too short, thanks to the omission of some of the 'Christmas Past' sequences, from the book.A rather rotund Gene Lockhart does well as Bob Cratchit, but doesn't fit the role, physically. Two of Mr. Lockhart's real-life family members play two members of his on-screen family. His Wife, Kathleen, plays Mrs. Cratchit, and his Daughter, June (Later, of TV's 'Lassie', and 'Lost In Space'), plays the younger Cratchit Daughter, Belinda. Mrs. Lockhart does quite well, but it bothered me a bit, that her character doesn't seem to have a hateful-enough attitude toward her Husband's employer.Elvira Stevens, in a very brief 'Christmas Past' sequence, is delightful as Fran ('Fan' in the book), Scrooge's young Sister, and was very close to the character described by Dickens. Terry Kilburn was hard to accept, as Tiny Tim. He was too old (13 at the time), and definitely too big for the part, and appears way too healthy to be afflicted with the unnamed debilitating disease of Dickens' story.I was disappointed that some sequences from the book were left out, in favor of some made-up scenes. The Christmas Eve dance at Fezziwig's warehouse, Scrooge's ill-fated love affair with Belle, and the 'Rag and bone shop' scenes are the most notable absences. The producers apparently wanted to keep this film short, but it seems to me that they could have included at least one of these book scenes in place of &#x96; For instance &#x96; The snowball-throwing scene, which isn't in the original story.Overall, this is a pretty good movie. Though not nearly as faithful to Dickens' story as it could have been, some good sets and costumes convey well, the Old London atmosphere, and the special effects aren't bad, if you don't judge them by later standards. If one can overlook some writing, acting, and casting shortcomings, it's a fairly pleasant diversion for a cold holiday season evening.It's now available on DVD, but try to catch it on TCM, during the holiday season (As I did), before you buy, and judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"The Epitome of Christmas","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I have been watching the 1938 version of A Christmas Carol since a was a small child. No other version captures the emotions that this movie does. It re-reminds me of what Christmas is really about. The whole concept of looking at your life in the past, present and future is creative in and of itself. After watching the movie, you may look at your life from the same perspectives. I have been looking for a copy of it for a couple of years,but it's always unavailable! Reginald Owen (Ebenezer Scrooge), Gene Lockhart (Bob Crachit), Terry Kilburn (Tiny Tim) and Barry MacKay(Fred) give a superb performance. Now I finally have the chance to watch the movie. I am so excited!!!! "},{"Title":"Fun and different approach to the Christmas classic","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The 1938 `Christmas Carol' is by no means the best film version of Dickens's much-beloved tale. Still, it does offer a few novel and enjoyable twists.  It is the only version I know of in which Bob Cratchit is `canned' (as he repeatedly says) before Christmas day, after knocking Scrooge's hat off with a snowball.  It is also the first version to use the much-imitated ending of Scrooge showing up unexpectedly at Cratchit's house, rather than revealing his epiphany to Bob on St. Stephen's Day.  It may be unique for having the healthiest-looking Tiny Tim and the most insanely jovial nephew Fred.  But as I say, these are enjoyable twists; it is fun to see a different take on this oft-told tale.   "},{"Title":"One of the Most Beautiful Christmas Tales","Date":"2 December 2012","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" In the Nineteenth Century, in London, the bitter, greedy and cranky Ebenezer Scrooge (Reginald Owen) hates Christmas and people. He runs his business exploiting his employee Bob Cratchit (Gene Lockhart) and spends unfriendly treatment to his nephew Fred (Barry MacKay) and acquaintances. In the Christmas Eve, he is visited by the doomed chained ghost of his former partner Jacob Marley (Leo G. Carroll), who died seven years ago and tells him that three spirits would visit him that night. The first one, the spirit of past Christmas, recalls his happy childhood and coming of age; the spirit of the present Christmas shows him the poor situation of Bob's family and the happiness of Fred and his fiancée Bessy; and the spirit of future Christmas shows his fate. Scrooge finds that life is good and finds redemption changing thoughts about Christmas, Bob, tiny Tim, his nephew and people in general.A Christmas Carol is one of the most beautiful Christmas tales in the cinema. I do not recall how many adaptations of one of the most known Charles Dickens' short story I have seen but this 1938 is also wonderful. I do not have much more to say but recommend this magnificent family entertainment. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Um Conto de Natal (A Christmas Tale) "},{"Title":"My favorite","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" There's just something about this one that, while not close to being the most faithful it nonetheless remains my favorite of all the many film versions of Dicken's Christmas Carol. I guess it's those old classic MGM production values. It's Gene Lockhart's sometimes cowed, sometimes impish, sometimes heroic & joy-filled Bob Cratchett. And it's definitely the way Reginald Owen turns Scrooge around far earlier than the other productions. I get so tired of seeing that rotten old Scrooge stay rotten until ten minutes before the film ends, when, poof, he sees the light & is miraculously transformed form the meanest man in the world to the nicest. Here, Owen's Scrooge begins to turn fairly quick, and I enjoy that - it really makes him so much easier to root for. For me, it's far and away the most entertaining version. Sit back for its brief 69 minutes, watch and enjoy. "}{"Title":"What's Christmas without chestnuts? and Christmas Carol","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I would like to say that every version of Dickens' tale is excellent in its own way but that would include Henry Winkler's American Christmas Carol and Mr Magoo's Christmas Carol. Of course, then there's Albert Finney's musical Scrooge - Thank you very much. But, rather than quibble about which is the best version, I will say that Dickens' story is the best illustration of the Christmas essence. Religion and commercialism aside, Christmas is about giving to mankind to better yourself and Scrooge is the poster child of that sentiment.Now, as to Reginald Owens' version of the tale, just a couple of quick pointsThis film is lighter and brighter than the others. The Lockharts are almost cartoonish in their portrayals. There is a cuteness in this one that makes it a bit more fitting for small children than the Sim/Scott/Stewart versions. Nephew Fred(Barry MacKay)is infectiously good natured and a fitting opposite for Owens' mean, old Scrooge.As to Reginald Owens, his meanness is nowhere near the other Scrooge's but his character fits the overall nature of the film. I just wish that they would have tried harder with his facial makeup. In some of the scenes, he looks an awful lot like the scarecrow in Wizard of Oz.This version may be A Christmas Carol Lite but it is very watchable and entertaining. God Bless Us, Everyone. "},{"Title":"2nd best version","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This was the first film version that I saw of this timeless story, and has always been a sentimental favorite. The sets are beautiful and take full advantage of the black and white cinematography and the special effects were well done for its time.Its the best film version for young people who are first being introduced to this classic tale, like it was for me some thirty years ago. (especially for American audiences) The dialogue is simplified by taking the edge off some of the Victorian vocabulary and the story is condensed for younger viewers with shorter attention spans.In comparison to the 1951 British version starring Alastair Sim (the best film version in my opinion), which delves deeper into the character of Scrooge in his younger years and what made him the mean, miserly old man that he was destined to be, this film treatment shows a less complex characterization of the man who thinks Christmas is a time for fools and the overall film presents a more cozier, light-hearted approach to the story.Reginald Owen plays the old miser in a way that many viewers will identify with that grumpy, miserable grandfather or uncle that's always in a bad mood. (Every family has one) And for film buffs - look out for young June Lockhart (who for many will forever be remembered for portraying the mother on the TV show - Lost In Space) playing one of the Cratchit children...and who's real father Gene Lockhart is playing her father Bob Cratchit in the film.This film version offers a lot of good visuals which I will personally always link to the story even as I read the book again and again. Like the scene where Scrooge is flying over Victorian London with the Spirit of Christmas Past.Watching this film and the 1951 film as well, has become as much a holiday tradition for me as Chritmas tree lights and egg nog. "},{"Title":"still great after all these years","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" What would the holiday season be without Charles Dickens's classic story? This version is actually a little bit lighter than what we're usually used to, but that doesn't weaken it at all. Reginald Owens turns Ebenezer Scrooge into just the sort of mean old grouch who we all sort of wish that we were. Gene Lockhart also does a good job as Bob Crachit, although much of the other cast comes across as just the tiniest bit silly. I think that my favorite character is the Ghost of Christmas Yet to Come. But no matter, A Christmas Carol remains a formidable part of literary and cinematic history. Equally good was the Bill Murray vehicle Scrooged. Merry Christmas and Bah Humbug! PS Humbug is defined as someone or something intended to deceive; a falsity. "},{"Title":"I'd like to stroke it!","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Although not a masterpiece, I love this version of Dickens' classic, A CHRISMAS CAROL. With its many shortcomings, I like to think of this as the happy, feel good version. Reginald Owen tries too hard to be mean and cranky, and his theatrical makeup is just plain terrible, as are some of his lines (ie. the silly dialog between he and the ghost of Christmas present on the streets with the horn). The score equally reflects the more light-hearted nature of this film, and provides none of the depth and eeriness present in the king of all kings version with Alastair Sim (1951). The liberties taken with the storyline are also amusing, but seem right at home for 1930s Hollywood for some reason. Scrooge's nephew Fred, played by the wonderful Barry MacKay, is perhaps my favorite Fred in all versions. His infectious good-nature keeps this film upbeat and non-threatening. The Lockharts also add a warm, familial strength, although Gene and Kathleen seem far too happy considering their predicament in life. Perhaps the most criticism I can attach to it is that Terry Kilburn is the most irritating/annoying of all the Tiny Tims to date. That being said, there is, however, something very pleasing about this 1938 version that offers what others don't. It is the child-friendly version that leaves you happy. It's well worth the watch, although the most impressive adaptation, in my opinion, goes to the 1951 Alastair Sim masterpiece, SCROOGE. "},{"Title":"MGM's take on the Dicken's classic","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I've seen this along with the 1951 version on TV every Christmas and although the '51 version is preferable this is still a very good movie in it's own telling of the Dicken's classic. Gene Lockhart as Bob Cratchit and Reginald Owen as Ebenezer Scrooge are both great and Leo G. Carrol does a good ghost of Jacob Marley. Lionel Braham, Ann Rutherford and D'Arcy Corrigan turn in good performances as the ghosts of Christmas past, present and future. MGM Cinematographer Sidney Wagner does a wonderful job with the photography. Cedric Gibbons is the Art Director here. He had a contract made in 1924 that his name would appear on every MGM movie made in the United States so until 1956 his name was on 1500 movies even if he was just head of the Production department and didn't actually work on a film. He did work on 150 films himself during that time and this is one of them. He's the guy who designed the Oscar and was nominated for 39 of them and won 11. Longtime MGM set Director Edwin Willis designed the sets here. This is Director Edwin Martin's best film in a career of largely forgettable films. This is a good Christmas film and some prefer it to the more popular 1951 version and it may be more stylish and charming in it's big studio MGM way but I prefer the '51 British version with Alistair Sim as Scrooge. I do really like this too and would give it an 8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully done, great cast and my personal favourite of the timeless Dickens classic","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This 1938 version of Charles Dickens immensely popular novel is overshadowed by later versions, but still stands out as one of the best. Everyone knows the story, a tight-fisted and mean old miser Ebenezer Scrooge causes misery for everyone in the business world is visited by the ghost of his former partner and told that if he does not change his ways, he will suffer the same fate as him. He is then shown by three spirits his past, his present and his future. The miser then changes his ways and has one the happiest and heart warming endings ever. This story has been filmed several times and I shall say that of all of them, I love this one the most.The MGM company stared British actor Reginald Owen as Scrooge, who played the character brilliantly. He looks more of the embodiment of Scrooge than any of the others. He looks utterly bitter, mean and angry. Gene Lockhart played Bob Cratchit, Scrooge's long suffering clerk who is only ever given one day in the whole year off as a holiday, Lockhart played him wonderfully. He made the character lovable, joyful and doting on his family and the bond he had with Tiny Tim was more touching than the others, however, he was a bit too plumb and jolly for the character. Lockhart's wife, Kathleen Lockhart played Mrs Cratchit and was also perfect, even though she might have had too much good nature towards Scrooge (not in the book). Leo G Caroll played Marley's ghost, perhaps the spookiest one ever. Although he was a bit soft spoken, he was all the more creepy and seemed all the more tormented. The distinctly British stage actor Barry Mackay played Scrooge's good hearted nephew and was probably the best performance. He made the character very likable and easy going, exactly what Dickens would have wanted. A very young Ann Rutherford played the Ghost of Christmas Past (on for a VERY brief space of time), Lionel Braham played a jolly yet serious Ghost of Christ mas Present, again perfect from the book and D'Arcy Corrigan playing the scary Ghost of Christmas Future (again VERY brief). Other characters were Lynne Carver as Fred's 'fiance' (his wife in the book) Bess, Ronald Sinclair as the young Scrooge and Terry Kilburn who gives the weakest performance, he was a bit too old for Tiny Tim and was too happy and lively, not to mention healthy looking. But he tried and was acceptable. All the cast gave just about their best in this film and it is that what makes you really enjoy it.The story has been pretty well done on screen, the sets and costumes are all truly Dickensian. It conveys a different type of spirit to the book, it is lighter and more...how shall I say it?...Christmas like. It was a bit more hard hitting than the book. My grandfather recorded this film one Christmas when I was three and since then it has not been shown on British T.V. It was the first film I ever watched and I have treasured it. I read the book at the age of eight and since then I have read nearly all the other books by Charles Dickens and have taken the view that he is the greatest novelist ever. Whilst this version remains my favourite, I sadly cannot help but find several faults with it. Dickens is my favourite author and I ms feel I should defend the book. Firstly, why did it have to be so short? it runs for 69 minutes on VHS. There are so many scenes left out from the book and others just changed. For a start is the scene where Cratchit was fired...why? It wasn't in the book and didn't particularly make the story any better. Then there is the bit where Scrooge calls in the watchmen to come and arrest Marley's ghost. Then there is the ending, where Scrooge turns up at the Cratchits for Christmas lunch as opposed to him raising his salary and vowing to help his struggling family on Boxing Day. These changes don't make the story any better and I don't see the point in tampering with a great story just for the sake of it, but I suppose that there is no harm in experimenting. There were so many scenes left out from the book, the ghostly undertaking carriage going up Scrooge's staircase, the tormented spirits hovering outside Scrooge's window, the Fezziwig ball, Scrooge's ill-fated affair with Belle, Belle's future family, the ignorance and want scene, the Old Joe and Mrs Dilber scene and several others. It wouldn't have tormented the to have made the film a bit more faithful to Dickens' original and those are really the only things about his film that disappoint me.However, I know most of my comments seem to be very confusing and I don't make it clear whether I like something or not. I'll put it straight. This version is highly enjoyable and holds up very well to the story, it will always be my personal favourite and shouldn't cast aside as much as it is. By the way, film buffs should recognise Billy Bevan as the leader of the watch, Forrester Harvey as Fezziwig, June Lockhart as Belinda Cratchit, Harry Cording as the waiter, Halliwell Hobes as the vicar, Olaf Hytten as the schoolmaster and Lumsden Hare as one of Scrooge's business associates, all uncredited.Other versions of this story are the 1935 version with Sir Seymour Hicks (which I haven't seen), the definitive 1951 version with Alistair Sim which is widely regarded as the best of all and the most popular, the camp 1970 musical with Albert Finney which Dickens would have despised, the moody and dark 1984 version with George C Scott, the hilarious Muppet version in 1992, another brilliant 1999 version with Patrick Steward and the frightfully awful musical 2004 version with Kelsey Grammar.God Bless us...everyone! "},{"Title":"Warm holiday movie, but 1951 version is better","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the second adaptation of the Dickens novel that still exists, it stars Owen as the miserly Scrooge, whose outlook on Christmas changes after a visit from three spirits.  Overall, it is a fine presentation, but the only complaint is that Owen is not as wretched as Sim is in the 1951 version.   "},{"Title":"Yesterday he was a cold, selfish miser. Today he's warm, cheerful and giving. And it's all thanks to a little Christmas spirit. Three actually.","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" CONTAINS SPOILERS!!!!Our story begins in London on December 24, 1843. A young man named Fred was walking through the town when he stopped to watch some boys sliding on the ice. One of them was named Peter Cratchit. He introduced Fred to his little brother, Tiny Tim, who was on crutches. Fred was on his way to where their father works Scrooge & Marley's. Scrooge was Fred's uncle. Marley had passed away seven years prior. Inside the cold building, clerk Bob Cratchit was busy at his work. Mr. Scrooge had stepped out so Fred produced a bottle of liquor which they each drank. Cratchit even put some extra coal on the fire. That's when the cold, leering figure of Ebenezer Scrooge filled the room. Cratchit went right back to work while Fred wished his uncle a Merry Christmas and invited him to dinner with he and his fiancée, Bess. Scrooge felt only fools celebrate Christmas so he gave Fred a solemn, dignified Bah humbug and rejected the offer. Fred cheerfully took his leave and then in came two collectors for the poor. Scrooge put himself down for nothing and threw them out. Later that evening, Scrooge reluctantly gave Cratchit the next day, Christmas Day, off and paid him his weekly wage 15 shillings. Then Cratchit was able to leave. As he headed home, he stopped to see some boys throwing snow balls. He gleefully joined them and threw one himself. He accidentally hurled one at, of all people, Mr. Scrooge! Uh oh! Cratchit quickly apologized and tried to fetch Mr. Scrooge's hat that had come off, but a carriage had run over it. Well that did it, Scrooge fired Cratchit right on the spot and deducted a shilling from his pay and stormed off.Cratchit, now unemployed, gleefully bought Christmas dinner for his family and headed home. Mr. Scrooge angrily made it to his home. Now for some reason, his door knocker seemed to look remarkably like Jacob Marley! Once upstairs, Scrooge is visited by the ghost of Jacob Marley himself. Scrooge tries to get some people on the street to help him, but they don't believe him. Marley was bound in chains. The very chains he forged in life. He tells Scrooge he is in for the same fate unless he can repent and change his evil ways. Three ghosts would arrive that evening to make certain that happened, then Marley took his leave. Well, right on schedule at 100 AM Scrooge was visited by the lovely figure of the Ghost of Christmas Past. She showed Scrooge his childhood at boarding school where Scrooge stayed all alone at Christmas. But then he became apprentice to J. Fezziwig, the kindest man in town. This was before Scrooge became overcome with greed; Scrooge awakened in his bed. Was it all a dream? Then at 200 AM he met the large, jolly Ghost of Christmas Present who shows Scrooge a present day Christmas morning. The Cratchit family was enjoying their lovely meal, but poor Tiny Tim appeared sick. The spirit informed Scrooge that if these shadows remained unaltered by the future, the child would die. They next visit Fred's house, where he and his friends both bashed and praised Mr. Scrooge. Scrooge seemed to be enjoying himself. He even claimed he now loved Christmas. But the spirit was still not convinced. Scrooge now found himself all alone, only to be confronted by the mysterious figure of the Ghost of Christmas Future, precisely at 300 AM.The ghost said not a word but showed Scrooge a future Christmas morning in which someone unloved and uncared for had died. Someone else, who WAS loved and cared for, Tiny Tim, had died too. The Cratchit family was very sad. So was Scrooge. But then he found out who the unloved deceased was Ebenezer Scrooge! He begged for his life and vowed he would change his evil ways. He woke up in bed, Christmas morning, and was as good as his word. He spread Christmas cheer all over town, he delivered a giant Christmas goose to the Cratchits. He rehired Bob Cratchit with a raise in salary. He made his nephew Fred a partner and finally met his fiancée, Bess. So everyone was happy from then on. The Cratchit kids found a second father in Scrooge and all lived happily ever after. Or as Tiny Tim observed, God bless us, everyone.This was another great adaption of Charles Dickens' A Christmas Carol. Reginald Owen was a very good Scrooge. Owen is perhaps better known as Admiral Boom in Mary Poppins. Sadly we lost Owen in 1972. Gene Lockhart was a good Bob Cratchit, and his real life wife Kathleen Lockhart was Mrs. Cratchit. Leo G. Carroll was Marley's ghost and he bore a remarkable likeness to Boris Karloff. Now he would have made a cool Marley. Terry Kilburn is Tiny Tim. I found this to be a very different version of A Christmas Carol. It had a few things that were not in the book or in any other version. The snow ball scene for instance where Cratchit accidentally beams Scrooge. Or the scene where Scrooge calls some men up into his room when he's visited by Marley's ghost. And, Scrooge's girlfriend Belle was not in this version. And this time he made Fred his partner. Anyway, it's a great movie! Another Christmas Carol movie was made in 1935 with Sir Seymour Hicks as Scrooge. That one wasn't as involved as this one. There have been many great Ebenezer Scrooges in our time. They've recently made a new Christmas Carol musical with Kelsey Grammar as Scrooge. Frasier as Scrooge, now that might be interesting. But anyway, I recommend A Christmas Carol this Christmas! It will give any doubters the true Christmas spirit. Check it out today! If it comes on TV, watch it. If you see it in stores, get it. Either way, I recommend A Christmas Carol. Yule love it!!- "},{"Title":"My favorite Christmas movie!!","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  In my opinion, this is far and away the best film version of A Christmas Carol ever made.  My favorite is, of course, Barry MacKay as Fred--i don't know why, he was just always my favorite character, even in the book.  Every year I look forward to watching this movie during the holidays.  Christmas wouldn't be the same without it.  I don't own it, though.  However, I'd consider it if the movie ever came out on dvd.  I find that searching for when it will be on and staying up late on Christmas Eve to watch it is half the fun!  Everyone should see this movie! As a side note, does anyone know why the site keeps telling me my comment must be 10 lines or longer in order to post?  If it's just a fluke and this post ends up on the board a dozen times or something, my apologies. "},{"Title":"Mankind was my business!","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Although I favor the versions of this story with Alistair Sim or with George C. Scott as Ebenezer Scrooge (and I have not had the luck to see the surviving version with Sir Seymour Hicks), I like this one too. It gave an opportunity (a rare one) to one of Hollywood's best character actors to have the central role in a film for a change. The only other film with Reginald Owen as the star is (interestingly enough) when he played Sherlock Holmes in A Study In Scarlet earlier in the 1930s. Owen was good in an inferior film (certainly a bad retelling of that novel). Owen was usually good though, be he playing comic parts (see him in Petticoat Fever), or in dramatic parts (his vicious and opportunistic Alaskan prospector/thief in the 1935 Call Of The Wild). He had a long career too, even playing a Commidore Schmidlapp in the film version of Batman with Adam West and Burt Ward in the late 1960s.If Sim made Scrooge a neurotic, and Scott an opportunistic stock jobber, and Albert Finney a nasty, people-hating usurer, Scrooge is a tight fisted businessman who never looses anything. He knows how much is spent in his premises (note how Owen, as he enters the offices, senses too much heat and glares at the fireplace, while poor Bob Cratchit (Gene Lockhart) scurries over to take out those two valuable pieces of coal he momentarily added). He is also constantly saving everything His nephew Fred (Barry Mackay) brought a bottle of port wine to the office that he gave to Bob, who took a drink. After Crachit leaves, Owen is about to throw out the bottle, realizes that it has been barely touched, and takes it home with him. Later he will take some cough medicine at home, and after doing so he will lick his fingers as not to lose any drops of the medicine. He also disgusts a waiter (Henry Cording) who has just served him a cheap meal when he insists on biting a coin to see if it is good. The versions of A Christmas Carol always pick and choose items to develop from the story or to drop. They all stick to the main trajectory (introduce Scrooge and the Cratchits and Fred and his fiancé, Scrooge goes home and is visited by Marley and the ghosts, Scrooge sees his past - usually the public school and his sister's visit, and the Fezziwigs dance party - then sees his present - the Cratchits and Fred with their family and friends - and then sees the possible future - the death of Tiny Tim (Terry Kilbride in this film) and Scrooge's unlamented death; the trajectory is completed by some version of Scrooge's reformation bearing Christmas joy to all who he formerly denied it too.It's pick and choose. The section with the Ghost of Christmas Past (Anne Rutherford) ends before we see Scrooge's descent into pure greed and selfishness (and there is no reference to his love affair with Fezziwig's daughter). The section with the Ghost of Christmas Present (Lionel Braham) shows the ghost settling some trivial street quarrels with his horn of Christmas cheer, and he does get in the jab about Tiny Tim should die to decrease the surplus population (a reference to Scrooge's earlier thoughtless comment). But he does not show the two waifs that under his robe representing want and fear. The ghost of Christmas to Come remains silent...as the tomb (as Dickens wanted him to be.**Only once, when Disney did a version with Scrooge McDuck (Alan Young) in a cartoon did the third ghost speak. It turned out to be the old Disney villain, Pegleg Pete, and he gleefully pushes McDuck into the grave after telling him off.The additions here include a running series of scenes concerning ice sliding that involves the street urchins, Fred and his fiancé, and even the local Minister (Halliwell Hobbs). Also Crachitt loses his job here when he accidentally selects Scrooge for the target of his snowball. (Scrooge charges him the whole of his last week's pay, and an additional shilling for the cost of a new hat).The film tries to keep the design in line with the illustrations by Cruikshank (Fezziwig even has an 18th Century wig on). Owen does reawaken as he recalls the joys he's pushed aside and sacrificed. His make-up here resembles a little his villain from the 1936 Trouble For Two, who was also nearly completely bald. Lockhart adds troubled tension to his role, knowing he will only have one week of work left (unpaid!) after this. It's nice to see that here one of Cratchit's children is played by Lockhart's real life daughter June.All in all a delightful version, if somehow not as meaty as the others that I like. "}{"Title":"A Great Christmas Classic","Date":"6 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This was the first version I remember ever seeing and so I am partial to this version even though it out-dates me by 40 years. Reginald Owen is great as Scrooge as he plays him well as the curmudgeon but then completely turns it around as the reborn Scrooge. Many critics think the Alistair Sim version is superior but one of the reasons I find this one better is because Sim does not convey the reborn Scrooge as well. He still seems a little nasty to me whereas Owen reminds me of a kind hearted grandfather. The rest of the cast is excellent as well and this includes Barry McKay as Fred and of course Gene Lockhart as Bob Cratchett. Some of my favorite scenes are Cratchett and the snowball fight, the Christmas Past visit which is very poignant, the singing in the church and the Cratchett visit by Scrooge, even though not in the novel the scene is a great feel good close out of the film. "},{"Title":"The best version ever.","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Christmas being my all time favorite holiday. I have seen all the movies made about Charles Dickens novel A Christmas Carol. By far this is the best one ever made. Reginald Owens does a fantastic job playing Scrooge. He is supported by a wonderful cast. Some versions have Scrooge's sister Fran and others have his lost love Belle. I love watching good clean movies that the whole family can watch together. The animated version Mr. Magoo's Christmas Carol is another great one for the kids especially young ones. The special effects used during the 1930's were done really well. I think overing should view this movie and judge for them selves. "},{"Title":"The Nightmare Before Christmas","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A Christmas CAROL (MGM, 1938), directed by Edwin L. Marin, is an acceptable, in fact, satisfactory adaptation from the oft-filmed Charles Dickens story. Starring Reginald Owen as Ebenezer Scrooge, the misery old man who feels the season of Christmas is only for fools, learns its true meaning on Christmas Eve when, after going to bed, to be approached by three ghosts, as warned by the spirit of Jacob Barley (Leo G. Carroll), who tells him what he is to expect during the midnight hours and what he is to learn from this experience by the ghosts of Christmas Past (Ann Rutherford), Present (Lionel Braham) and Future (D'Arcy Corrigan).Capitalizing on the current trend of literary classics transferred to the screen, the best of them released by MGM, of the many screen versions, past, present and future, the 1938 version to A Christmas CAROL holds up remarkably well, along with the 1951 British made production starring Alistair Sim. Reginald Owen plays his character to perfection, in spite the fact that the original choice to play old Ebenezeer was to have been Lionel Barrymore. Due to a hip injury and arthritis that confined him to a wheelchair for the rest of his life, Barrymore carried on the Christmas tradition by playing Scrooge annually as broadcast on radio. Since Barrymore was unable to perform his most notable character on screen, Reginald Owen, a resident MGM stock player, makes a fine substitute. The bitterness of his character does provide sympathy, and even further understanding as to why Scrooge is as mean as he is when being taken through the passage of time when he was a boy to what his future is to become if he does not change his ways. The future segment plays dark and gloomy like a film noir horror movie, especially with the added touch of a haunting score.A fine supporting cast features the ever reliable Gene Lockhart as Bob Cratchit; Kathleen Lockhart as his wife, Martha; Barry McKay as Scrooge's nephew, Fred; Lynne Carver as Bess; Terry Kilburn as Tiny Tim; and Ronald Sinclair as Scrooge, as a boy. Appearing unbilled is the 13-year-old June Lockhart (daughter of Gene and Kathleen), best known to the TV generation of the 1950s and '60s for such shows as TIMMY AND LASSIE and LOST IN SPACE, as one of the Cratchit children.Of the many key scenes provided, the most memorable happens to be the one set in the crowded church on Christmas Eve with the congregation singing Oh Come, Oh Ye Faithful, along with the crippled Tiny Tim (Terry Kilburn) struggling to stand onto his one crutch under his arm to hold on to his father's (Gene Lockhart) hand, and without any use of words, shows the true meaning of love between a father and a son, especially during this special time of the year, as they sing and look at one another. Barry McKay, a British actor making a rare appearance in a Hollywood motion picture, is perfectly cast as the extremely fun-loving and kind-hearted Fred. Hard to believe that such a person is related to Scrooge.Unlike the other literary works provided by MGM, including the 1935 releases of David COPPERFIELD and A TALE OF TWO CITIES, A Christmas CAROL is surprisingly short, 69 minutes, but long enough to provide a good moral lesson to the story, and with the combination of MGM and Dickens, ranks one of the finer of the holiday/family movie classics. A Christmas CAROL, has become an annual event on commercial television for many years, especially Christmas Eve. Available on video cassette since the late 1980s, either colorized or in its original black and white format, the television tradition continues whenever shown on cable TV's Turner Classic Movies. (***) "},{"Title":"Best supporting roles of all Christmas Carol films","Date":"30 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" While Ebenezer Scrooge is the unquestionable main character of A Christmas Carol, without the other characters there wouldn't be much of a story. It is his role in contrast with the others that gives the spice to the story that Charles Dickens wrote. Scrooge's conversion happens after the spirits of Christmas past, present and future show him the life around him and his place in it for each period. So, the roles of those other characters are very important as well. This 1938 film is one of the best, and my favorite, of all the movie versions. I don't know why MGM made it so short &#x96; it's only 69 minutes, compared to 78 minutes for the 1935 Scrooge, and 86 minutes for the 1951 A Christmas Carol. It leaves out some parts of the story, especially some of Scrooge's past. Most important of that was his romance and his fiancé. Five to 10 more minutes showing some of that important past would have added significantly to this film version. But for that shortcoming, I think more people would see this film as the best. The counter to that shortcoming is the attention this version gives to the main supporting roles. We see more of the characters of Bob Cratchit, Tiny Tim, Marley's ghost, and Scrooge's nephew, Fred. And, the characters who play those roles give much more life and meaning to them. Gene Lockhart and wife Kathleen Lockhart play Bob and Mrs. Cratchit. Lockhart plays Bob as a man truly concerned about caring for his family. But, he's not about to let his ill-tempered miserly employer ruin Christmas for his family. He is a man of good spirits and hope, played better than in any other version. Terry Kilburn as Tiny Tim immediately steals one's heart. Not out of sympathy, but of empathy and joy at seeing this happy, innocent joyous character. Barry MacKay plays Fred with more ebullience and, I think, earnest concern and hope for his uncle's conversion of heart. And Leo G. Carroll gives the best rendition of Jacob Marley's ghost of any that I've seen. One particularly moving scene in this film that others don't have is Bob and Tiny Tim in church singing Oh Come All Ye Faithful. The camera close-ups of father and son exchanging glances depict deep love. The special effects in this film are quite exceptional for the time, and remain so today. In the midst of this story, Reginald Owens plays a perfect Scrooge. He is not the wide-eyed wonder that we see in Alastair Sim's Scrooge of 1951. But he seems genuine with an authentic conversion from the mean-spirited and cranky miser that we see in him at first. Two other pluses for this film are its musical background and realistic setting. This 1938 film and the 1951 version with Sims are a notch above a couple other versions. A 1970 musical version also is excellent. It stars Albert Finney and other leading British actors in wonderful roles. But this one remains my favorite for its deeper look at all the characters that Dickens created in A Christmas Carol. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good But......","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This a pretty decent, fairly reliable version of Dickens' famous story. Reginald Owen is an above average Scrooge, much more formidable than he is often portrayed. He is lithe and athletic in appearance and quite frightening to those who encounter him. He is lacking depth of character, not being the actor that Alistair Sim is, but still manages to do the job. Sim's Scrooge has a kind of depth, a touch of melancholy, that none of the others, including George C. Scott and Patrick Stewart, had. What I don't care for in this is some plot elements that could have been left alone. Cratchitt getting fired for throwing snowball at Scrooge seemed silly. It eliminated the tender scene at the end where Scrooge waits for the tardy clerk in his office. The scene here where he actually shows up at Bob's house is frantic and silly. Gene Lockhart is a reasonably good Cratchitt, but in most of the renditions he is seen as a bit too well fed and his family a bit too affluent, considering his circumstances. For me, however, the actors playing Tiny Tim and Fred, Scrooge's nephew are so distracting and so giddy, I can hardly stand to watch them. I suppose the screenwriters felt they were better storytellers than Dickens. "},{"Title":"God Bless us, every one. Even the stagehands...","Date":"5 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie seemed to be longer when seen as a kid, and on TV. It was interesting, sad and uplifting. On DVD 40 years later, for me, it was none of those things. It it obvious, characterized players with the outcome as obvious as was every Reginald Owens expression. He was as accessible as a sale at Nieman and Marcus. Pretentious and uninviting as a serious piece but a nice little snippet of straightforward stage performances to fill out the holiday schedule. My daughter plucked it off the shelf here in July to view, so the message is felt year round, even if old Ebeneezer is too mean to start and on lithium to finish. At least Tiny Tim is sympathetic. "},{"Title":"The Best Family Version","Date":"24 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I have watched several versions of A Christmas Carol and this one tops them all. The black and white version sets the stage as a bleak and cold period of time of 1843 when the novel was written. The 1938 version is a simple tale with no fancy visual effects. I marvel at how they could make such a very good quality movie in 1938, before World War II, before the Polio vaccine, before George Lucas/Lucas Film/Skywalker Ranch! MGM made this version a family version, omitting a few of the incredibly dreary novel parts like, Want and Ignorance and the many phantoms outside Scrooge's window. MGM wanted this version to be something the entire family could see.Reginald Owen was the second choice as the lead. Lionel Barrymore was to be Scrooge but was not physically able to do the work. Barrymore later starred in You Can't Take It With You and It's A Wonderful Life.The Cratchits have real family members. The husband and wife were really married and one of the girls was an actual daughter to the husband/wife team. I think this helps with the feeling of the Cratchits being a real family in the movie.If you pick up the 1938 version, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Good Version","Date":"20 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This version of A Christmas Carol is one of the better ones. Not the best, but top five for sure. Reginald Owen gives a decent, if somewhat exaggerated, performance as Scrooge. He's ably helped by a fine MGM cast, including Gene Lockhart, Leo G. Carroll, and the always-adorable Ann Rutherford as the (blonde!) Ghost of Christmas Past. British actor Barry Mackay makes a fine, jovial Fred. This film also features the screen debut of June Lockhart. There are several parts of the novel cut out, as well as a few new bits added. But, all in all, it works as a mostly faithful, fun adaptation. It's also barely over an hour so it doesn't waste a lot of time. "},{"Title":"A good Christmas movie for the whole family","Date":"17 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I never watched any other version of this Charles Dickens story, so i will not compare it to any, besides the novel itself.One thing which I find disappointing is how they avoided so many parts of the past that explain why Scrooge became the bitter man that he was. Especially him losing Belle. To me it was an important part of the story and seeing it cut out of a movie that is very short in itself makes no sense to me, especially since they added other elements.But I guess the explanation is that this movie was made as an entertainment for the whole family. And the original story may be too grim for the children. This is why it avoids Scrooge's grim past an also shows more of the happiness that fun character Fred shares with the neighbourhood kids.I really like the actors. Back in the days acting was more over the top than it is now, actors sometimes act as if they are on stage and not on screen. But this is suiting to this story and adds some old fashioned charm to it.I especially like Reginald Owen as Scrooge. He seems to be like two completely different people, super performance.The three spirits are captured perfectly. I like all 3 of them and the fitting mood that they bring.Terry Kilburn seems a bit out of cast as Tiny Tim. He seems way too healthy for me to worry about him dying. But this could also be because he represents the happiness that Scrooge misses.Very beautiful setting as well. The black and white cinematography is beautifully done. The buildings and costumes really transfer us in time.All in all a beautiful Holiday classic to have in one's collection. "},{"Title":"A warm and entertaining version","Date":"27 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Not the best version of A Christmas Carol(one of Charles Dickens' most famous, best and most accessible stories)- the Alastair Sim and George C. Scott versions, the 1994 Jetlag and 2001 animated films are the only versions below average- and is not perfect. The Ghost of Christmas Past section is too brief and should have been much more- more time, more detail-, the reason why Scrooge seems to have repented too soon in this version, and Terry Kilburn's Tiny Tim is too healthy and overwrought, the character should have a lot of pathos but Kilburn seems to be trying too hard. There is still a lot to like though. The Ghost of Christmas Present section is very heart-warming, definitely of the Three Ghosts sections the one with the most heart, and the one of Christmas-Yet-to-Come will have youngsters diving under the covers, the people in the section observing and commenting on the situation are quite realistically drawn. While not lavish or big in budget, the film still has splendid period detail and shot in lovely black and white. The special effects are not too shabby, though not award-worthy. The whimsical music score, mean-meaning script, heartfelt message that gets its point across and the ceaselessly entertaining and poignant storytelling are other selling points. And the acting is fine on the most part. Reginald Owen does make a great account of himself as Scrooge(if not quite embodying the character like Sim did), while Leo G. Caroll is very spooky if soft-spoken Jacob Marley and Barry MacKay is possibly the best and most likable Fred on screen. Lionel Brahurn's Ghost of Christmas Present is wonderfully jovial, Ann Rutherford is utterly beguiling though deserving of more screen time and Gene Lockhart appeals in how humble he is. Overall, warm, charming and entertaining though not definitive. 8/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"He's a Scrooge he's a Scrooge, he's Ebenezer Scrooge.","Date":"30 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A Christmas Carol is directed by Edwin L. Marin and adapted to screenplay by Hugo Butler from the Charles Dickens story of the same name. It stars Reginald Owen, Gene Lockhart, Kathleen Lockhart, Terry Kilburn and Barry MacKay. Music is by Franz Waxman and cinematography by Sidney Wagner and John F. Seitz.I wonder just how many times A Christmas Carol has been adapted to theatre, film, television, radio or opera? Well it's a lot as we know, but my point being that it's one of those literary works that needs no introduction or plot synopsis. It's as famous as famous can be. With all the many film adaptations to view, there's often discussions about which is the best, which is the most loyal to the source and etc etc, what mostly comes through in such discussions is that it's such a brilliant piece of literary work it would take the work of an idiot to mess up the feel good factor come the story's denouement. Thankfully, in spite of tampering with aspects of the source material, Marin's 38 version is as pleasing as a glass of Xmas punch. There are minor irritants here no doubt about it, Scrooge begins to turn from mean miser to good fellow a bit too early, and traditionalists do balk at the changes in the story such as a sex change for one of the ghosts, Cratchit gets the sack, the haunting grimness is missing with the ghost visitations and again etc etc, yet the essence is right and the key points are rightfully included. Given it's a film that runs just under 70 minutes some scenes are rushed, but it's very well performed by the cast (Owen wonderfully caustic as Scrooge after stepping in when Lionel Barrymore's ill health ruled him out of the production) and the joy that comes with the finale is simply impossible to ignore. Like a lot of other people I'm a lover of the Alastair Sim 1951 version, of which this MGM version is often unfairly compared against. For although the 51 film is definitive in its adaptation, and rightfully sits at the top of many people's lists of filmic productions, Marin's film has much to recommend it to being part of your perennial Xmas viewing schedules. 8/10 "},{"Title":"dear  Dickens","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" a special adaptation. Christmas spirit . and more. a good cast. and lovely atmosphere. sure, an antique. but very wise, touching and precise. the old fashion shining is not only virtue. it remains basis of an admirable work. sentimental and good medicine for soul, it is, in same time, a real Dickens. no tricks, no innovation. only lines of a classical story about conquest of a holiday. so, a honest movie. or little more because Reginald Owen does a memorable Scrooge. bitter, warm, seductive. fresh, fragile. perfect character without strange shadows. memory of respectable dear Charles Dickens is present in each performance. and the fragile map of this carol is more important by many other adaptations. "},{"Title":"Not perfect...but not bad","Date":"17 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" There's plenty of adaptations of A Christmas Carol out there and it's likely that, if you're going to delve into Christmas past, you may get no further than the 1951 version starring Alastair Sim. However, this one from 13 years earlier is also worthy of a look, even if it does take a few liberties with the story. I'm of the opinion that there's little point deviating too much from the source, as A Christmas Carol might just be the greatest spec script in English literature. Perfectly paced and with endless quotable dialogue, it really shouldn't be too hard to get a serviceable movie out of an adaptation. Perhaps that's why my biggest problems with this version are when it deviates from the source; such as Scrooge sacking Cratchett on Christmas Eve (making Bob Cratchett's toast to him the following day utterly bizarre), or the fact that Tiny Tim seems remarkably healthy for someone who has few Christmasses in their future. The largest oversight is the absence of Scrooge's lost-love Belle from the story, perhaps because it's the biggest indication of just why the old man is so bitter and miserly. Curiously, despite omitting this character, there's a bigger role for Fred's partner (his fiancée in this, rather than his wife). Why the film decides to focus on this couple without counter-balancing it with Scrooge's own sad love-story is a bit of a mystery. Aside from that, it's really not too bad. It tells the story well and doesn't look nearly as old as it actually is. But in a world of countless versions of this story, it is a little forgettable - neither bad enough to stick in the mind, nor interesting enough to join the ranks of Sim, Scott and the Muppets. "},{"Title":"Classics are never out of fashion.","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This adaptation of Charles Dickens' A Christmas Carol provides an example of a timeless lesson for all generations the lesson of using introspection to achieve a re-birth of the spirit in all of us. The struggle between worldly possessions versus strength of spirit and character is part of the human condition.  A timeworn story? NEVER, UNCLE SCROOGE!  "},{"Title":"A Christmas Carol (1938) ***","Date":"31 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I decided it was time to try another take on the Charles Dickens classic story, and this 1938 film starring Reginald Owen as the mean-hearted Ebenezer Scrooge worked pretty well for me. As I've never read the actual story itself (hard to believe for some, not so hard to others I'd wager), I've heard there are all sorts of liberties taken here and there with various movie incarnations, but one change I did enjoy here was seeing a female playing the Ghost of Christmas Past (cutey Ann Rutherford). There's good production values and settings here, and the movie is just the right length not to overstay its welcome. With all its snow and traditional Christmas singing, it really captures the essence of the occasion. I don't think I'll ever be completely enthralled by any movie version of this tale however; it's so overly-familiar and played out by now - even with spinoffs for holiday TV sitcoms and such - that this might very well do me. But since I like George C. Scott I may seek his performance out next year. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Yes! Yes I do! I like Christmas! I LOVE Christmas!","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The role of Ebenezer Scrooge was supposed to go to Lionel Barrymore, who was famous at the time for doing the radio version of this film, but he suffered an accident and could not star in the first talking version of this story.Reginald Owen got the role of his career as Scrooge and really did a fine job of playing the old buzzard. There were other fine performances here Gene Lockhart as Bob Crachit and Terry Kilburn as Tiny Tim. and Barry MacKay as Scrooge's nephew.What really made the film was the starkness of the black and white. While one of my favorite versions of this story is a Highway to Heaven episode, this version really excels in showing the bleak life of Scrooge and even in the black and white, the glow of the Christmas celebration. "},{"Title":"Memory Lane Holiday Classic Of The 30's","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Wow! How I remember as a child of the 1960's I was glued to this classic. Why  this old man scrooge felt the meaning greed more important over the joy of the  meeting a need, TILL TAKEN BY SURPRISE by ghostly visits, greatly have aprofound effect on him.  Reginald Owen plays Ebenezer Scrooge, wonder howit would of played out, originally the role was for the great Lionel Barrymore. All  in all, a fine dark sentimental holiday B&W film that's been remade over many  times, since couple may be better, depends on perspective signs of the times. I  think the older ones carry an innocence that new holiday films are more in your  face leaving less room for fantasy or imagination, BAH HUMBUG! 7/10 Goody "},{"Title":"made in 1938 and still a family classic!","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Director Edwin L Marin, Novel Charles Dickens, Script Hugo Butler, Cast Reginald Owen (Ebenezer Scrooge), Gene Lockhart (Bob Cratchit), Kathleen Lockhart (Mrs Cratchit), Terry Kilburn (Tiny Tim), Barry Mackay (Fred), Ann Rutherford (Spirit of Christmas Present), Lionel Braham (Spirit of Christmas Present), Leo G. Carroll (Jacob Marley)Their has been so many versions of this classic Dickens tale filmed that it is hard to keep track of them all. Other than the George C. Scott version , I couldn't really remember which of the old ones I liked. I certainly have seen them all but I didn't really remember the difference between them. For the holiday season this last year(2005), I decided to buy the 3 major versions(1938,1951,1982)to compare. This 1938 version is probably my second favourite version after the 1984 George C. Scott version. I would probably like this one as well as the 1984 if it was longer. It is only about 70 min. long so it is somewhat underdeveloped.No doubt Lional Barrymore would have made a great scrooge but Reginald Owen does a great job as well. All the characters play their parts well. The Cratchit's were a real married couple and I believe one of the children is their daughter as well. Many people criticize Terry Kilburn(Tiny Tim) for his acting. I thought he was o.k. I do think he was too old and too healthy looking for the part but that's not really his fault. Barry Mackay played a very outspoken Fred. The ghosts in this version are among the best. Lionel Braham is a very jovial ghost with a Santa Claus look. The ghosts of Christmas present in all the other film versions have all resembled him. Ann Rutherford is with out a doubt the prettiest and most glamorous of all the ghosts of Christmas past.With just about a 70 minute running time, the film is rushed in a few places. They could have developed the Christmas past segment further. In spite of its short length, this film does have some scenes not found in any other version. One good scene exclusive to this version is where Bob Cratchit is throwing snowballs with some boys. When a man comes around the corner, out of fun Mr. Cratchit throws a snowball at him. This unsuspecting man turns out to be Scrooge! The set design is one of the best attributes about this film. Although not filmed on location like the 1951 version, which is an English film, or the 1984 version, MGM did a great job of capturing the essence of a small English village. Very well done especially for its time. Lastly, I thought this film had powerful acting that was not matched in the 1951 version. One example is in the Christmas present segment when the ghost uses Scrooge's words against him by saying something to the likes of and rid the world of the surplus population! in regards to the fact that Tiny Tim may die. The ghost says that exact same thing in the 1951 version but not to near the same effect. I felt the same way about Reginald Owen as scrooge vs. Alister Sims. The only other Scrooge that is as good as Reginald Owen is George C. Scott. There was many earlier silent versions of this film most of which are lost. I believe a version from 1910 is available. Their was another sound version filmed in 1935. The fact that the movie was filmed again only three years later must say something about that film! "},{"Title":"The Horror","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" How can people like this version if they've seen any others?I neither laughed nor cried. I missed the details that were kept in Alistair Sim's 1951 Scrooge, but I missed the emotional response even more. The changes to the story only distracted, adding nothing. The lack of psychological backing in this version, e.g. Scrooge's sister's death, undermines the character's motivations and disables emotional connection.Why is Alice, Scrooge's fiancé in Christmas past and a dear-heart in Christmas present totally missing in this version. Why the dumbing down with all the snowballs and sliding on ice? Did they really think that audiences wouldn't be able to sympathize with Cratchitt unless he is outright dismissed! Please don't ruin this story for yourself or your loved ones by wasting your holiday time watching this version. Mister Magoo's Christmas Carol is truer to the story and packs more of an emotional wallop! That said, I still need to see the much recommended made for TV 1984 George C. Scott version.Henry Mu "},{"Title":"One of the best ghost stories of all time.","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is a great film. It is very spooky. In an adaptation of the Dickens classic, 3 ghosts haunt a miser on Christmas eve. If you like ghost stories then you need to see this movie. This movie has a great story line. It also has great acting. It also has great special effects. This one of the best fantasy movies ever. This a great film. The book is a great book. It has a great moral. This one of the best ghost stories of all time. The movie is a must see. Great movie great movie great movie. The 1951 version is better, but only a little bit. The 1986 version is better. But only a little bit. See this movie. It is a great movie. It is a true classic. "}{"Title":"A streamlined version but very well-done!","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Where is Fezziwigs' party? Scrooge and Belle's break-up? Fen's childbirth? All missing from this fast-paced version of the all too familiar story. Leo G. Caroll does a fine job as Marley's ghost. Some humorous scenes including snowball fights and an ice slide in front of the church. Just as Scrooge's past life starts to bog-down, Scrooge makes the blonde Goldwyn girl (dressed in a white flowing gown with a golden tiara) disappear! A very short past! Christmas present is a bit better. A church scene with Fred and his fiancée and Bob Cratchit's family replaces the miners singing in the earth quite nicely. A wonderful dinner with Bob and family. The grim reaper future ghost is mute here, not that scary at all. The ending is done quite nicely with everybody (Fred and Scrooge, etc.) all stopping by at Bob's house. Yes, Scrooge gives to the poor, Bob gets a raise, and Fred becomes Scrooge's partner. Of course we all know that Tiny Tim will be alright too! A great cast including 3 Lockharts and Reginald Owen plays a wonderful Scrooge. Only 75 minutes. Very short and sweet and well-worth your time. Unless colorized, black and white and only found on TCM. "},{"Title":"Spruce Goose","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" It's almost certain that they'll continue wheeling out versions of this seasonal favourite for the foreseeable future and we can take or leave them as we wish. For my money Reginald Owen is much too bland for the lead and Lionel Barrymore in his Potter mode from It's A Wnderful Life could have phoned it in. Likewise Gene Lockhart is really too hearty and jovial for the downtrodden Bob Cratchit albeit he plays well with his real -life wife Kathleen and daughter June. Several posters have drawn attention to the deviations from the book but I doubt that these will impair most viewer's enjoyment of a tale well told and it's a nice touch to have well-known actor-to-be (Spellbound, The Man From Uncle) Leo G. Carroll appearing in something called a Christmas Carol. I took it as part of a four-part boxed set of Christmas-themed films and though I won't watch it again it was fairly painless. "},{"Title":"A short, refreshing adaptation of the original story.","Date":"24 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This rarely seen version is a nice and short treat to the others I have seen over the many years.It is ONLY 69 minutes long which is why it is not broadcast often at all. Since would only stretch to maybe 90 minutes with commercials.This was made in 1938 by MGM, it has not suffered the ravages of time and lost it's crisp film view on my DVD copy.Reginald Owen plays Scrooge and does a good job of playing the Dickens character. No time is wasted on additions to the script and if not it has been shortened. A few things are different, it starts with seeing Scrooge's nephew playing with kids in the snow and he meets Bob Cratchitt's sons, whom they ask to give a message to his father who is at the Scrooge and Marley office. Cratchitt is sacked (fired) from his job for throwing a snowball at Scrooge with a group of boys and Scrooge's top hat getting run over by a carriage. While on visits from the ghosts Scrooge and other characters are made more endearing then other versions. I only give this 9 out of 10 stars because I would have liked this to be longer. I am glad I picked this version on DVD.This is on the 41(old TV) ratio not 169 (Letter box). "},{"Title":"The CHR!STMAS CAROL sprint . . .","Date":"21 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" . . . as the American film production company MGM finds a way to put in all those beloved scenes from British novelist Charles Dickens' A CHR!STMAS CAROL that their British counterpart had left out in their nine-minute LONGER version just three years earlier. Where the British flick had lavished its middle third on a Victorian fest for Queen Vicky NOT in the original story, this much more faithful American adaptation dances through the familiar tale, even finding time for product placement in giving Scrooge's dwelling the iconic MGM lion logo for door knockers. One could quibble that the rotund Gene Lockhart makes for a far too well-fed Bob Cratchit, especially compared to Scrooge's clerk in the 1935 rendition, played by the appropriately thin Donald Calthrop. But setting that aside, a balding Reginald Owen here is a far more charismatic miser than the wildly white-haired Seymour Hicks was there. Plus, I think this is the first variation of CHR!STMAS CAROL in which Crachit knocks off Scrooge's top hat with a snowball! "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed it!","Date":"21 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" WOW, My first ever movie from the 30's , I never thought I would ever see a movie from 30s This movie version felt bit more different then 1951, I felt there were more fun parts in this movie and very good feel to the movie, while you are you feeling kinda of happy and cheerfully As-well As I only seem the 1951 version for the first time, a few weeks ago, in still fresh in my head, I was comparing both parts.I found scrooge to be a bit more nasty at the start of the movie, as movie goes, I don't feel think it was the right actor who played Scooge in 1951 version. Near the end of the movie, I think it was going little over the top, it went a bit too Jolly. I going to give this movie 7 out of 10, not as good as 1951. Might be seeing 1935 version later, "},{"Title":"My Favorite part of Christmas","Date":"2 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" In the 1970's KTTV Channel 11 in Los Angles would play this film on Christmas Eve at 1100pm. My parents would be mad because my two sisters and I would be watching this in oldest My sister's room. It was a tradition that we did for years (Keeping my parents up well past Midnight on Christmas Eve I am sure was very hard on them). This version was my introduction to the story of Mr Scrooge and II will forever hold dear in my heart because it is a favorite Christmas Memory! Its not the gifts that I got it was just watching and enjoying this film with my sisters. Now there have been better adaption however this version is very well made and there is something about this Old B/W movie that will always bring a smile in my heart. To me its not Christmas unless I get a chance to watch this version. I hope one day my sisters and I can watch this again together on Christmas Eve. To me that would be a perfect Christmas gift. "},{"Title":"Humbug I said, and humbug I mean.","Date":"12 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" It occurred to me while watching this film the other day that back when I was a kid, I probably saw this and the Alistair Sim version interchangeably without realizing they were two different pictures. While I prefer the later British film as an adult, I can agree that this 'warmer' treatment of the holiday classic is just as watchable and enjoyable to get into the Christmas spirit. The other thing I didn't realize was that Gene Lockhart, portraying Bob Cratchit, played opposite his real life wife Kathleen in the Mrs. Cratchit role. Rounding out the family connection is daughter June Lockhart appearing in an uncredited part as one of the Cratchit children. Great stuff you pick up on Turner Classics.No one needs to be reminded of the story, so I'll pass on that. Interestingly, Reginald Owen's performance of the miserly Scrooge would wind up being his only lead role in a picture. And to think it would be the result of an injury to Lionel Barrymore, originally cast for the part until he sustained an injury on another film set. Funny how things work out in a way where another actor in a role might have changed forever one's perception of a film.I like to watch 'A Christmas Carol' every Christmas Eve, and though I can't arrange for a light snowfall every year, when it occurs that's always a nice bonus. This year I'll pop in the Alistair Sim picture once again; the challenge being that for the first time, I've talked myself into checking out the colorized version. "},{"Title":"So Many to chose from","Date":"19 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I have to say this version is one of the best and is, in my opinion the best non-musical version. The story follows the book very well without unneeded extra interpretation or back story (as was done in the 1951 Reginald Owen version. This version bothers me because of the extra added story (not in the book) and that scrooge is supposed to be miserable not a smiling sinister villain - he was never happy). My favorite is the 1971 musical Scrooge. There is a lot of verbatim which the keeps the story true to form and the songs are very well done and catchy. Don't neglect the Muppets Christmas Carol - done well and great for kids. There is an animated version also - not Mr. Magoos - that I believe has songs also. This was my first exposure to the story.This is one my favorite stories and I like the ones which stay as close to the original story as intended.Stay away from An American Christmas Carol - Henry Winkler George C. Scott Christmas Carol, Jean Luc Pacard Christams Carol - whatever his name is. G "},{"Title":"Timeless Perfection!!! I enjoy no other version!!!","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I first saw this version of this classic tale on a program called Family classics. I fell in love with this particular version for many reasons. The back & white format lends itself to the Wonderment of the Christmas season and its foibles. Mr. Owen, Mr. Lockheart had such an on screen presence not only in their characters but their persona as well. It indeed is a shame that this version isn't shown more often as I am sure it would be the most popular of all the Scrooge Offerings. There are moments when your heart just sinks and moments when you just want shake scrooge, and then there are the moments you don't expect.The set decorations lend itself as a story should; taking your mind of the fact it is a movie or a play and quickly whisks you back in time when life wasn't microwaveable or in my case in the 60's progressing in a rapid space of time. You find your self glancing for something that reminds you your in this time & space. This is what a classic is all about. Perfection!!! I enjoy no other version!!! "},{"Title":"Christmas past","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" While there are many versions of this film, this MGM classic stays in one's mind as probably the most atmospheric. Edwin L. Marin, the director, was lucky enough to get the great Reginald Owen in one of his best performances.The movie is a favorite because it reflects the spirit of the Charles Dickens book. The London of the time where the story takes place is lovingly recreated by the studio and its art department. Cedric Gibbons' contribution to most of the pictures from his era is tremendous. It shows in this version with great detail.The performances are excellent. Reginald Owen as Scrooge is one of the best things this movie has going for itself. He embodies one's own image of this mean old man who is transformed one Christmas night for the better. Gene Lockhart and Kathleen Lockhart are perfect as the happy Cratchits, intent in having a great time with their children. They are poor, but they live in a happy environment because the love for their children. Ann Rutherford makes a beautiful Ghost of Christmas Past. Leo G. Carroll is amazing as the ghost of Jacob Marley.This movie will live forever because it is a joy to watch. "}{"Title":"The only thing missing is a dance number...","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Unlike other versions of this classic that manage to capture the Victorian look and feel of the time period, the MGM version LOOKS like an MGM version produced in the 1930's.  The acting, lighting, hair, costume design, production design, etc. are typical of MGM of the 1930's resulting in an all-too-polished, canned look (the Ghost of Christmas Past looks like the first cousin of Glenda the Good Witch of the North).Far superior adaptions star Alastair Sim (Scrooge - 1951, considered by many to be the finest), George C. Scott (A Christmas Carol - 1984) and Patrick Stewart (A Christmas Carol - 1999).A must have, of course, if you need to complete your Christmas Carol collection. "},{"Title":"A great movie.","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a great movie to get you in the Christmas spirt. Highly recomended. "},{"Title":"Truly BAD version","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" It was originally planned that the lead role of Scrooge be played by the great Lionel Barrymore (Mr. Potter in It's A Wonderful Life). It was unfortunate that he was unable to portray the miser in a wheelchair, so he handed over the role to Reginald Owen. What a mistake! But I don't really fault Mr. Owen in this pathetic version of Charles Dickens' greatest tale, I blame screenwriter Hugo Butler for hacking the novel into pieces, inventing plot points and scenarios that are ludicrous and ridiculous, and coming up with a terrible screenplay that is badly, horribly written! But wait, there's more! Tiny Tim is about 14 years old, as tall as his father, and acts so upbeat and over-the-top happy, you WANT him to die! Cratchit gets fired after a snowball knocks off Scrooge's hat. Scrooge TAKES Cratchit's wages on the spot, THEN Cratchit--broke and unemployed, mind you--walks home and is instantly cheered up by watching a dead goose across a man's back sway to and fro! Who writes this kind of garbage?? You want a terrific screenplay adaptation that actually ADDS to the novel? It's Noel Langley to the rescue! Watch the 1951 definitive Alastir Sim version and see perfection...second only to the 1982 Roger O. Hirson adaptation with the terrific George C. Scott as Scrooge. "},{"Title":"hated this version","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" yuck what a terrible actor Reginald Owen was....phew!.....non convincing portrayal, bad acting indeed - the worse I've ever seen....bad editing too and all round bad script, music mixing and direction....AIMLESS BAD FLUFF. The movie went all round too fast, resolved too quickly . no passion in Owen's delivery, bad cues , bad continuity, His how do you do's at the end are real stinkers....how he ever got a part in any movie is astounding....and where did he come from what rock did he crawl from under? Maye Hollywood had a dry spell that year or something was in the air due to world war 2 pending....TOO BAD they had to release this. "},{"Title":"A Christmas Carol","Date":"10 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Lavish MGM sets are the highlight of this version of Ebenezer Scrooge, with a haughty, abrasive performance as the miser by Reginald Owen. As mentioned by multiple other reviews, this version is heavily truncated. While I do love David Warner as the character in 1984's version with George C Scott as the miser, my all time favorite is Gene Lockhart who is just delightful as Bob Cratchet, a fine fellow often assaulted by Scrooge's stubborn, greedy ways. Lockhart is particularly amusing the way he quivers in fear when Scrooge enters the room, demanding less coal and more work. Interesting enough Owen hunches over and walks almost insect like, a scowl and sneer for anyone who offers Christmas cheer. In this version Scrooge fires Cratchet for hitting him accidentally with a snowball, knocking his top hat into the street to be run over by a horse carriage. In this version Scrooge actually calls neighborhood watch into his room to rid himself of intruder Jacob Marley. In this version the Ghost of Christmas Past is a beautiful woman. While this version does have his sister visiting him at school, we do not see Scrooge meeting with his cold hearted father. And we never see Scrooge's relationship with his girlfriend and the deterioration of it due to greed which tore them apart. Nor do we see Scrooge's betrayal of Fezziwig(Fezzi makes a brief appearance informing Scrooge he must attend his holiday party)or the visit to his dying sister's bedside. Regarding the Ghost of Christmas Present, he isn't a towering figure as we are accustomed to seeing, but we do spend a great deal of time with Cratchet's family(actually, interesting enough, this film has more time for the family than with Scrooge's many failings as a person). There's an emphasis on playing in the snowy streets. Scrooge visits the city church where we see Bob and Tiny Tim, nephew Fred and his fiancé, singing O Come All Ye Faithful. Scrooge looks on spellbound from the window with Ghost Present as Fred and company discuss Ebenezer and Blindman's Bluff. Ghost Present even uses his horn to sprinkle christmas cheer on those who need it. The love in Cratchet's family rings true(Gene would star with real life wife Katherine and daughter June)and feels genuine which tugs on our heartstrings when Tim later is established to have died when Scrooge visits their more solemn home with the Ghost of Christmas Yet to Come(which while appearing in Grim Reaper garb is less frightening than in other versions). Regarding the Future Scrooge visits his death bed and tombstone, not to mention, he listens as businessmen discuss his demise with lack of any remorse whatsoever. A Christmas CAROL is over in a flash and doesn't cover as much ground as other versions, but Reginald Owen's only star vehicle does provide some nice moments, including his besieging the Cratchets(Bob's surprise at the sight of a Scrooge bearing gifts is golden)with a goose and presents; as well as, his visit to Fred and his fiancé, promising to make the young man partner. "},{"Title":"Nice Version of the Story","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Christmas Carol, A (1938) *** (out of 4) Nice adaptation of Charles Dickens short story has character actor Reginald Owen playing the role of the miser Ebenezer Scrooge. Everyone should know the story but Scrooge is warned by his old partner Marley (Leo G. Carroll) that he's going to be visited by three ghosts and his fate depends on what he learns. I've seen quite a few versions of this famous story and I must admit that I think all of them are charming in their own right and most of the credit must go to Dickens himself for writing such an amazing story that we all know so well that sometimes it's hard to believe someone could come up with such a clever story and message. I wouldn't say this is my favorite versions of the story, that would probably be the one with George C. Scott, but there's still plenty to enjoy here. What works best is that the film really doesn't add any filler as the thing runs a brief 68-minutes so it's pretty much to the point from start to finish. We briefly get to know the characters and then we're off to the races as the filmmakers are certainly expecting the viewer to know what's going on and who's who. Owen was excellent at playing the happy Scrooge but I felt he wasn't nearly mean enough in the darker role. I certainly enjoyed his performance here but it seems like he was either held back from being too dark or he simply didn't go a bit further with the role. On the other hand, he's flawless as the happy Scrooge and really makes that part of the character his very own and is quite memorable in the final moments of the film. Gene Lockhart turns in a very good performance as Cratchit and Barry MacKay is also very good as Scrooge's nephew. Lionel Braham, Ann Rutherford and D'Arcy Corrigan are good as the three spirits and the rest of the supporting cast are also fine in their roles. "},{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" MGM, at the height of it's powers, had the means to produce a remarkable version of this, the third greatest story ever told. Instead, the result is curiously flat and unengaging. This is largely due to MGM's inability to leave well enough alone. So many gratuitous changes, so many memorable scenes and characters deleted - where are the venal servants haggling over the dead Scrooge's belongings? What happened to Belle, whose love may have saved Scrooge from a cold and lonely existence? Why does Mrs. Cratchit make the toast to Scrooge instead of saying what she really thinks of him? Where is Bob Cratchit's lovely speech about the sight of Tiny Tim reminding people of him who made lame men walk and blind men see? Instead we get a lot of extraneous scenes of Scrooge's nephew, Fred, and his fiancée sliding on ice. Very frustrating.The actors do their jobs - there is a great deal of mugging, and no depth. One gets the feeling the whole project was rushed through.The second greatest story ever told? Why, the Titanic, of course. "},{"Title":"mediocre","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is fairly mediocre, and I'm a little perplexed by the high ratings it has received. It was okay, but I think the 1951 version far surpasses it. Unfortunately for Reginald Owen, who turns in a decent performance, Alastair Sim came along and pretty much defined the role. It's been a long time since I've read the book, but it seems like the 1938 screenwriters took several liberties with the text (e.g., Scrooge fires Cratchit on Christmas Eve, the whole sliding on ice thing, and most noticeably, the omission of when the Ghost of Christmas Present reveals the twins of Want and Ignorance).I just finished watching the 1938 version with my parents, and we were laughing in some parts, in particular in the scenes where the Christmas spirit seems to manifest itself in the Cratchit family as a form of extreme mania.The movie is nonetheless watchable, particularly if you're in the holiday spirit. "},{"Title":"Ann Rutheford","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is an excellent version of Christmas Carol, though I do prefer the Alistar Sims version. What makes this special is the amazingly beautiful Ann Rutheford as the Ghost of Christmas Past. She is one of the most stunning women that has ever graced the screen, and he performance is brilliant. I also enjoy the religious aspect of the film, most particularly the church scene during the present. Some of the performances seem a little stagey, but the film remains moving, as do all the faithful adaptations of the book. The sets are wonderful, as is the cinematography. The film lacks some of the excellent psychology that made the 1951 version so powerful, in particular the scenes involving the takeover of Fezziwig's company, and the scenes involving the death of Fan. Still, this is my third favorite, the second being the George C. Scott version, and I think it is slightly better than the seldom seen Seymore Hicks film. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable But Not Essential Christmas Viewing","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  (SPOILER FOR THOSE UNFAMILIAR WITH CHARLES DICKENS' ORIGINAL STORY) The 1938 MGM version of Charles Dickens' story is given the glossy Hollywood treatment.  The book's social criticism, emphasized in other versions like the 1951 Alastair Sim film, SCROOGE, is downplayed here.  Even though some gentlemen approach Scrooge to help the poor, no one in this film seems impoverished.  Indeed, Gene Lockhart's Bob Crachit seems too well fed! Nineteenth century London is a picturesque town straight out of a Christmas card.  This doesn't mean that the 1938 version is bad.  Indeed, it conveys an authentic holiday charm. A CHRISTMAS CAROL also benefits from appealing performances.  Gene Lockhart is a wonderful Bob Crachit, meek and humble yet determined to keep his spirits up no matter what the circumstances. As Scrooge's nephew Fred, Barry MacKay is persuasively gregarious.  The supporting actors who celebrate Christmas, including those who play the Crachits, are warmly cheerful but never sickeningly good.  One has to be a real Scrooge not to be charmed by them.Speaking of Scrooge, Reginald Owen's performance is merely adequate.  Whether he's mean, terrified, remorseful, or overjoyed, his performance lacks depth.  Thus, even though he's the nominal lead character, Owen doesn't dominate CAROL but takes a back seat to Edward L. Marin's atmospheric direction and Sidney Wagner's arresting cinematography.  It's a pity Lionel Barrymore couldn't play the role.  As Marley's ghost, Leo G. Carroll is acceptable, if a little too low-key to be frightening.The 1938 version of A CHRISTMAS CAROL is pleasant holiday viewing and is particularly fine for children.  But it doesn't fully convey the spirit of Dickens' novel and Reginald Owen is not the definitive Scrooge.  If one wishes to see a more authentic rendering of the story with a truly compelling Scrooge, one should watch the 1951 version. "}{"Title":"Abbreviated with many ludicrous changes and badly cast...","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Reginald Owen does an acceptable job as Scrooge, although one can easily spot the age make-up necessary to transform him into Ebenezer Scrooge. But this version is unforgivable for the many scenes cut from the story and for the foolish additions that have been added, especially during the film's first twenty minutes. This is the kind of film that will give purists nightmares.Production-wise, it's not a bad looking film with picture postcard views of a Victorian London created on the MGM sound stages. But none of the casting can be called inspired, beginning with Reginald Owen who was a replacement for Lionel Barrymore (who would have been perfect in the role). And his change from a bitter miser to a kindlier old man is not convincing at all, given the many cuts in Dickens' material. Attempting to tell the story in a mere one hour and nine minutes made all the cutting of scenes from the book absolutely necessary. Puzzling is the fact that this opened at Radio City Music Hall in December of '38--a showplace for major films accompanied by a stage show. One can only suppose that the stage show that year was a lengthier one than usual.Gene Lockhart, a very capable actor, is totally miscast as a rotund and middle-aged Bob Crachett. Barry MacKay does much better as Scrooge's nephew, Fred, given much more prominence here than in other versions of the tale. Ann Rutherford is a very pretty Spirit of Christmas Past but seems another case of miscasting. Most troublesome of all is Terry Kilburn as Tiny Tim, who looks like he's more than twelve when he should be a tiny tot.All in all, a totally routine presentation of the famous story, hampered by having too many meaningful scenes cut and replaced with material that is not even true to the spirit of the Dickens novel.The much darker British version with Alastair Sim was far superior and, of course, followed the story all the way with superb casting. "},{"Title":"This is THE best Christmas Carol.","Date":"12 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I take exception to the comment that This Hollywood version of the Dickens Christmas classic is overshadowed by a later British version featuring Alastair Sim. Having seen both many times, IMHO, the Reginald Owen version is MUCH superior to the Sim version. Why? Because Sim doesn't really get into the feel of Scrooge. It's obvious that he's playing an acting role......Owen IS scrooge!!! And, THAT adds GREATLY to the film.Plus, the supporting actors do more justice to their roles.The Sim version does have some merits, but the Reginald Owen version is THE definitive Christmas Carol. "},{"Title":"One of the five versions-from excellent to very good","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  It's near that time of year when Christmas Carol movie fans pull out their tapes and dvd's of one of the top two holiday movies of all time.A good version, a little lighthearted compared to the others, but a delight to ACC fanatics none the less. Sim is still best, Scott a close second, the old and atmospheric Sir Seymour Hicks version third and this fourth.  I forgot Patrick Stewart, but a poor excuse for picking a man's pocket every 25th of December! "},{"Title":"Bah!","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A Christmas Carol is built on several conceits that requires the reader to suspend disbelief. Why should Marley give a hoot about Scrooge? Why should Scrooge give a hoot about Tiny Tim? Why did Scrooge become so obsessed with money, he turned his back on the woman he loved? The biggest conceit is we're asked to buy that his conversion is genuine and not a cynical ploy to avoid Marley's fate.Reginald Owen is the worst Scrooge I've ever seen his accent fades in and out, and he fails to convey the deep loneliness behind the old man's meanness. Gene Lockhart, however, was a great Cratchit. In the other versions of A Christmas Carol, Cratchit is this wuss with a serious martyr complex. But Lockhart gives him a backbone, and makes you feel Bob's anguish over Tiny Tim without making you feel that he loves his other kids less than he loves Tiny Tim.MGM mounted a handsome production, which is the movie's biggest problem. In the story, Cratchit struggles to keep his family afloat. Yet here, they live in a spacious flat with pricey furniture. Bob must be secretly scamming the boss (no wonder Mrs. Bob is only too happy to drink to Scrooge's health!) The writer doesn't try to blend his words with Dickens's, he omits several key points, and has Scrooge 180 way too soon. As a result, Scrooge seeing his grave doesn't have the impact it has to have in order for us to buy that he is a changed man.There were some cool shots, but, contrary to the tag-line, this Christmas Carol is not Greater than 'David Copperfield.' I guess they're going to keep doing this until they get it right! "},{"Title":"The Best of All the Versions!","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This 1938 version of A Christmas Carol is, admittedly, typical Hollywood of it's day, but it is quaint and lively, and generally the most viewer-friendly of them all.  When I was young, it was on TV every Christmas Eve at around 1030, so that it would end just at midnight.  I watched it every year, and now do the same on video.The sets, actors, music, and costumes are (even in black and white!) vibrant and exciting.  Someone posted previously that this version is like a Christmas card come to life, and indeed it is.  Reginald Owen is the best Scrooge of all  -  his Ebenezer demonstrates a range of emotions, unlike most of the other actors who have played the part.  The rest of the cast, too, bring a life to the story that is not present in other depictions.Saying that, I'll write that many people believe England's 1951 A Christmas Carol is superior to this one  -  it's not.  That version is a perfect example of the flat, dry, monochromatic, almost comatose English movies of that time period.  Alastair Sim, who usually is a marvelous actor, is at his worst in that version  -  playing every scene with the same expression, the same voice tone (like he has slice of lemon under his nose), and with the same mannerisms.  He looks as if he's making the movie at gunpoint and would rather be anywhere other than the set.  The other actors are insipid as well (and who are they, by the way?), and the movie is downright depressing.This version, however, is really upbeat with a rapid progression.  It's much more theatrical than the later one.  The only drawback is that, being shorter, the story isn't as complete as the 1951 version, but in that one the viewer is almost praying that the film speed up and just get on with it.  The George C. Scott version is okay, but why do the Americans always think that they can do British better than the British themselves  -  they can't.  That one was great in the visual department, though.Overall, this version of the Dickens classic will always be my favorite as it evokes a true sense of a Merry Olde Christmas!! that the others do not. "},{"Title":"OK I guess","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Mean old Ebenezer Scrooge (Reginald Owen) is visited by his dead partner Marley and the ghosts of Christmas past, present and yet to be. They are there to warn him to change his ways or die a miserable old man.I know it's probably considered blasphemy to dislike this movie but I do. It was done on a big budget with a pretty good cast but I found it slow even though it's only a little over an hour long. Maybe it's because I know the story so well I couldn't enjoy this. Also this is REALLY syrupy and pours it on. The sequence with the ghost of Christmas' yet to be was so overdone that it had me rolling my eyes. By the time Tiny Tim said, And God bless us everyone I was actually smirking at the movie (I don't mean that in a good way). I didn't think Owen was that good as Scrooge either. He's not terrible but his performance lacks the passion that I think the role really needs. It's too bad Lionel Barrymore couldn't do this. On the plus side it IS well-done and the ghosts themselves work (for 1938 this has pretty good special effects). Also it's fun to see June Lockhart as a child (it was her debut). But I was just bored and couldn't wait for this to end. So--maybe I'm a Scrooge myself but I didn't like this at all. "},{"Title":"Faithful to the letter but not to the spirit!","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Faithful to the letter but not to the spirit of the original! The costumes (especially that of Christmas Present) are very closely modeled on Leech's illustrations. And commendably, most of the dialogue is lifted verbatim from Dickens. But in other important respects, the movie fails miserably. True, some of the screenplay's story interpolations are pleasing (Cratchit dismissed; the meeting with the fourth spirit on a blasted heath), but most are to the bad, particularly the peculiar emphases on the Cratchits and the elevation of Scrooge's nephew into a major role, and worst of all, Christmas Present sprinkling good cheer on street quarrels&#151;some woeful dialogue here! The essence of the novel lies not in its dialogue (reproduced with such remarkably fidelity in this version), but in its atmosphere (captured so imperfectly with its sentiment over-emphasized and most of its bite eliminated) and above all, in its typically Dickensian descriptions with all their authorial sarcasm and wit (which the screenplay has not attempted to imitate at all). And to add insult to injury, performances generally are poor, surprisingly so in the case of Reginald Owen who gave such a good account of crusty behavior in Call of the Wild. Not to be outdone, Gene Lockhart, usually a very reliable player, chews up the scenery to an embarrassing degree. "},{"Title":"No Fiancé","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" When asked for a concentrated education on film-making and appreciation, I point querents to films made by different teams of the same story. The Alien films were a sort of epiphany for me, so radically different. I've since tracked Alice in Wonderland movies and spinoffs, a large number. Even more radically diverse.The Dickens Christmas tale is a bit better in a way because you can only deviate from the story so much. This version changes the story to prune the past (no engagement, scant Fezziwig) and enhance the present more Cratchets, more street stuff.When you take away the historical reason why Scrooge hates Christmas, and the world in general, the story makes less sense. But the less sense is a deliberate decision here. This presentation is intended to be remote, stagy. The characters aren't supposed to be portraying real people, instead they are presenting characters that are fictional. The acting is self-aware with faces and poses that you would only see in Currier and Ives plates.So it is a couple layers deep. It is a movie about a story about a series of stories told by ghosts. To place us in the position that Scrooge was in, it has to be this abstract.Smart choice. But it is too far over the top for us now, I think.Here's an interesting fact this movie is closer to the writing of the story in time than it is to us now. Think about that. Amazing, huh?Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Typical tacky US version of a classic British story","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Hollywood not only demolishes world history in favour of its own version but started destroying classic literature pretty early on too. Here it takes the most loved Christmas story of all time and adds lots and lots of shallow American sentiment! ... I was going to go on and on about just how bad this film is but I don't think I'll bother as this movie just doesn't deserve any kind of publicity whatsoever, good or bad! if you want to see a truly classic rendering of this story then look no further than the best ever version available starring Alastair Sim. Made in 1951 on a much higher budget (and you can tell) the Sim version doesn't just rely on its bigger budget to please the audience but gives us quality performances from the entire cast and a far superior screenplay and cinematography. Don't bother with this amateur 1938 version, its bound to be floating around on some inferior cable station somewhere and when you see it you'll understand what Im talking about. Dire! "},{"Title":"The Angst of Ebenezer Scrooge","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" For my part, the bitterness and cynicism of Scrooge is something much more genuine than all the self-righteously, judgmentally, venomously, wholesomely sweet-smelling hypocrisy which can't wait to get its hands on his money; in a way which makes even the merchants more honest, and which the image of Tiny Tim is prostituted for the purpose of obscuring most effectively. And they dare call Peter Lorre The Face Behind the Mask! I've had the lifelong displeasure of knowing their kind well, just as it was because of my formerly, vulnerably childlike innocence and trust, the kind they conned out of me, that they'd hated me even more, before the fact, and to the spoiling of my soul, than they do him in their compassionlessly backstabbing spite and envy. I've never encountered anybody, in religion, education, or anywhere else, conservatively or liberally, who cares at all about the Business of Mankind, contrary to the therefore compoundingly, nauseatingly, brutally, mystifyingly self-deceptive endlessness of the infamy of their mere words! The most inadvertently redeeming ending to the Dickens story is the deeper reason that Scrooge had been judged worthy of a final chance at redemption! . . . If there's anything this typically sweet-smelling kind will turn on even more vindictively than one who tells them the most scornfully they don't really love a living thing, it's the person whose innocence awakens the Claggart in them, but less honestly or woundedly than even he'd ever had it in for Billy Budd! Claggart's too internally complex for them, but even a final product of his kind of handiwork as refreshingly uncomplicated as General Zod knows most of them better than they do themselves! In fact, I can just about understand, but with the most genuinely laughable of tears in my own eyes, why it was that even General Zod had soon begun to find these earth creatures so very boring! They're almost enough to make me wish I could trade my Father God for something as mutually exclusive as The Godfather, given how they love to mock the kind of anguish they have no capacity to feel, but only to inflict! Try asking Rock Hudson, from The Spiral Road, about that; although even his preacher of a father had been more inquisitionally, transparently sporting about showing his true colors, and his own already tragically destroyed sense of humanity! . . . In case anyone believes this is all I really have against Xmas, there's also the scripturally-compelling evidence that this uncoincidentally, anciently Pagan Winter Solstice could never have been Christ's birthday, any more than he could have died on a Friday. The only annual Holy Day biblically calculated to fall on the same day of the week, every year, is Pentecost!--Not the Passover! Indeed, if the Lord didn't die on a Wednesday, in the middle of the literal week, as well as of Daniel's Seventieth Week, just before sunset, then Christianity would have to be just as false as God's Word! So much for their outright lies. But these typically self-professing Christians can't even utter a single truth without turning it likewise into the most hatefully-bigoted kind of lie! That's why Spencer Tracy was so much more palatable than Fredric March as to have been capable of literally mopping the floor with him, in Inherit the Wind! On the contrary, though, speaking of hobby horses, about the only real scientific proof Henry Drummond and his kind actually have for their half-baked theories, is the even more philosophically mediocre, presumptuously nimble-minded conviction that, because there cannot possibly be any God in the first place, it therefore simply must have happened in the only way there is left! . . . And, again, who can really blame even them, given the extent to which they're up against the most viciously anti-social Darwinists of all, those about as philosophically inconsistent as the naturalists who nevertheless speak of nothing but a love I've never been able to find in any of them, either! You can, for instance, behold the Spirit of Xmas in any shopping mall, with people walking about drooling over inanimate objects, while completely ignoring one-another, and even giving dirty, petrifying looks if you try to suspiciously acknowledge their presence&#151;as the most worthless objects of all! They're right out of George A. Romero's Dawn of the Dead!--Or, as Rodriguez said to Sol Nazerman, in The Pawnbroker, Right in the middle of one big whorehouse, right in the bosom of the world!--Right in the middle of it, and you don't know it!--Or, maybe something else, maybe because you don't want to know! Are you the kind who doesn't want to know about things, feel about things, are you that kind? Then, there's what a hired gunslinger, Vern Hickson, said to Victoria Barkley, in an episode of The Big Valley, entitled The Profit and the Lost Bankers don't kill people? Everybody, everybody kills! And for the same reason--money! My way's more honest--that's all! "}]