[{"Title":"We shall not only dance, we shall roller-skate ...!","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"32 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  It was a delight to come across the movie on DVD. 'Shall We Dance' was the only Fred and Ginger movie of 1937 and didn't do as well as previous efforts, making less than half a million dollars profit at the time (ref. 'The RKO Story' by Jewell and Harbin). Obviously I'd never be able to pick a money-maker as I found it totally brilliant from beginning to end! A wonderful sound track and beautiful score - the only one George and Ira Gershwin ever wrote for Fred and Ginger, more's the pity.The skimpy story involving romances, misunderstandings and a luxury liner across the Atlantic has been done numerous times but here it seems to work, thanks to the wonderful Eric Blore, Edward Everett Horton and a good supporting cast, with the exception of Ketti Gallian. This lady seems out of place, not unlike the unfortunate Randolph Scott in 'Follow the Fleet'. The musical numbers are a knockout, especially the ship's engine room and roller-skating sequences. Fred plays one of his most endearing parts while Ginger is spellbindingly gorgeous. Viewing a sharp transfer really does show up a lot of things missed when watching less than good prints on television. Ginger's eyes kept me transfixed whenever she appeared )A movie to be viewed, and enjoyed, again and again. As good as 'Swing Time' and not far short of my favourite Fred and Ginger movie, 'Flying Down to Rio'. "},{"Title":"Still I Always Always Keep The Memory Of","Date":"20 December 2007","Score":"24 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" With a fluff plot that's sillier than usual, Shall We Dance marks the one and only time the brothers Gershwin wrote a score for an Astaire/ Rogers musical. Fred was certainly no stranger to George and Ira, they had written Funny Face on Broadway for him and also had done Damsel in Distress which he co-starred with Joan Fontaine the year before.This also is the last complete score the Gershwins did for the screen. While writing the score for the Goldwyn Follies, George would suddenly die of a brain tumor. It's a beautiful selection of songs, topped off by They Can't Take That Away From Me, a song forever after identified with Fred Astaire. It's also one of my favorite Gershwin songs, in fact one of my favorites period.Fred's a hoofer at heart, but he's pretending to be a Russian ballet star named Petrov, appropriate for a guy named Peter Peters in real life. The girl he's infatuated with, musical comedy star Ginger Rogers is sailing to America on the same ship.Through an incredible combination of circumstances rumor gets around that the two of them are in fact married. All the doing of her producer Jerome Cowan and Fred's manager Edward Everett Horton. They actually have to get married to keep the ruse going. Of course I needn't say what happens after that.Two other Gershwin standards, They All Laughed and Nice Work If You Can Get It are sung and danced by the pair, the latter on roller skates. I also liked Fred's solo number with the engine room men on the ocean liner, Slap That Bass. The brothers Gershwin obviously saw the success Astaire had with Bojangles of Harlem in Swing Time and decided to imitate shall we say. Look for a nice performance also by Eric Blore who plays the frustrated hotel manager who is getting positively flustered about how to handle the married/unmarried pair of Astaire and Rogers in his hotel.There is a touch of sadness to this musical realizing that an incredible talent in George Gershwin would be stilled very shortly. I do love that man's music so. You'll keep the memory of this film long after seeing it even once. "},{"Title":"Who's Got the Last Laugh Now?","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" SHALL WE DANCE (RKO Radio, 1937), directed by Mark Sandrich, which reunites Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers for the seventh time on the musical screen, ventures them into a new world of dance, the art of ballet. While the opening credits focus silhouettes of ballet dancers in the backdrop, the movie itself is not necessarily devoted to ballet, but only a combination of that and modern dance.Astaire plays Petrov, an American dancer born under the name of Peter P. Peters of Philadelphia, P.A., who's won fame as a Russian ballet star with the help of his impresario, Jeffrey Baird (Edward Everett Horton). While in Paris, where the first portion of the story takes place, Petrov has fallen in love with Linda Keene (Ginger Rogers), an American dancer whom he hasn't met, but knows of her by profession and still photographs he keeps with him. After Petrov briefly meets Linda in her hotel room, by which he made no impression (especially with that Russian accent that sounds more like Charles Boyer than Mischa Auer!), he soon learns she's leaving Paris setting sail on the Queen Anne bound for New York. In order on getting to know her better, Petrov agrees to an engagement dancing at the Metropolitan only if Jeffrey arranges for him to book passage on the Queen Anne. Before sailing, Petrov is reunited with Lady Denise Tarrington (Ketti Gallian), his former ballet dancing partner whom he now wants out the way. This is done through Jeffrey informing her of that Petrov is a married man with five children. When news of Petrov's marriage reaches the media, compliments of Denise, the passengers, having read of the secret marriage in the ship newspaper, believe Linda Keene, with whom he has been seen, to be the wife. In order to prevent Linda from quitting her dancing career to marry the well-to-do but dull Jim Montgomery (William Brisbane), Arthur Miller (Jerome Cowan), Linda's manager, joins forces with Jeffrey in keeping the marriage and scandal alive through practical jokes. After boarding in New York, Petrov and Linda decide to stop the rumors by actually getting married and then file for divorce. Situations are proved more difficult when Denise comes back to Petrov's life once again.A casual reworking and revamping of the earlier Astaire and Rogers themes, SHALL WE DANCE (an appropriate title for them) succeeds on a higher level with a bright score and creative dancing by Astaire than on the flimsy plot. Aside from Horton making his third and final engagement with the team, Eric Blore returns for the fifth and final time playing the bewildered Cecil Flintridge, a New York City hotel floorwalker. The scene where Cecil gets arrested and telephones for Jeffrey to bail him out from the Susquhanna Street Jail, is amusing in itself, a reminder of an Abbott and Costello routine. While Rogers usually has female companions to accompany her, usually middle-aged types as Alice Brady or Helen Broderick (and later Edna May Oliver) for moral support, she has no such bonding here. Jerome Cowan as Arthur Miller steps in for them.On the musical program, with words and lyrics by George and Ira Gershwin, the songs include Slap That Bass (sung by Mantan Moreland and Fred Astaire); Walking the Dog (instrumental); I've Got Beginner's Luck (sung by Fred Astaire); They All Laughed (sung by Ginger Rogers/ danced by Rogers and Astaire); Let's Call the Whole Thing Off (sung/ danced by Astaire and Rogers on roller skates); They Can't Take That Away From Me (sung by Astaire); They Can't Take That Away From Me (ballet dance with Astaire and Harriet Hoctor); Shall We Dance? (sung by Astaire/ danced by Astaire and Rogers); and They All Laughed (reprise by Astaire and Rogers).A notch below their previous efforts, SHALL WE DANCE takes a while getting down to business. In fact, Astaire and Rogers don't dance together until almost a hour from the start of the story. After that, the plot moves briskly followed by one good song after another, all standards from the Gershwin songbook. Of the tunes selected for this production, They Can't Take That Away From Me was nominated for an Academy Award. This is one where Astaire sings to Rogers in the foggy night on the Staten Island ferry. It's not followed by a dance but a sentimental gesture well handled by Rogers. Other than Astaire's dancing in the steam room surrounded by black stokers, another memorable moment occurs with Let's Call the Whole Thing Off where Astaire and Rogers dance on roller skates in Central Park. One wonders what they could have done on ice skates to compete with the recent performer, Sonja Henie, of 20th Century-Fox musicals? After a lengthy ballet sequence featuring Astaire and Harriet Hoctor (who arches her head to her heals dancing like a swan), it returns to familiar territory when Rogers steps in for the Shall We Dance? number.One final note. Ketti Gallian, whose brief Hollywood movie career was coming to a close, usually a blonde now seen here as a brunette, playing Petrov's former ballet partner. While her part is relatively small, with scenes occurring in the beginning and near the conclusion, it's a wonder why Harriet Hoctor does the ballet dancing instead of Gallian, or why Hoctor didn't assume the role of Denise so not to add to the confusion? Overlooking this and other minor flaws as to the drawn-out double-takes between Horton and Blore, SHALL WE DANCE, is true to its word in title, especially during the film's second half. SHALL WE DANCE, distributed to home video and DVD, and formerly presented on American Movie Classics, can be found on Turner Classic Movies. (***1/2) "},{"Title":"Music by Gershwin, dancing by Astaire and Rogers, with Edward Everett Horton and Eric Blore in tow","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This film (one of the better ones Astaire and Rogers did) probably doesn't get quite the praise it merits because Top Hat and The Gay Divorcee are so widely praised (rightly so).  But this movie is equally well executed and any movie that has in it's score the songs, Shall We Dance, Let's Call the Whole Thing Off and especially They Can't Take That Away deserves to be warmly remembered.  There's a score by Gershwin, dancing by Astaire, Rogers and others and Edard Everett Horton and Eric Blore in support (they appeared in so many of the Astaire-Rogers films that their casting must have been legally required!).  Well  worth your time. Recommended. "},{"Title":"shall we skate?","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps the best number in this is Fred and Ginger's dance 'n tap on roller-skates, but the terrific Gershwin score helps a lot (including 'Let's Call The Whole Thing Off', 'They Can't Take That Away From Me' and several others).  This is one of the pair's best, with the usual strong support from Edward Everett Horton, Eric Blore and Jerome Cowan.  A silly plot, with Astaire as a Russian ballet dancer (not really Russian, his real name is Peter P Peters!) and Rogers as a musical revue star, who meet and get embroiled in a fake marriage run-around.  Horton plays Astaire's fussy manager, Blore plays a pompous hotel manager (the scene in the jail prompting the cop to ask 'what is this, a spelling bee?' is hilarious), and Cowan plays Rogers' manager (a chap distractingly named Arthur Miller).'Shall We Dance' showcases Ginger Rogers in particular and gives her chance to shine; Fred Astaire remains the usual unattractive pest until he breaks into singing and dancing; and the finale, with a bevy of masked honeys who look like Ginger, has a certain originality.  A great team at their very best. "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  As a classic movie buff,I can honestly say that this is one of the greatest movies Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire ever made together. The story line is light, however, you must remember that this movie was made in the middle of the Depression, a time when people needed a light story(hence the major reason why Musicals were made in the first place). This movie is in my top 4 favorite Astaire/Rogers musicals, along with Top Hat(1935),Swing Time(1936), and Follow The Fleet(1936).I urge everyone to see those as well. The songs in this movie are wonderful,particularly They All Laughed and Let's Call The Whole Thing Off.  "},{"Title":"Quiet little nothing in the Astaire/Rogers canon - still delightful","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Mark Sandrich's Shall We Dance (1937) is a tad heavy in the schmaltz department, particularly as it casts Astaire as the most unlikely of ballet stars, Pete Petrov Peters. Smitten with lovely musical star, Linda Keene (Rogers), Pete makes passage on the same luxury liner as his par amour. Theirs is a quiet - if glib - little shipboard nothing that results in a few choice dances but precious little else; that is, until a hint of gossip gets overblown for the tabloids so that by the time the ship docks in Manhattan harbor everyone believes Petrov and Linda are husband and wife. This was the sort of reluctant romantic dribble that the Astaire/Rogers franchise was beginning to develop into by the end of their tenure at RKO. It is one of the examples chiefly responsible for both stars eventually choosing NOT to renew their contracts and go their separate ways; he to even greater acclaim with a string of lush and lovely Technicolor musicals at MGM (The Band Wagon, Silk Stockings, Three Little Words); she on the road to a dramatic career (Kitty Foyle) and choice turns as a dead pan comedian (Stage Door, Roxy Hart).This is the worst looking DVD in the box set; having said that, it's still pretty good by most standards. Age related artifacts are at their most prevalent here as is film grain. But the real culprit which prevents one from thoroughly enjoying the film is the lower than average contrast levels that render the image darker than it ought to be and with considerable loss of tonal gray variations and fine detail throughout. The audio is Mono but nicely presented. Extras include an audio commentary, short subject, a featurette on 'the music' of the film and a theatrical trailer. "},{"Title":"Oh, no, they can't take that away from me","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Shall We Dance is for this viewer one of the great Astaire-Rogers films, even if some of the comments don't agree. I love it because of the glorious Astaire dancing. One of my all-time favorite numbers of his is Slap that Bass in which Astaire dances to the rhythm of machines. Oh, those pirouettes! Amazing. I rewound and watched it twice more.Astaire plays a ballet dancer named Petrov. In real life, Astaire was loathe to do ballet because he was self-conscious about his large hands. Who's looking at his hands? Petrov falls hard for singer Linda Keene (Rogers, who else) and arranges to follow her on the same ship to New York.Everyone has a great time, including the comic relief, Eric Blore, Edward Everett Horton, and Jerome Cowan. One of the best scenes occurs as Horton and Cowan smuggle a dummy of Linda (from a number she never did) into Astaire's stateroom to photograph the two together and prove they're married (they're not. And Blore getting arrested and telephoning to get bailed out of the Susquehana jail is wonderful.But Shall We Dance, like the previous Astaire-Rogers pairings, isn't about the plot, it's about the music and dance. What music, what dance. George and Ira Gershwin's score includes I've Got Beginner's Luck, and They All Laughed, both sung by Astaire, Let's Call the Whole Thing Off (sung and danced by the pair on roller skates), They Can't Take That Away From Me (sung by Astaire), and the music later becomes a ballet sequence with Astaire and Harriet Hoctor. Astaire and Rogers dance to Shall We Dance after Astaire sings the number and the two reprise Let's Call the Whole Thing Off. You can't beat Shall We Dance for pure escapism, breathtaking dance, and great songs. "},{"Title":"They Won't Take THIS Away From Me","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is undoubtedly one of the best that Fred and Giner made at RKO in glorious black and white and it's singular inasmuch that one is able to wallow in the melodic melodies and literate lyrics whilst simultaneously marvelling at what Depression audiences would sit still for in terms of credibility. All three writers - Lee Loeb, Harold Buchman 'story' and Ernest Pagano 'screenplay' - racked up dozens of other credits - Pagano worked on four other Astaire movies, Carefree, again with Ginger, A Damsel In Distress, You Were Never Lovlier and You'll Never Get Rich - and presumably wrote all five screenplays in the same colander. Consider The story opens in Paris; Astaire, dancing star of a Russian ballet troupe, is happy to stay there where he hopes to meet Linda Keene (Rogers) an American entertainer with whom he has fallen in love. Impresario Jeffrey Baird (Edward Everett Horton) wants Petrov (Astaire)to return to New York and dance at the Met but Petrov is adamant. Then, he meets Keene and learns she is sailing the very next day (from Paris, mind you, on a Liner, yet) on the Queen Ann so without further ado he informs Baird that he (Petrov) will sail to NY the next day. Just like that. No advance booking necessary, just turn up with your troupe of Russian dancers and yes, of course, you can have a couple of dozen staterooms at a couple of hours notice. More? Halfway across the Atlantic, Ginger, teed off with Fred, persuades the captain to allow her to leave on the plane that comes to collect air mail for New York. Yes, you heard. A plane lands on a liner in the middle of the Atlantic as a matter of course to collect mail. More? Gee, you're tough to please, but okay. The first real song and dance number occurs in the engine room of the ship and this is an engine room where you could eat off the highly POLISHED floor even as you marvel at the pristine art-deco pistons and other paraphernalia. Forget Gene O'Neill and the realistic engine rooms he was putting on stage a decade earlier in such plays as The Long Voyage Home, The Hairy Ape, etc, THIS is an engine room where grease, oil and dirt are strictly forbidden. More? Listen, there IS more, lots more but enough already. I only mention these little things so I can now say they don't MATTER. This is escapism, pure and simple. A great, great score boasting, in addition to the title song, Slap That Bass, Let's Call The Whole Thing Off, They All Laughed, I've Got Beginner's Luck and the immortal They Can't Take That Away From Me. Eric 'Slow Burn' Blore divvies up the laughs with Horton and a wonderful (but, alas, now lost) time is had by all. "},{"Title":"Rogers, Astaire and Gershwin!","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Considered a lesser Astaire-Rogers starring vehicle this slim-plotted musical is still a delight thanks to 3 great Gershwin songs They Can't Take That Away from Me, Let's Call the Whole Thing Off, and They All Laughed. Slap That Brass isn't bad either.Astaire plays a ballet star (!) who wants to dance jazz; Rogers plays a brassy revue star who is bored by men. They have two terrific dance numbers together They All Laughed and a roller skating dance to Let's Call the Whole Thing Off.Throw into the mix the always fun Edward Everett Horton and Eric Blore and you have a smooth and easy musical with great comedy support. Unfortunately the film also has the blah Ketti Gallian who has NO appeal whatsoever and the overblown Harriet Hoctor who was as mediocre as they come. Her ballet number is boring. Jerome Cowan, William Brisbane, and Ann Shoemaker add nothing. Indeed the film looks badly edited as Shoemaker, who gets good billing, has one brief scene aboard ship. Also Cowan has a confederate about halfway thru the film who is never even identified.Still worth seeing for the great Gershwin songs and the matchless Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire. "}{"Title":"Gershwin/Astaire/Rodgers -- what's to complain about?","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Absolutely one of the best original film musicals of all time.The cast -- you can't really beat Astaire and Rodgers for a dance team. Their chemistry is perfect in both a romantic and a comedic sense. Their dancing in this film is inspired, as usual. Astaire's character is slightly more aggressive and assertive than some of his more nebbish personifications. Edward Everet Horton gets the most laughs of the supporting cast as Fred's stressed-out producer, who amusingly disapproves of Fred's new career in wild jazz music and wants him to stick to ballet. Thankfully we're spared the torture of any prolonged attempts by Fred Astaire to depict himself realistically as a ballet artist.The story -- a pretty standard issue thing, which might seem flimsy to some modern audiences but provides all the necessary stimulus in terms of absurd and uncomfortable comic situations for our stars. Fred plays Russian dancer Petrov while Rodgers portrays cabaret star Linda Keene. He tries to woo her with an elaborate act as a pretentious nobleman, and she doesn't seem to warm up to him upon learning she was put upon. Petrov manipulates events so that they end up on the same ocean liner (amazing how many musical comedies after Anita Loos' play ended up set on ocean liners), but word gets out that the pair are secretly married. A situation very similar to Gay Divorcée ensues in which they must be married in order to be divorced and do away with the rumor.The film -- excellent sets and photography, far above the average for RKO but about normal for the A/R series. This one like some of the others has a heavy emphasis on deco stylings, particularly in the segments set at sea.The music -- saving the best for last, this is really George and Ira's film as much as it is Fred and Ginger's, for me anyway. Some of their most enduring hits came out of this one. They Can't Take That Away From Me, They All Laughed and Let's Call the Whole Thing Off are popular for good reasons -- they have excellent lyrics and catchy themes. The lyrics emphasize the attitude Fred's character has in the films -- no matter how ridiculous he makes himself appear to other characters (and the audience), his absolute conviction in his love and his dignity carry him through life. This film also has a slew of somewhat lesser known but high quality Gershwin tunes, most notably Slap that Bass which receives full treatment with a synchronized introduction that ties the song's rhythm to the mechanical movements of the ship. With its extreme deco stylings, it's the closest thing to a musical version of Metropolis that you'd ever want to see. Walking the Dog is an interesting little musical interlude written for the film by Gershwin and arranged by RR Bennett which has sometimes been performed in symphonic settings since the 1980s.All in all, probably one of the top musicals of all time, and certainly one of the best of the 1930s with many exemplary qualities it shares with the best 1930s Broadway product. "},{"Title":"Seventy Years and Still Shows Well!","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" So much has already been written about the famous Astaire / Rogers movie couplings that I'll be brief and limit this review to notes which I can edit later to a more rounded overview at a later time. However, having just re-watched the picture after a gap of around ten years does help to make certain features stand out quite clearly, so here goes.This is a formula picture; an unashamed vehicle for Astaire and Rogers. It is fluffy, lighthearted and short on characterisation. In-between the dance numbers, the pacing is slow and the storyline is trivial, with many of the gags coming across as bad high school pranks to modern audiences. But that is only half the story, because the film celebrates its 70th birthday this year, so we can forgive an awful lot -- indeed, while there is still a massive audience for mindless TV soaps around the world, we can forgive this RKO hit for literally everything, because its strengths far outweigh any of its weaknesses. Besides, along with the other eight Astaire/Rogers 1930s formula musicals, this is a vitally important film for the study of the musical film genre.What is interesting is the use of cross cutting to single (or at least minimal) shot scenes that advance the story for each character - this is most evident on the sequences in the middle of the picture when they are all on board the ship crossing from Paris to New York. This pre-curses the style that soaps are shot in today, and is worth showing to film and drama students as an early development of the soap genre.It has to be said that Ginger Rogers really does look bored during this picture, (legend has it that she really WAS bored by this time) except when she's dancing - and it has always been said that Ginger was a far lesser dancer than Fred. The difference in ability is very clear to see in this picture, and interestingly, Fred does a whole lot more hoofing than Ginger on this picture.On the dance angle, there's an interesting mix of ballet and jazz - and this is the feature that perhaps makes this movie stand out from the other Astaire Rogers combos. It is also a feature that makes this film interesting for students of media history.This is a backstage musical, and the show within a show theme here is strong, even if we do see more action on board the liner than behind the flats. The plot structure is very well crafted - structure being a very different issue from both pacing and story-line. So when we get the Shall We Dance show, (where all those Ginger look-a-likes appear), we do actually get to see some ballet. This pre-dates Powell and Pressburger's British post war picture, The Red Shoes, (photographed in Technicolor by Jack Cardiff) by over ten years. This is more important than it may at first appearThe Red Shoes was a surprise hit, in that the conventional wisdom of the time (aka the Moguls of Hollywood) said that a filmed 22 minute ballet sequence on film sans dialogue would send audiences to sleep and kill the box office. But the audiences loved it! So MGM responded with Gene Kelly dancing his way through Singin' in the Rain in 1952. And without THAT motion picture, we would be missing one of the Top Ten Movies of all time.Ginger really comes to life toward the end of the movie, with a tantalisingly-short, yet superb, dance sequence, where she literally throws herself at Fred. Of special note here is the remarkable dolly-in shot that pre-shaddows Singin' in the Rain by around 15 years. Which again shows that motion picture making, like any activity in life, builds upon prior experience - it is not just down to genius. It is for that very reason that I encourage students to take history seriously.Right then; we've not mentioned the George Gershwin score, which is right up there, as you would expect on an Astaire/Rogers vehicle. These, remember are the two BIG musical stars of the period. which brings us to wardrobe -- Ginger's wardrobe, since that was the only one that remotely mattered -- to Ginger and her mother, at any rate! Ginger is ALWAYS the star, and Shall We Dance reveals at least two of Ginger's best ever costumes -- two bold black and white florals -- watch her dress, not her feet in the roller-skate sequence -- and that black dress for Shall We Dance is just, well, a way-out classic!Modern audiences might be a bit confused over the shocking bedroom talk - just remember the Hayes Code was in full force, and hard as it may be to believe, the film flies right on the edge of the Code right as it is! One of the rules was the 5-second limit on screen snoggs. Astaire and Rogers didn't have anything to worry about there, however despite the audiences of the '30s desperately waiting for that magic moment, it never was to come in all their movies together, Fred and Ginger never did kiss on screen! "},{"Title":"Classic Astaire and Rogers","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Astaire plays ballet star Pete Petrov Peters who falls for Rogers (Linda Keene).He arranges to cross the Atlantic aboard the same ship as Rogers and along the way he sings and dances and they dance together. Edward Everett Horton plays his manager and provides the comic relief. But who cares about the plot. We watch these movies for the songs and dancing and they are good. A highlight is Astaire's solo number in the steam room of the ship as he dances in time to the ship's pistons. There are some classic George Gershwin songs in this one Let's Call The Whole Thing Off and They Can't Take That Away From Me. This is the 7th pairing of Astaire and Rogers. You can also see Astaire and Rogers in these films Shall We Dance (1937) Swing Time (1936) Follow the Fleet (1936) Top Hat (1935) Roberta (1935) The Gay Divorcée (1934) Flying Down to Rio (1933) "},{"Title":"The magic is still there but the plot is thinner than ever...","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The plot is a silly one that has Astaire as Petrov, ballet dancer, chasing a musical comedy star, Ginger Rogers, across the ocean with the usual amount of misunderstandings that keep them apart until the finale. But, as with all FRED ASTAIRE and GINGER ROGERS films, it's the music that counts--and the dance numbers.Fred has an amazing Slap That Bass number aboard ship, one of his best solo jobs, but there are only a few other gems in the Gershwin score, like They Can't Take That Away From Me, They All Laughed at Christopher Columbus and Let's Call The Whole Thing Off. Somehow, they don't get the treatment they deserve but all have become popular standards.Although the songs are pleasant enough, they're not among Gershwin's best--and the plot is so flimsy it's almost non-existent, something about Astaire and Rogers being mistaken for a married couple.Fans of the dancing stars will love it and others may find it just slightly less entertaining than some of the other Astaire/Rogers films.The supporting roles are in the capable hands of ERIC BLORE, EDWARD EVERETT HORTON and JEROME COWAN, but they've all been seen to better advantage in other screwball comedies. Mark Sandrich directed in his usual fast paced style, but I couldn't help noticing that Ginger seemed a little bored with her character. "},{"Title":"Inane And Sublime","Date":"14 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The big takeaway on Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers is how well they danced together. My big takeaway from Shall We Dance is how well they acted.It's one thing to give a good performance in a musical like Carousel or Singing In The Rain, and quite another to deliver amid the creaky jokes, plummy patter, and contrived plot twists that make up Shall We Dance. But they do, and thanks to them, the show turns out not only okay but rather fine.Astaire is a faux-Russian ballet dancer, Petrov, who dreams of pairing up with celebrated tap dancer Linda Keene (Rogers) both on-stage and off. Linda just wants to retire, but Petrov's earnestness begins to win her over - until she is led to believe he is using her. She leaves him just as word spreads that the two are married (and really spreads, in the form of front-page news stories and radio flashes), forcing them to face a surreal prospect.We're the only people in the world who don't think we're married! Linda exclaims.People watching Shall We Dance for the first time need patience. Astaire and Rogers don't dance for an hour, their one musical moment all that time involving walking a dog around a ship in time to a musical theme (provided by one George Gershwin, who did the score with his lyricist brother Ira). Matters are too often dominated by Edward Everett Horton's over-the-top eye rolls and leaden asides as Petrov's snooty, disapproving manager. Later on William Brisbane arrives as Linda's rich-guy suitor, adding more overbaked ham to the menu.But Astaire keeps his end up, dancing to a skipping record or later overplaying a mock Russian accent in his first face-to-face with Linda. You don't want to dance with the great Petrov, he declares, playing up a Slavic superiority trip. Don't be a silly horse. The way he elongates that last o is positively indecent.Some reviewers here say Rogers seems bored in this film. She's playing a withdrawn character, though, and does give off passion when called upon. A big musical moment between her and Astaire, when he declares They Can't Take That Away From Me, is a remarkable duet despite the fact she doesn't sing a note, just looks off with tear-filled eyes. Yet she gets the song's one close-up, and rightly so. When they have their first performance in front of an audience and he dances up a storm by way of an introduction, the look on her face is priceless. What am I supposed to do? she deadpans.Give director Mark Sandrich credit for keeping things light. Too light at times, like when Linda's manager somehow gets a photo of the couple in bed together by using a manikin of her he just happens to have in his closet (better I guess we don't know why he does). Sandrich does make the good scenes better with doses of gentle humor, like the capper to a roller-skating dance that is the movie's best moment. There are some nice dissolves from scene to scene, like a flip-book view of Linda dancing that melts into the real thing.Watching this the first time, the minutes stretched like rubber. The second time things flew much faster, because I knew what I wanted to see and could look forward to its arrival. I guess audiences of the 1930s had that expectation built in, one reason perhaps why these movies were so popular and no one cared when they were a bit inane. "},{"Title":"Bad jokes aside ...","Date":"17 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Surely one of the silliest and most improbable plots in all the Astaire-Rogers series &#150;-and that's saying a lot! &#151; this 1937 film still features many delights foremost among them of course are the dances of Fred solo and with Ginger, and the now classic songs of the Gershwin brothers. Amazingly, some of the best of these, the immortal They Can't Take That Away from Me for example, take up only a minute or two of screen time, as if the producers at RKO couldn't wait to get them over with so they could get back to the story. More time in the film is given over to the confused and outraged antics of floor manager Eric Blore than to some greatest songs in the great American Song Book. The film ends, however, with a breath-taking bit of pure exuberance, American dancing at its very, very best. The quarreling lovers are reunited singing and dancing to the title song. Shall we dance or keep on moping? As then and now a very good question. Absurd plot line and bad jokes aside, a film classic well worth watching again and again. "},{"Title":"One of the joys of filmdom's Gershwin Years!!","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  In watching Shall We Dance one can imagine George and Ira Gershwin sitting behind the director, Mark Sandrich, watching their old friend Fred Astaire going through his paces with Ginger with a group of inspired numbers and now classics.  Although the movies were lucrative to the Gershwins, not having a show play every night on Broadway added to their downtime (not to mention more parties). Actually, Shall We Dance is regarded as 'light weight' Astaire/Rogers as compared to Swing Time, but the songs are as memorable, even though the story line is weaker.  This is a fun show with Fred and Ginger at the top of their form.  Fred was to make another Gershwin musical that year (Damsel in Distress) but without Rogers, so this is the Gershwin musical to see first.  "},{"Title":"Dancing by Fred and Ginger, Songs by George and Ira...","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  What a wonderful time I had watching this film.  One of the better Rogers and Astaire teamings. A great score by the Gershwin's. Edward Everett Horton and Eric Blore offer hilarious supporting work.I'd write more, but I'm going to go back and watch it again.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A great piece of escapism as you'd expect from any film with Fred and Ginger","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The story is rather thin and silly and Ketti Gallian's performance came across as vapid; the rest however is sheer pleasure. The film is beautifully shot with extravagant, if not quite as sophisticated as Top Hat and particularly Swing Time, production values, particularly apparent in Let's Call the Whole Thing Off. George and Ira Gershwin's score and songs don't disappoint either, really quite wonderful actually. Standing out were the catchy Let's Call the Whole Thing Off and the touchingly melancholic They Can't Take That Away From Me. The choreography dazzles and shows great energy and poise, just seeing Fred and Ginger in roller skates for Let's Call the Whole Thing Off makes one envious of how they were able to do that and make it seem so easy. The dialogue has a real warmth and wit, the dialogue during the jail scene is just hilarious and that scene came across as the best from a comedic point of view, and the gags and such are good-natured and enjoyably daft. Shall We Dance is not without heart either, it is very difficult not to be moved by You Can't Take That Away From Me. Fred Astaire is immensely charming and likable and dances a dream as always, it more than makes up for that he's not all that convincing as a Russian. Ginger Rogers looks gorgeous and interacts and dances with Astaire wonderfully, you are not quite as emotionally invested in Linda Keene as you are with some of her other characters but Rogers still gives everything she's got. In supporting roles, Eric Blore was a joy and provided some of the film's funniest moments(the aforementioned jail scene), though Edward Everett Horton and Jerome Cowan are very enjoyable as well. To conclude, a great piece of escapism. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"An important landmark in the Fred & Ginger story","Date":"19 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" In recent years, the title of this film has become overshadowed by two modern movies of the same name a superb Japanese movie and its American remake, respectively entitled Shall We Dansu? and Shall We Dance. Yet this 1937 classic is worth revisiting not only for its famous Gershwin numbers, but as the last of a series of classic-format films between Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers. Deeply flawed, yet the tremendous effort poured into its production is evident. And, when viewed as part of a series, touchingly beautiful.Utilising talent from their earlier films, Shall We Dance pushes the established formula of light romantic farce coupled with stunning dance routines. But here are many innovations and subtle references to delight fans. At the end of their previous film together (Swing Time), Fred serenaded Ginger with the song Never Gonna Dance, so Shall We Dance? suggests a delightful comeback through association. Their respective characters have grown through successive films, as has their on screen relationship. Now, for the first time, both play fully fledged divas in their own right. Fred is Petrov, a Russian ballet star, and Ginger is Linda, a celebrated jazz dancer. Many of the gags involve rumours about the characters being secretly married or having children. By way of a complex plot, half conducted on a transatlantic liner, the couple do actually get married for the first time in their films together. Copy pictureThe star personas of both Astaire and Rogers have been carefully managed by the studios since their debut together in Flying Down to Rio (1933). Fred woos her with increasing conviction or intensity in each successive movie. To suspend disbelief effectively, the audience has to be thoroughly confused for a while about the nature of their relationship (in real life, both Astaire and Rogers are married to other people at this time). The on screen characters are not married at the start of the story &#x96; Fred is pursuing Ginger, as usual. But an offhand comment by Petrov to an over-persistent admirer (to the effect that he and Linda are secretly married) is blown up by the newspapers in the story. The only way they can dispel rumours is to get a divorce &#x96; which means they first have to get married.In terms of dance routines, most things had been done already, so Shall We Dance has to come up with something new. One idea is a duet on roller skates. Depending on which account we read, it took filming up to fifty takes to complete (unusually, as Fred would mostly insist on a single one). It's filmed in Central Park, and the idea is to make it look like something people would naturally be doing. It's also the longest dance Fred and Ginger have together in the film, and is made even more enjoyable by their singing Let's Call the Whole Thing Off.Another innovation is the way the story line is tied up. (Note &#x96; a light spoiler follows, but I think it's worth knowing what is coming in this case, so as not to miss the full effect). Petrov, now distraught that Linda won't dance with him, has a choreographed scene where he serenades with numerous showgirls who wear Linda masks. This in itself recalls earlier scenes involving a dummy positioned next to a sleeping Petrov, to 'prove' in the tabloids that they are married; and also in a flick-book he has that creates moving images of Linda. Unbeknown to Petrov, Linda yearns for them to be together. She insists on being taken backstage. Petrov's dance involves unmasking the lookalikes only to find that none are the real Linda. When he touches the real Linda's chin, he finds it is not a mask but really her. She extends her hand and, whoever the 'real' Petrov and Linda have been (they both have several identities even within the film), the audience is satisfied that the real living couple finally have a dance of love. Almost all the emotion of the film has been saved for this moment.Shall We Dance not only reprises two established stars; it examines the real life pressures and glare of publicity facing them. They were both under pressure during filming, Ginger Rogers received a real-life extortion notice and a death threat to her mother. The movie's final dance scene maybe hints at something that is beyond words, beyond the glare of the limelight, and something eternally personal &#x96; as the song implies They Can't Take That Away from Me.The film's weaknesses include living up to expectations when a formula has peaked. In earlier pairings, Fred's character woos Ginger through dance rather than words. Here, they enjoy some comedy together but there are maybe one too many dance solos. The plot and characterisation has weaknesses too &#x96; Astaire is a very accomplished dancer performing balletic moves, but he was the first to admit he is no ballet star. Dance fans may feel unconvinced (similarly, the songs have been covered by much more competent singers). One of the main dance routines sees Harriet Hoctor, not Ginger, imported to dance with Fred &#x96; largely on account of her ability to tap through remarkable back-bends. Shall We Dance lacks much of the natural dance chemistry between Fred and Ginger displayed in earlier films, but it is an outstanding piece of their film history that should not be missed. "}{"Title":"we shall dance, any day!","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" delightful! Simply divine viewing has to be my favourite Fred and ginger movie, right up there with swing time. The dance sequences are fabulous and the music is fantastic.Ginger is at her dazzling best. She lights up the screen. Fred is very likable too. i'm only 18 years old and i am an avid Fred and ginger fan. I think there movies are golden.they should be shown more to the younger generation. It's time people got to see the golden age of Hollywood. love it, simply love it "},{"Title":"a frivolous farce? of course. Irresistible? Undoubtedly!!","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Why did I have to watch this 5 times in the last 2 weeks?Well, I can't explain. I guess because this is one of those rare cases where a movie becomes a masterpiece in spite of a (intentionally!) loose storyline; the strength of the choreography,  melodies, and the pure delight of dance sequences gives it all. There's Fred Astaire, there's Ginger Rogers, and there's the Fred-Ginger duo - 3 (sic.) distinct personalities! I have watched scores of musicals - but never have I been so bewitched by duet dance sequences unaccompanied by any of the garish excesses characteristic of the Hollywood musical.Just think of the number  Let's call the whole Thing Off; what grace, what poise of the couple tap-dancing on roller skates! And oh, what wondrous blend of lyrics and melody. And closely follows another number that, in all it's apparent lightness, provides a counterpoint that makes one misty eyed.About the solo dance sequences of Fred - the one in the ship's boiler room, the brilliant choreography of his tapdancing with the pistons moving in phase, well - it's superhuman!I shouldn't miss mentioning Edward Everett Horton (Jeffrey, Petrov's impresserio) - for his misadventures hold the struggling storyline of movie on, just as it was probably meant to be. Eric Blore (Cecil, the floor manager of the hotel) does  his inimitable role as in many other Fred-Ginger musicals; rarely have I seen anything more hilarious than the telephone conversation between Cecil (from jail!!)  and Jeffrey.It's unalloyed and delightful entertainment for those who love musicals. Just forget the world and enter into a dreamland for 108 minutes!  "},{"Title":"Not bad-- just frustratingly late.","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Critics and fans frequently cite this one as a falling-off of the A-R series. I once thought that too, but I bought the video and gave it a second look. Plotwise, it's an improvement on that mistaken identity nonsense that usually permeates these films-- though you could make an argument that this plot (which has the central characters presumed married, only to actually get married so they can get divorced) isn't much better. But the nonsensical fun is still there- from Astaire's tap-happy ballet dancer (whose exaggerated Russian accent is hysterical), to the Gershwin score of songs, to the tasty dance numbers Slap That Bass (part tap exhibition and part engine room jam session); They All Laughed (the duo's incredibly late first duet); Let's Call the Whole Thing Off (eether/eyether- need we say more?); to the glorious They Can't Take That Away From Me; the film's only misfire (but it was a big one) being that this beautiful ballad by Astaire was not danced by him and Rogers. (Reprising it later with ballet contortionist Harriet Hoctor might have been consistent with the plot, but watching her back-kick herself in the head is one of the unintentionally funniest things I've ever seen in a film.) The Gershwin score- more than anything else- takes this one up a few notches. "},{"Title":"Lie, Gossip and Dance","Date":"9 November 2011","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" While in Paris, the famous dancer Pete Petrov Peters (Fred Astaire) meets the also famous tap dancer Linda Keene (Ginger Rogers) and he makes fun with her pretending that he is a Russian ballet master. He immediately falls in love with her and when he learns that she will travel to New York in an ocean liner, her arranges with his producer Jeffrey Baird (Edward Everett Horton) to travel in the same ship as Linda.In the departure, the annoying dancer and former affair of Petrov, Lady Denise Tarrington (Ketti Gallian), comes to the harbor and Petrov lies to her, telling that he has secretly married Linda, to get rid off Denise. However, Denise sends a telegram to the ship congratulating the couple and the lie turns into a gossip to the press. Now the lives of Petrov and Linda get very complicated with the situation.Shall We Dance is another naive film of the couple Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers, with delightful confusion and musical numbers. The gags are dated but funny and the film is a pleasant entertaining for cinema and dance lovers. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Vamos Dançar? (Shall We Dance?) "},{"Title":"Join the dance with Fred and Ginger","Date":"4 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Peter P Peters is an American ballet dancer who's known as Petrov.He wants to blend classical ballet with modern jazz, and then when he sees the picture of tap dancer Linda Keene, he immediately falls in love with her.Before they know it, they're married.Or at least the press thinks so.Shall We Dance from 1937 is directed by Mark Sandrich.Its producer is Pandro S. Berman.Behind the music are the brothers George and Ira Gershwin.This is the seventh of the ten Astaire-Rogers movies.The chemistry between the leading couple works, as always.Edward Everett Horton plays Jeffrey Baird.Eric Blore is Cecil Flintridge.James Cowan plays Arthur Miller.Ketti Gallian is Lady Denise Tarrington.The movie has some great comedy and musical bits.It's quite amusing when Fred pretends to be the Russian guy to Ginger, doing the accent and all.It's amazing to watch Fred doing the tap dance routine in a ship's engine room to the song Slap That Bass.The song Let's Call the Whole Thing Off works and doing the tap dance on an ice-rink wearing roller blades.In one memorable scene Fred dances with many Gingers, only one being real.This movie is very entertaining, like any Fred and Ginger movie is. "},{"Title":"a very good Astaire and Rogers film","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" As is stated above, this is a very good film. And, if it wasn't for a string of other prior Astaire-Rogers films that are better, I might have scored this a little higher. While a good film, the old familiar formula perfected in their prior films is just getting a bit old--you know that Astaire will initially annoy Rogers, they will later start to fall in love, a misunderstanding will occur to drive them apart, only to be reunited in the end. You can only see this so many times until it loses something. For my time, I'd much rather see THE GAY Divorcée (1934), TOP HAT (1935) or SWING TIME (1936). While as I already stated that part of the attraction of the earlier films was greater originality, I also think the Gershwin songs aren't quite up to the quality of the Irving Berlin and Cole Porter songs in the other films. Gershwin was an amazing genius--it's just that here he wasn't at his very best. Also, the plot seems to drag a bit near the end--ending it a bit sooner would have maintained the momentum. However, given that it's Astaire and Rogers and they are supported by Eric Blore and Edward Everett Horton, you STILL can't go wrong seeing this movie. And, when it comes to classy and entertaining musicals, it doesn't get better than an Astaire and Rogers film!By the way--get a load of that amazingly clean engine room on the ship! I bet ships coming off the assembly line aren't that clean!! Also, isn't that dance number with the women all using Ginger masks a bit creepy! "},{"Title":"Mantan Moreland the best comedy relief?","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" A previous reviewer wrote that Mantan Moreland was the best comedy relief in this film. The African Americans in the Slap that Bass number weren't the comedy relief. They sang but didn't have any dialogue. Just how would one of them qualify as the comedy relief? The best comedy relief bits in Shall We Dance were provided by Edward Everett Horton and Jerome Cowan when Cowan asks What does your watch say? to which Horton replies Tick, tick, tick, when Horton and Cowan stumble drunkenly along the hall with a dummy of Ginger singing They All Laughed and the crack that the cop made while Astaire and Rogers were debating marriage on the Central Park green. "},{"Title":"Fred and Ginger--what else is there to say?","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Too many people are so addicted to action, violence and dirt that they completly forget that the great musicals usually had a plot that was nothing more than a filler between the music scenes. All of the great musicals by Astaire and various partners, Gene Kelley, and so many others were made to order for the DVD format, where you are able to go from dance to dance and skip the in between. The same, in fact goes for the great scenes by Judy Garland, and many other female partners (although it is mostly true, it is said that Astaire's partners had to be even better because they had to dance backward in high heels.) I don't buy many dramas because I barely have time to see them once--with some very notable exception, but I can watch Astaire dance his beautiful numbers or Kelley dance in the rain over and NEVER get tired of the Fred's artistry or Gene's strength. "},{"Title":"Ginger's gown","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I love all the Fred, and Ginger movies. Own all ten of them. Most of the films are similar. Boy meets girl, boy loses girl, boy gets girl back. The stories are weak but the dancing and the Art Deco sets are great. This is the only film where I, don't like one of her dresses. It seems to have big black bugs crawling all over it. She's wearing it in one of the early dance scenes. "},{"Title":"The greatest of the Astaire-Rogers movies.","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This is the movie that I'd take to a desert island or to solitary confinement if I knew that I could see only one movie for the rest of my life.  I've seen it a good 25-30 times and never fail to find it an infinite delight and always get a little misty-eyed at the end. Maybe not the best film of all time, but certainly the peak of the Astaire/Rogers series, which instantly makes it one of the greatest films of all time.  Virtually flawless.  "}{"Title":"I refuse to be a bowl in a gold of fish.","Date":"7 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Fred Astaire plays a ballet dancer who falls in love with musical revue star Ginger Rogers. The two cross the Atlantic on the same ship with Fred managing to make some headway with her before rumors, misunderstandings, and publicity stunts come between them. The stars shine brightly with that wonderful chemistry they displayed in every movie. Fun support from Edward Everett Horton, Eric Blore, and Jerome Cowan. Great music by George and Ira Gershwin. Some of the classic musical numbers include Let's Call the Whole Thing Off, They All Laughed (at Christopher Columbus), Slap That Bass, and They Can't Take That Away from Me. Really good stuff. Not my favorite Fred & Ginger movie but it's solid fun that should put smiles on the faces of most viewers. "},{"Title":"The Way You Wear Your Hat","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" In order to fend off an admiring ballerina, phony Russian ballet star Fred Astaire (as Peter Petrov Peters) falsely claims he's married to a beautiful American musical star he admires, Ginger Rogers (as Linda Keene). To complicate matters, and get closer to lovely Ms. Rogers, Mr. Astaire joins her on a ship leaving France for New York. On board, Rogers treats Astaire with disdain, while gossiping newspapers report their secret wedding and blessed event. Can Astaire's elegant charm, and sweet singing, win Rogers' heart&#133;for real? Shall We Dance dutifully duplicated the success of previous Astaire/Rogers box office hits.Astaire issued his standard three 78 RPM Brunswick singles, which proceeded to saturate radio waves, and effortlessly made Hit Parades during the spring of 1937 - peaking in the following positions They Can't Take That Away from Me (#1) / (I've Got) Beginner's Luck (#13), Shall We Dance? (#3) / Let's Call the Whole Thing Off (#5), and Astaire's version of Rogers' film song They All Laughed (#6) / Slap That Bass. The wonderful George & Ira Gershwin written songs, and the workmanship RKO/Astaire/Rogers delivery, is what really keeps the film's flimsy, formulaic story above board.******** Shall We Dance (1937) Mark Sandrich ~ Fred Astaire, Ginger Rogers, Eric Blore "},{"Title":"Romance","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Is there a more romantic moment in cinema than Fred Astaire singing They can't take that away from me to Ginger Rogers on that ferry in the fog?And if the final ballet is a bit hokey and the plot is slimmer than usual (and that IS slim) then no matter.Fred and Ginger together have probably the most perfect onscreen chemistry of any cinema pairing (compare, say Julia Roberts and Richard Gere and see what I mean) "},{"Title":"We're the only two people in New York who don't think we're married.","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" My second film starring Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers following the magnificent 'Top Hat (1935)' confirms what I had initially suspected I don't think I'll ever get sick of these guys! Throughout their careers, the pair co-starred opposite each other on no less than ten occasions, and 'Shall We Dance (1937)' marked their seventh collaboration. Brimming with catchy, stupendously-entertaining musical numbers, and a lightweight screwball storyline highlighted by a slew of accomplished comedy performers, the film was the brainchild of George Gershwin, who wrote the score, and his older brother Ira Gershwin, who penned the lyrics. Director Mark Sandrich returned, once again, to helm the production, which offers little different from the previous Astaire-Rogers pictures, but, in doing so, gave audiences precisely what they wanted. The society inhabited by Petrov and Linda Keene glitters with wealth, class and elegance, presenting American audiences &#150; still suffering the effects of the Great Depression &#150; with a sophisticated fantasy world in which they could immerse themselves.Notably, the film was the first in which Fred Astaire experimented with the blending of ballet and tap-dancing, his character expressing the desire to combine the technique of ballet with the warmth and passion of this other mood. In this, Astaire proves moderately successful, though he obviously appears most comfortable when tappin' away on a hardwood floor, and it would eventually fall to Gene Kelly to perfect the combination in such films as 'An American in Paris (1951)' and, of course, 'Singin' in the Rain (1952).' Astaire's efforts are culminated in a wonderful and elaborate ballet-hybrid stage show, which features the title song, a Depession-era number that appeals to the audience to look on the brighter side of life by slipping on a pair of dancing shoes, and which concludes with a brief reprisal of They All Laughed (At Christopher Columbus) &#150; an ode to the triumphant nature of love against all adversity. Slap That Bass is an unusual but gratifying mixed-race musical number, in which Astaire watches an African American jam-session in the engine room of their ship, demonstrating that happiness lies not with those with money, but rather with those possessing rhythm.The story itself often wanders into rather silly territory only Hollywood could possibly think to dispel marriage rumours by actually getting married, but there is more than enough fun to go around. Edward Everett Horton is absolutely hilarious as Jeffrey Baird, Petrov's (Astaire) proud and indignant ballet manager, who not only detests the tap-dancing of which Astaire is so fond, but also disapproves of his budding relationship with Linda Keene (Rogers). Horton's reaction to seeing the scandalous nighttime photograph of the pair - a silent and completely unexpected offscreen pass-out - made me laugh so hard that I started to choke on my glass of water. Jerome Miller is also exceedingly likable as Linda's scheming manager, despite his suspect motivations in aiding Petrov's plight to marry her. Also amusing is Eric Blore, whose accommodating hotel manager Cecil Flintridge finds himself tormented by the conflicting gossip about the two stars' marital status, and later encounters much trouble trying to have himself bailed out of gaol. 'Shall We Dance' makes for an immensely enjoyable musical evening, and you'll find yourself humming Let's Call The Whole Thing Off for days afterward. "},{"Title":"Shall We Dance Has the Right Step ***","Date":"1 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This 1937 again shows Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire in rare form.This time is Fred is a Russian named ballet dancer who falls for fellow dancer Rogers.He tells his aide, the ever adorable Edward Everett Horton, to get rid of a woman who is pursuing him. To do this, Horton tells the woman that Fred and Ginger are wed and the fun really begins.With gossip from the hotel staff, reporters and shipmates on board, word is soon out that Ginger is pregnant. To keep her from leaving their business relationship, Jerome Cowan adds to the mayhem to state that they really are married.Ginger feels that the only way to end all this is to get married and then quickly file for divorce. Love seems to blossom until that old pest girlfriend shows up and Ginger blows her top.How this resolves itself via dance is so entertaining to view. "},{"Title":"Shall We Dance","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The famous dancing duo created cinema magic with the films Top Hat and Swing Time, and this was the seventh film they did together, obviously another attempt to create another success, from director Mark Sandrich (Top Hat). Basically Peter P. Peters (Fred Astaire), billed as 'Petrov', is the successful ballet star works in Paris in the company owned by the bumbling Jeffrey Baird (Edward Everett Horton). While coming up with new ideas for his act, including blending classical ballet with modern jazz dancing, he has seen a photo and fallen in love with tap dancer Linda Keene (Ginger Rogers), and when he gets the chance to meet her he pretends to be Russian like his name sounds. She isn't very impressed by their meeting, and when they do again on a liner travelling to New York she overhears his real accent and thinks he is a bit of a joke. Slowly Pete and Linda do get closer and become good friends, but trouble pops up when a publicity stunt is launched claiming that the pair are married. They both hear the growing rumour, and with the help of a dummy lookalike of Linda by the two naughty journalists, everyone, including a panicky Jeffrey, believes it is true. They decide that the only way to get everyone off their backs to actually get married, and get a quick divorce afterwards, but of course once they are a couple, they like it. In the end, during a big showstopper where all female performers on stage with Pete have Linda's face, he spots the real one and they stay married and happy. Also starring Eric Blore as Cecil Flintridge, Jerome Cowan as Arthur Miller, Ketti Gallian as Lady Denise Tarrington, William Brisbane as Jim Montgomery and Harriet Hoctor. I remember seeing this film once before, and the three scenes that stuck out were Astaire and Rogers dancing on roller skates, Edward Everett Horton mistaking the Rogers dummy for the real woman and thinking she has fainted, and Blore in jail spelling various words when the other caller can't hear properly. Astaire is still suave ans talented, Rogers is still beautiful and sophisticated, and together they still have some great dancing highlights. The choreography is good, and the songs including Beginner's Luck, They All Laughed and Let's Call the Whole Thing Off hit the right note, but it doesn't quite have the same flare as the predecessors, but not a bad musical comedy. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for They Can't Take That Away from Me. Let's Call The Whole Thing Off was number 34 on 100 Years, 100 Songs, and the film was number 74 on The 100 Greatest Musicals. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"I wish I could say the same of you.","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Somewhere I read that you'll think more highly of the Astaire/Rogers SHALL WE DANCE if it's the first of their movies that you've seen. Watching them in order leaves you with the impression that we've seen all this before, and what's more, that we've seen it all done better before as well.Unquestionably the great strength of the film is its musical score, by my count the fifth great musical score in a row for the series, but I'd have to agree with George Gershwin that it wasn't used very well. The main problem Ginger and Fred don't dance together enough. Indeed, they only have one major duet in the whole movie, danced to 'They All Laughed'. It's a dandy, but even here they'd done comparable dances even more brilliantly in ROBERTA, TOP HAT AND SWING TIME. Of course, they also roller skate, and practically everyone adores the scene so who am I to knock it? Nevertheless, I miss them dancing, and the final duet to the title song comes and goes in about 30 seconds and only whets my appetite for more.After giving possibly the best performance in the entire series in SWING TIME, Ginger Rogers seems off here, irritable practically from beginning to end and considerably less fun than she was in the rest of the series (and during practically the rest of her career). The fact that she was the victim of an extortion attempt during the film's shooting may have had something to do with it. For those interested, she received a note demanding $50,000 or else they would kill Ginger's mother. Turning it over to the FBI, the fellow was apprehended at the scheduled drop point and turned out to be a sailor who was simply after the money, not the mother. He'd chosen Ginger because she was his favorite actress!But getting back to the movie, unlike in the rest of the series the songs are generally ill-fitted into the plot. While it's not unusual for Fred's solo to be a simple exhibition of his dancing ability that has little to do with the rest of the film, it is unusual for their major duets to move the plot exactly nowhere. As John Mueller points out in ASTAIRE DANCES, during the marvelous dance to 'They All Laughed', Ginger's character seems to be loosening up emotionally and moving closer to Fred's, the typical character movement in their up tempo numbers, but here she simply reverts to exactly where she had been before, i.e., simply resentful towards him. It's as if the dance had never happened. And what her motivation was for the reconciliation dance at the end I'll never understand. Would you be attracted to someone dancing with people wearing masks of you? I'd more likely call the nearest mental hospital.Speaking of motivation, what exactly would possess Fred to suddenly play hard to get once Ginger had finally invited him into her apartment on their wedding night? It did lead to probably the most artful shot that Mark Sandrich devised in the entire series (the one of them both hesitating before opposite sides of the door between them), but still...Ah, I'm sure I'm being too hard on SHALL WE DANCE. It's an elaborate production featuring two great performers, a few laughs, and terrific music. Who could ask for anything more? "},{"Title":"Ballet good show","Date":"31 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Another entertaining Fred and Ginger vehicle even if it has one of their more preposterous story lines, which is saying something. This time he's a famous ballet dancer masquerading under a Russian nom-de-plume, I presume for artistic reasons, complete with put-on accent. Thankfully we're spared seeing the great man in tights although it's obvious he's a song and dance man at heart and besides he's determined to charm the leading female revue artist of the day, our Ginger of course, while they're both in Paris.It's not too long though before they're aboard an ocean liner back to New York where their typical on-off-on etc romance finally blossoms just in time for the end titles. Along the way there's much wheeling and dealing in their affairs / affair by a motley selection of interested parties but there's little doubt it'll all come right in the end.The humour here is a little more adult than usual with, whisper it, elements of near-bedroom farce at times and another sub-theme of blending ballet with ballroom dancing seems ahead of its time too. Not that I'm making any great narrative claims for the movie of course, it's still a frothy Fred and Ginger feature after all. The best things about the film are the probably too few dance set-pieces between the stars, the roller-skating routine in particular is a marvel and his dance with a thousand Gingers while the fine score by the Gershwin brothers features many of their classic songbook entries. The sets are plush although on the costume front I've seen Ginger in nicer frocks than she wears here. The weirdest scene for me was having Fred dance with a ballet dancer-come-contortionist, not for the first time in one of their movies and some of the humour was a little forced, especially the hotel manager's spelling-bee call from the local jail.Nevertheless, as always it's the song and dance element we look for most in an Astaire and Rogers and both are of top quality in this particular movie. "},{"Title":"What Do I Do Now, Ma?","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This must be judged one of the lesser examples of Fred and Ginger's work. Not that it's so poor it should be avoided. It's mostly that here they don't get together and dance often or intricately enough. The story makes little sense, but then none of their plots ever did. They're beside the point. But, anyway, this is the one in which Astaire imitates a Russian ballet dancer.George Gershwin was finally seduced into writing songs for a movie but the producers were wary. George had a tendency to write classical music, the kiss of death, even with jazz elements. He had to telegram the producers with a reassuring message that he was determined to write hits. As it turned out, the tunes were pleasant enough, including Slap That Bass (in the simulacrum of a ship's engine room), and the title tune. Two of the songs became standards They Can't Take That Away From Me and Let's Call The Whole Thing Off. (You say tomayto and I say tomah-to.) In many ways, the most inventive tune has no lyrics at all. It's called Promenade and appears when Astaire and Rogers walk their dogs on the deck of an ocean liner.And if you've ever wondered what the design style known as Art Deco was, you should definitely check this movie out because the style is here in all its extravagance in the production design by Van Nest Polglase, who by this time was having trouble with the bottle -- the white sets and furniture, the frosted glass with etched deer, the uninterpretable curlicues, and all the rest of it. It's often claimed that it Polglase's sets, all the telephones and their cords were white. It's a bloody lie. The telephones here are silver.Anyway, Gershwin did manage to avoid anything resembling classical music -- a good idea since neither dancer was trained in ballet -- except for one number featuring Harriet Hoctor, a former Ziegfield Follies entertainer. OMG, what a woman. She dances well enough, fingertips aflutter, more skillfully and more flamboyantly feminine than Ginger Rogers, but then she does this THING with her back. En point, she bends backwards into such a lengthy arc that her head almost touches the floor -- and then she repeatedly taps the top of her head with the toe of her ballet slipper. It's a shtick that belongs in an out take from The Exorcist. There's an earlier number with Astaire and Rogers on roller skates but I could never find much grace in roller skating.It begins slowly. It's an hour almost before the two leads dance together. And the end has dozens of women dancing around wearing masks of Ginger Rogers' face. The movie didn't make as much money as earlier outings. Time for something new -- but what? The pair tried a musical biography of a pair of real dancers whose time had long passed, Vernon and Irene Castle. Maybe what they needed was a stronger and funnier plot line. Rogers never got one in a musical. Astaire had only one, The Bandwagon in the early 50s. I remember when Ginger Rogers passed away. She merited one or two lines in Newsweek, hardly a whisper. It was fifty years or more since her heyday and Americans have little interest in vernacular history. "},{"Title":"Fun with Fred and Ginger!","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Fun Astaire-Rogers musical, directed by Mark Sandrich with a Gershwin songbook. This confection has the usual slight plot of the team's films, but the musical numbers and the charisma of the two stars more than make up for the implausibilities. The supporting players Eric Blore and Edward Everett Horton are a hoot as ever. My favourite number was the classic Let's Call The Whole Thing Off, which is concluded by Fred and Ginger doing their famous roller skate dance. I can't even skate properly, let alone dance in them! While it is great entertainment, it is overlong (the dog gag is cute, but gets tired quickly) and pales in comparison to Swing Time and the wonderful, wonderful Top Hat. "}{"Title":"Masques, Frames","Date":"17 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Its fun walking through movies from an era where the stage had not yet migrated away from the screen. It was possible, for instance for Fred Astair to be in the funky bowels of a coal- fired ship and have us presented with a polished floor and musically clanking stage engine parts. This sort of stage/reality merger is not possible today, even in musicals and its quite a cinematic jolt, even though expected.But supposing you aren't tuned the way I am, there are still three very nice things here. In the order they appear&#151; The story is about a man (a dancer) who sees a picture of a woman (who happens to also be a dancer) and falls in love with her. But her appeal should be something to do with how she dances, right? And pictures don't dance. Ah, but they do; we are shown a flip book, consisting of photos from a film. Flip the pages and you see her dance. Stare a moment and the flipbook seamlessly transforms into the film of her dancing. Its a film within that could as easily from that point be the guy's fantasy. This ability to play fast and loose with reality, film and show is unique, I think, to the 30s.&#151; We've come to see Fred and Ginger dance. But we've seen them before, and the truth is that no matter how talented they are, its much the same from one film to the next. So what to do? Well, you add two gimmicks. One is not interesting to me Fred mixes ballet and tap. The other is pretty amazing Fred and Ginger dancing as a couple on roller skates! Now this is pretty darn amazin'. They both seem to completely understand gravity as visionary mystics. That's what its all about, is transcendence. Its what makes her sexy as heck and he classy.&#151; The final big number has two devices that impressed. The first and most visually cinematic is the set. It is a huge cylinder with many vertical doors behind which dancing girls appear and vanish. This is expertly designed and photographed, the only thing here that is. The other device is that the scores of girls wear Ginger masks. She has left him and re-appears behind one of the masks. Oh, you should know that the story, thin as it is, is based on false presentations like this.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Mantan Moreland, Creative Comedian/Artist!","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Greetings & Salutations! That great African-American actor and comedian Mantan Moreland (1902-1973) certainly added the best comedy relief to this film, am sure the other cast members were quite aware of his presence on the set. He graced no less than 134 films in a 40 year span, that would be quite an accomplishment for any actor or actress, but it is even more astounding because he as an African-American made it in the America of the early to mid-20th century. He certainly should have a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame! "},{"Title":"Let's Call the Whole Thing Off","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Poor Fred Astaire. When I was growing up they were still debating who was the best dancer. Gene Kelly or Fred Astaire?Kelly's film have been all spruced up by MGM, they were shot in colour as they were made later. Fred still remains in these creaky, black and white RKO pictures with scratchy audio and inferior picture quality that desperately needs to be remastered.I recently watched Singin in the Rain with my young son, he recognised some of the songs because he sang some of them at school. That was enough of a pull for him to keep watching the film.When I got him to watch Shall we Dance, he got bored, in fact so was I. Astaire plays Petrov a faux Russian ballet dancer chasing a musical comedy star, Ginger Rogers, across the ocean with a series of misunderstandings about them being a married couple and broad double takes from some of the supporting cast.There is an innovative dance sequence with Astaire (Slap that Bass) and a group of black musicians set in a ship which stands out a lot more now and I guess it would had been daring for the time.Astaire gets to mix some ballet with tap dance but Ginger is rather sidelined here and the screwball comedy part is groan inducing. Still a few classic songs are included in the film but I felt they were too good for this film. "},{"Title":"A Dance Worth Doing","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Shall We Dance (1937) *** 1/2 (out of 4) The seventh teaming of Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers has him playing a Russian ballet and her a tap-dancer. The two of them really get to know one another while on a boat heading for America but somehow word gets out that they're married, which sets off a firestorm in New York and gives them unwanted attention. SHALL WE DANCE is without question a very good film but there's no doubt that it's lacking some originality. Previous teamings of the two stars pretty much had the same story. They meet. He annoys her. She falls for him. He falls for her. There's a mistake which causes problems. That same story structure is pretty much followed here and there's no question that it's quite predictable by now but at the same time there's no question that the two stars and their supporting players are in fine form and manage to make it work. There are several good moments here but I'd say the highlight is the roller skating sequence where the always impressive duo makes one even more aware of their genius. I'm not sure how long it took them to perfect this dance sequence but it's certainly a very impressive one that ranks among their best work. The Gershwin songs are all pretty good in their one way but Let's Call the Whole Thing Off is certainly the highlight. As I said, both Astaire and Rogers are perfect together as there's never a doubt that their chemistry seems real. Edward Everett Horton is on hand and offers up his usual nice comic timing. SHALL WE DANCE is certainly going to appeal to those fans of Astaire and Rogers even though it does fall short of TOP HAT and SWING TIME. "},{"Title":"Fred & Ginger getting a little frayed around the plot edges.....","Date":"23 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" First of all, Fred Astaire is far too American to be believable as a Russian dancer named Petrov, and the squabbling he goes through with Ginger Rogers (as an off-key star of musical revues) is a repeat of everything that they've done in their movies up until now. But when you've got Edward Everett Horton, Eric Blore and RKO's top art decco set directors, that's enough to distract you from the silliness of the plot. Add on songs by the Gershwins (the first of two films where they collaborated together) and all those reluctant complaints seem redundant.The basic plot has Astaire and Rogers being mistaken in the press as married, and before you know it, they're hotter than Brad and Angelina. Ginger wants no part of this, but Freddie has a few tricks up his sleeve to win her for good. Thanks to George and Ira's music (some of George's last), it works. Fred woos her to They Can't Take That Away From Me (which he would repeat 12 years later in The Barkleys of Broadway) and even has a bunch of dancers with Ginger masks prancing around him in the title number. What tough Broadway star wouldn't fall for that? The lyrics for Ira are very clever too, particularly in They All Laughed and Let's Call the Whole Thing Off. As visually exciting as the ship set song Let Yourself Go is, what boiler room looks like a Broadway set? Horton & Blore provide droll humor, and exchange some great lines. All they are missing is Franklin Pangborn. "},{"Title":"Repeat Performance","Date":"28 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" After The Gay Divorcée, the first starring vehicle for Astaire and Rogers, established the formula of breezy mixture of musical numbers and comedy, the duo kept appearing in films that varied the formula only slightly, and so it goes here. This one features the music of Gershwin, including Let's Call the Whole Thing Off, They All Laughed, and They Can't Take That Away from Me, and Horton and Blore once again provide the laughs. It's pleasant enough, but falls short compared to the likes of Top Hat and Swing Time. While the roller skate routine is fun, this one lacks a signature number. The script is uninspired and the comedy is forced. "},{"Title":"Tuneful, pleasant, and entirely forgettable...","Date":"11 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Ballet master on an ocean liner from Paris to New York City inadvertently starts a rumor that he is a newly-married man; the manager of a hot-tempered American dancer also on-board exploits his client as the would-be betrothed strictly for the publicity. Lackluster Fred Astaire-Ginger Rogers musical-comedy has about enough plot for a short subject. The singing and dancing are wonderful (including a famous sequence on roller skates); however, with so little connection between the two stars, the romantic angle of the picture never quite comes to life. Rogers is in a perpetual foul mood throughout--and when Astaire dances solo, playing right to the camera, it smacks of ostentation. The George and Ira Gershwin songs (including the Oscar-nominated They Can't Take That Away From Me) are a nice compensation for the lack of sparks. The RKO sets gleam with artificiality, while Edward Everett Horton and funny Eric Blore supply the wacky comedic asides. ** from **** "},{"Title":"The last laugh","Date":"23 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" One of the things about the RKO musicals is that, though they seem dated now, at the time they were the very epitome of chic modernity. Or at least, that's what they aimed to be. Shall We Dance begins by lambasting the stuffy world of ballet in favour of the fun of jazz. The Fred and Ginger series was itself starting to run out of steam a bit by now, and it's hard not to see this as part of an increasing desperation to seem trendy and relevant.Shall We Dance is arguably the most prestigious of the Astaire-Rogers musicals, with several large-scale dance numbers and music by the brothers Gershwin, high priests of early jazz. The big dance routines are all very well, but it seems a shame the Shall We Dance relies upon them so much when the magic of these pictures was in the simple couple numbers. The Gershwin contribution is of greater significance, and there are some lovely songs included here. George Gershwin's tendency to incorporate classical music forms is actually rather appropriate for the theme of ballet dancer turning to tap.In trying to keep the formula interesting, the writers of these musicals were always trying to come up with new things for Astaire to do. His ability to dance comically had already transformed the dance musical, but now there is more focus on his comic acting. His occasional delving into the extravagant Russian stereotype seems like a spiritual ancestor of Harrison Ford's Scottish Laird routine in Last Crusade. It's not exactly the sort of thing to kick off a career as a comedian, but it is amusing through its sheer badness. Unfortunately, it looks like many of Fred's shenanigans here were at the expense of decent screen moments for Ginger. Keeping some consistency in the series are appearances by Edward Everett Horton and Eric Blore, who are as wonderful as ever.Long-term Astaire-Rogers director Mark Sandrich brings his usual lyrical touch to proceedings. His flair with elaborate long takes is highlighted in the nice flowing opening scene, introducing Fred's Petrov alter-ego and Horton's character via paintings, in one sweeping camera move. His real forte was in beautifully discrete introductions to songs. They Can't Take That Away from Me is established with a long static dialogue scene, Ginger with her back to Fred. When Astaire slides into the song, the shot and angle don't change and it just seems a totally natural progression of the scene. Towards the end of it he throws in a pay-off with an emotional close-up of Rogers. Done like this, the number is worth more than all the over-sized dance-offs put together.All in all Shall We Dance is a fairly run-of-the-mill Astaire-Rogers musical. Falling short of classic status, it's really just a twee bit of 30s nostalgia &#x96; the music, the story, those big white sets like the interior of some art deco spaceship. It's far from bad, but the series had by now seen its best days. "}]