[{"Title":"It is all about respect","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"49 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you ever wondered what all the fuss about Howard Hawks was all about, this is the film to catch. It is a first-hand lesson in what the Hawks universe was all about, and it is unsurpassed entertainment from the word go. Two hours of undiminished tension, action-wise, sexually, whatnot.New York showgirl Bonnie (Jean Arthur) is on a stop-over in small-town Barrance somewhere in South America. Here she meets Geoff (Cary Grant), the leader of a small band of mail pilots having to cross a perilous mountain pass on a daily basis, and casualties are to be expected. Within little more than ten minutes of screen-time the young man, who had asked Bonnie out to dinner, is dead in a spectacular crash scene, and from there on the plot and the action pick up space. Bonnie is dismayed by the way the dead pilot's colleagues seem not to care about his death, they just go about their business and pretend he was never there in the first place, so as not to be reminded of their own mortality. Joe died flying, says Geoff. That was his job. He just wasn't good enough. That's why he got it. Dismayed as she may be, though, Bonnie cannot leave, since she is falling in love with Geoff but fast.In this confined space, made even more confined by the dense fog and pouring rain that characterize the local climate, the scene is set for one of Hawks' perceptive gatherings of a group of people to have us observe the dynamics of people interacting, different ethos at work in a seemingly laconic male environment, the love, the rivalry, the camaraderie. The fear. Further upsetting the close-knit community is the arrival of a new fryer (Richard Barthelmess in the best performance of his mature years) who has to prove himself doubly because once in his life he turned yellow. With him he has Rita Hayworth, Geoff's old girl-friend ...This is quintessential Hawks, just in the way that Barthelmess' character has to strive to earn any ounce of respect from his peers. But in every frame it is a deserved classic, and great performances abound.8/10 "},{"Title":"A Notch Above The Rest In Its Era","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"36 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" To quote to the movie cliché on the back of the VHS cover, this is old-time adventure, the kind they don't make anymore.Well, they've always made good adventure stories through the years but you get the message it's simply a good, solid story done well on film .What puts this a notch above other adventure tales of its day are 1 - excellent cinematography; 2 - interesting aerial scenes with neat-looking planes flying in the fog and around and above the treacherous Andes Mountains; 3 - a top- notch cast featuring Cary Grant, Jean Arthur, Rita Hayworth, Richard Barthelmess, Thomas Mitchell, Allyn Joslyn, Sig Ruman, John Carroll and Noah Beery Jr., and 4 - a story that is generally interesting.I say generally because there are a few dry spots, mainly Arthur's continued pining over Grant, but most of it fun to watch and it gets you involved in the story. Ruman and Barthelmess were especially good in their supporting roles. Hayworth's role, one of her first, was not that much.In all, a solid adventure-romance tale, and I'm shocked it gets so little attention on this website, with under 20 reviews as of my writing. "},{"Title":"Not just another Hawks and Grant film - it's a lot more than meets the eye","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"37 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This may be an overlooked Howard Hawks film. It's really a thoughtful film with substance under the guise of Hollywood famous stars and lively screenplay banters. Subject touches on death just 20 minutes into the film. Certainly no dull pacing. It has golden segments, like the exchanges between Grant and Barthelmess, Grant and Mitchell, Mitchell and Arthur, Arthur and Grant, and 10 minutes later, we see people gathered round by the piano singing songs and cajoling - not without sorrow beneath. Be not fooled, sentiments are there for friends passed away. It's not, but it is, a way of handling grief.It's life, matter of fact and not hung up or lingering, simply moving on, devil may care, with boldness, dare, and risk-woe-begotten (or forgotten, for that matter). Men - one track-minded, to fly to deliver no-matter-what. Women - worry, or why worry. To love the man, much of letting go and let him be comes with the territory, even if it's Jean Arthur or Rita Hayworth. The story revolves around not just Cary Grant's Geoff leading the pack in the Andes, but also Thomas Mitchell's brother gone, Richard Barthelmess' past recur, Rita Hayworth's nostalgic fear, and the spunky, sentimental Jean Arthur's Bonnie wraps it all up. The supporting cast aptly contributes from the restaurant-hotel-mailing service owner, the lively South American accents and melody, to the pilots who are green and know not what peril is, and the lone fog-watcher and his donkey. Secrets revealed, conflicts challenged, and there's a growing promotion of trust through it all. Between business partners, colleagues, friendship or marriage - that unquestionable trust, without asking out loud but understood within - is what life and dare all about.This film grew on me. I first saw it on cable TCM the latter half and couldn't wait to catch it again for the full story. Screenplay by Jules Furthman, music score by Dimitri Tiomkin, directed and produced by Howard Hawks, Only Angels Have Wings 1939 (available on DVD) is full of life, humor, drama, adventurous spirits, and non-stop exchange of word deliveries - entertaining, enjoyable, and heart-warming. "},{"Title":"The greatest action-adventure ever made","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"31 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Everything comes together perfectly in Howard Hawks' masterful drama, packed with action, suspense, romance and comedy. Jean Arthur, Cary Grant and Thomas Mitchell all hit peak form here and deliver stunning performances, putting across Jules Furthman's punchy dialogue with astonishing vitality. The rest of the cast is great too Rita Hayworth dazzles in a star-making turn, whilst noted silent actor Richard Barthelmess provides a complex, superb characterisation - his best since the silent-era.Thrilling As Love Born Amid A Thousand Fabulous Adventures! screamed the posters, and that's just what you get pulsating encounters before a backdrop of plane crashes, deception, confrontation, scandal and danger. There are dozens of classic sequences, but one in particular stands-out. After the death of Noah Beery, Jr.'s character, Arthur mentions him by name. Who's dead? spits Grant, bitterly, who's Joe? This tough, fatalistic line forms the centre of Grant's brilliant characterisation, which in turns forms the backbone of this brutal, compelling, wildly entertaining film.Only Angels Have Wings is both Hawks' best movie and one of the key pictures of the decade. Studio magic emanates from every joyous scene. "},{"Title":"Start of the winning streak!","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Howard Hawks is one of our finest and most underrated directors. I believe it was Leonard Maltin who stated that Hawks is the best director you've never heard of. Meaning that Hawks is commonly not mentioned with the likes of Ford, Hitchcock and Welles. This is probably because Hawks usually made popular films that focused on dialogue, character development, and speed (whether action or comedy) to set himself apart. Hawks had complete confidence that the audience liked what he liked.....and most of the time he was right! Beginning in 1939 Hawks began a streak of hits that would continue into the early 50's. After making Bringing Up Baby (something of a flop...now a classic) Hawks departed RKO after being replaced as director of Gunga Din (whose story he had a big hand in developing) and made this film at Columbia. Hawks intention was to make a film about the daredevil attitudes and experiences of pilots flying the mail in South America. The safety conditions for these pilots are non-existent and as a result they live each day as though it was their last.More than most movies this film is often pointed to as a summation of the Hawksian style. A group of men working closely to accomplish a common goal who are united by the dangers involved. These men are not family men or people with long term aspirations. They live in the moment and find their meaning through their comraderie and understated support of each other. As with most Hawksian dialogue (Jules Furthman would become a regular Hawksian writer after this one) it is understated and never overly emotional. The fun begins in Hawks films when a woman arrives who is often more than a match for the man she's in love with! (this pattern prevailed in the comedies as well). In this film Cary Grant, who is one of the greatest Hawksian actors, plays Geoff the head of the air mail airline who has sworn off women because they just don't seem to deal with his dangerous lifestyle. Therefore Geoff deals with women in a very cavalier way. Jean Arthur is American woman who arrives and turns his world upside down. But this film is not just a romance. There are multiple relationships between the characters that keep the viewer engrossed. Thomas Mitchell is most intriguing as the buddy who has been with Geoff for a long time and is quite subtle in his dedication toward his friend. Richard Barthlemess is outstanding in a late career role as the pilot with a checkered past who has to win over the trust of the other flyer's. (he's already won over the trust of Rita Hayworth, which is nothing to sneeze at!)Only Angels Have Wings is one of Hawks best, and perhaps most personal stories. Hawks claimed that it was one of his most true films in that he had been a flyer in World War I and was very interested in the dynamics between the early daredevils of aviation. The film moves along at a crisp pace and contains many tense, gripping scenes that keep the viewer entertained despite the Hawksian emphasis of character/dialogue over plot. Angels was a huge hit for Hawks and was the beginning of his most successful decade in Hollywood. In terms of influence Hawks would give ANY golden age director a run for his money. Directors such as Quentin Tarantino, John Carpenter, and Martin Scorcese would agree! Hawks films are worth studying and Only Angels have Wings is a textbook sample. I highly recommend it! 10 Stars!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Airplane Wings Are More Brittle Than Angel's","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The best film that Howard Hawks's Only Angels Have Wings can be compared to is Hawks's own Ceiling Zero. The former was adapted from the stage play by Spig Wead and for whatever reason Warner Brothers did not put in the kind of production values the A list cast from that film should have warranted. In my review for IMDb I said it was a photographed stage play.Hawks seems to have made the corrections for the deficiencies of Ceiling Zero in this film. First of all he wrote the story for Only Angels Have Wings and made sure to put in enough action and he took the action away from the control room of that small airline in an unnamed South American country. He also cast the leads against type, Cary Grant as a cynical, existential Bogart like hero and Jean Arthur as the wise cracking show girl stranded in the tropics. A part that Rita Hayworth would play to perfection later on.Rita's in this one as well, in the first substantial part in an A picture. She plays the wife of disgraced flier Richard Barthelmess and one of Cary Grant's old flames. According to a recent biography of Jean Arthur, she and Rita did not get along so well. Both of them are retiring types and each thought the other was being snooty to her. Arthur found that out later on and was far more cordial as was Rita. Arthur was also upset that the future glamor queen of America would get all the notice. Rita sure got enough of it.But there were plaudits all around. Howard Hawks got great performances out of Grant and Arthur, expanding the range of both these talented people. Only Angels Have Wings is both a good character study and has a lot of drama as well.And Cary Grant was far more successful at a Bogart type role than Bogey was in doing Sabrina. "},{"Title":"A man's gotta do...","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is relentlessly male and relentlessly American. It functions brilliantly within the Hawksian system where male bonding is key, and where Woman is an outsider. Where romance is a minor part of life and where love is expressed through symbols and not through language. The group of professionals and their easy, jocular interaction is the beating heart of this film and all the group scenes are brilliantly directed. I also like the element of screwball comedy (a genre in which Hawks is one of the few masters) which presents itself in Grant and Arthur's coffee scene. It shows how much Hawks trusts his actors and his material in that he knows that such changes of tone can strengthen, rather than weaken, the key drama. I love this film even though its presentation of the world is not the one I'm the most sympathetic to. The film is not incredibly strong in psychological nuances - not when compared to directors like Sirk, Fuller, Welles, N. Ray, etc...and the basic tone is that of a stoicism which occasionally cracks (slightly) under pressure, but which almost immediately reestablishes itself. It's an attractive world view, but not one I'm incredibly comfortable with. There is no place here for ambiguity - not on any deep, non - localized level. I've been reading some Hawks interviews, and I now understand why Hawks was uncomfortable with being labeled an artist. His attitude towards films and film-making is clearly the same as the attitude of the men in this film towards their work and their lives (and deaths). It's simple you're either good enough or you're not, and you're only as good as your last flight. This identification between the man (Hawks) and his production (Only Angels Have Wings) helps to illuminate the greatness of the film, but it also explains its emotional and aesthetic limitations. "},{"Title":"The last great World War I film","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"32 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie makes much more sense when you put it in the context of early talkie  World War I flying movies like Hawks' Today We Live or The Dawn Patrol orDieterle's The Last Flight (starring, not coincidentally, Richard Barthelmess).  By  1939, with another war looming, audiences were long since sick of such tales,  but by resetting the tale at a South American airport (where Cary Grant runs a  mail service which is in danger of losing its contract), it was just barely possible  to come up with a credible situation where Grant could again order his flyers to  their deaths, and where death would be greeted with the callousness thatcomes from knowing you're probably next and your best friend will eat yoursteak for you.  The reviewers who say Grant doesn't play it serious enough here  are exactly missing the point-- his seemingly breezy, actually brittle facade IS  the Lost Generation attitude, straight out of The Sun Also Rises.This is one of the great tough romances, whose real romance is with death itself,  which needless to say makes it several steps darker than Hawks' superficially  similar To Have and Have Not, let alone Rio Bravo (which reproduces its maincharacters almost exactly-- Grant as John Wayne, Arthur/Angie Dickinson as the  woman trying to get into the boy's club, Barthelmess/Dean Martin as the guywith a guilty past of failure, and Mitchell as the guy who age is catching up with/ Walter Brennan, old age fully caught up).  In gleaming black and white on the  DVD, the foggy, fake studio set and the silver skies might be the dreams of a  pilot in the instant before his crash.  Too grim a bite of caviar for the general,  perhaps, but a testament for a generation that saw more than it could put on film,  and one of the greatest works of art to sneak out of the studio system underdisguise of glamorous entertainment. "},{"Title":"This film flies on Hawks' wings","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For a remarkably compelling story about a fly-by-the-seat-of-their-pants airmail service in South America, director Howard Hawks has assembled a cast that includes Cary Grant as the airline's owner and Jean Arthur as a tourist stranded between boats who catches his eye.  While the performances are all superb (especially Thomas Mitchell as the veteran pilot Kid), it is Hawks who turns a rather ordinary plot into an extraordinary film.  Watch this movie for its visual style and atmospheric mood (note especially how Hawks fills the frame with actors while Arthur and Grant are sitting at the barroom piano), and be prepared for the ride of your life!  "},{"Title":"High flying, adored","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Great flying sequences, some marvelous special effects, and a great cast are the highlights of Only Angels Have Wings, directed by Howard Hawks and starring Cary Grant, Jean Arthur, Thomas Mitchell, Richard Barthelmess, and Rita Hayworth. You will also see a youthful Noah Berry, Jr., as well as Allyn Joslyn, Victor Kilian, and Sig Ruman.Only Angels Have Wings is the story of mail carriers who fly often in bad conditions through a perilous mountain pass. They thrive on the excitement and danger. Their boss is Geoff Carter (Cary Grant). Jean Arthur is Bonnie Lee, a chorus girl passing through who decides she can't leave - like a lot of women in the past, she's falling for Carter. One woman who fell for him turns up as the wife (Hayworth) of a new pilot (Barthelmess) who once parachuted out of a plane and left Kid Dabb's (Thomas Mitchell) brother to die. With fliers out of commission or dead, Carter has to use him, but warns him he's only getting the most dangerous missions.This is a testosterone-heavy movie, very much the kind of thing John Wayne would do. The romantic part of the story, between Carter and Bonnie Lee is lethargic, with fine actress Jean Arthur left standing around worrying. Hayworth, with a decidedly different hairline, has a small but showy role. The meaty roles belong to the men. Grant is terrific as a devil-may-care boss who hides his emotions, and Barthelmess, who would retire after World War II and end his long career, is very good as the disgraced pilot in a role that suited him perfectly. Underplayed, one sees the pain of his past decision on his face. Thomas Mitchell played so many great roles - this time, he's a pilot who has to face his anger as well as a physical problem. Very poignant.Though a little disjointed and a little too long, Only Angels Have Wings has great atmosphere and some spectacular flying sequences and effects. Released in that golden year of 1939, it's another example of Hollywood at its apex. "}{"Title":"And You Thought FedEx Delivery Men Had It Rough","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" A very strange movie in its own way, Only Angels Have Wings is about a group of mail carriers living, working and carousing somewhere in South America. Supposedly it's very dangerous to fly mail back and forth from this particular frontier town, and the life expectancy of a flier isn't long. Therefore, when sexy Jean Arthur shows up on a stop-over and gets a hankering for boss Cary Grant, the sexual tension rests in whether or not Grant will be alive long enough to make forming a romantic attachment worthwhile.With a second world war looming on the horizon, one can see how this story was both relevant and irrelevant at the same time relevant as a parallel for the many American men who would soon be in the position of not knowing whether or not they would be alive from day to day; but sort of irrelvant too, since we're talking about delivering mail here, not going to war!! I can't imagine a movie made today about the dangers of being a FedEx delivery man (unless you count Cast Away).Anyway, Cary Grant is horribly miscast as the crusty man in charge, who puts up a callous front and tries to convince everyone that he doesn't care when one of his men dies. I can only take Grant seriously when he's in a tuxedo and being dapper; here they outfit him in ridiculous parachute pants pulled up to his nipples---I kept expecting him to drop to the floor and start break dancing.As for the female lead, Jean Arthur could do no wrong, as far as I'm concerned. Rita Hayworth shows up in an early role as another love interest for Grant, and one-time silent film star Richard Barthelmess struts in playing Grant's mail carrier arch rival (!), looking for all the world like he's still acting in silent films.Director Howard Hawks creates an authentically foggy and sweaty South American atmosphere, and for all the surface silliness of the plot, he fashions a pretty compelling movie about the instinct to challenge death that dominates these characters' lives. I don't hear this movie mentioned along with the other classics released in the golden year of 1939, but it more than holds its own against the more popular films of that year.Grade A- "},{"Title":"A glorious drama, underrated by the general audience","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Howard Hawks' surprisingly dark film about mail pilots in the Banana Republic and their often dangerous lives is one of the great lost classics of Hollywood's golden era. Although the film was financially successful and well received by critics and audiences when originally released, it has since become a distant memory to many of even the most avid classic film fans. This is unfortunate, for the film is a flawless combination of thrilling drama, light comedy, and special effects that are still very effective today. The film is uncommonly unsentimental and realistic when compared to other films from the same era, and is all the better for it.Cary Grant and Jean Arthur, both of whom are cast somewhat against type and in complex roles, deliver sensational performances that should have won them both Academy Awards (the fact that neither actor was even nominated is inexplicable). The rest of the cast is also terrific, with each and every actor in the impressive ensemble providing strong and believable characterizations. This is particular true of Rita Hayworth, who became an overnight superstar after her appearance in this film was met with a tremendous response from both audiences and critics. An absolute masterpiece, ONLY ANGELS HAVE WINGS deserves to be as highly regarded as GONE WITH THE WIND, THE WIZARD OF OZ, and any of the other classics from the golden year of 1939. "},{"Title":"A dissenting review...after wading through it a second time","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I guess I'm the dissenter here. I don't say this is a bad film, but to me it's a little illogical...although perhaps that's a different time perspective of the 1930s compared to today. The crux of the film is quite simple -- repeatedly, fliers are crashing and dying flying the mail up over a particular foggy mountain pass in South America. In fact, later in the film, you get to see the mountains, and you KNOW they wouldn't fly into them in the fog...well, actually they would fly into them -- literally -- in the fog. But, the mail must go through!!!!! Why not delay until the fog lifts? But of course, at least often when they crash, the mail is destroyed. So let's see -- the way they're operating, much of the mail never goes through, rather than sometimes just being delayed. Hmmmmmmmmmm. And they are destroying expensive planes in the process. Hmmmmmmmmm. Is this anyway to run an airline??? And of course, Cary Grant and others are very stoic about the repeated deaths, while only Jean Arthur has a lick of sense and sees the tragedy for those who die. Nevertheless, Jean Arthur begins falling in love with Cary Grant, who runs the flying operation...despite the fact that he repeatedly insults her.Many see this as one of Howard Hawks' best directorial efforts, and perhaps it is, once you accept the rather boneheaded premise. Cary Grant's role here is not one you're likely to like him in, and I'm not so sure he even performs it well. There were times I felt he was over-acting (and just for the record, Grant is my favorite actor). Jean Arthur, whom we usually savor in comedies, shows her diversity here in a straight dramatic role. In terms of supporting actor Richard Barthelmess, I can only assume he did his best work in silent films...he certainly wasn't very interesting here. This was one of Rita Hayworth's first important screen roles, and she's quite good here, although the best role in the film may very well belong to Thomas Mitchell. This is one of his better roles, though he had many.There are some things wrong with this film. Some of the scenes of airplanes landing and taking off are so primitive in terms of fake set that it's almost childish. And let's see -- there's all that fog in the jungle, but just a few minutes flying time away it's virtual desert. Hmmmmmmmm. But worst of all is when Jean Arthur doesn't want Cary Grant to fly because he might be killed...so she shoots him. Oh brother! There are more Cary Grant films in my DVD collection than of any other actor. And there are some I've watched a dozen times. This was a struggle to wade through the second time around...in fact, it took me 3 days to finish watching it. Considering the positive reviews others give it, there must be something I'm missing. But it's okay...once. "},{"Title":"Howard Hawks on familiar territory with this aeroplane adventure/drama.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Geoff Carter is the head of a small run down air freight company in Barranca, one of his best pilots (and friend) is killed, but this is merely only one of the problems he has to deal with as ex flames, potential new sweethearts, and dissension in the camp, all fuse together to test him to the limit.Howard Hawks was the perfect man for this film because of his aviation background, the result is a very well crafted character study set in a very small locale. Looking at it from the outside you would think that the film was lining up to be a soft soap romantic fable, but here the emotion is channelled into a sort of character bravado that is flawed; yet something that makes for a riveting watch that draws you in deep with the finely etched characters. The cast are on fine form. Cary Grant gets to flex his non comedic muscles with great results as Carter, the film relies on Grant to glue the story together which he does with great aplomb. Jean Arthur & Rita Hayworth are the girls in amongst this strongly male orientated story, and it's a testament to both of the ladies ability that they don't get bogged down by all the macho heroism seaming thru the plot. Smart camera work and cracking aerial sequences further up the quality that is dotted within the piece, and were it not for some terribly twee dialogue, Only Angels Have Wings would surely be ranked as a classic of the 1930s. As it is, it's a wonderfully involving film that shows Hawks at his most humane. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Silver screen classic","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" If this film was made today, it would no doubt involve a great deal more sex and a great deal more CGI - it would be a terrible filmFortunately, this film was made in 1939 and is a superb example of the era - I won't go into the details of the plot (its not that important) but rather i will describe the people involved (more important) - Grant is cynical, distant and seemingly unemotional, he doesn't want to be tied down, he simply wants to get the job done - Arthur is sassy, talented and independent, she knows what she wants or at least she thinks she does - one kiss from Grant changes her mind (as it would)Then there's the pilot carrying the guilt of another mans death (we never find out how responsible he was) no one likes him and he's given the hardest flying jobs that no one else will take - on the up-side, he's married to Rita Hayworth but she doesn't know what his secret is (oh....and she used to have a thing with Grant) The new pilot finds redemption, his wife finds happiness, Grant finds a woman that can handle him, Arthur finds a man that deserves her and some people die along the way Fabulous stuff - i recommend watching it late at night (preferably when it's raining) "},{"Title":"You Can't Send a Kid up in a Crate Like That","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is prototypical Hawks.  No need to describe the isolated solidary male group who kid around with each other when they're not working or fighting each other.  Nor any need to deal at length with the tough but tender babe who has to earn her way into the group.  You'd better be good, Cary Grant tells her when she first sits down to play the piano.  The cast is fine.  Jean Arthur was always a kind of goofy and appealing actress, along the lines of, say, Jill Clayburgh or Glenne Headly or Blythe Danner.  She's the one who works herself into the group.  Cary Grant is simply Cary Grant.  He doesn't adopt a character the way he did in Hawks' earlier Bringing Up Baby or his later Monkey Business.  He has no outstanding moments either, although he does cry at one point -- unconvincingly.  His wardrobe throughout is a riot.  He wears the sort of wide-brimmed panama hat that Desi Arnaz used to wear in his nightclub act.  The waist of his pants are pulled up around his floating ribs and the pleated trousers seem to balloon outward.  Rita Hayworth is the girl who is married to a newly arrived pilot.  She's a loser because she's very emotional, carries a torch, gets unruly when drunk, and is altogether too feminine.  Her husband's career is tainted with cowardice, although she doesn't know about it.  She is less glamorous here than she would be in subsequent pictures because her widow's peak is not yet electrolocyzed or electrolyiticized or depilitated or decapitated or whatever they do to your hair.  As her husband, Richard Barthelmess is receding and somewhat goggle eyed, but he eventually wins his spurs.  The other pilots are suitably terse and masculine.  I found myself wondering about the lone radio operator in his shack on a snowy mountain top, whose sole job is to report on the weather in the pass.  What did he take up there with him to read between weather reports?  My guess two or three Russian novels.  That should be enough to last him for a year.  His nickname is Tex, the same as the radio operator in Hawks' The Thing From Another World.  The film is a bit weak in the usual Hawksian kind of funny wordplay.  The only memorable exchange, between Grant and the Thomas Mitchell, goes like this  Grant Why isn't the boat stopping in the village?  Mitchell Because they have no bananas.  Grant They have no bananas?  Mitchell Yes, they have no bananas.  All played with a straight face.  The characters are familiar enough types to make us feel comfortable with them, and the flying scenes are exciting.  Well worth watching, and a must-see for Hawks enthusiasts.   "},{"Title":"Exciting flying","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For people interested in aviation this movie is well worth watching. The real life air to air shots are short but some of the best of their time. Cary Grant wasn't at his best but Jean Arthur was the star of the film along with Thomas Mitchell. Rita Hayworth was decorative but achieves little else. Does anybody know where the aerial shoot was taken with the French registered aeroplane? "},{"Title":"Say, somebody must've given you an awful beating once.","Date":"9 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cary Grant's second of five films with director Howard Hawks is the story of pilots in South America risking their lives flying in hazardous conditions. Cary's the boss of an air freight company. Jean Arthur plays a showgirl who stops over and falls for him. Also throw into the mix Richard Barthelmess as a pilot with a bad reputation and Rita Hayworth as his new wife, who just so happens to be Cary's ex. This movie is pure Hawks but an atypical role for Cary Grant. It seems much more suited to Clark Gable, who played many similar roles throughout the '30s. Grant does a fine job, don't get me wrong, but it clearly wasn't a part written with him in mind. Also somewhat miscast is Jean Arthur. I adore Jean but can't see her as a showgirl or nightclub singer and she does little here to dissuade me of that. Really I just forgot that was part of her character because she basically plays your standard Jean Arthur heroine here with less comedy than usual. Despite what may sound like criticisms from me, they're both wonderful to watch. Richard Barthelmess is good in his last big movie role. The rest of the cast is full of great character actors like Thomas Mitchell, Allyn Joslyn, and Sig Ruman. Rita Hayworth has her first major part here. She does fine and is, of course, stunning. This is really a terrific film with quality acting, writing, and directing. A classic that any fan of the director or stars has to see. "},{"Title":"Great stars","Date":"9 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" In the South American banana port of Barranca, Bonnie Lee (Jean Arthur) arrives to be befriended by a couple of hound dogs local pilots Les Peters and Joe Souther. It's a dangerous job and Joe dies in a crash. Geoff Carter (Cary Grant) runs the mail delivery outfit. He's a cold hard man and then his ex Judy MacPherson (Rita Hayworth) shows up with her husband Bat (Richard Barthelmess) who has a checkered past as a pilot.There is no doubt that these are great stars. Director Howard Hawks brings a bit of humor but this suffers from the rambling romance. Jean Arthur starts as a funny bombshell and she's completely overshadowed as soon as Rita Hayworth walks in. All of a sudden, Jean is the frumpy second thought. It breaks up a nice rom-com and the movie struggles to recover the story. It also has too many things going on. There's an action thriller. There's a backstory of conflicts with the second in command. There is just too much going on. "},{"Title":"Flying high","Date":"2 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Terrific Howard Hawks feature which I hesitate to term action-adventure as the real meat here is in the psychological studies of an out-there bunch of people, living a life about as far removed from the ordinary as you could get.Cary Grant is brilliantly cast against type as the seemingly cold-blooded, hard-hearted leader of a crack bunch of misfit fliers charged to get mail in and out of a remote jungle location in all types of weather. Into this Men-Only world come two quite different women, both of whom either fall or have in the past fallen for Grant's brand of tough love, wandering spirit Jean Arthur and a young old flame, Rita Hayworth, who are required to adopt the same masculine, devil-may-care approach to life as the men or get cast aside. Perhaps this survival of the fittest ideology is overplayed, particularly when a young pilot, full of life and personality, gets killed and promptly forgotten about within fifteen minutes by his erstwhile chums and colleagues - I felt the scene where Arthur, swallowing her outraged indignation at the callousness of the other fliers, ends up pounding out Peanuts on the piano to all and sundry, just too outrageous and unbelievable.The narrative is episodic taking in the various dangerous scrapes and emotional crises of pretty much all of the main characters, taking us under their skin in a winning examination of this hardy bunch of outsiders with their own moral code. Themes of comradeship, bravery, loyalty and moral redemption are played out in full, interspersed by exciting missions involving hair-raising aerial stunts and effective use, for the time, of special effects.As indicated Grant leads his crew superbly, heartless and caring, pragmatic and generous by turns. You sense that he's really being stretched as an actor here by such a demanding part both physically and emotionally and he comes up with possibly his best ever performance. All the support players make distinctive contributions so that you end up rooting for pretty much all of them by the end. Perhaps Arthur and Hayworth's women don't really belong in the film at all in fact, a point emphasised when the former, very prominent in the first half-hour, disappears from sight for the next half-hour as Hawks focuses on the manpower at work and you hardly even notice, never mind miss her.In truth though, there's very little to carp at - this is a major film in a major year, 1939 (considered by many to be Hollywood's best ever) and never drags along its lengthy, for the times, two hour duration. Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Men in danger, men in action","Date":"5 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" A group of bush pilots fly through rough weather and mountain passes to deliver the mail and win a contract in Howard Hawks' Only Angels Have Wings. They're led by the crafty Geoff Carter (Cary Grant), who's attracted the attention of a wandering American woman, Bonnie Lee (Jean Arthur). When Geoff's best friend (Thomas Mitchell) is grounded due to poor eyesight, he's compelled to take on a flier with a checkered past (Richard Barthelmess). The flier, Mac Pherson, brought along a wife (Rita Hayworth) who knows very little about the event, which involved the death of Mitchell's brother.In various interviews, Hawks said that Jean Arthur was practically the only actress who he couldn't help. And indeed, she seems to be plowing through the material, not really bringing the role the kind of sultry appeal that Hawks seemed to want. She seems just like a schoolteacher stuck in the movie for whatever reason, and her motives never seem to match her style or her presence. Other than Arthur's performance though I thought the film was pretty good. The scenes with Mitchell and Grant have some good drama. The atmosphere of constant danger and tension makes for a good setting, and there is a good scene with Grant and Hayworth where he douses her with cold water. One wishes that Hayworth had been granted the lead in the picture and that Arthur had played the wife. It seems like the style of the actresses would match the characters better that way around. "},{"Title":"On the wings of love","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a film I had no previous knowledge of but enjoyed anyway. Though it is very much a movie of it's time and you probably have to be a fan of older black and white movies to enjoy it. The basic premise of the movie is that of a female musician Bonnie Lee (Jean Arthur) who arrives in a South American port and ends up meeting a bunch of pilots headed up by the head of the airline Geoff Carter (Cary Grant) and gets involved with them as they fly their missions through a life threatening mountain pass. Whilst the attitudes to work and relationships have clearly dated badly with time it is still a fine film with both the leads giving good performances and some solid direction too. The inevitable romantic liaisons between the lead characters plays well as does the supporting story of a pilot who has previously shown cowardice finding redemption from his fellow pilots. A good if not great movie that is well worth giving a chance. I would watch it again though I am not sure how many times. "},{"Title":"Someday I'll get a straight answer from you, and I won't know what to do with it.","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Howard Hawks' 'To Have and Have Not (1944)' has often been described as the director's answer to 'Casablanca (1942),' an adventurous and witty love story/drama set in an exotic location. However, Hawks more successfully captured that spirit of passion and outlandish adventure in 'Only Angels Have Wings (1939),' a romantic, screwball comedy-style love story born amid a tense, exciting and epic aviation adventure. Hawks was evidently fond of story lines centred around aviation, considering he had already produced 'The Dawn Patrol (1930)' and 'Ceiling Zero (1936),' and the film's screenplay by Jules Furthman was expanded from Hawks' own 1938 short story, Plane Four from Barranca. The film explores themes of male camaraderie, professionalism, and bravery, and the amusing consequences that arise when an independent woman arrives to disrupt this closely-knit community of men. The drama unfolds in the small port at Barranca, Ecuador, a village bordered by the might and majesty of the Andes Mountains, and where tropical storms are a regular but treacherous occurrence.'Only Angels Have Wings' was filmed in Los Angeles, and does an excellent job of evoking the exotic tropical environment of South America. The characters always appear beleaguered by the overwhelming heat and humidity of the Ecuadorian jungle, and the frequent storms bombard the landscape with stifling fog and rain. The scenes of aviation, largely produced using elaborate model-work, remain mostly convincing, and those few shots that aren't have a likable charm about them. Roy Davidson (photographic) and Edwin C. Hahn (sound) received an Academy Award nomination for their special effects work, the first time that an Oscar had been offered in that category. One particular aviation shot, apparently involving no effects of any kind, follows Richard Barthelmess' mail-plane as he attempts an extremely risky landing on a perilous plateau. Filmed from adjacent aircraft, the long shot follows the plane as its swoops around the makeshift runway and comes in for the landing, coming to a stop just metres from the edge of the cliff. It's an elaborate and meticulously-staged moment that really makes you appreciate what cinema is all about.The story involves Geoff Carter (Cary Grant), who manages a air-mail business from the small port-town at Barranca. Though he has been romantically-involved with many women, Geoff has basically given away all chances of happiness, being unwilling to place any woman through the stress and fear that besieges any wife whose husband has such a dangerous occupation. Spirited and intelligent Bonnie Lee (Jean Arthur) arrives at the town, and, despite her initial aversion towards Geoff, slowly finds herself caring about him. Geoff's repeated attempts to rebuff Bonnie's advances ultimately prove futile, and he discovers that the woman who truly loves him will never allow herself to be affected by his rejections, however selfless and noble his intentions. Forming the film's dramatic heart is the character of Bat Kilgallen (Richard Barthelmess), a disgraced pilot who finds himself aggressively slighted by his comrades for ejecting from his aircraft and leaving his navigator, the brother of Kid Dabb (Thomas Mitchell), to die. Even when offered only the most dangerous missions, Kilgallen's unwavering desire for redemption earns him the respect of those who had formerly denounced him as a coward. "},{"Title":"Hawks and Grant make it work.","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Though not what I would consider the best of either of these two immortals' work, this is still a breezy and easy-hearted picture that really delves into the world a group of high-flying, dangerous-living pilots in South America. Hawks infuses every shot with the realism of the jungle and weather, which affects every move the pilots make, and Grant is terrific as the stern and callous leader Carter.Both are up to their game here and are boosted by a great supporting cast including Jean Arthur as a showgirl who keeps missing her boat, Rita Hayworth who has some history with Cary, and Thomas Mitchell as his best friend, The Kid, eager to help him out in any way. The plot is pretty tame, but this great-looking cast and marvelous direction of Hawks make it worth coming back to again and again. "},{"Title":"Love on the Wing","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of Howard Hawks' best films. While ostensibly about flying the mail in South America, the picture includes a much bigger story. The characters that populate this film are wonderful and Jean Arthur is terrific. I can't imagine anyone other than Ms. Arthur in the role of Bonnie Lee. Throw in Cary Grant, Thomas Mitchell, Noah Beery, Jr. and Rita Hayworth and you know you've got a winner. This film mixes airplanes with romance, music and suspense. This is also the film from which that well-known phrase Judy, Judy, Judy, comes which is so popular with Grant imitators. However, the line is never actually said. But, like the never uttered Play it again, Sam, from Casablanca, it has become part of Hollywood myth. You'll enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Hawks Master Director","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Of all the now acknowledged master directors who came out of the Hollywood studio system surely there are few who were as downright versatile as Howard Hawks. In a short three year period from 1938 to 1941 he directed the screwball romantic comedy Bringing Up Baby, followed by this adventure film Only Angels Have Wings, followed by the zany comedy mystery movie His Girl Friday, and ending with the war drama Sergeant York. Few of his contemporaries &#x96;Ford, Capra, Hitchcock, DeMille&#x97; could handle each and every one of these genres with such great invention and high style.Only Angels Have Wings combines elements of all these and more. Cary Grant is often said to be miscast, but isn't the combination of his great good-looks and charm tempered by a genuine amusement at and indifference to the wiles of the female the very quality that gives his portrayal of Geoff Carter its special Hemingwayesque character? A man's man, Hawks was never misogynistic. Quite the opposite is true; his best films are full of beautiful vital women and comic/romantic encounters. But in this film as in almost all of Hawks' studio films, women, attractive as they might be, are always secondary. What really counts is the story of a band of brothers ---the rules and values of a macho world.Lovers of big studio cinematography will delight in the atmospheric lighting of the master Joe Walker, Capra's cameraman and one of the very best that ever was. The great character actor Sig Rumann is given more to do than his usual comic German roles. "},{"Title":"Very overlooked  and entertaining study of grace under pressure","Date":"13 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Only Angels Have Wings is an entertaining film, that I feel is overlooked. It is mature in its storytelling, has memorable characters and has very action fine sequences thanks to Howard Hawk's skillful direction. The film looks very beautiful, with excellent cinematography, pleasant scenery, well done special effects(the one with Thomas Mitchell's cockpit window breaking open with the condor was surprising) and nice costumes. If I had a criticism though, the film could've done with more of a South American feel. That said, the performances are splendid, Cary Grant is a macho and hard-bitten sort of person here, and Jean Arthur is suitably sympathetic and chirpy. The best performances come from Richard Bathelmess as a disgraced flier and Rita Hayworth, looking as glamorous as ever. Overall, overlooked and entertaining. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"a tough, masculine, and at times romantic picture from Hawks and company","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" If it could be said what a Howard Hawks film is about, it wouldn't be easy to pinpoint because, frankly, there's so many examples. He put his outlook into so many of his films that otherwise would've, or could've, been standard dramas or comedies or westerns. But if one had to make an educated guess, Rio Bravo and Only Angels Have Wings would be good contenders as the quintessential Hawks films that are *not* flat-out comedies (even as one can see amusing elements throughout). In the case of this film, Hawks crafted an entertaining aviation picture that actually spoke loud and clear to the stubbornness and courage- sometimes both at the same time- in men in peril. It features a top-shelf cast of stars and character actors, has some surprisingly well constructed special effects and flying sequences, and the action and drama and romance fit altogether with barely a hitch.If there's maybe one minor criticism, and it's so minor I feel nitpicky mentioning it, the real 'adventure' plot is a little more engrossing than the romance, with Cary Grant's chief flier Carter leading the missions for this group of pilots on missions delivering mail through dangerous terrain, and having to deal with a bitterness at hand with the pilots as an old wound is opened with the re-emergence of Killian aka Mac Pherson (well cast in underplayed Richard Barthelmess performance) and his new wife played by Rita Hayworth. This goes without saying I don't see why Hawks and Arthur had a problem working together, as she seemed to be cast spot-on as a strong-but-tender female presence in the midst of all these men (and, you know, Rita Hayworth who needs no explanation), who is the only one aside from Kid to get emotionally close to Carter. While Grant and Arthur's scenes are good, even very good at their best (loved the transition from tenseness with the coffee and then to the admission of love), they're nearly overshadowed by the power and effectiveness of those surrounding the missions and the pilots.And those scenes involve the kind of male camaraderie that Hawks is known and admired and even loved for, in expressing the story so well that these characters and personalities come through clean and clear. We've got Kid, played by Thomas Mitchell, who's a wonderful old lug who can't give in about losing his sight as a pilot; we've got Kilgallen as the conflicted but dedicated pilot, who did something terrible once and is seen with a scornful eye by all except, oddly enough, for Carter who sees him for what he can provide for the job. And then all the other minor pilot characters, even those who don't stay on screen too long (one of which, sadly, dies in the first fifteen minutes), who all make up this tense but tight-knit group. And somehow it all works on film; if it were real life, I could see some things being stretched for credulity. But with Cary Grant, Jean Arthur, Rita Hayworth, and this cast and rousing story, it's believable and excellent work. If only for the ending, where one sees moments that are so true to the characters, and how the actors play them in the situation, that it's just about a perfect classic Hollywood moment. "},{"Title":"Great 1939 Classic Film","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a great Howard Hawks production with a great cast of veteran stars who made this into a great masterpiece for the Year 1939. Cary Grant, (Geoff Carter) played the role of a very devoted pilot who runs his airport on an island in the tropics. Geoff has a group of loyal pilots who have been with him for a long time, and many pilots have to be replaced quite often because of many crashes. Jean Arthur, (Bonnie Lee) meets Geoff and falls in love with him and does her very best to calm him down, because Geoff was a ladies man and then his ex-wife appears after many years who is Judy, (Rita Hayworth). This film has many great veteran actors who all gave great supporting roles and Thomas Mitchell, (Kid Dabb), Cary Grant and Jean Arthur put their hearts and soul into their roles. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"One of the BEST FILMS ever made in Hollywood","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" 1939 is often called the best year in Hollywood history, but this superb, and superbly-original, movie gets overshadowed by THE WIZARD OF OZ, GONE WITH THE WIND, DARK VICTORY and other classics from that year.ONLY ANGELS HAVE WINGS can be enjoyed as a terrific, fast-paced action/adventure movie, but beneath the surface there's much more going on.The story deals with big themes -- honor, character, love, guilt, redemption -- in profound ways worthy of Tolstoy or Shakespeare. Jules Furthman, the greatest dialog writer in Hollywood history, outdoes himself here with laconic exchanges where what's said is only the tip of the iceberg. A world of meaning and emotion churn BETWEEN the lines.One example How many viewers even notice that Rita Hayworth, when she's first alone with Grant, produces a match to light his cigarette without him asking? In the context of the story, this tiny detail is a key to their relationship, past and present. The whole film is like this, stuffed with small details that illuminate the backstories, thoughts, and feelings of the characters.ONLY ANGELS is a high watermark of intelligent, grown-up writing for the screen. It's a smart film written for a smart, observant audience.Cary Grant should have won an Oscar for his intense, deeply-felt performance -- this from a star we usually associate with comedy. Many in Hollywood were jealous of Grant, of his good looks, skill, talent, versatility, and success. So they wouldn't give him awards.The film is perfectly cast, written, directed -- even photographed. The opening scenes of the exotic port dazzle in a rich B&W chiaroscuro worthy of Von Sternberg. Above all, this film -- if you open yourself to it -- delivers a hell of an emotional punch. The flying scenes are as exciting as the personal scenes are sensitive and affecting. The nail-biting drama and suspense are leavened with just the right amount of comedy.Here you see Rita Hayworth's star quality emerging for the first time, while D.W. Griffith's early-silent film leading man Richard Barthelmess underacts brilliantly as a man haunted by a guilty secret.The first time I saw OAHW, I remember thinking the scene with the condor was far-fetched, but after the bird-caused plane crash in the Hudson River recently, I realize I was just ignorant about aviation. Hawks, a pilot and friend of pilots all his life, knew exactly what he was doing.Movies do not get better, or richer, than ONLY ANGELS HAVE WINGS. It's one of my top-five favorite films of all time. You can see it over and over and get more out of it each time. "}{"Title":"High Flier","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Probably more so than any other director Howard Hawks had a knack of coming in at the tail-end of a genre, reinventing it and more often than not turning in the definitive movie in that genre. He did it with screwball comedy with Bringing Up Baby, with Westerns in successive decades via Red River and Rio Bravo, thrillers with The Big Sleep and here, literally at the tail-end of both a decade (30s) and the genre that helped define the decade he does it with the 'flying' picture. No less than eleven leading players and supporting and/or 'character' actors keep the pot boiling in a multi-faceted storyline that embodies Hawks respect for the 'professional' summed up succinctly in Grant's terse advice to Arthur when she asks/offers to play the piano 'You better be good'. In Hawk's world you're either a pro i.e. good at what you do or you're a waste of space a la Noah Beery Jnr' Joe Souther, who crashes fatally in the first ten minutes because, as Grant says 'he wasn't good enough'. For the record this is one - if not THE - movie where Grant says 'Judy' several times throughout but never more than once on each occasion when he addresses the gal who done him wrong Judy McPherson (Rita Hayworth) now married to another flier, Bat Kilgallan (McPherson), Richard Barthelmess, who changed his name in an attempt to avoid the stigma of baling out of a plane and leaving his navigator to die in it. For trivia buffs it's possible to see a connection between the short sequence where Barthelmess - who gets all the lousy jobs because of his reputation - flies a cargo of nitro glycerin through a pass in rough weather as the genesis for George H Clouzot's The Wages Of Fear in which four men drive a similar cargo in two trucks over bumpy terrain in the same part of the world, South America, but for everyone it's first rate entertainment from a vintage era and if I mention ALL the players by name - Allyn Joslyn, Victor Kilian, Sig Ruman, John Carroll, Thomas Mitchell, Don 'Red' Barry, Noah Beery Jnr - and throw in the leads - Cary Grant, Jean Arthur, Rita Hayworth, Richard Barthelmess - it's because they ARE that good, pros to a man. See, Enjoy. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" By the end of his career, Gary Grant was well known as an actor who did comedies and lighthearted dramas, where he played characters that were very different to his tough guy pilot in this film. Some viewers may have trouble accepting his acting in this film for that reason, but Grant does a superb job, bringing out both the toughness and underneath charm of his character. Jean Arthur also does quite a good job, and the film has a lot of intense solid drama in it too, despite some points in which the story lags. The characters may be a bit too prototyped for their only good, and the story may be on the predictable side, but it works quite well overall. The in the sky aviation special effects are very good for the time, and so are the accompanying sound effects. There may be a few aspects that could be considered weak here, but ultimately the film does the job proving a couple of hours of solid entertainment. "},{"Title":"A Metaphor for War","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Only Angels Have Wings tells the story of a small airline based in a fictitious South American country in the days when aviation was a much riskier pursuit than it is today. It starts out like a romantic comedy. An attractive female entertainer named Bonnie Lee arrives in the port town of Barranca where the airline is based and two young pilots compete to take her out to dinner. It quickly, however, takes a darker turn and we realise that this is going to be a serious drama. The job is a dangerous one, as the airline's main function is carrying mail from Barranca to the interior of the country through a high pass in the surrounding mountains. Soon after Bonnie's arrival one of the two young men who greeted her is killed while attempting a difficult landing in fog. The main story revolves around the interrelationship of four characters. Bonnie falls in love with Geoff Carter, the manager of the airline, but the situation is complicated by the arrival of a new pilot, Bat MacPherson, and his wife Judy, an old flame of Carter who is still in love with him as her marriage is an unhappy one. It turns out that MacPherson is using a false name and is recognised as Bat Kilgallen, a pilot loathed by other fliers because he was once responsible for the death of his mechanic in a crash. To make matters worse the dead man's brother, Kid Dabb, is working for the airline. (Kid's nickname is presumably an ironic one as he not a young man- indeed, he is older than most of his colleagues). The film was written and directed by Howard Hawks, who had earlier made The Dawn Patrol, a film about flying aces in World War One. (Richard Barthelmess, who plays MacPherson here, had also starred in the earlier film). It was released in 1939, only a few months before the outbreak of World War Two. (Although it is ostensibly about pilots in peacetime, it seems to look forward to the coming conflict. The fatalistic attitude of the pilots recalls that of wartime fliers; they accept the risk of death as an occupational hazard, and consider it bad form to mention the name of a dead colleague and rank bad form to express any grief at his passing. If one takes the film's peacetime setting literally, this fatalism seems suspect. In war, when servicemen are duty-bound to risk their lives fighting the enemy, a fatalistic acceptance of death can seem like admirable stoicism. In peace it merely seems like a reprehensible way of avoiding thinking about how their job might be made safer. (What wrecked Carter's relationship with Judy, and threatens to wreck his relationship with Bonnie, is that both women worry far more about his safety than he is prepared to worry himself). It seems to me, however, that Hawks was using flying as a metaphor for war, realising that before long Americans would find themselves at war again and hoping to prepare them for the necessary sacrifice. The character of MacPherson is that classic figure from war films, the one-time coward who tries to redeem himself by actively seeking danger and volunteering for the most dangerous missions.The love-triangle (or quadrangle) is not the most interesting aspect of the film; we always know that Geoff will end up with Bonnie, if only because of the unwritten rule that the bigger-name star always gets her man. Bonnie was played by Jean Arthur, an established star, and Judy by a then little-known young actress called Rita Hayworth. (I wonder what happened to her!) Although Rita's part here is not a very large one, this proved to be her big breakthrough and paved the way for her successful career. Bonnie is an example of what was to become known as the Hawksian woman, the strong, determined female character who is a feature of so many of Hawks's films. (Other examples include Lauren Bacall in To Have and Have Not, Rosalind Russell in His Girl Friday and Joan Collins in Land of the Pharaohs).There are some good acting performances but no particularly outstanding ones. What makes the film stand out is the realism of the flying sequences (excellent for the 1930s) and the dramatic tension which Hawks is able to evoke. The pilots in Only Angels Have Wings may be fighting for nothing more elevated than a lucrative mail contract, yet we experience as much concern on their behalf as if they were fighting for their country. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Things happen awful fast around here.","Date":"26 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" One thing right out of the gate - you can't convince me that after being spurned by Cary Grant, someone like Rita Hayworth would hook up with a guy that looked like Richard Barthelmess. But then again, Ava Gardner married Mickey Rooney, so I guess I don't know what I'm talking about.Actually, Barthelmess' character Bat MacPherson had a little bit of a George Raft thing going for him, so Raft might have been more believable in the role. Other than that, I liked this one well enough, even if some other situations didn't seem quite believable. Remember when Bat took off with his plane off the short runway to clear the cliff? Man that was scary looking. And how about the goofy bird that blew through the window of the plane to take out The Kid (Thomas Mitchell)? That came so out of nowhere that I had to do a double take; do you think that could really happen? I'm still wondering.Well I like Cary Grant, but it took a little while to warm up to his character here. I guess that's because he played it the way the story called for, as sort of an egocentric banana cowboy who believed women got in the way of things. Like making a living. You know with these stories, by the time it's over some girl will break down the hero's defenses to change his mind, but at least old Geoff stayed in character as much as he could. I liked the double sided coin gambit to end the story, but you had to rely on Jean Arthur to make it work. What if she never looked at it? "},{"Title":"Fine movie -- but not quite original.","Date":"26 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm confused. In 1937, RKO released Flight from Glory. Two years later, Columbia put out Only Angels Have Wings with virtually the same plot. Both films dealt with a small struggling airline ferrying mail across the Andes. In Flight, Chester Morris was their hard-boiled leader. In Only Angels, it was Cary Grant. In Flight, Van Heflin turned up as a disgraced pilot with a pretty wife. In Angels, it was Richard Barthemless. Only big difference between the two, in terms of storyline, was Jean Arthur's presence in Angels as a chorus girl who hung around the airfield after falling for Grant. Okay, another difference -- Angels was a better movie with considerably better production values. Then again, Howard Hawks had a heftier budget than Lew Landers. But can anyone explain how Angels got away with cribbing its plot and characters from the less-glorious Flight...? "},{"Title":"Birds Have Them Too!","Date":"10 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Howard Hawks directed this entertaining drama that stars Cary Grant as Geoff Carter, manager of an air freight service stationed in a remote trading post in South America, where his pilots routinely deliver the mail in dangerous and often foggy conditions between the mountains. Jean Arthur plays Bonnie Lee, a woman who finds herself stranded at his airport, and strangely attracted to the brash and aloof Geoff, whose life is further complicated by the arrival of an old flame(played by Rita Hayworth) and her unpopular flier husband. Thomas Mitchell plays Kid Dabb, an old friend who tries his best to keep Geoff happy and sober. Good film has exciting aerial scenes and amusing dialogue, even if the script has too many complications. Good cast and direction make it work well. "},{"Title":"Adventure - romance","Date":"22 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Saw film for first time yesterday. Some features remind me of another atypical Cary Grant role in Crisis where he plays a neurosurgeon caught in a Latin American banana republic revolution. Atypical because neither is basically a comedy and both set in Latin America. I have 2 trivia type questions. After the second crash that Jean Arthur witnesses, she gets sick. Is she pregnant or just reacting to the situation? Secondly after the condor hits the windshield and breaks Tom Hamilton's neck, he has a conversation with Cary Grant. He suggests that the manufacturer angles the windshield in the future. Did the three motor plane ever later have an angled windshield? Hawks was such a flying aficionado. I read all the reviews posted and saw neither of these points mentioned. "},{"Title":"Made me want to become a pilot and learn how to smoke","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a great old movie, back in a time when men were men and women were all former showgirls or something. Men flying airplanes, men flying airplanes through obscured mountain passes during violent rainstorms, men dropping nitroglycerin on condors (but just wait, they will get their revenge), men dying, their friends dealing with death the way men should -- with denial and booze. Set in one of those remote, out-of-the-way jungle locales where miraculously everyone crosses paths, kind of like Casablanca but with a lot more rain. The pilot who bailed out and left his mechanic behind to die meets up with the brother of said mechanic, and the brother ain't too happy about it. But through an inevitable turn of events they end up together in a burning plane and have to bail, but one of them can't. What would you do? The pilot's wife is a real looker, Rita something, but our hero is shocked to realize she is the old flame who crushed his heart. Is that really you Judy, Judy, Judy? (yes, this is the movie where Cary Grant never actually says this). There are so many situations that make no sense. The girl from Kansas or Maine or golly geewillikers I'm not sure where spends about 10 minutes getting the cold shoulder from our hero, and then goes on to confide her worries about whether it is right to tie him down. Well, he is Cary Grant, so I guess it is these leaps of sudden commitment aren't too fanciful. When the Kid fails his eye test, Cary tells him he is through flying. That's right, there is not a single optician in all of South America.In short, I loved this movie. Made me want to become a pilot and learn how to smoke. It will have the same effect on you too. "},{"Title":"Given the circumstances in a world apart","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Given the circumstances in a world apart, as well occurs on an adventurous love story between Jean Arthur and Cary Grant, also with the radio transmission guiding people, Only angels have wings (1939) directed by Howard Hawks, for consumption now, it is delicious as keen mix between comedy and action gray movie, located on a scale for planes mailing on the top of Andes mountains. One of the aspects of this mythic movie that I saw in my adolescence, which means exactly one generation after its making, it was the act that most of the scenes were by night and much more rarely by day light, what to me has conditioned my youngest impression for the whole of the story, where two girls and a guy are there, in a foreigner ambiance, near the mountains and big birds, for the life or death of the characters like facing continually monsters till its destruction, as though from the period before historic times at the top of the snowed mountains, like if all this it was situated on a given and concealed tableland at the end of the lost world. The noise in the improvised airport without practically lights by night, when a plane lands or take-off risking continually its crash against any slope frighten me at the time. Hawks here was the master in his own career as pilot, before perhaps making it the most important movie of his lifetime, with that analogy for the condors in 1939... In South America by night the planes were obliged from the strict timetable landing and take-off, but with the probable shock with or from the condors, risking so frequently the crash and the death of the pilot or sometimes his own assistant as occurred here. What means that, in the context of the time - and much more than the idea of a group linked by professionalism, as it is said for the main characteristic of the artistic mind concerning this movie - and its glamor quite savage, coming from isolated human beings from the industrialized world ? Hawks is at his best surely with this epic of mailing aviation, scaling Barranca in Peru, a small community. My favorite scene concerns one inside an airplane, when carrying out the mail the pilot had lack of oxygen and condors attacking it. Is it the correct way, by such a dramatic nightmare, to bring the mailing post over the mountains and risking his life for nothing more than only winning for civilization the experiments of first communications, along a continent so exploited in its resources by the sellers of technological inventions, situated as owners for the most in the North of this same world of adventurers and happy few ?Hawks in this movie put the symbolically wings in such an imaginative flux of talking from this guy as pilot of high experiments, risking the good name of this company of aviation - as matches over the soil like lamps illuminating the night - competing with such a terrible birds of high mountains. By this way, also as though eluding the terrestrial side of every human being under such a warm desire, playing with women as if it was from somebody with such an instinct for synchronizing with fluctuation on the atmosphere nearby this tableland in South America with a little machine linking pleasure for life, simultaneous escaping from death on the valley. Underlining adventure above dramatic tension, as in increasing suddenly his own coldness over the stress, for accomplishing by intimacy with such a kind of nature, without breathing almost anymore than collapsing imminently, so a given track of honor and quite fear as cure paying existence. "},{"Title":"Flying in the air","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cary Grant plays Geoff Carter, a pilot and a manager of a small airport in South America.The beautiful Bonnie Lee (Jean Arthur) stops at that airport while waiting for her boat.She stays there longer because she fancies the handsome pilot.But he's too fond of flying.And then his old flame, Judy MacPherson (Rita Hayworth) appears on the scene with her flying husband Bat (Richard Barthelmess).All that and much more happens in Only Angels Have Wings (1939).It's regarded as being among the finest films of its director Howard Hawks.The charismatic Cary Grant was a true star.He shines in this movie in the air and on the ground.Jean Arthur makes a perfect female lead.And then Rita Hayworth with her sex appeal.Richard Barthelmess is brilliant as the man who's not the most popular person among other fliers.The fantastic Sig Ruman plays Dutchy.This movie contains some exiting flying sequences.It seems pretty amazing what goes on in the air. "}{"Title":"Grant and Hawks earn their Wings.","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" ONLY ANGELS HAVE WINGS is not a perfect film, I will admit that. Rita Hayworth and Cary Grant don't always hit their dramatic marks, the special effects may seem dated to today's audience, and there are some contrived plot twists. But there is so much heart and emotion, such great cinematography, quotable lines and swift direction by Hawks that makes this film worth watching. If Scorsese had made 'The Aviator' in 1939, this might be what it would look like.Bonnie Lee (the always wonderful Jean Arthur) is a piano-playing showgirl on her way back to New York, stopping between boats in Barranca. She quickly falls in with a band of tough-shelled pilots who fly mail over the dangerous mountains, rain or shine. The leader of this bunch is Geoff Carter (Cary Grant, in his first dramatic performance), with the toughest chip on his shoulder. Within the first 20 minutes we see, mostly through the eyes of Bonnie, the death of a pilot in a fascinating flight sequence. But the most important part is how everyone reacts after the death of a friend. While Bonnie is grief-ridden, she is more shocked at the lack of sympathy and refusal to acknowledge the death. She quickly learns that this is the only way for them to deal--if someone dies, they shrug it off, as if to say he wasn't good enough, so he died. I'm better than him, so I live. After a few tears she becomes, like all great Hawksian women, just one of the guys, joining them in a spirited rendition of The Peanut Vendor, in one of the many memorable bonding scenes. Beneath the stoicism, there lies a web of friendship and heart that makes this film work.Bonnie then decides to stay for a few more days, hoping to get to know Geoff. And in those few days, another surprise visitor appears Bat Kilgallen/MacPherson, a pilot shunned for jumping out of a crashing plane, leaving his fellow engineer to die. The engineer just happened to be the brother of Kid Dabb (Thomas Mitchell), Geoff's best friend. Also along for the ride is Judy MacPherson (Rita Hayworth), Geoff's ex-love. Stress and sexual tension soon arise, and complications get even more complicated, from Bonnie falling for Geoff to Kidd dealing with his hatred for Bat as well as his physical problem that could compromise his career, and Judy's confusion as to why everybody hates her husband. Finally everything comes to a climax in a stunning flight scene.As usual, Hawks assembled a great cast, even despite the problems. Jean Arthur makes a great Hawksian woman by giving her role the empathy that would otherwise be lacking. Thomas Mitchell, widely known for his work in supporting roles including GONE WITH THE WIND, gives a quiet and sorrowful performance as someone whose whole life is flying and isn't ready to give it up. It's very refreshing to see Cary Grant in something other than a screwball comedy. Geoff Carter is the kind of role that would be perfect for John Wayne (who later frequently collaborated with Hawks), but Grant gives the role a sensitivity that would've been lacking in Wayne's super stoic persona. Grant has a scene at the end that requires tears and emotion, the first we see from such a hard man, and he doesn't quite get there. But from other scenes, he is so commanding you can't help but surrender to him, just as Bonnie does. Their scenes are magical together. The same goes for Rita Hayworth; she was still early in her career, and her inexperience shows (not that the flat character does anything to help). However, Hawks hired her because she had a face the camera liked; her presence and radiant glow is so alive you almost forget her shortcomings. Almost.With today's CGI-ridden special effects, the ones here may dull in comparison. But the cinematography, especially of the planes flying over the beautiful Andes, are stunning, and done without the help of a green screen. That's what I love about these old movies you can always tell that the directors spent more time talking with the actors and writers than worrying about the special effects, which is what make the special effects truly special.Many note that this was Howard Hawks' most personal film of his career--he frequently associated with pilots, and he knew the characters inside and out. This is what gives the film the heart that it needed. His trademark dialogue and speed becomes a necessity to not become too melodramatic and maudlin, with both wisecracking and wise results. Hawks was the Spielberg of his day. Like Spielberg, there is such an air of professionalism even during the outlandish situations and circumstances, a heart and a brain and courage to each shot. Under his wings, even the flawed WINGS soars. "},{"Title":"A spectacular film achievement","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Only Angels Have Wings is directed by Howard Hawks, has a screenplay by Jules Furthman and stars Cary Grant, Jean Arthur, Thomas Mitchell, Sig Ruman, Richard Barthelmess and Rita Hayworth.Only Angels Have Wings is a story about a group of emotionally damaged people.There's Geoff(Cary Grant)the tough as nails pilot who is the head of the flying department that delivers the mail and any other things(like medical supplies etc).Bonnie(Jean Arthur)the young American girl looking for love and adventure and who is as tough as Geoff is.The Kid(Thomas Mitchell)Geoff's best friend and fellow pilot who may be growing blind and who's mourning for his brother, who was killed in a plane crash when his co pilot bailed out.Dutchy(Sig Ruman)the hotel and airfield owner where the pilots are based, who is running out of money to keep it running.Cary Grant gives one of his best performances here as the cynical tough guy who can't afford to get sentimental, if he gets sentimental he thinks he'll get weak and that's a risk in the job he does. Grant proves here and in Notorious how good he was at playing darker characters, it's a shame he didn't get more roles like this.The flying scenes look quite realistic and you get a sense of how dangerous this job is. The growing romance between Geoff and Bonnie is conveyed so well by Cary and Jean and you feel for both their characters.This film also has one of the saddest death scenes I've ever seen, even then the tough guys cannot afford to show emotion, even at a moment when it's perfectly fine to do so.This is a must see film about friendship,courage,risks and emotions. "},{"Title":"Awfully Silly and Overrated","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" In the hypothetical port of Barranca in South America, the American showgirl Bonnie Lee (Jean Arthur) befriends two American pilots while waiting for the departure of her ship. They go to a bar and she meets their boss Geoff Carter (Cary Grant) that runs a small airline company that delivers mail and other cargo through the dangerous chain of mountains. Bonnie feels attracted by the cynical Geoff, and decides to stay. When the new hired pilot Bat Mac Pherson (Richard Batherlmess) arrives with his wife Judy MacPherson (Rita Hayworth) to replace a diseased pilot in the airline, their pasts affect Geoff and the other pilots. Only Angels Have Wings is awfully silly and overrated movie. Jean Arthur performs Bonnie Lee, who is the perfect stereotype of the dumb blonde, with the most stupid attitudes, patronized by the men and culminating with a shot in the shoulder of Geoff Carter. Cary Grant performs a cynical and arrogant character, totally unpleasant and without any chemistry with Jean Arthur. The best moments are offered by Richard Batherlmess, a man marked by his past that has to prove that is a skilled and brave pilot, and Rita Hayworth. The Hollywood poor vision of South America is ridiculous. My vote is three.Title (Brazil) O Paraíso Infernal (The Hellish Paradise) "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest American Films","Date":"4 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's hard to sum up this film in a few words, or even to suggest what makes it such a masterpiece. It's clearly a 'formula' creation - but it's a perfect formula, perfectly executed, with perfect stars and the perfect director. In a way, it's the epitome of the old-school Hollywood studio flick. But it's also much, much more.As a drama, the film is near perfect. The weird triangle of Grant-Arthur-Hayworth is fascinating, yet supported by sub-plots that are all strong enough to be good movies in themselves. We have Mitchell's 'The Kid' fighting to keep his status as a pilot. Barthelmess fighting to return from disgrace. Grant struggling to keep his fledgling airline going. It's all epic stuff, as good as anything the studios produced.But there's also a mythic quality - the 'angels' reference. These are men who are striving to be more than just the sum of their earthly struggles. This is mankind trying to hoist itself up by its bootstraps. To build a wonderful future in one of the most backwards places on the planet.The mystique of aviation is central to that mythology, and perfectly captured by Hawks. As a sometime flier myself, I've been present when aviators have been killed, and seen a similar reaction to what's shown in this film. The risks are accepted up-front, so when something does go wrong there's no pause in the conversation. Everything continues, almost as if nothing had happened. The one actual flying sequence in the film, where Barthelmess lands and takes off on a tiny mesa, is not only spectacular in itself (as executed by the great Paul Mantz), it's absolutely true to the kind of flying that bush pilots continue to engage in, even today. Hawks clearly knew his stuff.Then there are the film's cinematic merits. Largely filmed on sets, it has an oddly claustrophobic feel. These characters live in a hell-world of jungle heat and stark black shadows, waiting desperately to soar into the sunlight. The musical interludes are haunting, on a par with the 'Play It Again' sequence in Casablanca. And the performances are gigantic. Grant, in particular, was never better, perfectly evoking flippant humor as a mask over deep sadness.This is a 'romantic' film in the grandest sense. It's one of my favorite films of all time, and certainly one of the best Hollywood films of all time. It may seem a bit dated, or melodramatic to modern audiences, but to me that sense of distance only adds to its charm. This is a film that's mellowed with age, gained depth and complexity. It deserves to be more widely appreciated. "},{"Title":"Lots of Good Stuff","Date":"22 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" There's a lot going on in this movie.  As many have said here, it is layered.  On the surface, it is the story of men's men, living on the edge, laughing at death, sometimes cheating him, other times losing the hand.  On a deeper level, it is a love story, love between men who live a precarious existence, and intelligent, real adult love between these men and the women who admire, fear and hate the kind of life they lead. The cast is excellent; Cary Grant, Jean Arthur, and Thomas Mitchell are at their best, with wonderful support.  Hawks is at his best also, taking a great, adventurous story, and using it as a framework to tell a lot more about life than one would suspect from the surface.  I loved the sets; they had a kind of South American Casablanca feel.  This is a great movie, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"As good as any pre-Citizen Kane film there is","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are some films that can withstand time and be shown and make an impact even in these days. This is one of those films.This is a really good drama/adventure. I can see why they say this is Howard Hawks best film. This is strictly a supporting cast film. Yes the 2 biggies in this are here but of the two, Cary Grant is the star and the cast behind him are just as good or even better. There are so many faces you'll recognize right from the start you know that it's gotta be good with this bunch they assembled. Doesn't hurt that a young Rita Hayworth is in here to.High Drama/Adventure along with a nice little love story and lotsa plane crashes make for a good film. This one is a certain winner. "},{"Title":"Fun Flying Adventure Film","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a nicely directed film with a half dozen actors doing fine work. Cary Grant is the center, and on-screen for about 90 minutes out of the two hours, but he doesn't hog the show. There are five other performers who really shine; Thomas Mitchell, Richard Barthelmess, Noah Berry, Rita Hayworth and Jean Arthur. They each manage to impress with their ten to twenty minutes of screen time.Some people, including director Howard Hawks, criticize Jean Arthur for not playing it sexy, but I think her choice was right. She comes across more as a gal-pal, but with a lot of sensitivity. It was the right way to catch the Cary Grant macho character, who knew he could have any pretty woman he wanted. Besides, she probably realized that she couldn't compete with Rita Hayworth in the sexy department, so she relied more on her acting to create a more complex and sympathetic character. I only knew her from her role as Clamity Jane in the Plainsman and the classics, Mr. Smith Goes to Washington and Shane. I'll have to look for more of her stuff.The aerial photography and sequences are well done and provide most of the action-excitement in the film. The script has enough twists and fresh devices that it still holds our attention.My one quibble is that we really do not get anything of a South American atmosphere. Except for one police officer, it seems that everybody speaks English in the South American place they were in. It missed a good opportunity to add some flavor that would have added to the film.In any case, it is a pleasant and still entertaining romantic adventure. "},{"Title":"Great characters, great story, great movie.","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" During the late '30's and early '40's a lot of dramatic movies got made, by big name directors, often starring big name actors. Lots of them have grown into becoming classics but of course in a way they are also all sort of the same. Only Angels Have Wings is one of the more original ones though, due to its original settings and main concept.The movie can be called an aeroplane drama, with plenty of adventurous and comedy elements involved. The entire movie is set at a small airport, with dozens of pilots, who do errants by plane for costumers and numerous other reasons. It's an unique original world that isn't handled too often in movies but it's quite intriguing really. It concept and settings provide the movie with plenty of great moments.It's also a movie that is being made great by its characters and the actors which portray them. Great thing is that this movie has more than just a handful of great characters and big name actors portraying them. With Cary Grant it has a great leading man and with Jean Arthur and Rita Hayworth the movie also has two more than great female actresses. Richard Barthelmess was also really great in this, in one of his talking roles. He is still best known for the work he made during the silent-era, especially the classics movies he did with director D.W. Griffith.The movie also has a good story, that looks pretty formulaic on the surface but still works out better than usual because it knows how to blend several themes and also genres. The movie is not purely just a drama and not just purely an adventure movie or romantic one. It's a rather pleasant mix of it all that works out on basically all levels. The movie is also more pleasant and perhaps also easier to watch for today's modern audience than most of its other fellow genre movies.The movie has some great sequences with its planes in it. Especially for its time it must have really been something to watch. The movie has some good stunt flying in it and also at times uses some pretty good looking early special effects. It also received an Oscar nomination for this, as well as for its black & white cinematography by multiple Oscar nominee Joseph Walker.It's a movie that perhaps is not as well known as Howard Hawks's most other work but it's just as great and well worth watching. Hawks was a director who could handle many different genres just as well and with this movie he proofs and shows this once more, by letting several different genres and themes blend in extremely well with each other.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A rather odd role for Cary Grant, but still a very good film","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Considering that this film was directed by Howard Hawks and featured Cary Grant, Jean Arthur, Rita Hayworth and a star-filled supporting cast, it's not a big surprise that the film worked so well. Now this isn't to say that it is perfect or the finest film of the age--in fact, since it came out in 1939 (probably the greatest year for American films), it was doubtless overshadowed by a host of other films. Sure it couldn't keep up with GONE WITH THE WIND, MR. SMITH GOES TO WASHINGTON, GOODBYE MR. CHIPS and a whole host of other huge films that year, but in no way does this mean it wasn't a very good film. In fact, I really can't think of anything bad about the film, though I did find it a bit odd seeing Cary Grant play a role that seemed more designed around an actor like Clark Gable or perhaps Gary Cooper. In other words, seeing the sophisticated gent that was Cary Grant in the South American jungle just didn't seem real. It wasn't really a problem with Grant's performance but more my expectations based on the types of roles he generally played.The story is about a small struggling airline in the Andes and the group of outcasts who often give up their lives trying to make the dream work. Cary is the boss and the entire organization is thrown into some disarray when Jean Arthur enters this all-male enclave. A bit later, when Richard Barthelmess and Rita Hayworth come along, the chaos seems to intensify. Instead of discussing exactly why all this comes to a boil, it's probably best you just see the film for yourself. The acting and direction, as I stated above, are excellent--plus the writing and action are very good as well. A very good film--particularly for airplane and old movie buffs like myself. "},{"Title":"Apparently, Howard Hawks is only as good as his script.","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'll give you three for Rita Hayworth, who lights up the screen as usual. Cary Grant gets none, his usual charm is replaced by a silly sombrero. I'm sorry, this one was just boring. Not funny like Hawks' own His Girl Friday or Ball of Fire or engrossing like say Curtiz's Casablanca. Some vague plot where people fly planes and such. Apparently Howard Hawks is only as good as his script. This one, based on his story, has not aged well. Its all surface sets and costumes and props and movie stars play acting. Disappointing.3/10 "}{"Title":"Masterpiece Flier movie","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" A Classic adventure drama with very good production.Grant shows more of his tough guy side here and one who loves drama/romance will enjoy the characters of the story.The cinematography was good but could have been better.If the cinematography was a notch or two better in quality,along with a better musical soundtrack,this movie would make MASTERPIECE status for it's genre.The atmosphere of the time and place depicted in this film was captured very well.Made with a less than usual dose of a watered down Holywood feel,this film has an edge to it like an uncompromising war film or film noir.A dark quality to it well blended with life's better qualities which reminds the viewer of life's precarious balancing act.Only for philosophical/exotic love drama fans,big Pilot/Flier fans,and big fans of the lead actors......   "},{"Title":"Red eye flight","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Howard Hawks, the director of this film asks a lot from his viewers, defying logic along the way. It's still worth watching, although, I suspect that in 1939 it had more impact than 65 years later. The beginning of the airline in that remote Andean setting is something not to be believed. The aircraft used for the flights have a look of toy planes, for even in those days. The flying over those high peaks was for dare devils only because of the risks involved.At the start of the film we see Joe being sent to a flight that was doomed. His death doesn't even raise an eyebrow from Geoff, who doesn't even move to go to help in the rescue of one of his pilots. That, I found hard to swallow knowing full well the bond between these flying people all over the world.The movie is dated, but it is worth a look because of the cast. The key figure of Geoff Carter, gives us a miscast Cary Grant. Somehow this man sounds false. Jean Arthur is Bonnie Lee, an itinerant performer from Brooklyn. There are no sparks between Grant and Arthur at all.On the other hand, there is a stellar performance by Thomas Mitchell, as Kid. For some reason, his character resonates with us because of what he is going through and because he is losing his job in the airline. Also notable Richard Barthelmess, who plays the mysterious MacPherson. Rita Hayworth has a small part.  "},{"Title":"Uneven but watchable","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A strange mix of high-flying action, terse drama, and Hollywood star vehicle, Only Angels Have Wings leaves the viewer feeling out of sorts. Cary Grant stars as a misogynist pilot running a mail service in Latin America. The film begins as Jean Arthur arrives to stir romance and trouble. Early in the film, when one of Grant's pilots crash, he blames her for the accident, because he wanted to have a steak dinner with her.  He later apologizes, but the theme of the film-that nobody can take responsibility or make promises for another-is established.  Men cannot have love for one another, only respect or hatred.  The job is all there is, and women are not even worth speaking about.  It is an adult film, with open sexual references and plenty of drinking and smoking.  In spite of all its serious themes and numerous injuries and deaths, the film has a real rip-roaring pace to it, at least some of the time.  People will mourn for a minute, then sing and dance, and then get back up in the air.  The film does establish a wonderful sense of uncertainty.  Life can fall apart at any moment and we should be ready.  Sadly, it doesn't realize that preparation involves growing closer to others rather than pushing them away.  Still, it is unique in its time and setting as well as its characterizations of lost Americans late in the depression.  It has a certain kinship with the Wages of Fear.  The highlights are the beautiful aerial photography, which at times even follow a plane as it races along a canyon.  Hawkes was one of America's great directors of intelligent, adult films, but the misogyny and general antipathy of this film leave it a notch below his strongest work.  "},{"Title":"Only Angels Have Wings- A Devil of A Film **","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cary Grant is terribly miscast as Jeff Carter, who heads a mail flying outfit out in an area filled with bad weather.Jean Arthur comes off the boat and falls for Grant. What else is new?Grant looks ridiculous in a sombrero like hat and is always asking for a light. Even a bigger joke is his sidekick Thomas Mitchell. The latter is called The Kid. Some kid. This is the same year that Mitchell starred as Gerald O'Hara in the true classic Gone With the Wind. He also copped a supporting Oscar that year for Stagecoach.After Noah Beery Jr. is killed in bad weather, the group goes around a piano and Grant and Miss Arthur lead them in an absolutely awful rendition of Some of these Days. Where was Sophie Tucker when she was badly needed?Arthur loves Grant so much that she points a gun at him and when she places it down on the table, the gun offs off popping Cary in the arm. The writer of this nonsense needed some popping as well.Of course, the characters become resolute at the end. Cary flies off and Jean will be waiting for him. The other thing they needed to wait for was much better projects than this which thankfully they got in the years ahead. "},{"Title":"Only Angels Have Wings","Date":"21 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to be completely honest, I didn't understand any of what was going on in this film, and I don't know why I insisted to myself finish it, maybe because of the leading star and its director Howard Hawks (Bringing Up Baby, The Big Sleep, Gentlemen Prefer Blondes). It is based in a small airport in South America, where Bonnie Lee (Jean Arthur) has stopped waiting for her boat. All the pilots deliver mail over dangerous and foggy mountain passes. Lead pilot Geoff Carter (Cary Grant) seems distant and cold as Bonnie tries to get closer to him. Geoff's old flame Judith 'Judy' MacPherson (Rita Hayworth) heats things up showing up with her infamous pilot husband. That's about it. Also starring Richard Barthelmess as Bat Kilgallen - MacPherson, Thomas Mitchell as Kid Dabb, Sig Ruman as John 'Dutchy'/'Dutchman' Van Reiter, Victor Kilian as Sparks, John Carroll as Gent Shelton, Allyn Joslyn as Les Peters and Don/Donald 'Red' Barry as Tex Gordon. To be honest the only scenes I paid most attention to were the plane flying, in trouble and crashing. I wish I could agree with the critics giving the film five stars out of five, but because I didn't understand, I'm sticking to this opinion. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography and Best Effects, Special Effects. Worth watching, in my opinion! "},{"Title":"Howard Hawks Takes Flight","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" American Cary Grant (as Geoff Carter) runs a rickety airline, servicing mail in South America's Barranca. The Spanish port is enthralled by the arrival of beautiful blonde Jean Arthur (as Bonnie Lee), a showgirl looking for a job. Immediately, Ms. Arthur attracts attention from the flyers working for Mr. Grant's airline; she stands out among the local women. After a plane crash kills one of Arthur's handsome admirers, she is grief-stricken. Grant receives some lip about the dangerous working conditions at his airline; but, he takes it in stride. Arthur falls in love with the manly, misogynistic Grant - but, she finds him a tough nut to crack. Arthur realizes Grant's female trouble stems from a past relationship. Will they get together? The plot picks up significantly with the arrival of Richard Barthelmess (as Bat Kilgallen aka MacPherson) and his screen stimulating wife Rita Hayworth (as Judy). It's a long 50 minute wait, but the sub-plot involving Mr. Barthelmess and Thomas Mitchell (as Kid Dabb) is where Only Angels Have Wings really takes off. Barthelmess was a huge star from 1919 (in D.W. Griffith's Broken Blossoms) to 1930 (in his last appearance, at #8, on Quigley Publications annual Box Office Stars list); and, this film began his career as a supporting actor, after taking a few years off. Of course, Ms. Hayworth become one of the sexiest stars of the 1940s. The story is weak, but the Howard Hawks-produced aerial climax is nicely done.****** Only Angels Have Wings (5/12/39) Howard Hawks ~ Cary Grant, Jean Arthur, Richard Barthelmess, Rita Hayworth "},{"Title":"Special effects","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A film full of special effects special script, special director, special actors. Cary Grant at his best, much better than under Hitchcock's direction, and Jean Arthur delightful. Only one little spot Grant's unbelievable sombrero at his first appearance. "},{"Title":"Unusual Hawks film with good flying sequences","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"     Only Angels Have Wings is not your prototypical Howard Hawks film filled with strong heroes, or slapstick gags.  Perhaps that is one reason why it is so hard to review.          **** Possible Spoilers****   Hawks (who was responsible for the original storyline)has many different elements going on in this story. Not all are successful. The starlet who falls for the tough boss in town. The tough boss who is trying to keep the business together for one of his buddies.  The return of an old flame.  There are several other plots that take place, and perhaps that is the problem, too many tangents and storylines that are difficult to resolve and the resolution of them is forced and not very believable.         It does not help Cary Grant is miscast as the tough but lovable boss.  I can see Clark Gable, but Grant is not right here. He has very little chemistry with Jean Arthur and his relationship with a very young Rita Hayworth is not genuine.  Richard Barthelmess is very good in a role that makes no great demands on him and Thomas Mitchell and Sig Ruman offer excellent supporting work.         I think, for 1939, the flying sequences in the air are quite good.  I was particularly impressed with the camera work done in the scene where Richard Barthelmess's character goes through a mountain range (presumably the Andes), and does a quick landing. Nice camera work.         Overall, Only Angels Have Wings is not a success, but should be seen as an example that even very talented people can go very wrong.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Angels Need Better Casting","Date":"6 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This creaking classic is not a bad movie, but it is one that suffers from some serious miscasting. Cary Grant does what he can with the role of Geoff Carter, honcho of a rag-tag South American airline. The part, which is clearly made for a John Wayne, does not fit Grant, despite his efforts. The usually watchable Jean Arthur suffers through her role as a displaced American entertainer, now in love with Grant. Yet there is very little chemistry between the two leads. For much of the movie, Arthur is reduced to hand-wringing and self-doubt.I don't know how it was received at the time (1939), but Grant's wardrobe is perhaps the most humorous thing in the movie.Thomas Mitchell is clearly too old to play 'Kid' Dabb, Grants buddy. Mitchell, who perhaps never played a young man, looks more like Grant's father than his contemporary. Rita Hayworth is Grants old flame, now married to a disgraced pilot. Hayworth does not here look old enough to be anyone's old flame. Richard Bartholmess does a bit better, but still looks more like a George Raft-like gangster than a bush pilot.Capable character actors flesh out the numerous remaining roles.There are too many sub-plots and tangents in the script to really make for a good flowing story. Many scenes play out like Robert Altman pics, in which many things are happening at once. Many flying (actually landing and takeoff) scenes are done with unconvincing models.Despite all the above drawbacks, the picture is not a turkey. It can be enjoyed, if only as a good effort. "},{"Title":"A somewhat worthy studio era product","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This now clanky museum piece is worthy as strictly that, an anachronistic salute to the days of studio sausages budgeted only by the upstairs office with absolutely no input from the producer who strictly followed orders. This was a time when no one in Hollywood seemed to have enough going for them to pick up a candle-stick phone and call the shipping industry and ask Is this a boat or a ship, where they would have discovered that only the small vessels such as the lifeboats carried on the ship's decks and submarines are properly called boats.Even after having appeared in some 40 studio films in only seven years Cary Grant was, at 36 still a chubby-cheeked tyro and not yet fully formed into the super matinée idol of the 1950s and the forever interesting raspy-voiced Jean Arthur was at 39 mostly wasted here after her triumphant Frank Capra films of the early 1930s and at this time on her downhill slide with only 14 years of work to go before her final feature appearance in Shane (1953); a grand stage left exit with what has turned out to be generally conceded as the best Western ever made.On the minus side of this production with its curious title that needs a chrome steel shoe horn to fit in with the predictable story is its staginess, the awful comic book breaks in continuity and the technical impoverishment. On the plus side is a wonderful ensemble of 1930s character actors leaving the Golden Age of Hollywood, the interestingly created ambiance of a tropical airport lost somewhere on the borderlines of Latin American civilization and enhanced by the beguiling guitarist-singer Manuel Álvarez Maciste.This low budget schedule film really did not have much of a chance to compete with the enormous high-end output of 1939 Hollywood that many scholars call the greatest year of the Golden Age but it tries and is worth watching with a large bowl of popcorn at hand. "}{"Title":"Cary Grant and Rita Hayworth","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After appearing in Cecil B. DeMille's 'The Plainsman' with Gary Cooper as Calamity Jane, Jean Arthur went on to play alongside Cary Grant in 'Only Angels Have Wings'. Grant attempts to play an unconvincingly tough pilot in this film, but relies on a favourable script rather than character to get him out of situations. He does, however, get the opportunity to play alongside Rita Hayworth, and feel that at this stage in his life, he is just a popular superstar rather than a grass roots actor. "},{"Title":"Unconvincing, dated drama with weak performance from Grant...","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sorry to have to disagree with most of the favorable comments on this one, but I finally saw the film on TCM the other night and was very disappointed. Only Jean Arthur and, in a very brief role, Rita Hayworth, displayed any genuine emotion. And Thomas Mitchell does his usual sturdy characterization of a man with 22 years of flying behind him who is ready for the last doomed flight in this tale of the mail must go through.Cary Grant is unable to get into his tough guy persona and in a scene requiring some tenderness and tears, he is unable to be at all convincing. He plays the entire role with the same casual air he uses in comedy and gives no dimension to the character. Most natural performance among the males in the supporting cast comes from John Carroll, a breezy, natural actor who never received enough recognition in later films of the '40s.Jean Arthur fans will like her in this one--she uses all her standard mannerisms to great effect but without too much help from the lumbering script. Only the airborne scenes have the stamp of authenticity that Hawks was able to provide--but all of the interior scenes have a murky, stagebound look to them despite the atmospheric weather effects. And the storyline is never able to rise above the overall depression that story elements keep bringing to the surface. This was Richard Barthelmess' last performance in a film and you can see how sadly he has aged and how listlessly he portrays a man with a past who has to prove himself worthy of respect. Evidently, Howard Hawks was unable to get a strong performance out of him in a pivotal role.The plot is too trite, the action and the storyline is all too dated and only the presence of Jean Arthur and Rita Hayworth make it worth taking a peek. It seems longer than its two-hour length due to the slow pacing, particularly at the start.Ironically, Jean Arthur has her best scenes opposite Thomas Mitchell rather than Cary Grant. "},{"Title":"dated   dated dated","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not a very good Hawks. Creaky, dated, only worth watching for Jean Arthur and Thomas Mitchell. Its tough to make a very good adventure film shot entirely on the Columbia set, with bad art directors and Ed Wood props. Balsa planes that go boom boom in the night are more ludicrous than exciting. How this movie ever got considered as good early Hawks must have been shown at the Braille institute. And one viewer suggested Gable instead of Grant. That would have only made Clark look bad. Howard, you probably laughed all the way to your safety deposit box on this one.One note the music by Dimitri Tiompkin is also unrecognizable. Usually you can hear his fingerprints on a score a mile away, but even he was wasted in this one. "},{"Title":"I'm curious...","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Did anyone else wonder, after first seeing Cary Grant, if Curious George was just around the corner?  Cary Grant is so ridiculous that I normally can't take him seriously.  The plots around him have to be good enough and this movie does not have one of those plots.  There is a scene where Cary Grant gets burned by a hot coffee kettle, and then bets burned by it again when he tries to pick it up 10 seconds later.  No human being, nor even monkeys for that matter, is that stupid.  That pretty much sums up the directing for this movie.  Don't get me wrong, I thought Hawks did an alright job with Bringing Up Baby, but certainly not this one.  Some highlights of the movie are its poor editing, the scene where what looks like a chicken goes through the windshield, and the ridiculous ending. "}]