[{"Title":"One More Triumph For Our Shirley","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  A small child, affectionately known as THE LITTLE PRINCESS, must endure great hardship after her father is killed in the Boer War.Shirley Temple had her last great box-office triumph in this splendid Technicolor adaptation of the Frances Hodgson Burnett childhood classic. No longer a tiny tot - she turned eleven the year THE LITTLE PRINCESS was released - but still a little trooper, Shirley exhibits once again the tremendous charm & talent which made her Hollywood's top box office draw. With wrinkled brow & tremulous lip or bouncing curls & joyous smile, she adeptly displays just the right mood or mannerism to keep the focus of the audience's attention firmly grasped in her chubby fists.The supporting players' roster is abundantly well cast stalwart Ian Hunter appears as Shirley's soldier father - this very fine actor wisely uses his acting skills to keep from being completely upstaged by the mighty moppet; handsome Richard Greene & lovely Anita Louise play the riding master & teacher who befriend Shirley - their roles aren't terribly significant, but they fill them quite well.Mary Nash is once again cast as Shirley's tormentor, this time playing the evil-spirited headmistress of an exclusive girls' seminary. This accomplished actress did not appear in many films, but she could generally be counted on to provide a vivid performance - notice the relish with which she essays her small part in the medieval fantasy sequence (`I know my rights, I know the law and what I say I saw, I saw!'). Long-legged, adenoidal Arthur Treacher plays her henpecked brother; he is a delight during his two romps with Shirley to the music hall ditty &#145;Knocked &#145;Em In The Old Kent Road.'Cesar Romero quietly portrays an Indian servant in a small, but important, role; Miles Mander & E. E. Clive both appear as hardhearted, crusty old gentlemen - only one is regenerated by film's end. Sweet Beryl Mercer makes the most of her few moments as a stately, kindhearted Queen Victoria - while Eily Malyon is a true fright as the school's slatternly cook. Marcia Mae Jones participates in one of the film's most memorable moments, when, as a particularly vile teenager, she receives a face full of fireplace ashes, courtesy of sweet Shirley.Special attention should be given to ten-year-old South African Sybil Jason, who plays the wistful waifish charmaid who idolizes Shirley. In her American film debut, Warner's LITTLE BIG SHOT (1935), she proved wonderfully winsome & winning, but the storm of attention surrounding Miss Temple (exactly 19 months older than Miss Jason) tends, at this remove, to swamp the boats of the other female child stars of the period. However, delightful Sybil deserves to be remembered & appreciated for her own accomplishments.The Stolen Kiss, a lavish fantasy dream sequence, provides a welcome few minutes change of pace for Temple, Nash, Louise, Greene, Treacher & Romero. "},{"Title":"Little Princess- Thank Heaven for Little Girls ***1/2","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Charming film in color where Shirley Temple's dad goes off to fight in the Boer War. She is left is a fancy girl's school with a headmistress who is stern.When word is brought to the school that the father, who adored his Sarah (Temple), has been killed and the child is left penniless, poor Sarah is shut up in the attic and made to work in the kitchen. Move over Cinderella.Sarah never gives up hope that her dad (Ian Hunter) is living and she searches feverishly for him.When a Indian mystery man (Cesar Romero) makes her room beautiful during a ballet sequence, Sarah is suspected of stealing.Mary Nash is the wicked headmistress and acts in the same way as Margaret Hamilton in The Wizard of Oz. Richard Green and Anita Louise play lovers, who are discharged from the school, by Nash for loving each other.The ending is wonderful when Sarah finds her dad with the help no less of Queen Victoria (Beryl Mercer).Enjoyable tale for children and adults alike. "},{"Title":"Cute and a good family film","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Shirley at 12yrs old is a delight as the sad little girl left in a very snotty all girls boarding school while her father is away at war in 1899,later on he is reported killed and leaves shirley with noone and no money so she is forced to work as a servant to pay her way.. I  do admit that this is not one of Shirley's best,for example Shirley's crying scenes are a bit heavy handed and forced but overall she is still so cute you just cant help but love her. I also enjoyed the girl  who played Becky ,she was so cute too. Mary Nash could have been the wicked witch in the wizard of oz ,she does good as the nasty head mistress. Look for a very young and handsome Cesar Romero as the Indian servant of an English nobleman. Best scene , Shirley giving a snotty schoolgirl her comeuppance. A timeless family classic to show your children again and again. "},{"Title":"You won't regret it.","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" While American audiences loved this and all the other Shirley Temple vehicles, across the Pond this story of a young girl refusing to accept reports of her father's death in combat must have struck a responsive chord with war-weary Brits who could easily identify with her troubles. Although the Hollywood film industry has always come under some well-deserved criticism for twisting history and other literary sources in its screenplays, they do get it right at times. The largely British cast and English setting give the classic story the right look and feel, and the romance and song-and-dance numbers don't take anything away from the main storyline. Shirley is even reunited with some of her co-stars from other films. (This includes Cesar Romero as a servant here. 8 of his next 11 films were westerns, a genre he'd never tackled, including a pairing with Randolph Scott as Doc Holliday to Scott's Wyatt Earp and a starring role in a handful of Cisco Kid features. Much later would come famous movie and TV roles as Kurt Russell's nemesis A.J. Arno in several Disney comedies in the 70's, and his most famous part, the Joker, in BATMAN.) In a year when so many great films appeared that were taken from the pages of popular books (GONE WITH THE WIND, THE WIZARD OF OZ, THE ADVENTURES OF HUCKLEBERRY FINN, THE HUNCHBACK OF NOTRE DAME,GUNGA DIN, WUTHERING HEIGHTS, GOODBYE, MR. CHIPS,THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES, TARZAN FINDS A SON, THE MAN IN THE IRON MASK) you can add THE LITTLE PRINCESS. If you never get to read any or all of these books, at least watch the films derived from them. You won't regret it. Dale Roloff "},{"Title":"Shirley Temple At Her Best!","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Little Princess is a reversal-of-fortune movie, so to speak.  Sarah Crewe (Shirley Temple) is the daughter of a wealthy soldier sent off to the Boer War in 1899.  Having no relatives, Sarah is placed in an exclusive girls school until her father returns.  When her father is reported dead and their fortune is wiped out, the friendly headmistress becomes not-so-friendly towards Sarah, who is made to work off her father's debt to the school.  Sarah is convinced that her father is alive, though, and searches the area hospital for him, eventually finding him.This movie serves as an excellent example of several things movies like this just aren't made any more.  Unfortunately, they can't be - people would say it was too corny.  In the movie, Shirley portrays a child not only with unshakable hope but patience, manners, politeness and kindness in the face of terrible adversity, with only a couple of cracks in her steadfastness.  She meets Queen Victoria.  Who would believe that a child under the duress that she suffers could be so gracious? Who would believe that, being a pauper, she could meet the Queen of England?  Today's movie child star would have filled the air with sassiness and expletives under the same situation.  But Shirley/Sarah doesn't, and that's a reason that I really like this movie - it shows someone who tries to make the best of a bad situation, and never gives up hope.I also believe that the movie is an accurate portrayal of the life and times of the turn of the century, as it was made only 40 years after the Boer War.  I think that Victorian England was captured well in this movie; after all, we do a pretty good job of displaying the 1960s on film these days.Overall, though, it is Shirley Temple at her singing/dancing/acting best in this movie, and she does a wonderful job from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Temple Plays The Title","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" We are always captivated by a young person's grown up prowess on stage or screen. This is certainly true of Temple's performance. We are intimidated by her poise and strength, but endeared to her by her sincerity. Who will forget Caesar Romero (or better who would guess it was him)in the role of the Indian servant? The scene when Queen Victoria visits the hospital is gripping. On the one hand, we know the writers could not be so cruel to let her father escape her, yet on the other hand the writers and players condition you into feeling ... . Well, you'll just have to watch the movie.Temple also pulls off the the princess and the pauper (one implied title of the movie) class switch well. Excellent character actors and actresses support.I think a good movie for young people to watch. "},{"Title":"Has Some Very Nice Moments","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This Shirley Temple feature is worth seeing for a number of very nice moments in the story of The Little Princess. It might be a little longer than necessary, and the story development is sometimes uneven, which keeps it from achieving its full potential. It offers the young Temple a variety of material to work with, and she has some very good sequences.For the most part, it follows the familiar story, though often embellished, particularly towards the end. The story and Temple's characterization give it a rather different feel from, for example, the silent version that starred Mary Pickford. Here, Temple projects much of her own persona, with her best moments coming with Arthur Treacher, who plays the easygoing brother of the stern headmistress. The character of Becky is still significant, but Temple does not ever have the rapport with her that Pickford and Zasu Pitts had in the earlier version.As a result, it's a bit uneven overall, but for those who enjoy this kind of story, it's still worthwhile. The public domain print makes it somewhat difficult to evaluate the production end, although it clearly contained plenty of detail and color. It's a decent if unexceptional feature whose high points are usually worth waiting for. "},{"Title":"Rich Girl, Poor Girl","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" THE LITTLE PRINCESS (20th Century-Fox, 1939), directed by Walter Lang, based upon the story by Frances Hodgeson Burnett, ranks one of Shirley Temple's best known and most revived feature, as well as her first in Technicolor. Capitalizing on her previous success with screen adaptations to literary children's novels, including HEIDI and WEE WILLIE WINKIE (both 1937), THE LITTLE PRINCESS displays Temple's talent in heavy dramatics at best, especially with her two key scenes, one in which she teary-eyed bids goodbye to her father as he goes off to war; and another where she stands firm, looking angrily straight at her evil boarding school mistress as she is about to slap her face for standing up to her. Like a fairy tale, this production includes good characters along with a wicked one (wonderfully played by Mary Nash), along with some dialog usually found in storybooks, such as one little girl saying on how Sara Crewe (Temple) looks just like a princess, with the overly jealous girl sarcastically responding, Princess, INDEED.Set in London in the year 1899, Sara (Shirley Temple) is the daughter of her widowed father, Captain Crewe (Ian Hunter), who leaves her in a boarding school under the care of Miss Amanda Mirchin (Mary Nash) and her brother, Bertie (Arthur Treacher), a former music hall performer, before he goes off to the Boer War. Because Crewe is a well known figure and man of wealth, Sara is given the royalty treatment, as if she were a little princess, causing jealously amongst one of the other girls, Lavinia (Marcia Mae Jones), who doesn't want to lose her place with Miss Mirchin. After Miss Mirchin receives news from Mr. Babbows (E.E. Clive) that Captain Crewe has been killed in the war, leaving daughter Sara penniless, she, at first, decides to put Sara and her belongings into the street, but Babbows advises her that this would not look good for her or the school. So the only other alternative is to place Sara from her luxurious room into a cold attic, taking her expensive clothing and auctioning it off to pay for her lodging, leaving Sara with only paupers' clothes to wear. In order to earn her keep, Sara must work long hard hours in the kitchen along with another girl, Becky (Sybil Jason), who befriends her. Being treated harshly, Sara becomes a hard and bitter child who tries to be a good soldier as her father had wanted her to be, but finds she's unable to do it, being at times both hungry and cold. Not wanting to believe her father is dead, Sara braves the streets of London at night in hope to one day find him amongst the wounded in the military hospital.Also in support in THE LITTLE PRINCESS are Richard Greene and Anita Louise as the young romantic couple, with Louise as Miss Rose, an employee of the boarding school who loses her position for secretly meeting with Sir Geoffrey Hamilton (Greene) against the wishes of Miss Minchin; Cesar Romero as Ram Dass, an Arab servant to Lord Wickham (Miles Mander), Sir Geoffrey's grandfather; Eily Malyon as an unsympathetic boarding school cook; and Beryl Mercer as Queen Victoria, among others. Aside from the heavy handled dramatics that resembles a dark Charles Dickens novel, THE LITTLE PRINCESS does take time for some song and dance, including Down By the Old Kent Road (by Arthur Chevalier and Charles Ingle) as sung and danced by Shirley Temple and Arthur Treacher; and as with Temple's earlier classic, HEIDI, there's a musical dream sequence, this one titled Fantasy by Walter Bullock and Samuel Pokrass.As with HEIDI, THE LITTLE PRINCESS is prestigious Temple production. It also reunites her with her HEIDI co-stars, Mary Nash, Arthur Treacher and Marcia Mae Jones. And also like HEIDI, THE LITTLE PRINCESS gives the impression of a hurried conclusion. Mary Nash gives a standout performance with her female interpretation of Mr. Murdstone from Dickens' novel, David COPPERFIELD, with Treacher a likable Micawber character from that very same novel. Temple and Treacher have fine screen chemistry, with this being their fourth and final collaboration together. The 1899 London period setting is wonderfully captured along with its lavish crisp Technicolor. Sybil Jason, a promising young child actress of Warner Brothers (1935-38), who didn't rise above the rank of Temple, is quite memorable playing the cockney orphan, Becky. Her performance is unlike anything she has done before, but sadly, after one more film, THE BLUE BIRD (1940), which also starred Temple, Jason's career would come to an end.Unlike the other Shirley Temple movies of the 1930s, THE LITTLE PRINCESS became a public domain video title, being distributed through various video companies through the years (1980s and 1990s), and like the Christmas classic, IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE (1946), which also fell victim to public domain, THE LITTLE PRINCESS became frequently shown on numerous television stations at any given time. The 1989 CBS Fox Home Video presentation of THE LITTLE PRINCESS does present this film with the best Technicolor print available, outdoing some others with duller looking copies. THE LITTLE PRINCESS was formerly presented on cable television's American Movie Classics from 1996 to 2001, and occasionally airs on Turner Classic Movies and on the Fox Movie Channel. Wherever THE LITTLE PRINCESS is found, it makes good family viewing. One final note the Frances Hodgeson Burnett classic included a 1917 silent film version starring Mary Pickford, and a 1995 remake with Eleanor Bron, both titled A LITTLE PRINCESS. But whenever THE LITTLE PRINCESS is mentioned, it'll be no doubt that the Shirley Temple version will be the one that comes to mind. (****) "},{"Title":"Delightful  and  lively  rendition about a vintage story with a miraculous Shirley  Temple","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This agreeable movie is based on the Francis Burnett children's classic novel. 1899, London, irrepressible Sara(Shirley Temple) is a little girl in Victorian epoch sent to boarding school ruled by a harsh,hateful headmistress named Mischin(Mary Nash) while her widowed father(Ian Hunter) is posted in South African -Transvaal- during the Anglo-Boer war. Her daddy is declared missing but is reported killed in action and the penniless schoolgirl must work as a servant to pay her existence. Kindhearted Sara befriends a young enamored couple(Anita Louise, Richard Greene)who help her. Then Sara in search for her dad, haunting hospitals where she encounters Queen Victoria.Impactful adaptation has Temple as likable child playing, dancing, and singing. Lively screenplay, vivid performances, dazzling scenarios originate classic in film-making. Colorful cinematography in Technicolor by William Skall and Arthur Miller. The picture is brilliant and skilfully directed by Walter Lang, a musical cinema and comedy genre expert. This is Shirley Temple's biggest success(it cost a big budget, over 1,5 million dollars) and also her fist colour, another Shirley's hits are¨Poor little girl,The little rebel,The little colonel and Little Miss Marker¨among others. It's remade by a TV version(1987) by Carol Wiseman with Amelia Shankley and Nigel Havers and a superior version by Alfonso Cuaron with Sara incarnation from Liesel Mattews(Shirley Temple lookalike role),Eleanor Brown(eagle-eyed Mary Nash role)and Lian Cunningham(Ian Hunter lookalike). This is a masterpiece of kids' classic cinema and you will soon be caught up in its sympathetic and enjoyable world. "},{"Title":"Quite Possibly Shirley's Best Ever!","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Between the ages of 7 and 10, little Shirley Temple was the biggest box office star in the world. But as she grew older, her popularity quickly began to wane. At 11 (though she believed herself to be 10 because her mother shaved a year off her age), Shirley was still quite a child when she made The Little Princess. But because she was no longer as cute and cherubic as she was at 6, when Stand Up and Cheer! first made her a star, it was to be her last successful film in a children's role.As Sara (a Hebrew name meaning princess), Shirley plays her standard rags-to-riches storyline in reverse Sara's wealthy widowed father loses everything in the Boer War, and her cruel boarding school headmistress Miss Minchin makes her an underfed, overworked servant girl to pay the tuition debt her father owed. Sara goes from luxurious rooms and private tutors to friendless, freezing attics as suddenly as the swinging America of the 1920s sank into the dust storms, breadlines, and squattervilles of the 1930's Great Depression. But where did poor Americans turn to briefly forget all these problems during the Great Depression? To the movies, where Shirley Temple, her unwavering hopefulness (as present in The Little Princess as in any of her movies), and her cute song-and-dance numbers -- with titles like Laugh, You Son of a Gun (1934), You Gotta Smile to be Happy (1936), Be Optimistic (1938), and Come and Get Your Happiness (1938) -- cheered up the entire nation. The same singing and dancing cheers up Sara Crewe while she's working as a galley slave in 1899 London, as Shirley performs The Old Kent Road with her pal Arthur Treacher (her four-time co-star).In short, The Little Princess is Shirley Temple's career in a nutshell. It is a must-see film for both longtime Shirley fans and newcomers. "}{"Title":"The Little Princess is one of Shirley Temple's best.","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Shirley Temple, Ian Hunter, Richard Greene, Anita Louise, and Cesar Romero star in this great classic that still is outstanding even though it was released in 1939. This is the story (written by Frances Hodgson Burnett) of Sarah Crewe who was left at a boarding school while her father leaves to fight in the Boer War. She makes few friends but all the other girls think she is a selfish child. Some of the friend's she makes are Becky (Sybil Jason) a kind-hearted servant and two teachers, Rose (Anita Louise) and Birtie Minchin (Arthur Treacher) who is brother of the infamous Miss Minchin (Mary Nash). This truly is a great film that is still a Shirley Temple classic. "},{"Title":"Charming Shirley Temple film with heart-warming conclusion...","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  There are those who claim Shirley Temple couldn't really act--but The Little Princess is living proof that she was much more than just a dimpled tot who could sing and dance on cue. Her tearful reunion with her missing dad (Ian Hunter) in a hospital ward at the conclusion of this classic story should move even the most hardened cynic. Her tears range from joy to hysteria as she tries to tell the shell-shocked soldier that she is his daughter.This is a lavish technicolor delight with Shirley Temple at 12 doing an expert job as Sara, the little miss who has to bear the indignities of a boarding school once her father has been declared dead in the Boer war. The harsh mistress (Mary Nash) has her stripped of all privileges and makes her live in the attic while becoming a servant in the very household where she was once called the little princess by the other girls. There are departures from the novel since the script is given a Shirley Temple formula to ensure its success as the right vehicle for her at that time. But the addition of a dream sequence does no discernible harm, nor is the brief song-and-dance with Arthur Treacher to The Old Kent Road much of a distraction. It succeeds in being a heart-warming tale of a girl's courage and determination when it seems that there is no hope of finding her father alive. The ending with Queen Victoria giving  Shirley an approving nod, is an added delight. One of Shirley's best performances with a wonderful cast of supporting players Richard Greene, Anita Louise, Mary Nash, Sybil Jason, Arthur Treacher and Cesar Romero all doing expert work. "},{"Title":"One of the best 'cry-ee' movies of all time.","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Unlike the horrible U.S.-set remake, this delightful romp stays true to Burnett's vision in tenor if not directly interpreted from the novel.  Sara is not a total angel -- playing pranks on her 'evil' seminary mates, etc. Moral tone is present but not overpowering -- good will prevail over evil, belief in one's inner strength, sharing with those even less fortunate than you and many other dictums of Victorian children's literature.  The story's climatic scene, when Sara has failed until Queen Victoria herself intervenes, will send you straight to the Kleenex box.  Shirley Temple's performance belies J. K. Rowling's belief that an American can not successfully play a hero/heroine in a British children's classic.  "},{"Title":"Fair-To-Midlin' Temple Movie","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I wouldn't rank this in the top half of all the Shirley Temple movies of the 1930s. It's not the worst but it's far from her best, BUT it's definitely better than the insufferably-politically correct 1995 remake.Amanda Mirchin as the owner of a school, is the villain in here and Mary Nash did her acting job well because you hate this woman as the film goes on. Temple, as Sara Crewe, overacted a bit with the fake teary scenes. She was never too realistic with those parts of a movie, but convincing in every other way.Also, I prefer Temple's more light-hearted films, of which is not one, although Arthur Treacher was a good guy and fun to watch. He does two song-and-dance numbers with Shirley that help bring some brightness to the story. "},{"Title":"I loved the dancing.","Date":"14 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I loved the dancing. Arthur Treacher is totally fabulous, and so is Shirley, of course. I saw that the fantasy dancing was by Ernest Belcher, whom I knew was father of Marge Champion. I thought that the other dancing, choreographed by Nick Castle, was excellent.Shirley looked a little old for the part, especially the part snuggling up to her father before he went away -- this looked a little smarmy. She was a little too overblown by today's standards; I felt that if her father came back in a few years she would really be a teenager and very jealous if he decided to remarry. Pity the poor stepmother with a possessive/jealous Shirley/Sara on her hands. Alas, that was not to be, however. Don't get me wrong. I have always loved Shirley. She was a darling little child.I remembered that Ian Hunter and Anita Louise were in A Midsummer Night's Dream, playing the Duke and Titania respectively. Of course my big crush was THE Richard Greene in Robin Hood (TV, 1950s). In Princess he was just dazzling and scrumptious. He was so cute in the fantasy scene.Miss Minchin. What can I say? Reminded me of nasty Miss Hannigan in Annie. I loved it when Minchin got hers in the fantasy scene. She played a great villain. She was lovely as a young lady, but in Princess she did not have a sympathetic part.Beryl Mercer as Queen Victoria was so precious. I had seen her as Mrs. Dishart in The Little Minister.Cesar Romero was just divine. I also liked his acrobatic scenes in the movie, Julia Misbehaves. His character was very nice to Sara in Princess. The macaw was divine, and beautiful.Loved the tap dancing and ballet scenes best of all. When you see my other reviews, you will notice that I am partial to this.I cried when Sara and her father found each other. "},{"Title":"Shirley Temple was one of the most(cont)","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  popular child stars in the history of cinema, the number one attraction from 1935 to 1938 (Clark Gable was merely second). She was considered a genuine child prodigy, and in 1934, at the age of SIX, she won a special Academy Award for the eight big grossing films she made that year. In The Little Princess a fairytale set in Victorian London, Shirley plays an army waif not believing her father died in the war. She seeks him out in one of her most memorable films-touching, charming with a happy ending. Stars Mary Nash as Miss Minchin (Head of girls school, in which Shirley attends) Arthur Treacher as Bertie (Miss Minchin's brother) Not very famous child actress Sybil Jason as Becky (a servant at the school and shirley's friend) The beautiful Anita Louise as Miss Rose (a teacher at the school) And heartthob of the 30's Cesar Romero as Ram Dass (servant and friend of Shirley's)  "},{"Title":"A moving classic for children","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Little Miss Temple shines as Sara Crewe in this masterful work.  She is mostly happy.  That is, until Miss Minchin, the headmistress, comes along to ruin her.  After that, Sara is happy because she thinks of her father.  He tells her to be brave.  She is.  I love to mention this line My daddy has to go away, but he'll return most any day.  At any moment I may see my daddy coming back to me.Sara spoke this line, of course.  The lavish party, for Sara's birthday, is a scene I enjoy in this movie.  This moment is fleeting for her, but she is happy. "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  i have owned this movie for quite some time, and i watch it every once in awhile. i like the movie a lot, but it didnt live up to the book as far as im concerned, but what film does? it was an imaginative interpretation of the novel. i admit,though i never pictured sara crewe tap dancing,or singing, it was cute. "},{"Title":"Shirley plays Chinderella-in-reverse, as her beloved father becomes a casualty of the Boer War.","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" In her later Fox films, Shirley was often cast in stories set in various foreign lands. In The Stowaway, she was lost in China. In Wee Willie Winkie, she was in British India. In Heidi, in Switzerland, and in Susannah of the Mounties, in Canada. Here, she is the daughter of a British army officer, recently arrived in London from India, immediately sent to fight in the Boer War. It almost seems to begin as a sequel to Wee Willie Winkie, with British soldiers again marching by, accompanied by bagpipe music. Cesar Romero is back, again as a turbaned East Indian. His character, with the strange name of Rarn Dass, mysteriously pops into her life periodically, as the servant of crusty old Lord Wickham, whose residence happens to be next to that of the exclusive girl's school where Shirley(as Sarah) is deposited while her father is in South Africa.The ingredients of the screenplay pretty much follow the standard formula for most of Shirley's Fox films. As usual, she's cast as an only child, a virtual orphan for much of the film. As usual, she lacks a living mother, but has or develops an unusually close romantic relationship with her father or a father substitute. As in most of her films, she has no significant interaction with boys of her own age, or occasionally a mostly negative interaction with one. As often, she becomes friendly with a young unmarried woman(Rose, in this case), who becomes her mother substitute, and with a young man(Geoffrey, in this case)this woman is developing a romantic relationship with. As usual, there is a grouchy elderly person or two she has to answer to for much of the film. Reprising her antagonistic role in Heidi, stern -looking and acting Mary Nash plays the headmistress of the school Amanda. Eily May plays the equally grouchy cook. Actually, I don't find either of these women as unreasonably mean as most children do. They are simply dealing with the problems relating to Sarah in a pragmatic way, for the times. Much worse is Lavinia the tallest girl in the school, who had been Amanda's favorite before Sarah arrived, and delighted in taunting Sarah with demands, after she was demoted to chargirl. Sarah finally gets her revenge when she dumps a bucket of fireplace ashes on her. Marcia Jones, who played Lavinia, had played a girl with a friendly relationship with Shirley, in the previous Heidi. Her acting was quite good. As usual, there is a happy ending of sorts. In this case, her presence seems to help her father regain a bit of awareness, after a head wound, in a very teary scene. We aren't allowed to discover how much mental capacity he actually regains, with time.When Sarah arrives at the school, she is soon sarcastically dubbed 'the princess', by the other girls, because her wealthy father seems to treat her as such, and expects others to do likewise. At first, headmistress Amanda reluctantly tries to do so, given her father's clout and wealth. However, when news arrives of her father's apparent death and his funds stop arriving, Sarah's status quickly drops to that of her chargirl friend Becky. It's interesting that, even while she was being treating like a princess by Amanda, she found big-eyed Becky the one girl she felt comfortable confiding in. Rose her main teacher, becomes her mother-like friend. Geoffrey, her riding instructor and Rose's boyfriend, is also friendly, but soon departs for the Boer War. This leaves Bertie(Arthur Treacher) Amanda's hen-pecked brother, and the mysterious Rarn, as her main male friends. Tall, thin, mop-headed Treacher and Shirley make an odd-looking, if amusing, song and dance couple, in an informal eccentric romp to Knocked 'em in the Old Kent Road. Later , they do a repeat performance for the benefit of the hospital patients, while Sarah is looking for her father. Treacher is also a delight when he finally gets the nerve to tell off sister Amanda.The inclusion of Queen Victoria, as approving Sarah's seemingly hopeless search for her father among the wounded recent arrivals, is yet another aspect of the general British flag-waving tone of the film. released shortly before hostilities began with a the Nazis. I have to wonder if the screenwriters could foresee what would soon happen. Beryl Mercer makes quite a convincing Victoria, the film ending with Shirley and others saluting her as she leaves the hospital, reminiscent of the ending of Wee Willie Winkie.The dream fantasy sequence serves to reinstate Sarah, in her mind, as a princess, during a time when she is depressed about her life. She actually functions like a queen, rather than a princess, sitting on a throne, deciding cases brought before her. Later, she sees herself as part of a dance troupe. When she awakes, she finds her formerly drab bedroom filled with pretty objects and clothes, having no idea how they got there. Of course, Amanda quite reasonably assumes she must have stolen them, and goes to the police...In the middle of the film, we have another high, followed by a low, when news arrives that the Boers have been defeated, followed by a lavish birthday party for Sarah, followed by news that her father is probably dead, thus her demotion to chargirl and her move from the best room in the school to the attic. Overall, an entertaining, if occasionally overly corny, S.T. film, in which great pains were taken to recreate an authentic 1899 London. The most expensive of S.T's Fox films to make, and the only one shot in color. Of course, with colorized versions of most of her Fox films now available, this is no longer an important distinction. "},{"Title":"Always a Favorite!","Date":"8 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This probably has to be among the best of Shirley Temple's films, if not one of the best classic films of all time. I am a fan of Shirley's film work, and she gave one heck of a performance in this. It had little dancing in it (of course, what little was done was good), but the focus here seemed to be on her acting performance, which was always wonderful, and improved over time. The whole cast in TLP had a great chemistry, bringing their characters to life, together creating a story with which anyone can identify. The message here is timeless never give up no matter what life throws your way. And Shirley's character Sara was determined to do just that, trying her hardest to keep a positive outlook amidst bleak circumstances.I honestly can't say how much I've watched this public domain gem, but I never get tired of it. I recommend it for all ages.And one more thing you may need to have some facial tissue handy. "}{"Title":"Shirley Temple's Best Film!","Date":"4 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" As Shirley Temple's mother has previously died, she is very close to her father, here played by Ian Hunter. He is a soldier who is called away on duty. She says a prayer for him to come home. In fact, they had a prayer they said together all the time due to his vocation about although he may be gone he is never far away in spirit and will be home soon. Meanwhile, she keeps him in her heart and she is his little princess. In this children's story by Frances Hodgson Burnett, author of The Secret Garden, little Shirley is in a private school when she is told that her father has been killed in the war and leaving his estate penniless. Due to the conditions, Shirley is unable to continue her studies as she had been, but she is kept on by the hard schoolmistress, only for appearance's sake, but Shirley is forced to keep quarters in a stuffy attic and having to work for what schooling she is getting. Anita Louise plays a kind teacher and Richard Greene is her young suitor and horse riding teacher to the girls. But the film belongs to Ms. Shirley and Mary Nash as the cold headmistress. I had started to watch Shirley Temple movies at the beginning of the year and thought I would review most of them. But oddly enough I reviewed a couple and then stopped, maybe because most of them seemed very similar and I must not have been particularly inspired with anything to say, but I had to comment on this film. In most of the early films, young Shirley with her curly locks tugs at your heart and manages to mend fences between bickering family members and winning the heart of crotchety old men in the process. But here, she is using more of her emotions and inner will in her scenes and therefore investing more of herself; in short, she's really acting here and really getting into the moment. The highlight of the film, at least to me, is when she talks back to Mary Nash in one particular scene up in the attic. Everyone keeps insisting that her father is dead, but she still feels in her heart that he isn't and no one can tell her otherwise. She is insistent on visiting the hospital for the incoming injured. Child actors Sybil Jason and Marcia Mae Jones costar and are really good (I really liked Sybil Jason a lot,) but the film showcases Shirley Temple at her best. By the end, you feel so uplifted and so happy for her when lo and behold..... And, Mary Nash is exceedingly chilling as the detestable headmistress. But, if you want to see only but the very best of her films, then see Shirley Temple as The Little Princess, which is a heartwarming tale with America's Favorite Little Girl. "},{"Title":"Adorable Shirley Temple doing her thing","Date":"10 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" It's 1899 England. Captain Crewe is off to fight the Boer War. He leave his daughter Sara (Shirley Temple) with Amanda Minchin (Mary Nash) at a private school for girls. She's treated royally while her father pays handsomely. The top girl Lavinia is jealous calling her The Little Princess. When her father is reported dead and his property confiscated by the enemy, Minchin wants to kick Sara out into the streets but reluctantly agrees to keep her in the cold attic as a house maid. Despite it all, she never gives up hope for her father and always treats the servant girl Becky with kindness. Meanwhile Minchin keeps the sweet teacher Rose under her control with lies.It's the first Technicolor film for Temple but I don't have the original prints. I do see enough to tell the unreal brilliant bright colors this film is meant to be. Little Shirley Temple is doing her adorable best with her song and dance. Mary Nash is always a good villain. The story is fine although it is done very melodramatically. The super sweet nature and the Temple mannerism do push it to the limit of corniness. It even has a ballet fairy-tale dream sequence which is so adorable and so cheesy good. "},{"Title":"Everybody loved Shirley Temple!","Date":"6 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" When I was a child watching Shirley Temple films on television, I wanted to be Shirley Temple but so didn't everybody. I now realize that even Shirley Temple wanted to be Shirley Temple. She plays Sara Crewe, a captain's daughter, who is left in a London boarding school by a mean governess who runs the school. At first, Sara is treated like a princess but when her father is reported dead, she is moved upstairs to a pitiful attic room. She now must serve her former classmates who taunt her reversal of fortune. Shirley Temple is perfect as Sara. Everybody loves Sara except the mean principal. It's impossible not to love her. The fact that this was in color and filmed in Hollywood in 1939 where they did a superb job in recreating London. "},{"Title":"This movie treat its audience with royalty. Indeed, Shirley Temple was a real little princess!","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Based on the 1905 novel 'A Little Princess; being the whole story of Sara Crewe' by Frances Hodgson Burnett. The Little Princess was a pretty good adapted movie. I wouldn't say, it's the best adaption of the novel, because it's far from that. In my opinion, the film should had been title 'The Soldier's Daughter' because how different, it was with the novel. Directed by Walter Lang, the movie is about 12 year old, Sara Crewe (Shirley Temple) whom father, Captain Crewe (Ian Hunter) is called to fight in the Second Boer War. Sara is left behind in the care of Amanda Minchin (Mary Nash), the head of an exclusive private school for girls, where she lives in a princess like lifestyle due to her father's riches. Her life as a princess wasn't long, as Captain Crewe's money dry up, and her father is believe to be dead in the battlefield. Miss Minchin harshly force the young woman to serve under her making her life miserable. This doesn't stop Sara's will power and belief that her father isn't dead; and she do anything to find out if he's still alive. Although it maintained the novel's Victorian London setting, the film introduced several new characters like Richard Greene and Anita Louise as the young romantic couple, Sir Geoffrey Hamilton & Miss Rose. They're employees of the boarding school, whom go against the wishes of Miss Minchin. Then there is mean-spirited Lord Wickham (Miles Mander) who has Ram Dass (Cesar Romero) as an Indian servant under him. It isn't really explained why he has an Indian lascar for a servant, and there is no logical explanation for why he would want to redecorate Sara's garret room. I guess, having an Indian sailor next room seem too unrealistic in Victoria Era England to the filmmakers. Another character added is Hubert (Arthur Treacher) who became friends with Sara over music. One thing, way different than the novel is the musical number. I know a lot of Shirley Temple's previous films had this, but this movie lacks music and songs good enough to remember. Shirley Temple and Arthur Treacher had a musical number together, performing the song Knocked 'Em in the Old Kent Road which was way too short. Temple also appeared in an extended ballet dream sequence that was a bit distracting from the main plot. The whole dream scene was just awful and felt like filler. Another big change is the storyline. The movie used the Second Boer War and the Siege of Mafeking as a backdrop. In the book, the father was just visiting India and got ill to the point, he got brain fever. It wasn't war. The film covers only a timeline of a year, while the book go nearly four years. One of the biggest change in the film is the ending. The film's ending was drastically different. Without spoiling too much of it; this adaptation changes the fate of Captain Crewe. In my opinion, it's a better ending than the book. Still, it's does kinda mess up the plot of a young adult learning how to deal with death and to better herself through the actions of her own well-being. I just didn't like the whole Queen Victoria cameo helping her find her father. It was just outlandish & unrealistic. I can do without all the over Patriotism oozes out of every scene of the film. The main film is about this girl trying to reunite with her father, not the Boer War. Second off, there is no Mr. Thomas Carrisford character in the film. The acting in the film were pretty alright, but nobody really stood out. Shirley looked a little old for the part, but she pulls it off. At the part when she was by the window crying to say goodbye to her daddy was emotional. It was nice to see her react in a film to things like loss and death in a story. The trouble is, she can't pull off the emotion of making herself cry. In the movie, Shirley portrays a child not only with steadfast hope but patience, manners, politeness and kindness in the face of appalling adversity that you rarely see in film today. Who would believe that a child under that pressure could be so gracious? I love when Shirley as Sarah does snap back against her bullies like taunting from Lavinia (Marcia Mae Jones). I have to say, if the film was little bit more dark, it would had work better. It remind me of a Charles Dicken's novel. The director did good on keeping his camera low down, at a child's eye-level. Also striking is his use of multiple angles which really gives dimension to the sets or highlighting a sudden change in mood. This movie was the first Shirley Temple movie to be filmed completely in Technicolor as before that, producers believe these incredibly bright lights produced so much heat that a child, Temple's age would be hurt working under such conditions. Sadly, this was her last major success as a child star. The film is easy to find since it's in the public domain due to the failure to renew its copyright registration. This means that virtually anyone could duplicate and sell a VHS/DVD copy of the film. Therefore, many of the versions of this film available on the market are either severely or usually badly edited. Some DVDs have really extremely poor quality, having been duped from second- or third-generation or more copies of the film. So watch out for that. There are countless remakes of the novel since then. In my opinion 1995's A Little Princess directed by Alfonso Cuaron was a bit better one than this, but this Little Princess is widely considered to be one of Shirley Temple's best film and I have to agree. Enjoyable tale for children and adults alike. So check it out. "},{"Title":"It's not the book...  it's the movie","Date":"17 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Do we really expect movies to be true to the book still? We should know better by now.That said even knowing that some films can be a let down if you've already read thew book (thinking of Harry Potters 4 and 6 here among others).I haven't read the book but I think I will. Actually the 1st time I saw this film I didn't know about the book. I found out there was a book when the 1995 version came out.I've seen both versions and as I understand it they both are pretty equal in not being true to the book.I like this one better. the other is OK but I find the frequent bouts into fantasy scenes to be distracting. Particularly since the scenes are a bit cheesy if visually interesting.I'd rather watch Shirley do a tap routine with her partner, just my preference. Besides she was such a lovable creature just watching her lightens the heart.For those looking for true to the book the 1987 version seems to be accepted as closest. I believe it was a mini series but I haven't seen it myself. "},{"Title":"Mums the word you know!","Date":"19 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" As a kid in parochial school in the late Fifties, an occasional treat called for assembling all eight grades in the auditorium for an afternoon of movies, and I recall Shirley Temple showing up more than once. I don't know if The Little Princess might have been one of them, but in any case, she was always a favorite. Shirley may not have had all of the cuteness factor here that was on display in her earlier roles, but there's no denying her talent and presence; when she's on screen, no one else matters. The story here turns somewhat morose when Sara Crewe (Temple) learns her father (Ian Hunter) dies in the Boer War. That's a tough thing to put a kid through, young viewers that is, not the actress. Relating too much to the possibility of a parent's dying isn't exactly the most cheerful subject, so first time viewers of the film are left on the hook for a while until a more successful resolution is arrived at. Along with Shirley, I was also rooting for her compatriot Sybil Jason as the poor, young chambermaid who took a liking to Sara and had the feeling returned in good measure. Interestingly, the Little Princess part of the story was brought into sharper focus when Shirley's character met Queen Victoria (Beryl Mercer), allowing the viewer to consider two different kinds of royalty. "},{"Title":"Shirley And Her Grinch","Date":"5 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" The Little Princess finds Shirley Temple put in an exclusive boarding school by her father Ian Hunter who is a soldier and about to be posted to the Boer War. He's also a person of some substance and the schoolmistress Mary Nash is just glad to have her seeing all those pound note signs in front of her eyes. However when Hunter is reported killed at Mafeking, Nash has not a whit of sympathy for her. She takes Shirley out of her really nice room and puts her to living in a small attic room with another girl, Sybil Jason in a similar financial predicament. Why doesn't she just throw her out altogether you may ask? Simply because it wouldn't do the school's reputation any good to throw out the child of a war hero and Nash is all about a respectable image. The woman is a true Grinch.But as it is in Shirley Temple's world, the good grownups way outnumber the bad ones and they include young lovers Richard Greene and Anita Louise, Nash's brother Arthur Treacher who is an old music hall performer though Nash doesn't like that getting out, not respectable you know. Miles Mander who is Greene's crusty, but deep down kindly grandfather and his Indian servant Cesar Romero. And finally she gets help from none other than Queen Victoria herself in the person of Beryl Mercer in setting things right.Treacher was a great deal looser in his performance than he normally is in those butler roles. As for Romero this is the second time he played an Indian in a Shirley Temple picture, the first being Wee Willie Winkie where he also befriends Shirley.But you really got to hand the film to Nash who is such a mean old thing with her exaggerated ideas about propriety and etiquette as long as you can pay for it.The Little Princess holds up very well and is still fine family entertainment for a young audience. "},{"Title":"Delightful!","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Little Princess is filled with delight. I recommend it to all the little princesses out there. I gave it a 6/10. "},{"Title":"An OK Shirley Temple movie....","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  but NOT The Little Princess.  The movie is another cute Temple film, but it is not faithful to the book by Frances Hodgson Burnett, on which it is supposed to be based.  SPOILERS!!!!!!One of the most interesting parts of the book was Sara Crewe adjusting to the loss of her father and the Indian gentleman's search for the daughter of his late business partner and friend.  The Temple version totally changes the ending, with Sara finding her father alive at the end.  Also, the makers felt the need to add drama by adding a chase scene where Sara is being pursued by the police.  The book was excellent and would have made a wonderful film as it was. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Technicolor film","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Shirley Temple's first color film.  She plays a rich girl in an exclusive boarding school, whose father is suddenly killed in the Boer War (a 1920s British war).  She becomes a pauper and the evil headmistress (Mary Nash having a GREAT time) forces her to work in the kitchen to earn her keep.  Temple refuses to believe her father is dead and searches the hospitals for him.  Can you guess what happens next?Thoroughly predictable but a good movie. The script is very well-written (I got so caught up in the story I almost cheered out loud when Temple gave an obnoxious classmate her comeuppance!) and the Technicolor photography is just beautiful--even in the faded color print I saw.  There's always something gorgeous to look at.The acting is surprisingly not bad--except for Temple.  I have nothing against her (really--how could you?) but she had played this poor suffering little girl once too often--and it shows.  I never believed her for one second--I was totally unmoved by her four crying segments.  Still, she doesn't destroy the movie and she's lots of fun in a cute dream fantasy and she really comes to life while dancing and singing.So, it's well worth catching.  A great family film.   "}{"Title":"A sappy-happy film","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This watery film bears little resemblance to the classic novel. If you are a fan of the books, don't watch this movie! The strident pacing and absorbing characterization of the original novel is diluted into a star vehicle film for Shirley Temple. As a childhood Shirley Temple fan who has seen many of her films, I have to say that this is definitely one of my least favorites. In this film, Sara is depicted as a perfect, pretty, charming girl who, despite her miserable situation, remains perky and hopeful. Gone is Sara's magical, mysterious nature with her queer ideas and mystical fairy tales. Now she's an ordinary pretty girl; if the movie was made today, she would be played as a prep. Also, little Lottie is noticeably absent, and instead, there's a pointless plot line about Sara's tutor. And where did the pointless cameo with Queen Victoria come from? All in all, the movie turns out to be another happy-pretty-perky children's flick. I recommend watching Alfonso Cuaron's sumptuous film version which, while the ending is different, still maintains the magical mystery of the original novel. "},{"Title":"enjoyable","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I enjoyed this movie. Actually, the part I liked least was Shirley Temple's acting. It seemed to consist mostly of tilting her cute little head one way, and looking coyly upwards the opposite way. Mild Spoiler but, she pretty much made up for it in the scene where she finds her father - I got kind of teary-eyed. I thought Sybil Jason, who played Becky, the servant girl, was much more natural and believable - unlike Shirley, she didn't look like she was acting. Why does IMDb insist on ten lines of text? I said everything I wanted to say. That's one reason I enjoy short stories - unlike novels, they don't have to pad the story with unnecessary stuff to reach some arbitrary word count. "},{"Title":"Pretend it in to happening","Date":"16 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" There were a lot of franchise stars in the 1930s &#x96; Astaire and Rogers, The Marx Brothers, Mae West &#x96; players who had a very specific appeal and would appear as almost identical character in a series of almost identical movies. Shirley Temple was a little different because, as a child star, with each successive movie her roles had to reflect her changing age. The Little Princess was made when Temple was ten, and as such it's a comparatively dark and dramatic story, at least in contrast to her previous appearances.And so, rather than just play the cutesy little girl with amusingly childlike emoting, we now see her reacting to things like loss and death in a story that occasionally borders upon real life, even if it's cutely saccharine in its resolution. The trouble is, now that she's started specifically trying to act, she lost a lot of the naturalism she had as a tot. As usual they put her alongside actors of a mid-level calibre, suited to the prestige and popularity of the movies, but not likely to set the world on fire with great performances. Ian Hunter is good for his small yet crucial role, pitching his performance to the twee simplicity of the story, but with an effective amount of dignity nonetheless. Hunter's rapport with Temple is also very clear, which pays off at the end of the movie. Richard Greene appears wooden at first glance, but here and there something a little more genuine shines through the varnish. Arthur Treacher is good fun as usual, and actually demonstrates in one scene that he could probably have been a good straight actor, had he had the inclination.Director Walter Lang was renowned for his kindness and patience with actors, which no doubt helped generate a convivial atmosphere upon the set. He also has a great eye for shot composition, having been a keen painter in his youth. He keeps his camera low down, at a child's eye-level, which sounds obvious but not all directors remember this for kids' films. Also impressive is his use of multiple angles which really gives dimension to the sets, or can be used to highlight a sudden change in mood without resorting to cheap trickery. In the climactic scene between Temple and Hunter a couple of well-timed angle changes and otherwise long, static takes really bring out deep poignancy in what is a rather predictable moment.Unfortunately for Temple (or more precisely, Fox's ability to profit from her), there have never been many great opportunities for child performers once they hit a certain age. Teenage roles can be played by young adults who have more experience and can work longer hours, and besides, while Temple was the perfect sweet little girl, she was never the gutsy Elizabeth Taylor type. In itself however, The Little Princess is not a bad little movie. The finale is touching in spite of cliché, and it's all delightfully watchable along the way. It is however, probably her last great moment. "},{"Title":"Technicolor Temple","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" When her widower father is called to military service, cutely-curled Shirley Temple (as Sara Crewe), her pony, and her doll Emily are deposited at an expensive boarding school. The other girls call Ms. Temple The Little Princess due to her daddy's extensive wealth. Then, sad news arrives - Temple's father is reported dead; moreover, he's left her penniless. Go figure. As Temple can no longer pay her tuition, wicked headmistress Mary Nash (as Amanda Minchin) puts the golden-locked lass to work as an attic-dwelling house slave. Next, Temple startles ruffian friend Sybil Jason (as Becky) and others by insisting that her father is still alive.Darryl F. Zanuck's Twentieth Century Fox went all-out for their little money-maker with this one. And, as it turned out, the effort was made in the nick of time. After four years as American exhibitors' #1 box office star, 1939 found Temple slipping. There are times, in this film, where she seems overwhelmed, awkward, or self-conscious. All kids are natural actors, but with adolescence, you need to re-learn acting; due to super-stardom, this began earlier for Temple. Still, she retains enough of that cuteness and charm, herein, to make it work. The Fox regulars, Technicolor, and material (bastardized Frances Hodgson Burnett) are top-notch.****** The Little Princess (3/10/39) Walter Lang ~ Shirley Temple, Mary Nash, Arthur Treacher, Cesar Romero "},{"Title":"It would have mad a OK/good movie if it was the book never existed","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" It was fairly enjoyable, but really, they only used the base of the book and altered the rest. It basically isn't anything like the book. Like I said, I would have liked it better, if the book never existed. If it never existed I would have given the movie a seven, it's not Shirley's greatest movies (even though she acts good in them).I was very disappointed, but we I can still sit through it. Whenever my great-grandma comes to visit our house we put in a Shirley movie, it comforts her a lot she's always saying, Oh boy, that Shirley Temple is such a neat kid. Was a good enough film for my family to fairly enjoy, we have the d.v.d, I seldom watch it, but If I'm ever in the mood I'll pop it in. "},{"Title":"Not especially good.","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" If you are looking for a faithful adaptation of the classic novel A Little Princess, then you should keep looking. So much of the story has been changed, it's hard to recognize the story in this 1939 version. And, in some ways, the story is rather unpleasant and bizarre.The film begins with a Captain (Ian Hunter) and his daughter (Shirley Temple) going to a girls school to enroll her. It seems that the father is in the army and is headed to the Boer War. At first, the headmistress is sweet and kind--and it's all because the family is rich and well-connected. But, when word arrives that the father is dead and the family fortune is gone, the nasty old headmistress becomes like Cinderella's step-mother--turning the child into a slave! Despite this, the child remains sweet and unspoiled and has an unfailing belief that the father is not dead. What's to become of her? The story, as I said above, is quite a bit different from the original and tacks on a happy ending that just didn't happen in the book. On top of that, although I love Shirley as an actress, here she is rather outside her range. Her crying, frankly, seemed a bit fake and the film lacks the happy and sweet qualities that made films like Dimples and The Little Colonel classics. Watchable but a bit depressing and second-rate--especially the godawful dream sequence that seemed to have nothing to do with the plot. It was simply terrible and made me cringe. "},{"Title":"Robin Hood. the Ugly Sisters & Cinderella","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I awarded this film 5/10 as just about average.It has an infantile plot for children & families around in 1939.For the female teenagers there is Richard Greene (later famous in the 1950s for the British TV series The Adventures of Robin Hood).I only watched it after searching on Youtube for Anita Louise who played another girlfriend Helen Wentworth in the film Love Letters(1945) & Titania in A Midsummers Night's Dream (1935), both in my DVD collection.The plot closely resembles a British pantomime with wicked witches, ugly spiteful sisters & handsome princes with Shirley Temple playing Cinderella in reverse.I read all the previous user reviews before writing this piece and accept most of their valid criticism of this film, they are evidently more versed in this particular Frances Hodgson Burnett's tale than I am.What film producer ever sticks slavishly to the original book since they mostly want to produce their own version on film.Their most bankable star was Shirley Temple so she naturally had to appear in most scenes, as they hopefully had to provide a dividend to the film company's shareholders.Cinema goers in 1939 who had seen ST sing & dance The Good Ship Lollipop, would have had an expectation of seeing her in a similar act, in this case the old musical hall song, Knocked Them in the Old Kent Road.I would have liked to have heard a fuller version of this song with more sung and danced verses.As stated the acting was in almost pantomime style, more suited to young children and their parents. "},{"Title":"Zanuck's Best","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I grew up watching Shirley Temple and whenever I watch one of her movies today, I start out thinking this is so corny, then by the end of the movie I'm searching for a box of tissues.In 1938, Darryl Zanuck said that this was the greatest picture he was ever associated with, and his words have stood the test of time. This movie has everything, told children's style. Even the wicked witch, Miss Minchin lets her guard down and joins in the fun and games with the children when she hears that the soldiers have been relieved at Mafeking.This is definitely Shirley Temple's best movie, but it is also probably Arthur Treacher's best movie, too. The expressions on his face during the Fantasy Sequence ending as he watches Richard Greene and Anita Louise kiss are worth the price of the movie alone.The only question is why doesn't Hollywood make movies this corny today? "},{"Title":"I hate to be a grinch, but . . .","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  First off, let me say that I like Shirley Temple and, as a Shirley Temple film, it was quite good.  Unfortunately, when I first watched the movie I was expecting the story from the book and was very disappointed.  They only used the bare bones of the story and then altered the rest to fit the Shirley Temple movie formula.  If I hadn't read the book first I would probably like the movie alot better. If you are also a fan of the book, see the BBC mini series instead.  They follow the story very closely, the acting is beautiful and the scenes between Sara and Becky, the scullery maid are wonderful.  The ending was also true to the book and, I thought, more emotionally satisfying than this movie's version.  Still, though, the Shirley Temple movie is an excellent movie on it's own, but don't watch it -- like I did -- expecting to see the Frances Hodgson Burnett book come-to-life. "},{"Title":"Not the best adaptation/may contain spoilers","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I have nothing against Shirley Temple movies,but some of her movies that are based on books are awful and this was one of them.Shirley may know how to sing and dance,but there is a time and place for that and A Little Princess should not have been that place. Shirley is nothing special as Sara Crewe in fact she doesn't even look the way Sara should in the book she is described as having black hair and huge green eyes.Shirley had blond curls and blue eyes.If that wasn't annoying enough all of Sara's special quirks and little oddities are written out entirely .The best thing about Sara was her ability to imagine away even the worst situations. Several major characters were not even written into the movie.Instead we're forced to watch the brat sing and dance .My question is this What was the point of the singing and dancing? It was pointless and plot less.Queen Victoria's appearance confused me to no end after all she's not even in the books.If you want to see better versions watch the 1995 one ,though it followed the same ending (minus Queen Victoria and the hospital) as the 1939 one and was moved from England to New York and Sara was given more friends(even when she was poor) and Amelia left it's still a better choice than the 1939 one.However if you want the best adaptation the 1986 one is faithful to the book "}{"Title":"Disappointing to real fans!","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" If you've ever read the book A little princess and held it dear as I have for so long, you'll too be disgusted by this movie that used the lovely book as the newest money maker for Temple.The performances aren't bad, I'll grant that. But Miss Minchin doesn't look nearly so ugly as she ought. Neither is Miss Amelia fat, pudgy, and stupid. In fact, she's clever and not too shabby looking at all. Her boyfriend or whatever wasn't even in the book! But, worst of all, her father doesn't die. How, oh how can you make this movie and have Crewe still live?? It takes away so much of the emotion!!! And Temple hardly looks as skinny or grubby as Sara was. It's completely awful. And all of the stuff about the war...what war??? He died of jungle fever and business problems with the diamond mines. Do they even mention those? I can't remember!! If you ever loved the book A Little Princess avoid this like the plague!! "},{"Title":"Offscreen Redheads","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" It is a sad fact that you only get out of stuff as much as you train your self to. In the case of movies, you must steep yourself in a few historical origins detective stories, noir, dance. That means you have to sit through many bad movies, or at least ordinary ones, to see how the conventions developed.Big 1930s movies are a must.If you don't understand the vocabulary you use to think with, you cannot really think. This little picture is dreadful, a sickly sweet tale told in the simplest of terms, almost as if it were for a ten year old.But there are two things of interest.The first is that all the things you usually expect at the end of such a movie happen in this case after the movie stops. There's a witchy schoolmarm, in one scene made up as the wicked witch from the Wizard of Oz of the same year. She will get burnt, we know.There is the disenfranchised grandson who married secretly and was wounded. We know he will reconcile with his crabby but kindhearted and rich grandfather.We have the stagestruck brother who we know will have a rewarding return to the stage. And of course the centerpiece is the bankrupt, mad, wounded Captain Crewe who we know will be restored to his riches and daughter.There's even a hint that some relationship with Queen Victoria will ensue.But all of this is implied, to occur after the ending placard. I know of no other example where the dramatic conventions were so closely, slavishly followed until near the end, and then so blatantly disregarded.It shocks. It seems modern and ironic. But I suppose the explanation may simply be that someone thought the movie too long. But even the idea that such a thing would be palatable is remarkable.The other interesting thing is the use of redheads. Now this is early Technicolor and it was widely thought that redheads would show better. I am doing a small study of how redheads became important in films and this Technicolor rule helped give that trend a push.Here we have Shirley, a blond, with red coloring washed in. Her friend the teacher, Rose, is naturally red. But the most remarkable rednesses occur in a dream sequence. Shirley is in a Snow White garb, the schoolmarm as a witch. Shirley as a princess has a ballet performed to entertain her. (She appears both as the princess watching and one of the dancers.)Every one of the dancers has had her hair dyed red. It is quite something.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Even if Cuaron's 1995 film is superior, this is still a visually gorgeous and well done film","Date":"30 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" For a more faithful adaptation, look for the 1986/7 version. However, if you are the kind of person who tries to judge movie adaptations on their own merits and likes their movies to be beautiful and with emotional impact, the 1995 Alfonso Cuaron film and this will have you satisfied. The costumes and sets are very elegant, and the gorgeous Technicolour and cinematography help. The music is both sensitive and catchy, and the choreography is suitably nifty. The script is mostly engaging, the film is beautifully directed by Walter Lang(who I remember best for the 1956 musical The King and I) and while darker in tone(I did miss some of the fascinating imagination aspects from the book admittedly) the story is still charming, with a fun song and dance interlude with Shirley Temple and Arthur Treacher and the ending is very moving. I have not seen enough of Shirley Temple's films to judge whether The Little Princess is among her best or worst, but while a couple of the more emotional moments were a little forced her adorable appearance and charm makes for a delightful Sara overall. Sybil Jason is a sweet Becky also, although I find the chemistry between Becky and Sara more believable in Cuaron's film and in the book. Mary Nash's Miss Minchin is suitably nasty, while a young Cesar Romero is handsome and quietly composed as Ram Das, Ian Hunter in what he has is a loving father figure and as Bertie Arthur Treacher(whose scenes with Temple are among the best of the film) has an easy-going charm. Beryl Mercer is appropriately dignified in her cameo as Queen Victoria. All in all, a lovely film. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Ageing A-Lister seeks ailing officer","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Having virtually saved 20th Century Fox from bankruptcy in the 30s, America's favourite moppet was just a year or two from being dumped by the men in suits when she made this strangely uninvolving adaptation of a Frances Hodgson-Burnett novel. Temple was growing older, and once their child stars' breaking voices or budding bosoms became impossible to conceal, the studios would unceremoniously discard them with the typical short-sightedness of those whose creative decisions are determined by matters of a financial nature. But then, child stars weren't employed for their acting skills back in the 30s - they were employed for their cuteness. Jackie Cooper and Temple were probably the biggest child stars of the 30s, but both were limited actors.In this one, Temple plays Sara Crew, daughter of an army captain (Ian Hunter) who places her in the Minchin Seminary for Girls when he is despatched to the Transvaal after the Boers start getting frisky. With an eye on the regular cheques from the captain, the wicked spinster Amanda Minchin (Mary Nash) treats Sara like a little princess - until daddy is reported missing presumed dead and is discovered to have died penniless. Before you know it, Sara is whisked up to the attic, dressed in drab work-clothes and forced to toil to earn her keep. Of course, plucky young Sara refuses to believe that her father is dead, and the remainder of the film focuses on her search for him - with the aid of an unrecognisable Cesar Romero as a turbaned Indian servant - in the hospitals of London.There's something undeniably formulaic about this picture, even though it's clear from the accomplished cast and the use of technicolour that this is a prestige production. Considering this was written at the height of Hollywood's golden age it's surprising that the script is so pedestrian, and that the plot offers nothing in the way of surprises. It's all entirely predictable (apart, perhaps, from an orphan waif managing to enlist the aid of the Queen of England (Beryl Mercer) and general Gordon in her search for her father) and only in the last few scenes does director Lang manage to engage the audience, but without hitting the emotional heights for which he must have been aiming.And what exactly was the point of Richard Greene and Anita Louise's characters? Playing a riding instructor and teacher at the Seminary engaged in an illicit love affair, they are both completely superfluous to the plot.Definitely for die-hard moppet fans only, this will have all but the least-demanding viewers reaching for the FF button. "},{"Title":"The remake is so much better!","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Little PrincessUnarguably a family classic, although the compliments stop there. Shirley Temple is as annoying and unlikable as ever as the little princess who is put in a crass orphanage after her father is believed to have been killed in the war. The devilish headmistress, knowing she will no longer receive payment for the girl's keep, locks her in the attic where she remains cheerfully (and quite annoyingly, I might add) optimistic--despite everything that is going on. Remade some number of years later, with a much better lead actress (who was optimistic and yet also sad--making the character believable), this original version is one for the crap shoot. Sorry, Ms. Temple--you're just a friggin' brat.** / ***** "}]