[{"Title":"EXCELLENT CINEMA!","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"52 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The first comment given here shows an incredible lack of understanding of Steinbeck in his California period.  Our Irish friend's acrid comments show he obviously doesn't like Steinbeck and that's his privilege.  Now, having said that, I must say he's wrong.  This film is excellent.  Just that.  The cast is wonderful and the story is a classic  the destruction of innocence by cruel reality (viz  the title of the story taken from a line from a Robert Burns's poem).  And, while Steinbeck was not one to let a sentimental moment pass by, e.g, Lennie's Christ-like innocence, inappropriate super-human strength which inadvertently wreaks havoc resulting in his euthanasia with the same instrument as used for Curley's dog, these scenes are never maudlin.  Too, for the serious Steinbeck fan, there's more, much more.  This story, and the play, created at Steinbeck's most experimental period, is fraught with symbolism.  There's the big guy, a victim of the little guy's vanity.  Many are not aware that Steinbeck was small (5'3) and very self-conscious about his size. The cast is outstanding  Betty Field's careless and bored character, Mae contrasts with the mighty innocence of Chaney's Lennie.  There are the solid characters of Bickford's Slim, Meredith's George and Bohnen's Candy; Steele was at his best as the vain, pugnacious Curley; Veteran character actor, Noah Berry Jr. as Whit adds another element of sympathy. This is one of our American classic films.  We invented and developed this genre of art and this film must stand as one of its finest examples. "},{"Title":"Of Mice and Men","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"30 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Excellent screen adaptation of the John Steinbeck classic about two drifters in the Depression who move from ranch to ranch in  search of work. Perfect pairing of Meredith and Chaney (his finest screen performance) as George and Lennie. In a year of great classic movies, it should be no surprise that this film  falls into that category as well. Oscar nominated for the Best Picture of 1939.  "},{"Title":"Arguably one of the best pictures ever made.","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Steinbeck's classic story of 'my brother's keeper' brought to the silver screen in a reverent manner. Perhaps the biggest story in this film is the fact that Chaney jr. could REALLY act-he was undoubtedly cheated out of the Oscar for best actor. Merideth, best known to younger folks as Rocky's trainer does a fine job as the brains in this two man operation. Veteran cowboy star Bob Steele does a stand-out job as the heavy. The direction is steady and the script lifted literally from the novel(why improve perfection?) Remade several times, but never as effectively. Even if you've seen it 100 times, keep a hankie handy.  "},{"Title":"Casting, cinematography, direction, this film has it all.","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Casting directors rarely get any real credit for what they do but I think, for this film, we must make an exception.  The actors, in Of Mice And Men, play thier parts as if they were born into them.  Add to this cinematography that is both artistically and technically outstanding and you have a film that truly deserves the term Classic. I believe that this film is a must-see for anyone considering a career as a writer, actor, director or any other area of film making.  "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is wonderful film! I loved it! Why Lon Chaney Jr. did not win the oscar for his portrayel of Lenny, I'll never know. He was perfect in that role. One of my favorite scenes is when they have to kill Candy's dog. Just the emotion from everyone is.. just amazing. You have to cry everytime you see it. Wonderful movie that is probably the best one to come from a novel. John Steinbeck should be proud of this one. I know I'd be. 10/10. "},{"Title":"A Timeless Classic","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"18 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Of Mice and Men is a cinematic masterpiece. It's a timeless classic that never seems to date and gets better with every viewing.The casting is flawless. Burgess Meredith as George and Lon Chaney Jr. as the tragic Lenny, in the roles of their careers, are simply outstanding. Roman Bohnan as the old timer Candy is unforgettable. Veteran B western performer Bob Steele, who was never given the credit he was due, is excellent as the hot-headed Curley. Betty Field as Curley's bored wife and Charles Bickford as Slim, and Noah Beery Jr. round out the excellent cast.They are many memorable scenes expertly directed by Lewis Milestone. Among them - the opening pre-credit sequence where George and Lennie are running from the law as the result of another of Lennie's innocent transgretions; - the scene where Candy's aged dog is taken out to be shot. The old man realizes that this has to be done but it breaks his heart because he realizes that soon he will be of no use to anyone either. Witness the tension among the other characters as they all await the fatal shot. - the bullying of Lennie by Curley; - the possibility of the George, Lenny and Candy realizing their life-long dreams by purchasing their own place; - the final confrontation between George and Lenny.It's a pity that this picture came out in 1939, a banner year for Hollywood (Gone With the Wind, Gunga Din, Mr. Smith Goes to Washington etc.). It never received the recognition it deserved. It didn't have any major stars yet it's as good today as it was back then.You'll go a long way before you will see as excellent an adaptation of a literary classic, as you will with John Steinbeck's Of Mice and Men.    "},{"Title":"This movie was broadcast on radio, before TV . I heard it in 1950 and never forgot it.","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"15 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie has power. Some of todays movies are great extravaganzas but they have no power. The flawless performance given by Lon Chaney Jr. has never been surpassed. John Stienbeck wrote the story and is one of my favorite authors.In this movie Of Mice and Men you can not help but be drawn into the story and feel every feeling that each character brings to the story. There are no big heroes here just people in a time of great tribulation. The director Lewis Milestone is superb in his making of this movie and also produced it.I have seen all the remakes and there are none to compare. If you enjoy good movies don't miss this one and bring a box of Kleenex. "},{"Title":"Only 900 votes, you gotta be kiddin'","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For a black and white older movie to catch my attention as a 22 year old, it's gotta stand out. I first saw this version of mice and men back in the mid nineties on AMC channel. I was captivated. Lon Chaney Jr's role as as Lennie was Brilliant!!! So many Idividual performances in one movie WOW. Crooks, Candy, Curly, Slim, George, all with their own great performances. What a great scene when Lennie and Crooks are in his room talking about being lonely And no happy ending like most movies, made it seem more the real. I recorded it off of AMC years ago, and can quote it word for word any day of the week. This is a timeless masterpiece. If you haven't seen it your missing out. Definitely on my top 5 of all time. Please excuse any Mispellings as I have had a couple cold ones LOL!!! "},{"Title":"Steinbeck's classic invisioned perfectly; flawless Chaney","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  OF MICE AND MEN (1939) **** Burgess Meredith and Lon Chaney Jr. embody John Steinbeck's tragic migrant workers George and Lennie during The Great Depression facing all the hard work and hard knocks life offers in their pursuit of The American Dream of `livin' off the fatta the lan' and wind up on a ranch with its share of down on their luck characters all enclaved to certain destinies and a heavy fall for our protagonists.  Chaney (in his second icon role, the latter would be as the accursed Larry Talbott aka The WolfMan) personifies the gentle souled giant with a dim bulb who obeys his best friend George like a loyal dog and as his brother's keeper, Meredith allows his scrappiness a warmth underneath.  Lennie Smalls would be endlessly used as a punchline in Looney Tunes toons to come (`which way did he go George!') and the film would be updated twice - one a tv movie with Robert Blake and Randy Quaid and a theatrical 90s version with Gary Sinise and John Malkovich.  This classic was also produced by famed studio maven Hal Roach. "},{"Title":"Hits You Like a Gut Punch","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This screen adaptation of the John Steinbeck classic novel is a harsh, fantastic film that took the wind out of me with its frank and brutal depiction of desperation and longing. Movies about the Depression that were actually made at the time of the Depression by people who knew of what they spoke by necessity feel so much more authentic than later movies that treat the Depression as a historical event. The men in this film are quite literally living day to day, and the comparison of men to dogs that serves as a running motif throughout the film feels like more than just a poetic device. Like dogs, these men were faced with the scary prospect of some day being of no more use, and there was no system in place to take care of them when that day came. Being shot like a dog put out of its misery by its owner really was preferable to the alternatives awaiting them.I was surprised about how candid this film was, and how bravely it tackled some of the thornier issues of Steinbeck's novel. The incident between Lenny and Mae is divested of some of its sexual overtones, but much is implied anyway. And a scene between Crooks, a black work hand, and some of the other workers, in which Crooks explains in blunt language what it means to be black, tackles race relations as honestly as many films today.Moments of this film are almost unbearably sad and poignant, but never in that over-sentimental way common to Hollywood films of this time period. Burgess Meredith is terrific in the role of George; he expertly conveys--without ever directly addressing it--the bond he has with Lenny and the degree to which Lenny is as much George's savior as he is Lenny's. Charles Bickford is also excellent as a rough and world-weary worker. The cast's weak links are Betty Field--hopelessly overplaying her bored sex kitten--and Lon Chaney as Lenny, though both are very good in the pivotal scene that sets off the action of the film's finale.John Ford's adaptation of The Grapes of Wrath from the following year gets all of the attention today, and one hardly ever hears of Of Mice and Men. But much of what is great about Ford's film is also great about Lewis Milestone's, and he deserves credit for laying a fine blueprint for brining Steinbeck's beautiful and heartbreaking stories to the screen.Grade A "}{"Title":"One of the most under rated pictures I have seen","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In high school I had to read Of Mice and Men. It is one of my favorite books today. I loved reading it. It's one of the best stories I have ever read in my life. We also started watching the older version of Of Mice and Men. But because the kids complained they wanted the newer one, we never finished the older version. So, I just rented the black and white version and I really enjoyed it. I thought the color version was great, but this one was more true to the story. Both movies are amazing. I'd actually recommend both if you enjoyed the book. The acting is wonderful and they stuck very well to the story. Go ahead and give the movie a chance. You might find yourself a treasure in this movie.9/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best from Hollywood's greatest year","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Just saw this again. It's been one of my five or six favorite films since I was a teenager, but I hadn't seen it in years.Wow. It really holds up. And looking at it through the eyes of someone who's been acting for thirty-odd years rather than the eyes of a teenager really makes a difference. There's some really fine work in this movie. I've never quite believed Burgess Meredith did (or could do) a day of hard labor like bucking barley in his life, and it's very tempting to think of what someone else might have done with the part. (Lewis Milestone tried to borrow first James Cagney and then Humphrey Bogart for the part. Neither would have been terribly convincing as guys who grew up in the San Joaquin Valley, and I have a hard time thinking of Bogart in the role. Cagney would have been very interesting, even if not quite right.)This time through, I paid close attention to the acting work of people I'd never given much thought to in that regard, as far as this movie goes. Charles Bickford is really good, and Betty Field is superb. The movie was nominated for four Oscars, including Best Picture (of 1939!!), but none of the actors was nominated. Of course it was a tough year, one of the toughest ever. But in another year, I suspect Lon Chaney Jr. would have been nominated for the performance of his career. His performance has been so imitated over the years that it might not seem so special nowadays, but I tried to find something to critique about it and I simply can't. He's believable and heartbreaking without seeming, to my eyes, the least bit forced. But the standouts are Leigh Whipper and particularly Roman Bohnen, who play Crooks and Candy, respectively. Whipper had played Crooks on Broadway and his experience with the role shows. Crooks's forthrightness about the burdens of being the only black man in a white community are a little startling for 1939, as is his disdain for the whites who enter his sanctuary uninvited. Bohnen is just remarkable, one of the most heart-wrenchingly touching performances I've ever seen. (Not surprisingly, he gave another such performance as Dana Andrews's father in THE BEST YEARS OF OUR LIVES.)Aaron Copland's music and scoring were both nominated for Oscars. Copland only composed six feature film scores (the others OUR TOWN, THE NORTH STAR, THE RED PONY, THE HEIRESS, and SOMETHING WILD). OF MICE AND MEN was his first. Every score of his I've heard is a masterpiece, and it's hard to say which is best. Suffice it to say that his first is a contender, and one of the best film scores ever written.Although based on Steinbeck's novel, the film owes much to the play Steinbeck also wrote. Lewis Milestone manages to avoid any sense of being stage-bound, though his wide-open-spaces shots are quite limited. I was really impressed by his staging. There's one really nice shot of Meredith and Bickford talking in a barn. As Meredith leaves, the camera pulls back, keeping both actors in frame, until the entire interior of the barn is revealed and shown to be huge, much larger than it had felt. It's a simple shot made by a clear master.I'm not a great fan of Gary Sinise's remake, particularly as to how the ending was handled. The one great advantage Sinise had was color. There are shots in the 1939 version where I could imagine the color and where I felt robbed by its absence. It's not a black-and-white film that particularly exults in its black-and-whiteness. Had it had a larger budget, perhaps it could have been made in color, which would have served it very well. But all in all, I'm thrilled that this favorite of mine for decades holds up and actually exceeds my fond memories. "},{"Title":"Warning Film is very much a DOWNER !! Do Not expect a light, escapist entertainment!! Be in the proper mood!","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What a Great and Wonderful a Gift from God is this phenomenon of Motion Pictures. Thanks to The Lord and those of his Earthly collaborators like Edison, Lummiere, Melies, et al., for persisting in their individual and collective struggles to envision, establish, propagate and improve what has been called, the Art Form of the 20th Century. (a Sentiment on Which , I'm sure, that We All Heartily Agree!) Because of the motion picture camera and projector we,are able to record and to preserve the images and people who make our History. We can keep a permanent life-like, nearly living visual and sound record of life and times, which are ever so fleeting. We can a live dramatic performance, which would evaporate into a mere memory in an instant. the Motion Picture camera & its cousin,the projector has made it possible to forever have great films like Of Mice and Men, Hal Roach Productions/United Artists (1939).* When one views the two principal characters, George Milton (Burgess Meredith) and Lenny Small (Lon Chaney, Jr.)** entering into a scene or having one of those now classic dialogs, we are viewing a little piece of Americana. The film starts at a fast pace with the two transients fleeing from their last stop. It seems that there has been some problem with a woman, caused by the misguided attentions of Lenny. We discover that poor Lenny, while being a giant of a physical specimen,being as strong as the proverbial bull, is inflicted with a mental retardation. It has rendered him a truly helpless man-child.George on the other hand, is a more average sized individual. He posses no great strength, but can do the average farm labor job and do it well. George relates that he has known poor Lenny for some years, and that the reason for the big man's mental state is the result of being kicked in the head by a mule when a kid.Through good and bad times (mostly all bad), George remains staunchly loyal to Lenny and his well being. He has kept him entertained and controlled by spinning tales of a sometime in the future, tales of a Utopian existence of a farm of their own with green alfalfa fields and hutches of rabbits. Lenny's fondness for little rabbits and puppies and all things furry***, do not mix well with his uncontrolled, brute strength.George is very nimble of mind.Possessing an innate, though uneducated, store of knowledge in practical matters. When the two present themselves for hire to a new prospective employer, it is George who does the talking for them. Whether answering simple, basic questions or trying to cover-up any dubious events in their past, he speaks and does his best keep Lenny silent.The two function nearly as one. They have been around together for some time. George displays a tremendous loyalty to Lenny's welfare. In looking out for the usually gentle giant, George finds himself constantly flirting with disaster, himself.After being hired on at the ranch by the owner, the two are caught in the middle of the daily strife of the ranch. The owner's son, Curly (Bob Steels), a small guy, with that nasty, hate the world, little man's complex, which as we all know, turns one into a bully. Curly is especially tough when it comes to any underlings, who rely on their meager, little jobs with even smaller wages. He even picks on Lenny, starting a fist fight with him, the giant Lenny being unable to defend himself until told to do so by George. Lenny crushes an embarrassed, little punk, Curly.Curly is fearful of Slim, the 'Skinner'(Charles Bickford) because of his work skills endear him to Curly's father, the ranch owner. Also, Curly is a coward, who is insanely jealous of his wife's faithfulness, with good reason. The wife, Mae (Betty Field), is free and easy type of girl, who proverbially, didn't have an enemy in the world. (Get the picture?) She is constantly parading herself around the ranch hands.She even tries her 'charms' on Lenny and even though George warned him to stay away. She screams and when Lenny tries to silence her, he inadvertently uses his super human strength and Mae winds up dead. And, .........Well, see the film. If you haven't done so yet, Shame On You! If you have seen it already, do so again. It will be worth your time.* This is numbered as Hal Roach's one, great dramatic film. Mr. Roach had been branching out from his former staple of one and two reeler comedies. Dating from the silent screen to the talkies, The Roach Studio numbered among its Star Attractions Charley Chase, Thelma Todd, Zasu Pitts, Patsy Kelly, Our Gang (aka Little Rascals)and a couple of guys named Stan Laurel & Olivert Hardy!** Without this filmed record of this play, adapted from the Steinbeck novel, we would all be familiar with Burgess Meredith as BATMAN TV's Penguin or as Mickey from the ROCKY Films. Lon Chaney,Jr. would be known as, you know! Larry Talbot/THE WOLFMAN(1941), what else? *** There is quite a bit of business revolving around our canine friends, either puppies or an over aged, sickly sheep herding dog. They seem to take on a sort of metaphor for we humans. The incident involving the one handed bunkhouse keeper and his feelings for this old, mutt are heart wrenching, even for a big strong ex-cop like yours truly. Conversely, the hard attitude toward this pathetic creature and his very sympathetic owner, seem to represent a hard hearted attitude that was deeply rooted in this Depression Era, in which our story takes place.(Enough of this. Just see the film!) "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Chaney Jr was a great man,he actually started me on horror films,and made me read the Steinbeck classic. Well I love this film. It is amazing. It`s got a great story,follows the novel very carefully. And it makes you care about the characters. Chaney shines in the best role of his career. Where he isnt a ghost or goblin,not that is not bad. Great movie!4/4  "},{"Title":"The Gentle Giant","Date":"23 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Of Mice And Men must have been a particular favorite of John Steinbeck and his work. It's not The Grapes Of Wrath and its exploration of great social issues. It's rather a human study, the kind of migrant workers whom the Joads joined are shown in a small setting at a California ranch.The two main characters are the gentle and slow giant Lennie Small as played by Lon Chaney, Jr. and his friend and guardian George Milton played by Burgess Meredith. The Mutt&Jeff contrast between Lennie and George shows just how much Lennie is dependent on George for even the simplest of necessities. The old adage about not having enough sense to come out of the rain is literally true in his case.The weakness of Lennie is that he is very slow to anger, but when he does you don't want to be in his way. Secondly, he really does not know his own strength and that leads to tragedy.Of Mice And Men after the novel was adapted by Steinbeck into a play ran for 207 performances on Broadway in the 1936-37 season. It starred Wallace Ford as George and Broderick Crawford as Lennie. Crawford would have to wait another decade to get a big starring role in film with All The King's Men. Chaney however is a revelation. For most of his career he did supporting roles to various stars and horror films to capitalize on his father's name. This was his biggest role, I can't call it a career role because no career came from it for him. But he will move you in this part.B movie cowboy Bob Steele plays the punk son of the ranch owner and Betty Field his tramp of a wife. Steele next to Chaney is the one to watch. He invests the part with a lot of hidden dimensions. This is a man who definitely has issues. Steele and Field are the cause of the tragedy that befalls the gentle giant.The only actor carried over from Broadway is Leigh Whipper who plays one of the other ranch hands. His part is highly unusual for a black actor of the time. He's a bitter man not allowed to socialize with the other hands on the place and his bitterness permeates Meredith and Chaney. A very good job by Whipper.Of Mice And Men got four Oscar nominations in that year of Gone With The Wind. Best Picture, Best Sound, and Best Music and Best Scoring of Music for Aaron Copland. Of course the budgets of Gone With The Wind and Of Mice And Men are from two different universes. That would include the publicity budget for Oscar time.Still Of Mice And Men holds up every bit as good as its more expensive rival. A literary and a cinema classic, that can't be beat. "},{"Title":"It's amazing that such a small studio made such a wonderful film.","Date":"22 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's amazing that a film as good as this one came from a small studio like Hal Roach. Sure, they released many of their films through MGM but they were tiny and specialized in short comedies with the likes of Laurel & Hardy, Charley Chase and The Little Rascals--but they were not known for dramas. Well, starting in the late 1930s, the studio tried their hand at such fare and in some cases did some lovely films--and Of Mice and Men is the best example of these new dramas.As far as the story goes, it's much like the book and play---but with a few changes to meet the tough Production Code. The language was toned down--with swearing removed. Also, the film made a few minor changes in the play--but not many. What you see is essentially the Steinbeck story--and the studio trusted the source material enough to stick with it. They also should be applauded for picking two relative unknowns to star in the film--Burgess Meredith and Lon Chaney, Jr..Overall, the film is a smashing success. The acting is very good, the direction also nice and the film kept me on the edge of my seat. The only negative, and it's very, very, very minor, is that a few of the scenes looked very much like they were filmed on a set. Still, it's one of the best films of the year and had it not come out in 1939 (the same year as Gone With The Wind, The Wizard of Oz, Goodby Mr. Chips, Mr. Smith Goes to Washington and many other great films), it might have taken home some Oscars. Well worth seeing and a great example of a film made very well on a relatively small budget. "},{"Title":"Go on, George. Tell how it's gonna be","Date":"1 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't think anybody who has read Of Mice and Men has ever forgotten it. John Steinbeck paints characters who are so rich, so sympathetic, so tragic. I went through a brief Steinbeck phase during my highschool years, and every single novel &#x96; The Grapes of Wrath, The Pearl, The Winter of Out Discontent, The Red Pony - left me feeling emotionally gutted. His conclusions are tragic and sorrowful, and yet somehow necessary - the only possible conclusion.I've seen Gary Sinise's 1992 film adaptation of Of Mice and Men, and it's a very strong, faithful adaptation, but this one tops it, I think. Snappy, shrewd George is played by Burgess Meredith, and he has a wonderful rapport with Lennie (Lon Chaney, Jr.), a behemoth with more heart than brains. The characterisations are poignant, and the dialogue strongly literary, often lifted straight from the pages of the source material. Steinbeck has a delicate way of giving his characters hope, and then sharply yanking it away for the conclusion. This goes against every rule of Hollywood storytelling (even John Ford's 'The Grapes of Wrath (1940)' compromised with a more optimistic ending), but here director Lewis Milestone sticks to the original story like it was gospel. "},{"Title":"A Classic American Tragedy, One of the Great Films of the 1930s","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a magnificent film directed by Lewis Milestone, who made so many superb movies. It is a bit dated and 'stagey' in its opening minutes, partly because it is taken from the play, not the novel, by John Steinbeck, and also because so many of the outstanding cast were only making their second or third film, and needed warming up and getting used to the camera. Once into its stride, however, this classic tale progresses with relentless fatality to explore all the sadness of loners and drifters with such heart-breaking intensity that it really gets you at gut level. In a sense, the loneliness, impossible dreams, and searing heartaches of the many drifting, unfulfilled, and lost characters are the real heart of this story, which thus embodies the pain of the Depression in the personal lives of several people who suffer, suffer, and, well, suffer. The main storyline is the touching relationship of the retarded giant Lennie, played by Lon Chaney, Junior, and his friend who travels and works with him, and looks after him like a zealously protective brother, played by the young Burgess Meredith. Although Chaney over-acts, he over-acts consistently, which is the secret of over-acting successfully. The result is that Chaney's character achieves full pathos, despite not being a particularly subtle performance. Chaney is no restrained and measured Dustin Hoffmann, and when he is playing someone retarded, he flaunts it, and blurts it. But we accept that. He is the gentle giant who crushes all the little rabbits and puppies he loves because he can never understand his own strength, and his pathetic efforts to remember the simplest things are totally convincing. Burgess Meredith, near the beginning of his film career, gives one the finest of his many inspired performances, showing a shining power of love and devotion rarely seen on the screen with a male character, or someone who is neither father nor mother. Betty Field, also starting out on the screen, is superb as the young wife on the ranch tormented by boredom almost to the point of insanity. The scene where she and the retarded Lennie sit and 'converse', never really connecting but each pursuing a desperate individual monologue, is one of the most effective scenes of its kind ever filmed. This film contains so many moving performances that it is like a showcase of pathos. Roman Bohnen, astonishingly aged only 45 at the time (and he died aged only 54! - a great loss!), plays a pathetic old man desperately attempting to grasp a last thread of a possible dream, having had the only love of his life, an old dog, torn from him and shot, so that he is deprived of anything and everything, stripped bare, a naked, lost soul, as so many in this story are lost souls. Leigh Whipper is outstandingly subtle in his portrayal of an ostracised black worker who mixes bitterness, sympathy, love, hate, and venom all in one well-rounded package, an incredible achievement in a short time on screen. Bob Steele is totally convincing as the repellent young husband of Betty Field, whose manic jealousy and general paranoia rise steadily to a crescendo of intensity. This is a desperate film about desperate people. The relationship of the hopelessly retarded Chaney with his friend Meredith is completely convincing, and heart-breaking to the ultimate degree. One hopes that some of these characters can achieve some semblance of a dream, that even one of them can escape the endless wheel of torment and emotional deprivation and lack of fulfillment. I have known people who resembled these more than is comfortable. This multiply tragic tale is not just devastatingly close to the bone, it is the bone. "},{"Title":"1939 masterpiece","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" this is another of John Steinbeck's novels brought to the screen.i thought it was well done.Burgess Meredith plays George,and Lon Chaney Jr.plays his travelling companion Lenny.Lenny is what you would call very slow and George has too look out for him and keep him out of trouble.he is a giant of man with the intellect of a child.the two men are forced to keep moving when George does get into trouble.they arrive at a ranch,and end up working.George has big dreams for the two of them.this movie is whimsical in tone at times,but also dark and tragic.Chaney is brilliant as Lenny.the dialogue is very good as is the direction.for me,Of Mice and Men is a 10/10 "},{"Title":"Lon Jr.'s best role","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It was the misfortune of Lon Chaney Jr. that he had the historical film name he did. Being the son of the great silent film star associated with so many horror films, Lon Jr. might have escaped the pull of that reputation had his father lived really into the sound period. When Lon Sr. did his sole sound film in 1930 his film voice showed he could have handled the switch to sound. But he was dying (ironically) of throat cancer, and left the scene soon after. Had he lived he would have been used in many types of films, but many would have been the same type of horror films he was known for. Instead, his son inherited a great name and also the inevitable lure of those horror films.He's not bad in them. For example, if he had not made OF MICE AND MEN he would have been best recalled for THE WOLFMAN ( as the doomed hero. He also was in horror films that have cult status, like MAN MADE MONSTER with Lionel Atwill. But he was forced to do many crappy films. Later films showed the fine actor he really was - most notably his ailing, old sheriff who just is too old to help Gary Cooper in HIGH NOON, and his determined good guy who thwarts racist Claude Atkins from turning in Sidney Poitier and Tony Curtis in THE DEFIANT ONES, but they were too few to keep him from being recalled as another horror actor. Lenny Small is then his signature role - simple minded and so strong he does not know his own strength. Twice in the film he demonstrates this by his killing of the puppy he gets from Slim (Charles Bickford), and his killing of Curly's flirty wife Mae (Betty Field). Both times he kills by accident he thought he was just showing the puppy who was master, and he kills Mae to keep her quiet (not wanting to set off a chain reaction that - ironically - he does still set off).John Steinbeck is in that select group of early to mid-century writers (with Eugene O'Neill, Sinclair Lewis, William Faulkner, and Ernest Hemingway - but for some reason not F. Scott Fitzgerald) who managed to win and deserve the Nobel Prize for Literature. Steinbeck's novels have been translated to the screen frequently. At least two of Steinbeck's best tales (the present one and THE GRAPES OF WRATH) were made into truly classic films, with a third one worthy of viewing as part of the James Dean legend (EAST OF EDEN). Most American students first come to him when they read OF MICE AND MEN. It is a good start for the novella is a complex development of the tragedy hinted at in the source of the title - the Robert Burns' poem TO A MOUSE.George (Burgess Meredith) and Lenny have been migrant workers together for years. Cousins, George used to play jokes on Lenny, but when he saved his life (in a joke that backfired) he changes and takes care of the slow-witted giant. They dream of owning a small farm of their own, where they are not at the beck and call of other bosses. Lenny also hopes to raise little rabbits and have puppies as well. But Lenny inevitably causes some incident at each site that causes them either to be fired or to flee some mob or posse (the film is set in the 1930s, but the rural nature of the background makes it like a western). When they find themselves at the current ranch Slim and the other men welcome them, as does the owner. But the owner's son Curly (Bob Steele) is perpetually trying to prove himself by acting belligerently (except to tall, intelligent people like Slim). His wife Mae is bored and slightly flirty, and this gives Curly his perpetual suspicion of all the men on the ranch. George therefore has his hands full trying to keep Lenny quiet and trying to keep Mae from coming onto his cousin. George has set a goal of saving $600.00 to buy a small farm, but has to keep the jobs he and Lenny got for several months to save up. However an old hand at the ranch named Candy agrees to go in with them, and they now only need a little over two hundred dollars. But their scheme (like that of the mouse in Burns' poem) is bound to go agley due to the death of Mae by Lenny.Actually it is not the only scheme. Mae wants to get away from her mother and marries Curly (who she dislikes). She also wanted a Hollywood career, which she never gets. Curly wants to dominate the men with fear, and ends up with a crushed hand and a dead wife who never loved him. Crooky, the African-American farmhand, can't even get equality with his fellow white workers - he lives segregated in a room near a dung pile.There are many fine set pieces here - the stupid fight that Curly picks with Lenny, that ends with the giant crushing his hand; the comparison of the camaraderie of the hands' dinner with that of Mae, Curly, and Curly's father (the latter has two males concentrating on their meal, while a bored Mae toys with her own); and possibly the two most poignant - the killing of Candy's old, dying dog by Doc, with the hands aware of what is going to happen but sitting around trying to forget it (the gunshot from outside reminds one that director Lewis Milestone had done similar work earlier in the decade in ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT), and the dreadfully sad execution scene - with George trying to make Lenny as happy as possible in his last moments. OF MICE AND MEN was a powerful story in 1939, and remains so to this day. "}{"Title":"Itinerant Agricultural Workers","Date":"30 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Burgess Meredith is George, the small savvy bindle stiff in California's central valley, looking for work in the Great Depression, and Lon Chaney, Jr., as Lenny, is his enormously strong but harmless retarded pal.They find work bucking barley sacks along with a dozen other diverse workers on a farm run by a cold, distant, owner and his mean and narcissistic son, Bob Steele. Steele is insanely jealous of his bored, frivolous wife, Betty Fields. And he especially dislikes Chaney because Steele is short, Chaney is the size of Frankenstein's monster, and Steele is resentful of Chaney's genes.The performances are fine, especially Roman Bohnen as a weary old one-handed man who must give up his decrepit dog to be put out of its misery. The scene is sad in a delicate way. And it's important to the plot because it adumbrates the climax of the tale. Sometimes it's necessary for a man to kill the thing he loves to spare it further misery.It's a little different from Steinbeck's novel, in which the Bob Steele character kept only one hand in a glove because the hand was greased up in order to be kept soft for his wife. Gulp. I don't think anyone would call Bob Steele's performance outstanding. He's stone faced and he darts about but he'd been doing that for years, an old childhood friend of John Wayne's. And despite the limits imposed by his talent, he worked steadily. The last film I recognized him in was The Longest Day (1964), uncredited. But who knows? He may be soldiering on even today, playing Father Time or Methuselah.Lon Chaney, Jr's, career was at least as interesting. The son of the great silent movie star, he played varied parts in the 30s and 40s, including some effective comedy, before becoming locked into horror roles and television parts, which he often played while skunk drunk.Someone once figured out that Burgess Meredith had an extraordinarily high Kenneth Bacon number, for what it's worth. He never gave a poor performance but was never gripping either. He recalled in an interview that it was during the shooting of Of Mice and Men that the cast and crew first heard of the outbreak of World War II in Europe.It's a tale of unpretentious working people and their internal dynamics. Steinbeck's characters were usually keenly observed and humanized except, as here, for big land owners. Even Betty Fields, the shallow tart, is shown some sympathy by the writers. And by the director, too. When Lennie drops her dead body, it flops behind the plank of an inner wall of the barn and there it lays, immediately after the murder and in subsequent shots, only a haunch and shoulder visible.The ending is tragic. In Burns' poem, from which the title is taken, the poet writes I wad be laith to rin an' chase thee Wi' murd'ring pattle! The forces of law and order, goaded by Bob Steele's vengeful husband, show no such reluctance. At least Lenny dies in a transport of ecstasy. There are worse deaths. "},{"Title":"One of the best films I've ever seen","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I absolutely love this film. There are no other versions I care to see, as this is the quintessential filming of the book. After seeing it in my twenties, I did not get a chance to see it for about 25 years, until I saw it a few months ago. There are films that make one cry - this film makes me sob out loud. The ending is so torturously sad for me that I can't watch it with other people, because I make a fool out of myself crying so hard and out loud.I think the reason this film, particularly this version of the story, is so sad, is that it feels like innocence is being murdered at the end. It gives one the feeling that there is nothing good being left in the world. For this reason, I won't be watching it again for a long, long time. Its just too painful. "},{"Title":" The best Laid schemes of  Mice and Men,  often  leave nothing but  grief and pain ","Date":"11 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Steinbeck published his Nobel winning book in 1937. This film adaptation of said book followed two years later. Lewis Milestone selected two virtually unknown actors to play the lead characters and struck pay-dirt. The film tells the story of two itinerant laborers traveling through California in the Depression of 1930. Burgess Meredith, plays George a sensitive and fast thinking individual who has taken and befriended Lennie, (Lon Chaney Jr.) a huge retarded man who is gentle, kind and well-meaning but hampered with a dangerous and prodigious strength. Securing employment, they begin working on a large farm ranch and are greeted by Slim (Charles Bickford) the ranch foreman and Whit (Noah Berry Jr.) a ranch hand. However they are also met by Curley (Bob Steele) and his flirtatious wife Mae (Betty Field). Life on the ranch is peppered with both opportunities of future dreams, but also with hazardous personal situations which seem innocuous enough, but are fraught with misunderstanding. Nevertheless, the movie itself is filled with both compassion for life, but also in heartrending acceptations of natural tragedy. The wonderful performances by Meredith and Chaney mark this great film with the unmistakable characteristics of a true Classic. A great movie stemming from an equally great book. A must see for all movie lovers. **** "},{"Title":"Worth a Closer Look","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Too bad this dramatic powerhouse got lost in 1939's crowded field of movie classics because, as a drama, there was none better. Then too, the film appears an independent production released through United Artists, so it lacked crucial studio backing and all the attention that can bring. Also, producer-director Milestone clearly insisted on an unusual degree of realism in portraying life among California's migrant farm workers. And, let's face it, those conditions were pretty ugly, resulting in a pretty ugly setting from one scene to the next, never much of an audience incentive. For example, when the grieving Candy rolls onto his stomach following the execution of his faithful dog, we don't see the usual intact wardrobe. Instead, his shirttail is frayed and the Levi jacket split along the seam&#x97; a penniless old man who's now lost his only friend. Such dedication to detail may add to the realism, yet it can also depress an audience looking for what movies do best&#x97;provide escape.But, of course, old Candy is not penniless. Instead, he's been saving his money, and now he has a nice little kitty saved, which raises one of the film's key themes&#x97;a workingman's dream of independence. That's what brings the men together-- smart George, slow Lenny, old Candy, and even the racial outcast Crooks. All have spent their lives taking orders and making money for others, never having anything of their own. Yet, each harbors his own version of that dream&#x97;a place where Lenny can pet rabbits, where Candy won't be abandoned, where Crooks can find human dignity, and where George can make it all work. And though the point goes unstated, the arrangement shapes up like a farm co-operative where everyone contributes and has a stake, an outcome certainly compatible with the spirit of the New Deal times.The other key theme is George's caring devotion for the slow-witted Lenny. He made a promise to do that, and, by golly, he's going to stick with it, even though he has to live with the often dire results. The screenplay starts with the two of them running from a posse. We learn that Lenny's desire to pet soft things has done something to a girl, but we don't learn exactly what. Yet George refuses to abandon the hulking Lenny, which, as things shape up, may be loyalty to a fault. The script makes clear that their companionship is rare among migrant workers, where the rule appears to be every man for himself. Thus Lenny and George together form a kind of a solidarity core that others can gravitate toward, should they want to. Thus arises the possibility of a co-op and the sense of community this would provide for lost souls such as Candy and Crooks.The trouble is that these two ideals&#x97;dreams and loyalty&#x97;collide in the screenplay to produce an upshot of uncommon emotional power. Lenny simply cannot control his kindly impulses, such that the hulking man's desire to caress can produce fear and panic in the other, causing Lenny to stop the panic in the only way he knows how&#x97;by choking. Thus a desire to show affection ends in deadly violence from one more lost soul who, despite his fearsome appearance, only means well, all of which produces an irony of intense proportions. So when Lennie throttles the trollopy Mae after caressing her hair, events play out in tragic fashion. And the real nature of violence shatters the fragile nature of dreams.Now, I don't think anyone would blame George for his act of mercy, given the circumstances. However, there's an angle here that the emotion of the movie's last few minutes overpowers, and that is whether George's act of mercy does in fact represent the wisest or best decision, all things considered. After all, by honoring loyalty, George destroys the common dream of the four of them, thereby abandoning Crooks and Candy to an unpromising fate. As a result three men (including a likely incarcerated George) are victimized instead of one man, Lennie, being institutionalized, difficult though that would be. Again, I'm not saying George makes a blameworthy decision; in fact it comes across as a noble act of humane loyalty. I am saying there is more of an ethical conflict among the options open to George than may otherwise be recognized. A more general point is that the noble may at times conflict with the greater good, as it appears to here.The movie itself is very well done. Meredith is outstanding as George, hitting just the right pitch as a sensitive man in a complex world. Lennie is a darn difficult role, and while Chaney at times goes over the top, he does convey the essential childlike innocence. And because of that, the ending achieves much of its emotional power. Field looks the part of Mae, the cheap dame with dreams of Hollywood, but she's also stagey as heck, with one of the shrillest voices on record, such that It's almost a perverse relief when she gets throttled. Slim comes across as a rather mysterious character, and Bickford plays him with a compelling low-key dignity. The men obviously respect him, and he appears to be an authority they defer to, even George. But a question has stayed with me over time&#x97;namely, why does Slim, a man who can see beyond the moment, approve the killing of Candy's old dog. He understands the devastating effect this will have on old Candy, who sees his own fate foreshadowed in the dog's. So why does Slim go along with Carlson's cruel demand. I've never been able to figure that one out.Anyway, I think producer-director Milestone has come up with a first-rate version of Steinbeck's classic novel. I'm just sorry this slice of blue-collar reality has gotten generally passed over by film historians. In my little book, it's clearly the best movie to come out of that so-called golden year 1939. "},{"Title":"Not shown enough on television","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I can remember the first time I saw this movie on television, maybe 30 years ago. I cried like a baby over Candy's dog and then again at the end.Last night I watched the movie again on Turner Classic Movies, for the first time in 30 years, and once again I cried like a baby over Candy's dog and at the end.The dialog in this film is so real. Everyone is a guy and you feel like you're watching real men interacting with each other. There isn't a false moment in the whole thing.Lennie is believable, George is believable, and Candy is believable. You can feel their frustration with their current situation, the anguish they feel about how they got to this point, and the elation they feel when imagining their future. All they want is a piece of land they can call their own; that's not too much to ask is it? But things happen; bad things. It's nobody's fault really, but it destroys everything they'e ever wanted. They'll never get that little piece of land, they'll never have anything more than what they have right now, and they'll never be anything better than what they already are.If I live to be a hundred years old, I'll always cry at the end of this movie. Not so much because of what happens, but because of why it happens. As for Candy's dog, I think he and Lennie ended up better off than anyone else. "},{"Title":"Makes me cry every time!","Date":"15 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are two scenes in this excellent movie that make me cry every time. The first is when Candy's dog is put down. We had to put down our beloved dog about a year ago, and it was a most difficult thing to do. Of course the movie just heightens the emotions here, as Candy realizes he is also getting old and is not as useful and vibrant as he used to be. His regret later in the film about not doing the deed himself just makes the whole situation sadder. Then there's the final scene, with George knowing what he must do, and Lenny, still with a child's innocence, talking about the hope filled future where he can tend the rabbits. He can really see it, but we and George know it's not to be. As sad as parts of the movie are, this is one of my favorite movies of all time. The two leads are fantastic as are the rest of the cast. Grab this one and have the tissues ready. "},{"Title":"One of the All Time Greats","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Of Mice and Men (1939) **** (out of 4) A true masterpiece of the genre has Burgess Meredith playing George, the simple man who takes care of the soft hearted but dumb Lennie (Lon Chaney, Jr.). The two men get work on a ranch where they dream of owning their own land but fate always has a way of finding Lennie. Even though this film has the reputation of being a classic, I can't help but wonder why it isn't talked about more when it comes to some of the all time great movies. I'm going to guess the movie is often overlooked because it comes from 1939, the same year that gave us films like GONE WITH THE WIND, THE WIZARD OF OZ and MR. SMITH GOES TO WASHINGTON to name just a few. The masterful performance by Chaney is probably overlooked because most people remember him mainly for his horror roles. Both reasons are understandable but there's no question this movie packs on emotional and peaceful punch that can't be topped by too many movies. Producer Hal Roach rushed this film into production to beat John Ford's THE GRAPES OF WRATH into theaters but you really can't tell. The direction, cinematography, screenplay and acting are so wonderful that you can't help but fall in love with the film. Chaney clearly steals the show as the dimwitted Lennie. That childlike quality that Chaney brings to the role is unforgettable and the sympathy he gains is unmatched. The film shows what a great actor Chaney could be if given the right parts. It's a shame he didn't get to do more dramatic roles in his career. Meredith, a fine character actor, is another one who never got enough credit in his career. He delivers a remarkable performance here that perfectly balances out the friendship between his character and Lennie. The real surprise comes in how terrific the supporting players are led by Charles Bickford's wonderful work as the tough guy in the group. Bob Steele, Roman Bohnen, Noah Beery, Jr. and Betty Field are all terrific as well. The film deals with a lot of subjects as one could argue the entire film is a moral drama. We deal with racism, abuse, personal torture and various other subjects but the film never comes off preachy. The ending, which I'm sure most people know even if they haven't seen any of the movies, packs a tremendous punch. "},{"Title":"A Very Sad but thought-provoking Classic","Date":"17 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having sat my 'O-levels' over 30 years ago, I won't be re-watching Lewis Milestone's first film version of John Steinbeck's acclaimed novel, for my GCSE's!It is a delight to read here that Of Mice and Men is such a subject and similarly, when I found that another all-time favourite of mine 'To Kill A Mockingbird' was now also now standard classroom fodder, I was delighted as it re-affirms both the credibility of the original stories and their relevance in today's society.Those of us - and I guess the majority, will already have seen 1992's update with John Malkovich and Gary Sinise before we even realise that there's a better, original alternative. The extraordinary story, which is always compelling is also grossly unfair and it is this and all the issues that arise about human nature and the cruelties of life that are so memorable. They linger like glowing embers on our psyche and the fact that there are no easy answers create a sense of inadequacy within us.I won't revisit the narrative, but would say that for us older lot who don't have to study this because we're told to, this is a must, especially for those who've appreciated the later, colour film. The fact that it's now widely available and at a good price means that there's now no excuse! "},{"Title":"Film version packs same wallop as book and play.","Date":"13 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Made a couple of years after the success of both the book and the play the film version of John Steinbeck's Of Mice and Men keeps the string going and playing it safe by more or less filming the stage version. But who can argue since in this case the play is truly the thing.George and Lenny are on the run from their last place of employment. George is the brains and Lenny the brawn who unaware of his own strength gets the boys into these scrapes. They dream someday of having their own farm where Lenny will in be in charge of the rabbits but for now do migrant work. At their latest stop they meet Candy who throws in with George and Lenny bringing them one step closer to their dream. Lenny however once again unintentionally screws up.Any way you serve it up Of Mice and Men is one emotionally tragic story. Desperate people in a desperate era with loyalty pushed to its limit it is a bleak depiction of a transient marginal society, ironically toiling on Earth's most fertile soil, where there is little room for sentiment or understanding. Poignant, suspenseful, depressing it is filled with an abundance of powerful scenes that dance from touching to cruel in the blink of an eye. Director, Milestone for the most part shoots the film in a studio and while he does utilize some of his signature tracking effectively it still feels more like a Broadway Theatre than the Salinas Valley. His pacing and editing are outstanding though and it gives the film a nice urgent tempo.The roles of George and Lenny are two of theatre and film's fullest characters and while their have been better pairings Burgess Merideth and Lon Chaney Jr. are adequate with some flashes of brilliance displayed by each. A strong supporting cast led by Roman Bonhen as Candy, Betty Fields and Leigh Whipper add to this impressive production of one of the most memorable stories of the Twentieth Century. "},{"Title":"A very well done, faithful, and powerful adaptation of one of Steinbeck's famous books","Date":"29 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Seven years ago, when I was in high school, I was assigned to read and study John Steinbeck's 1937 novella, Of Mice and Men, in my English class, and it's no surprise that I still remember it clearly now, as it's not a story to forget. Shortly after reading the book, we were shown the 1992 film adaptation in that class. I first heard about this much earlier adaptation of the book around that time, but it took me seven years to finally get around to watching it, even though I had been intending to watch it for quite a while by the time I did. I knew this version was widely praised, which gave me fairly high expectations. It may not have fully met these expectations, but if not, at least it came very close, and I would say it's just as memorable as the book.In the 1930's Great Depression era, George Milton and Lennie Small are two migrant ranch workers in California who dream of having their own place someday. Lennie is big and strong, but he is also mentally handicapped, and George has to look after him. He means well, but often gets into trouble, doing things he doesn't realize are wrong, and George is always the one who has to get him out of it. After leaving town to escape from a mob started by Lennie feeling a woman's dress, the two of them soon get jobs on another ranch. Here, their co-workers include Candy, an elderly man who won't likely be able to work on the ranch for much longer, and Crooks, a crippled black man who faces discrimination because of his race in this era. The ranch owner's son is Curley, a belligerent young man who hates Lennie from the moment he first sees him, and has a lonely wife named Mae, whom he tends to neglect, but doesn't want any other men to have anything to do with her, being the jealous type.The cast really helps carry this film, including the two co-stars, Burgess Meredith as George and Lon Chaney Jr. (the son of the Man of a Thousand Faces, Lon Chaney) as Lennie. Both of these actors fit their roles well, and are both memorable. Chaney's portrayal of a mentally handicapped character may not be flawless, but it's still good. Most of the other cast members' performances also stand out, and it helps that they were clearly given a good script. There are times when the score doesn't fit the scene very well, and there may be certain other slight flaws, but they are far from enough to ruin the movie. In addition to the acting and script, there are a number of very interesting characters, several of whom one can easily sympathize with, and some very well crafted heartbreaking scenes, starting with Candy losing his dog. The score in these scenes does fit them well. This adaptation of Steinbeck's novella was also very nicely filmed.This first ever film adaptation of a John Steinbeck story is not perfect, but overall, it's still very good, and very faithful to the book. It does take some liberties, such as giving Curley's wife a name, and they obviously left out some detail, but the differences are minor, at least for the most part. Anyone who has read the book knows that Of Mice and Men is not a cheerful story. It's a tragic drama set in a tragic era, and this movie is much the same as the book, so keep that in mind if you're planning to watch it. If you're an emotional kind of person, you could easily find tears in your eyes at times, and if you're not, you could still at least come close to tears. If you've read the book and were impressed with it, and/or you like dramas from the classic era in general, I really think this 1939 screen adaptation is worth checking out. "}{"Title":"A  classic for sure . . . yesterday and today . . .","Date":"10 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After all these years, I have just started to watch this Lewis Milestone masterwork again, having seen it in the long and forgotten ago. And the opening scenes alone, the establishing title shots, cameraman's shadow notwithstanding, struck with the full force of both truth and genius, the former for the Steinbeck novella and the latter for Milestone's seamless evocation. I have read a few of the commentaries on both this original filming and the latterday Sinise/Malkovich version, which I have yet to see, and find little to disagree with in my samplings. It is interesting AND instructive that both Betty Fields and Lon Jr. received brickbats along with kudos. The former earned the same in King's Row, and the latter, of course, never received all that much attention. That said, I, for one, thought Chaney was at the peak of his form as the retard Lenny, and, whilst it is more than understandable that some found his performance over the top, that is purely a matter of subjective reaction. Burgess Meredith was a fine George, and I rather doubt Sinise could have improved on it, sight unseen, but, that too is purely subjective. There were some observant AND penetrating insights among the comments I scanned on both versions, but only one, the fellow who observed that there were chick flicks and this was a dick flick. And, on that score, I did not read a single acknowledgment of the fact that the obvious homoerotic themes, not just that between George and Lenny, but also the closet-queen implications of Curly's overmacho stances, were not overtly noted. To me, George and Lenny, in their own ways, were the templates for the protagonists of Brokeback Mountain, another near-Oscar entry. Although, in the latter, the retard survives in his zombie estate. Finally, it was a personal shock to see the wondrous character performance of Roman Bohnen again, this overlooked and under-appreciated mainstay of the old Actors' Lab experiment in Hollywood, way back then. By the way, what with my lack of hearing and unavailability of captions for the Milestone version, I found I did not need same. Indeed, focussing on the setups and closeups the action and dialog were all too clear. Tell me about those rabbits. "},{"Title":"...The alfalfa for the rabbits...","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Stienbeck's classic is given it's first big screen adaption and Lon Chaney Jr gives the best performance of his career.Of Mice and Men is a great novel to begin with and the problem with it is that it would be a hard novel to adapt in Depression era 30's. The movie is more up beat than the 1992 version but it benefits because this version is more real than the Sinise film. This version has the benefit of being made in the middle of the depression and because of this it has great power to it.Chaney deserves all the praise in the world for his portrayal of the tragic Lenny. This Lenny is easily the most tragic on film. We believe George when he says Lenny is like a big child. Chaney's Lenny is a character who doesn't understand the world around him, Malkovich's Lenny was more corrupted by his surroundings. It's a shame he didn't receive an Oscar nomination for this role. I think that if he had not gone into horror, he could have worked well as a dramatic player.The set design and cinematography are impressive as well. The film has very simple surroundings but simple isn't bad here. We forget Of Mice and Men because we were also introduced to the Land of Oz or the plantations of Gone with the Wind or the Congress in Mr.Smith Goes to Washington, but unlike those pictures the movie relies more so on it's outstanding cast which give this picture more emotional weight.This is the definitive adaptation of Of Mice and Men. The Sinise film is outstanding but it doesn't hold a candle to this masterpiece. "},{"Title":"the Wolf Man meets the Penguin","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Knowing that Lon Chaney Jr. played the Wolf Man and that Burgess Meredith played Penguin on the old Batman TV series (plus Rocky's trainer), it might seem hard to imagine them co-starring in a serious movie. But Of Mice and Men comes out very well done. In this adaptation of John Steinbeck's novel, the two actors bring to life the retarded Lennie Small and the self-standing George Milton, respectively. On the farm where they get hired, one can easily see the hierarchy inherent in society the workers forced to do the most degrading labor; the African-American ostracized from everyone else; the Chinese servant; and the woman (Betty Field) forbidden from having her own life. In the midst of everything, George has to look after Lennie, who proves very dangerous to himself and others.So, this is definitely a movie that I recommend. Even if Betty Field's performance comes across as mildly silly, that doesn't dampen the movie. Very well done. "},{"Title":"this movie should be one of our great classics","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was a young boy when I saw this movie for the first time.My father brought me to see it because he was a great fan of lan Channey.I was deeply touched by this story, about a grown man who had a mind of a small child.  "},{"Title":"Chaney's first triumph....","Date":"26 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Long before he became Lon Chaney and cemented his horror legacy as the Wolf Man and various other monsters, Creighton Tull Chaney was a struggling actor trying to find his way in Hollywood in the wake of his legendary father's death.Under studio pressure, Creighton changed his named to Lon Chaney Jr. and struggled in various B-Movie roles before landing the stage part that would open the door--however so slightly--to bigger and better things. Lennie Small, a mentally challenged person who does bad things that are often out of his control. After getting the stage role, Lon Jr. would eventually win the screen role that would become one of his favorites. Lennie travels with his buddy and caretaker,George Milton. George has dreams of one day owning his own ranch and letting Lennie tend to all the animals they will have. Lennie especially likes the idea of tending to all the rabbits.Meanwhile, George and Lennie find work on a ranch, where Lennie encounters a girl who will lead to nothing but trouble--the same kind of trouble that lead to Lennie and George leaving another town.There are a couple of moving scenes in Of Mice and Men--one being the scene where Candy--a worker who befriends Lennie and George--has his old, sickly dog taken out and shot. And of course, there's the closing reel where George has to get Lennie out of the trouble he's gotten himself into--the only way he knows how.Of Mice and Men is a moving triumph--very well acted and very memorable. 10 stars "},{"Title":"Loved Lon Chaney Jr in this Film; I've Never seen a Guy this Strong","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Lon Chaney Jr. should had won an Oscar for his brilliant performance! George (Burgess Meredith) and Lennie (Lon Chaney Jr.) are friends that grew up together. They are on the run from an earlier incident. They end up at this ranch for work to save for a house of their own. Lennie has the mind of a child but the strength of ox. My first time seeing this movie; I was very moved by Lennie. Lennie belong some place where he could be supervised because he could be dangerous to others. On the other hand, I just wanted to put my arms around Lennie and take care of him. My husband also liked the movie very much. Although, its B/W once you watched a few B/W films; you get use to them. The ranch owner has a son, who is very jealous of his wife and she is plain lonely for someone to talk to but with Lennie and this problematic wife, there is bound to be trouble. I was kept interested from start to finish. I didn't think that the remake by MGM in 1992, was as good as this film. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"6 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First-rate adaptation of John Steinbeck's novel. The story, for those who don't know by now, is about two migrant workers named George and Lennie who go to work at a ranch, where they run into problems with the rancher's pint-sized son and his floozy wife. Lennie (Lon Chaney, Jr.) is a slow-minded giant. George (Burgess Meredith) looks after him and promises him one day they will get enough money saved to get a farm all their own. Unfortunately, they can't stay in one place too long as George doesn't know his own strength and hurts people and animals without meaning to.Chaney's performance is memorable and this is usually cited as his best work. He would enter horror films in the 1940s and seldom stray from that genre. Chaney's Lennie was repeatedly parodied in cartoons (Which way did he go, George? Which way did he go?). Burgess Meredith gives a very nice turn as George. These two are so good in the roles I couldn't imagine anybody else playing them, though many have. Solid supporting cast that includes Betty Field, Charles Bickford, Roman Bohnen, and Noah Beery, Jr. Little-known black actor Leigh Whipper is superb in a small part as a crippled stable hand. Probably the best film Hal Roach Studios ever turned out. It's a poignant story with moments of beauty throughout. A true classic. "},{"Title":"Interesting version of John Steinbeck's downbeat Depression tale...","Date":"23 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" LON CHANEY, JR. creates sympathy for the role of the mentally retarded Lenny in John Steinbeck's OF MICE AND MEN, and BURGESS MEREDITH is excellent as his traveling companion who looks out for him. It's a Depression-era tale of itinerant farm workers who work for a sadistic boss and have to contend with some unfortunate series of circumstances.BETTY FIELD throws herself into the role of the trampy, bored wife of the relentlessly jealous Curley played by TOM STEELE. The scene in the barn where she and Lenny share their dreams of a golden future that is never realized, is outstanding for the way it is played and written.Unfortunately, there's a claustrophobic feeling to much of the story, based as it is on the stage play rather than the novel. Characters each have their monologues, sometimes overly sentimental, but among the supporting players it's ROMAN BOHNEN who does a superior job as Candy, the man whose devotion to an old sheep dog is crushed when he agrees to let someone put it down with a shotgun. Only 45 at the time, he submerges himself in the role of the unhappy old man.Most of the scenes revolve around the friendship of Meredith and Chaney and they do excellent work here. Chaney's performance is not subtle but it is consistently believable and makes the ending almost unbearable to watch.CHARLES BICKFORD is his usual stalwart self and stamps his role with authority, as does BOB STEELE as the jealous husband who gets more than he bargained for when he picks on Lenny.Lewis Milestone directed it skillfully and gets the film off to a good pre-credit start with Lenny and George being chased out of town and hopping onto the nearest freight train to escape a posse of gun toting men. Aaron Copland's score is quietly effective but certainly does not rank among his most memorable works. "},{"Title":"A little tedious","Date":"21 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A lot of the central California vistas in this film cry out for color photography. But that might be distracting. I found this film a bit boring, which didn't surprise me, because I found the book a bit boring as well. But overcoming this were some truly masterful acting from Burgess Meredith and Lon Chaney, Jr. Acting credit should also go to the rest of the cast. Something I didn't recall from the book was one of the ranch hands going on and on about how strange it was for two fellows to spend so long traveling and working together, questioning George's compassionate care-taking of Lenny, so much so that he makes up a story about them being cousins. Was this a question about possible homosexuality? I don't know, but while watching, it made me wonder. (Not if there was any actual gayness going on, but if that's what the guy was hinting at) "},{"Title":"We going away, far away from here.","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've seen Lon Chaney Jr. in close to a couple dozen movie and television roles, and except for his signature 'Wolf Man' from 1941, I never thought he was that good an actor. But WOW!, he gives a stunningly brilliant performance as the mentally challenged Lennie in this movie adaptation of John Steinbeck's classic novel. Not only in his mannerisms, but in the disciplined cadence of his speech to affect a truly unique character in film. As soon as I heard it, I hearkened back to my childhood watching those old Warner Brothers cartoons, and even though I can't remember which one it was, I can clearly hear in my mind the words Which way did he go George, which way did he go? Referring of course (in the picture, not the cartoon), to Lennie's overseer and traveling companion. Burgess Meredith is completely natural as Lennie's buddy George, with the patience of a saint and a heart as good as gold.But George and Lennie are just the beginning. You would be hard pressed to find a film of any era to be so rich in characters, each of which evokes such a strong response from the viewer. I marveled at the performance of Roman Bohnen as Candy; the scene in which his old sheep dog was led away is one of the most uncomfortable moments I've ever experienced in pictures. I've yet to see Bob Steele in any of his Westerns where he comes across as such a dominant character, even when he's portraying a villain as he does here. Did you catch the neat way he mounted his horse right after first meeting George and Lennie? - it was so smooth that it takes a few seconds to realize what he just did.The biggest surprise for me while watching was how the picture confronted racism head on in the bunkhouse scene with Crooks (Leigh Whipper), talking about what it means to be a black man. Just the way it's done, you never get the impression he's using the so called 'race card', to evoke sympathy. He simply conveys how being black has made him a lonely man. That sense of isolation is further reinforced by the characters of George and Curly's wife Mae, all of whom just need someone to talk to.Having read the book so long ago, I don't remember the set up for the finale, but that might be the only thing in the picture that could have been handled better. When George showed the stolen gun to Slim (Charles Bickford), it telegraphed the ending for those viewers unfamiliar with the novel. It would have been much more powerful for George to reveal his intent when he finally finds Lennie at the pre-arranged meeting place in the swamp. It also bothered me that although Slim was complicit in George's act (by not trying to stop him), he stopped the sheriff to point out George.Now that I think about it some more, Slim might have been the most conflicted character in the story, straddling both sides of an issue on many levels. He was a threat to Curly, but never openly challenged him. He didn't approve of Carlson (Granville Bates) meddling with Candy over his sheep dog, but was the voice that convinced Candy that putting the dog to rest was the right thing to do. There's a lot more than meets the eye with Slim's character, and his presence in the film nagged me throughout; maybe that was Steinbeck's intent.One of the neat things about catching this picture the other night on Turner Classics was the commentary by host Robert Osborne following the film. He explained an intricate detail about the movie bill that Curly's wife had in her hand about mid way in the story. One of the films on the card was Zenobia, released the same year as this picture, and like this one, was also produced by Hal Roach. Even seventy years ago, film makers found unique ways to promote their own properties. "}{"Title":"Another winner from 1939","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Probably the best film adaptation of a Steinbach novel that Hollywood ever managed.  East of Eden doesn't make it since Kazan used less than a third of a towering novel.Of Mice and Men is a profoundly moving story of people caring for each other during a very difficult time in American history. Lon Chaney, Jr. does the best work of his career in a deceptively demanding role.  The one sour note is the bewilderingly hammy performance by Betty Field.  "},{"Title":"Beautifully Made Film","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I read Of Mice and Men in high school as well as saw this 1939 film version. I fell in love with both back then. It's been years since I've read the book or watched the film. Just recently I acquired a copy of this film - re-watched it and found the movie even better than I remembered it be - beautifully filmed, well acted, well directed, and a good version of Steinbeck's book.If you've never read the book nor watched the film I won't give it away for you but it is a worthwhile film to watch - very sad, heartwarming and beautiful.If you enjoyed this film I highly recommend The Grapes of Wrath (1940) with Henry Fonda and John Carradine.10/10 "},{"Title":"Steinbeck's classic book comes to life with Burgess Meredith and Lon Chaney Jr.","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Based on the classic John Steinbeck novel and released in 1939, the story focuses on two traveling companions desperate for work in rural California during the Depression George (Burgess Meredith) is of average stature and smart whereas Lennie (Lon Chaney Jr.) is big and mentally challenged. They get a gig at a big ranch while dreaming of owning their own one day when the opportunity suddenly presents itself. Unfortunately, the arrogant son of the owner, Curley (Bob Steele), and his flirtatious wife (Betty Field) complicate matters. Charles Bickford is on hand as Slim, Roman Bohnen plays Candy and Leigh Whipper plays Crooks.I've been a fan of this potent Western drama/tragedy ever since I read the book as a teenager and both this version and the 1992 version are worthy film adaptions (I have yet to see the 1981 TV production with Robert Blake and Randy Quaid, which I've heard is good). It seems that you just cannot do a 'bad' Of Mice and Men, as long as you have decent actors and filmmakers.Some people scoff at the moral of the story, as if it all comes down to shooting your aged, useless dog yourself, but it's way more than this. It's a commentary on the nature of companionship and loneliness Whereas George and Lennie compliment each other many of the other characters languish in isolation, like Candy, Curley's wife and Crooks, even Slim. Questions of strength, weakness, usefulness, reality and utopia are explored as the story leaves you scratching your head.Comparing the two versions, I slightly prefer the newer rendition because it's in color and is just overall better made with a superior score and cast with the exception of Lon Chaney as Lennie. Malkovich is very effective in the more recent version, but Chaney's Lennie is just more likable. While I don't like the addition of cussing in the 1992 rendition, it's probably more realistic and it isn't so bad that it makes the movie unwatchable (for me anyway). In any case, Sherilyn Fenn is a vast improvement over the original's Betty Field, who's annoying and not desirable enough to pull off the part (but, then again, she might be desirable to male ranch hands with no other females within a dozen miles).The film runs 106 minutes and was shot in California.GRADE B+ COMMENTARY ***SPOILER ALERT*** (Don't read further unless you know the story) Curley's wife has only ever been valued for her sexuality, which she has learned to use to attract attention. Not only is she the only female character, she's also the only character not to be given a name in the book and the 1992 version, which emphasizes that she's a sexual plaything, currently owned by Curley. She was repressed by her mother and taken advantage of by men who made her empty promises. She prefers to believe that her mother stole her letters from the Hollywood man who used her, instead of accepting reality. She is married to a boor who places little value on her and so she seeks the only attention she can get from the men on the ranch as the only woman there sexual attention. The contact with Lennie in the barn is as far as sexual as it gets. When she says It feels good to have her hair stroked, she isn't speaking sexually. She is enjoying the only nonsexual attention and affectionate touch she has had in a very long time, if ever. It is almost a meeting of children between this woman who long ago lost her sexual innocence but remains hopelessly nave, and Lennie, who also longs for soft things in his life. It is a beautiful, tragic scene.Someone argued that Curley's wife wanted to get Lennie on her side so that he would kill Curley and she would be free to leave. If Lennie killed him, no one would believe him if he ever said that she told him to do it; and since she didn't do the deed herself, she could easily leave and start her life over, hopefully as a movie star. While an interesting theory, the young woman doesn't come across this devious or cunning in the story where her actions are more natural and nave. Similar to Lennie, she was a child in an adult body, albeit not mentally challenged. She was starving for companionship, but none of the other men would hang out with her due to Curley and the threat of losing their job. Lennie was alone in the barn and so she just took advantage of the occasion to converse with someone. Add to this the fact that Lennie was the only man on the ranch to humble (conquer) her arrogant SOB husband, whom she hated. Plus, she noticed earlier how Lennie appraised her with obvious awe. So there was a subconscious attraction and she wanted the gentle giant to touch her, stroke her hair; perhaps to reward him. "},{"Title":"Best adaptation","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This version of John Steinbeck's classic novel is the best, and it's due in no small part to the strong performances of both Lon Chaney, Jr. and Burgess Meredith. Which isn't a sentence you hear often, is it? Funny side note - all those years of watching Looney Toons, and I never recognized the references to Lenny from this film.Of Mice and Men is about to wandering workers, Lenny and George, played respectively by Chaney and Meredith. Lenny is the tall, lurking one with a bit of a mental disorder, and George is the short, prickly, protective one. They've been traveling together for some time, with the latter helping the former out of trouble when his simple nature betrays him.Here, they've been hired on as farm hands, toting bales of hay while dreaming of someday owning their own ranch and breeding rabbits. The son of the ranch owner, Curley Jackson (Bob Steele) is a short man with a short temper who takes an instant dislike to the looming Lenny. One of the chief hands is named Slim (Charles Bickford), who's a nice, laid-back fella, kind of the polar opposite of Curley.Most viewers probably read the book in English class and therefore already know the tragic ending. But, as luck would have it, some of us didn't. Either way, I won't go into detail about that portion of the plot except to note that the ever-mounting conflicts in the story center around Lenny's childlike mind and manner and that Curley's wife Mae (Betty Field) is no help in the easing-tensions department.Director Lewis Milestone squeezes a lot of blood from Chaney and Meredith. It's not surprising that this role led to Chaney's getting several likable-monster roles (he'd appear in The Wolf Man a couple of years later). For Meredith, this was probably his best role until playing The Penguin in TV's Batman. But I can't say enough about their performances.So should you read the book or see the movie? Yes. Yes, you should. And then, you should write a 400-word essay about how the two compare. Please submit them to me by April 30, 2015. "},{"Title":"Powerful Performances&#x85;Depression Era Dreams of the Desperate","Date":"5 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Powerful Presentation All Around, This Low-Budget Film Adaptation of the John Steinbeck Depression Era Novel is Superb. The Cast is Excellent with Lon Chaney Jr. Getting Much of the Ink, but it is the Ensemble of Excellent Acting that Stitches This Riveting Character Study Set in a Depressing Environment of Migrant Workers Eeking Out a Living Riding the Rails and Hopping Other Mass Transit from One Hopeless Habitat to Another.This is the Story of the Desperate Dreams of the Desperate People During the Depression. It Evokes a Time and Place of Eroding Humanity Struggling to Make it Despite Playing with a Stacked Deck Dealt Out by Landowners and Their Ilk.It is Uncompromising in its Conclusion and the Movie is Peppered with Sympathetic Characters Reciting Strong Dialog that Can Captivate the Soul and Lay Bare the Betrayal of Life's Cruelty and Uncertainty. No One Comes Out of this Unscathed and Unaffected, Including the Audience.A Small Studio Production (Hal Roach) it Nevertheless was Recognized Alongside the Big Boys and was Given a Best Picture Oscar Nomination. But the Competition was So Overwhelming in 1939 that it Had No Chance of Winning. But it is a Winner All the Way. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie about a John Steinbeck novel.","Date":"22 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have to say that Lon Chaney Jr. makes the best Lennie Smalls from all the actors that played him. Chaney is the son of famed silent film actor Lon Chaney Sr. who had appeared in more than fifty films to this point in his career, but 'Of Mice and Men' was his first major role. Chaney's performance is just amazing. John Malkovich's 1992 acting as Lenny Smalls seems out of place due to his short status and his well use of American English. Lon Chaney's acting match the role. Not only does he have the body for Lennie, but the great use of facial expression that he got from his father. Lon has the physical strength that Steinbeck is trying to say about Lennie whom couldn't control as he can't help stop accidentally killing mice due to petting them too hard. I have to say in this version, I'm not wild about Burgess Meredith's portrayal of George. Burgess's George acts like a freaking psycho killer as he doesn't show much of an emotional range. I do prefer Gary Sinise's 1992 portrayal of George. Here it feels like Burgess Meredith was saying to himself, OK I'm just gonna go in there and be angry with Lennie throughout the movie. Sinise was like, I'm gonna go in there and Lennie's disability is not gonna bother me at all but then of course it does. Burgess's George acts like he wanted to kill Lennie! The movie starts out with the two men, George and his mentally challenged partner Lennie, trying to survive during the dust bowl of the 1930s. They are pursuing a dream of owning their own ranch. They are fleeing from their previous employment where they were run out of town after Lennie's love of stroking soft things resulted in an accusation of attempted rape when he touched a young woman's dress. Of Mice and Men is not kind in its portrayal of women. In fact, women are treated with contempt throughout the course of the book and the movie. Steinbeck generally depicts women as temptress who bring ruin on men and drive them mad. Of Mice and Men offers limited, misogynistic, descriptions of women who are either dead maternal figures or prostitutes. At their newest ranch, the dream appears to move closer to reality as long as Lennie stays away from ranch owner's son Curly's wife (Betty Field). They meet a number of interesting supporting characters that wants a part of their dream such as Candy (Roman Bohnen) the aged, one handed ranch hand whom own an old dog and Crooks (Leigh Whipper) the black stable hand, with a crooked back. One of the movie's major themes and symbols revolve around Candy. Candy worries that the ranch owner will soon declare him useless and fire him due to his age and injury. Candy's dog, once an impressive sheep herder was taken out to similar reasons. This event helps supports Candy's fears. Candy's dog serves as a harsh reminder of the fate that awaits anyone who outlives his or her usefulness. Its serves a foreshadowing for both Lennie and George's lives. There is a bit of predatory nature of human existence in the story. All of the characters, have a profound sense of loneliness and isolation. Each desires the comfort of a friend. The characters are rendered helpless by their isolation, and yet, even at their weakest, they seek to destroy those who are weaker than them. Perhaps the most powerful example of this cruel tendency is when Crooks criticizes Lennie's dream of the farm and his dependence on George. Having just admitted his own vulnerabilities. Crooks zeroes in on Lennie's own weaknesses just to feel better. The book and movie makes the idea of the American Dream seem childlike. An impossibility paradises of freedom, contentment and safety are not to be found in this world. The ending scene is still sad. The movie cheesy music ruins the mood, the newer one is much sadder and has more of a hard hitting end to it. This music was so dumb. It felt like a ragtime suspense film where the murderer is sneaking up on his victim. That is not what the book meant to portray at all. Shame in both films they never put Lennie's vision in, I thought it was a very important element to the book. Chaney's performance as he truly believes he sees his new home is heart breaking. Beautiful. Most people here wouldn't know good acting if it shot them in the head from behind. The remake's ending was too rushed and happened too quickly. This one much more dramatic. This ending is more tasteful done than the color ending. This film followed the book more than the other films. No matter what version of the movie you watch, it's still an awesome story. "},{"Title":"Lon Chaney Jr. Goes Chasing Rabbits","Date":"21 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Steinbeck's classic tale of two depression era migrant workers - resourceful George Milton and lumbering Lennie Small - is required reading, or viewing (not a good substitute for Steinbeck, but if you must). This version's main weakness is staginess. Strangely, Lewis Milestone frames much of the film with obviously staged bits not present in even the original play. Less a problem are contrivances like the small flea power dust storm emitted when Burgess Meredith (as George) examines his bunk. Still, this cast is the standard by which all subsequent characterizations have been measured, with Lon Chaney Jr. (as Lennie) being especially memorable.******** Of Mice and Men (12/30/39) Lewis Milestone ~ Burgess Meredith, Lon Chaney Jr., Roman Bohnen, Betty Field "},{"Title":"A mirror of the times","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" At another studio perhaps there would have been a happier ending,with all the little people getting together and buying that farm. Capra maybe for that or over at Twentieth Century Fox Shirley Temple could have sung some happy tunes while Bill Robinson danced with Lenny and George in the background Lenny and George being her caretakers until they find her rich relative's ranch in the San Joaquin Valley. Over at Warners perhaps a shootout ending with George killing Curley before collapsing dead with Lenny and Mae free to fall in love. Lewis Milestone directed a realistic drama about the forces that drive us to be either humane or inhuman,whether inside of ourselves or beyond our control. The character of George could have treated the retarded Lenny as a beast of burden to bolster his own image but it's the ranch owner's son Curley who does that to most of the workers except for Charles Bickford who he envies and fears. The character of Mae is meant to be seen as both shrill and pathetic trapped in a loveless marriage in a setting where she thought she would be elevated considered one of better people of the community;has come to realize too late her true role as a breeder of more Curley's. Lenny represents the trusting masses who follow whatever voice is loudest or gives the most reward and by not being able to discern his own innate strength mot destroyed or ruthlessly controlled. The example of Nazism and Communism alive and baring fangs in Europe gave added weight to the role of Lenny. Both had taken over stricken societies with visions of a new day with rewards for the faithful brutal remorseless doom for those who challenged them. Film is not escapist fare no bright tomorrow over the horizon as in Ford's version of The Grapes of Wrath,only one little man permanently crippled and alone in a society that barely knows he exists. "},{"Title":"Classic Story of Man's Inhumanity to Man","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Set in the Depression Era rural South, 2 men, George (smart but not strong) and Lenny (strong but not smart) are searching the countryside for their dream a little farm that will support them and bring them happiness. They find work as farm hands but encounter prejudice (Lenny is considered a dummy) and cruelty by a sadistic boss. When Lenny accidentally kills the boss's beautiful wife, George tells the upset Lenny that everything will be OK, to quickly go to their secret place. The ending is heartbreaking.After reading Of Mice And Men one wonders about WHY people see the need to look down on less fortunate ones, even tormenting them for not fitting in. In reality it is the bullies who are the misfits. Starved for attention and the need for superiority destroys their human features and makes them more like animals. This book tells us to expel hate from our hearts. I recommend this book to students age 14 and up.This book can be turned into a wonderful stage play, requiring minimal sets. There is also a vintage movie version which I can recommend. As always, the book is the best of all media. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The Original Of Mice And Men","Date":"22 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I wasn't really impressed with this version of Of Mice And Men. There were far too many differences from the book for my liking but there are some positives about it. I think Lennie and Candy were portrayed really well and the soundtrack was eerie and superb. The areas I think they needed to improve on were when Lennie fights Curley and the scene were Lennie is with Curley's wife (Or Mae as she is known in this adaption). To sum this sort review up I think this movie was OK but it needed to stop adding random scenes which aren't in the book. Also, Curley's wife needed to stop being so horrible and rude. Anyway, if this is on TV give it a watch but I wouldn't get it on DVD. "}{"Title":"Good but Overdone","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A retarded man and his friend struggle to survive while pursuing the American dream during the depression of the 1930s. Although he overplays, Chaney eventually puts forth a touching portrait of a gentle giant who simply wants to grow rabbits on a farm. Meredith, in his first lead role, is fine as Chaney's tough but good-hearted guardian. In a good supporting cast that includes Bickford and Beery, Bohnen is notable as a pathetic old farm hand. About the only performance that rings false is Field as the oversexed wife of the ranch owner. However, the acting in general is a bit overdone and the film feels stagy and heavy-handed. Copland adds an interesting score. "},{"Title":"Good but heavy-handed and simplistic","Date":"3 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This takes place in Depression era America. George (Burgess Meredith) and simple-minded Lennie (Lon Chaney Jr.) find work on a farm run by short and sadistic Curley (Bob Steele). He also has an unhappy wife (Betty Field) who LOVES to flirt with the farmhands. George wants to find a place of his own to run with Curley--but tragedy changes things quite a bit.I never read the book (I'm not a fan of John Steinbeck's writing) so I can't compare it to that. What I got was a very good movie done in by heavy-handed dialogue and some not so good acting. The film is well-done--it looks great and gets the feeling of the times down cold. However the script doesn't work. More often than not it sounds like the characters are making speeches instead of talking (George especially). It slows the movie down and what he's saying is so obvious that it gets boring. Meredith was a good actor and he does what he can but even his considerable acting abilities can't put everything through. Chaney Jr. on the other hand was great as Lennie. The part could have very easily become comical but Chaney pulls it through. You even sympathize with him when he commits a very violent act late in the film. He doesn't mean to hurt anybody but he does in an innocent way. Field is also excellent in her role. Unfortunately Steele isn't that good. He's the right size for the role (he was 5'5) and he's good-looking but wasn't much of an actor. Also I saw the predictable tragic ending coming from a mile away. It's well-done and all but don't expect a masterpiece of cinema. I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"You sure feel free when you ain't got a job...if you ain't hungry.","Date":"13 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Two ranch-hand cousins--one small and brainy, the other a dim, childish giant with uncontrollable brawn--migrate from job to job, always leaving trouble in their wake. Satisfying treatment of John Steinbeck's novel, distilled first through the stage production by Sam H. Harris before Eugene Solow adapted that translation into a screenplay. This genesis of Steinbeck's classic tale might explain why each of these characters get their big moment in the spotlight to sound off or wax poetic, the monologues (in close-up) often resembling old screen tests. The stagy theatricality one gets probably wasn't inherent in Steinbeck's material, but it has been played up here for an uncomfortable effect, and the performances suffer as a result (the actors are too eager, too ready at the bit, to be completely convincing). Lon Chaney, Jr. has some marvelous moments in the showy part of Lennie, kicked in the head by a horse as a child, now a lover of tall tales and dreams about a house in the country; Burgess Meredith's tough, wiry George is equally good, though both roles have been conceived as show-stoppers, and one becomes too aware of the obvious need to make these guys into anti-heroes (even their bad deeds are coated with sentiment). Screenwriter Solow also puts a great deal of emphasis on the needling desire of the characters to manipulate and use one another for personal gain. This exploitation can be excruciatingly sad or tender (especially when dealing with one-handed dog-lover Roman Bohnen), yet much of it is painful to watch. Director Lewis Milestone begins the film with an unexplained chase that set a movie precedent for hypothetical action in the prologue; he also does a reverse tracking-shot inside of a barn which stuns with the vastness it encompasses. Although the picture is not as surprising--nor as eloquent or mysterious--as one might like, parts of it do pack a punch, and the finale is a guaranteed heart-breaker. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Men, Mice, Dogs, Rabbits","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a beautifully crafted version of the play adapted from John Steinbeck's novel, and while there are fine things in it, I also find glaring faults worth pointing out as well. This story of the smart little guy and the very dumb big guy, set against the backdrop of the California of the Depression period, has all the makings of a classic, yet somehow it falls a little short. Not by a million miles, but there are problems with it, especially where the Steinbeck-as-biologist philosophy of life comes into play, and we realize that the author, for all his compassion and love for living things, also views all animals as the same. Men and dogs, rabbits and mice, are equally worthwhile in his view, and he continually (and the script is sedulous to a fault in this regard) emphasizes this here and elsewhere in his writings, and the result is a kind of pantheistic regard for everything that lives, which is wonderful and idealistic, but alas impractical. It's also bad psychology. The continual parallels between, for instance, big stupid Lenny and Candy's sick old dog, which might work in a purely poetic context, seem too manufactured for drama. Steinbeck shows here and there a great latent insight into the human condition in general; his empathy his real, and one truly senses that he at times truly loves his characters; but when it comes to particulars he falls down, and in the end has little to say. The human condition interests him alright, but people are almost interchangeable in his world, but for their size or brains, and their inner lives hold no interest for him.The movie, once one accepts the limits imposed on it by the book, is a fine piece of work. I wish that John Ford could have had a crack at this, yet director Lewis Milestone does an excellent job with the material; he is at all times sensitive and observant, letting each actor strut his stuff. His feeling for nature, so central to the book, is not so great, yet this could have been imposed on him by budgetary restraints. Producer Hal Roach was a notorious skinflint. Lon Chaney, Jr. as Lennie is excellent. I wish that the character had been fleshed out more. He's almost too good to be true. The only harm he does others comes from his not knowing his own strength. Fair enough. Yet at times he seems too saintly. The mentally impaired can be lovable, as indeed Lennie is in many ways, but even they have bad hair days, and I wish that just for once Lennie had showed a petty or venal side. When he defies George, his keeper, he always feels contrite in the end. For once it would have been nice for him to have done a bad thing, not told George about it, just for kicks, and felt good as a result of his little rebellion. But this would have revealed Lennie an an authentic, evolving, genuine human being, and Steinbeck wasn't interested in this, so Lennie remains a symbol. It is to Chaney's great credit that he never seems like one.Burgess Meredith, as the brainy little George, looks out of place among the rugged ranch-workers. He was an inherently urban type, and though he could play small-town midwesterners with great relish at times, there was always that impish glint in his eye that suggested that he knew much, much more about life than his character did. In this film he is quite young and rather delicate looking, and while one can imagine that Lennie would admire him for his brains, he has no air of authority about him, no real life gravitas to ground him in reality. He basically comes off like what he is a finely trained classical actor essaying a modern role. That there's no trace of chemistry between Meredith and Chaney is a serious flaw in the film.In smaller roles, Roman Bohnen and Charles Bickford do solid work, the former especially has a lot of emoting to do, and is very credible. As the bored ranchwife Mae, Betty Field does not give her best performance. This fine stage actress had yet to learn to act for the camera. Only in her final scene with Lennie does she come to life; sadly, it's too late. Leigh Whipper as Crooks, the black man who can't stay in the bunkhouse with the rest, shows a nicely malevolent side, and comes near to creating the one fully-rounded character in the film, but goes sentimental in the end. Too bad. Cowboy actor Bob Steele brings a nice touch of the Old West to the swaggering Curly, and I wish that he, rather, than Meredith, had been cast as George.Aaron Copland's music is used intelligently, and its soaring near the end seems appropriate to the effect the film was trying to create, which was one of tragic humanity rather than tragic human beings. Meredith rises to the occasion when the dialogue goes poetic, redeeming himself somewhat in the process. The best things in the movie are incidental, such as the ongoing fantasy George and Lennie share about buying a little farmhouse for themselves, where no one can tell them what to do, and if they want to go to the circus there's no boss around to tell them otherwise. When Candy joins in and becomes a partner in their little dreamworld the film begins to hum, and one wishes that in these moments it could have gone off-track and become another movie altogether, about little guys finding a place for themselves in the world. But Steinbeck was hunting bigger game than this, and the tragedy he imposed on the story, while believable enough, is an awful letdown, for the viewer as much as for George. "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I didn't mind this movie as this was made in the 1930's and it was a black and white movie. I still liked the coloured one, the one that was made in 1992 better than this one. I give this movie about at least 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Got time on your hands? Then try all three Book, 1939, and 1992","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First, rent Gary Sinise' 1992 version.Then read the book, then watch this version of the story. You probably wont make it all the way through. I read the book, first, as a kid... and not because I was assigned to read it but because I liked to read.Then I saw this movie on late-night TV, you know when almost every local channel ran movies on the weekend.... and I thought it was poor.In the years since, I've seen TV adaptations and TV broadcasts of stage play versions. None carried the full flavor and emotion of the book.It is widely accepted that thirties cinema was the peak of the art. This film, whether the exception or the model, proves otherwise.Gary Sinise did a far better and more faithful adaptation of the book. If you were to buy one version, I suspect it will be the 1992 film. "},{"Title":"Highly regarded in its time, but more dated than most 1939 classics","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This version of Steinbeck's novel drew quite a lot of attention in its day, not because of its financial success (it was a box-office failure) but because it was considered very daring of Hollywood to film a story with such an uncompromising finale. If one sees the film nowadays, however,one glaring, seemingly unimportant compromise is obvious----the character Curley's Wife, the only woman in the film---has been given a name...Mae. Steinbeck deliberately leaves her nameless, partly for symbolic value, but also to deliberately and permanently link her with her brutal, stupid, bullying husband. The approach to the story in this version is deliberately pseudopoetic and larger than life---while Aaron Copland's beautiful, folkloric,typically Amercan score plays in the background, we see shots of rabbits and squirrels scurrying about. (The music soars to a huge climax in the final scene---in other versions that scene is played without a note of music.) The acting is perhaps deliberately somewhat artificial, but in a few cases gets downright hammy. B-Western star Bob Steele plays Curley with a hilarious, permanent sneer and a skulking walk; he also delivers his lines like a typical villain in a melodrama. Instead of playing Curley's wife as the pathetic yet lonely and almost unconsciously sexy woman that Sherilynn Fenn made her in the 1992 film, Betty Field makes her obnoxiously slutty, whiny, loud and shrill, and we are annoyed and repelled at her instead of being made to empathize with her plight. Charles Bickford is excellent in his role. Burgess Meredith is quite good as George, at least for the most part, but either he or director Lewis Milestone miscalculated horribly in the scene in which he makes his ultimate tragic decision---his popeyed expression as he comes to this decision is unintentionally sidesplitting. This does contain Lon Chaney, Jr's. best performance (as Lennie), but he falls short of John Malkovich's 1992 portrayal. Horrifying as it may sound today, Chaney's 1939 Lennie has been the subject of countless cartoon parodies--it's the inspiration for all those cartoons that feature a huge bear saying I done a clever thing, George, duh, I done a clever thing, as well as Bugs Bunny's abominable snowman saying I will hug him and pet him and squeeze him and hug him and pet him and squeeze him, and , well.....you get the idea. Still, this film is worth checking out as an example of how John Steinbeck's novel (and stage play) was performed in the 1930's. "},{"Title":"A movie for people who don't like movies.","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A truly dreadful movie.  An anti-movie if you like, because, with the exception of an exhilerating opening sequence, and one or two heartstopping landscapes, this is a film without cinematic virtue.  It is based on a bad book by John Steinbeck, which is transposed whole to the film - his mediocre and simplistic ideas and metaphors shape the film; it's like it was made precisely for the school students who will be forced to endure it.  It's also based on a play, so we get a lot of stiff scenes with interminable whining.  Everything about the film is a self-satisfied fraud - dialogue, situation, characterisation, sentiments, but especially acting. "}]