[{"Title":"For once Robert Newton as a HERO!","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"41 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Most people tend to remember Robert Newton as Long John Silver, a role he perfected long after he gave up as an actor.Jamaica Inn is an early film and here you see a fine looking Newton with the longest, darkest eyelashes I have ever seen on a man.A side note  Not too long before Jamaica Inn was made, a scout for Sam Goldwyn spotted Newton in London and thought he would be perfect for the role of Heathcliff in the up-coming Wuthering Heights.  Newton tested for the role and everyone but Goldwyn was thrilled.  Goldwyn though Newton was too ugly to play Heathcliff, although everyone else thought he combined the emotional intensity and the black gypsy look that was perfect for that role.  Eventually, Laurence Olivier was cast.  He admitted that he always believed, his great friend, Newton would have been better, darker and more naturally dangerous as Heathcliff. I often wonder how Newton's career would have changed had he been given the role of Heathcliff.Hitchcock takes advantage of the dual danger/kindness elements of Newton's personality to create a memorable hero.  A young and lovely Maureen O'Hara is cast as the woman who comes to live with her Aunt after the death of her mother, only to discover she is in a den of cut-throats.  She witnesses Newton being hung and just manages to save his life.  Charles Laughton lends his special talent for seeming to one sort of person while actually being something quite different and Hitchcock rolls all these characters and a marvelous Leslie Banks, into a fine tumble of thievery and honor, love and loyalty, crime and punishment.There are many of the familiar Hitchcock touches to move things along.The climax is a bit over-the-top, but it affords Laughton a marvelous few moments.Jamaica Inn has been re-made several times, but no one can replace Hitchcock, Newton, O'Hara and Banks. "},{"Title":"A classic for Laughton fans","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"30 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":"  While this picture is not one of Hitchcock's more memorable pieces, it is nevertheless well worth a look simply to view the acting genius of Charles Laughton. The man is larger than life as the revolting yet oddly fascinating Sir Humphrey and provides the audience with far more insight into the character than a lesser actor might have done. This is not simply a one-dimensional villain that we are so used to seeing in British movies of this period. In addition to a superb reading of the script, Laughton is clearly ad-libbing in various scenes, further breaking down hitherto scrupulously maintained boundaries between audience and actor. I urge anyone who is weary of today's usual line-up of blockbuster big names to observe a true master at work and wonder where it all went wrong! "},{"Title":"Rich cinematic flourishes and a realistic atmosphere on screen","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"29 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Even though it is one of the weakest works of Hitchcock, the film surprisingly provides rich cinematic flourishes. For a 1939 film, it captures on screen the atmosphere and dark mood of the novel quite vividly&#151;the stormy scene, the cave, and the inn (with the name board flapping in the wind). It is another matter that the albino parson of the book is transformed into a squire (with an unbelievable eyebrow make-up) in the film who commands his steed to be brought inside his dining hall. Daphne du Maurier's novel was adapted for cinema by the trio of Sidney Gilliat, Joan Harrison and J.B. Priestley, and reportedly the author did not approve of the end-product.As in many Hitchcock films there is a recurring reference to marriage. Here a good woman remains faithful to her boorish and cruel husband through thick and thin.As in most Hitchcock films there is a lot of sexual innuendo without any sex on screen, especially when Pengallen (Charles Laughton) makes the young girl (Maureen O'Hara) his prisoner. (The only film where Hitchcock showed sex on screen was Frenzy.) And as in many a Hitchcock film, a bad guy turns out to be a good guy. This is one of the rare films of Hitchcock where the director does not make a cameo appearance.The best cinematic flourishes were&#151;-the focus on the thin hands of the 17 year old who cannot be shackled by the soldiers as the handcuffs are too big, the opening prayer that serves as a grim introduction and finally the last scene of the film Chadwick, the squire's butler, who thinks he can hear his dead master calling him for help in death. "},{"Title":"Um... I disagree with most of the comments here...","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" My wife and I had not heard of Jamaica Inn at all prior to buying a DVD collection of Hitchcock's works. We decided to watch the film as the Jamaica Inn is near where my Cornish ancestors lived.We actually found the film gripping. Yes, the acting is stagy at times, but we always enjoy the old style acting. Apart from the dodgy special effects, we found the film quite gripping. Others have said that the Squire was clearly the villain from the start. That is true. The tension comes from us being aware that this is so - and watching as the hero and heroine become ensnared by him. Similarly, the almost constant night time scenes and the howling gales are oppressive and eerie...Critics may say that the film is not as good as Psycho or The Birds. However, this film was made 20 years prior to those films. I think that it was a good effort, considering that it was made on the eve of WWII. "},{"Title":"It May Not be Psycho, But ....","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":"  After years of hearing that this was one of, if not THE worst Hitchcock picture, finally seeing it was a pleasant surprise.Sure, it's an unfamiliar genre for him (Under Capricorn would have to be the closest, and it really IS one of his worst),  but it is a rollicking, exciting adventure romp, if you stop expecting it to be a Hitchcock masterpiece.In the famous interview with Truffaut, Hitchcock dismisses the film very quickly, blaming its failure on Charles Laughton, who was co- producer and star, and brought in J B Priestley to build up his part. But it is SUCH an enjoyable performance --- over the top yes, this is Laughton we're talking about --but absolutely relishing his role as the hypocrotical magistrate who is secretly head of the smuggling gang. (Not really a SPOILER, it's revealed early in the picture .... too early for Hitchcock's liking.) And the delight he takes in tying up his female prisoner must surely be equally a reflection of Hitch's obsessions, as much as the character's.Maureen O'Hara, making her debut, looks ravishing, but is far too healthy and robust and ACTIVE (and brunette) to be considered your typical Hitchcock heroine.But you only have to watch the cutting in the opening scene of the first shipwreck to know that this is certainly the same man who gave us the shower scene in Psycho. "},{"Title":"No Bad Clergymen in America","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"35 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" According to Maureen O'Hara's memoirs, Alfred Hitchcock never liked to do period costume pieces, he felt those were not suitable to his particular talents. But he did this one for Daphne Du Maurier because he wanted to film Du Maurier's Rebecca later on. Which as we all know Hitchcock did and was very successful.There are elements of Jamaica Inn that certainly might have appealed to Hitchcock. Maureen O'Hara arrives at the Jamaica Inn on Great Britain's Cornwall coast to stay with her aunt. The Inn however is the headquarters for a gang that wrecks ships on the coast, kills everyone on board and steals the cargo. Leslie Banks is the head of the group there. We also have a Georgian dandy in the person of Charles Laughton who has a lascivious eye for Maureen O'Hara. He's not what he appears to be. The whole idea of this innocent among the cutthroats not knowing who to trust would definitely have appealed to Hitchcock.The original novel had Laughton's character as a hypocritical parson, but for American distribution his character was changed to a local nobleman. The Hays office forbade a man of the cloth be shown in such a light.Parson or nobleman unfortunately Hitchcock did not rein in Laughton. In this particular film, he's just too hammy. Then again he was the co-producer of this so no one was in a position to tell him anything.O'Hara credits Laughton for launching her career. He brought her to America right after this and had RKO sign her to play Esmerelda in The Hunchback of Notre Dame. A far better film than Jamaica Inn.Robert Newton and Emlyn Williams have roles of substance here as well. Jamaica Inn might be worth a look. "},{"Title":"...OK until you read the book","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised when I first saw Hitchcock's 'Jamaica Inn'. I had heard so many bad things about the movie and the fact that it seemed to have been made on the cheap and in a hurry so Hitch could do a runner to Hollywood. I really liked this movie - I thought the lovely Maureen O'Hara made a very spirited Mary Yellan and Leslie Banks was great as her hulking bully of an Uncle, Joss. While not as technically inventive as some of Hitchcock's other work before or since, I felt it was made with care and presented a realistic, gloomy atmosphere of doom with its endless night time scenes and constant soundtrack of howling winds and crashing waves.And then I read the book...Du Maurier's novel was so different as to bear no relation whatever to Hitchcock's film. The book was intense, gritty, dark and very moody. Mary Yellan was written almost as she is presented on screen with her sharp, Irish wits but Joss is a much more tortured, boorish animal than he is in the film. Also, the character played by Charles Laughton is absent in the book - or at least Laughton's incarnation is. The squire in the book is one of the good guys and features very little. The film of 'Jamaica Inn' may as well be called the Charles Laughton Show so as to give the actor every chance to overact.See the film if you are a Hitchcock fan and enjoy it for what it is but if you've read and enjoyed the book, my advice would be to steer clear!  "},{"Title":"Not really Jamaica Inn... We're in The Charles Laughton Picture Show here!","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"39 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" (Spoilers possibly inherent)I had no idea this film would prove such a curio and nigh-on almighty hoot to watch. I settled back on a familiar settee, late one night - after a meal at the finest Indian restaurant I know, Ocean Rd., South Shields, and after watching the heartening second Office Christmas Special - to play this film on DVD, a Christmas present from a good friend. Ironies are even in that; I bought him a DVD of the 1962 Robert Mulligan-directed To Kill A Mockingbird both that Harper Lee novel and Daphne Du Maurier's Jamaica Inn were texts we studied at school in our English lessons. They were by far the most enjoyable of the texts we studied in those five years - though I admit a partiality for Cider With Rosie and Jane Eyre. It was all for the better that I knew little of what this film was like; I knew only that it was directed by Mr Hitchcock, and differed quite a lot from the book. Oh, and how it does differ!Quite frankly, Hitchcock's Jamaica Inn is a different thing altogether to that utterly splendid, barnstorming tale of smuggling. This misses the uncanny, eerie quality of Du Maurier's plotting and characterisation. Here, Joss Merlyn is only a slight reprobate; he is softened and thoroughly reduced in size and dimensions compared to Du Maurier's conception of him in her novel. There Joss was a towering, bullish, walking-talking threat of a man. Leslie Banks sadly fails to capture any of the preposterous, swaggering bravado of the Joss Merlyn forever etched into my mind.That is really the biggest failing in writing, casting or such like. The more general approach too fails to ignite; the conceptualisation of a desolate Cornish coast is reasonable but unspectacular. there's never quite enough misty, frightening (or frightened) atmosphere; one does not get enough sense of things being at stake as they were in the novel life and death, hell for leather. A further bone to pick is certainly the strangely wimpy portrayals of the crew of cutthroats and local degenerates; another failure of conception. Maureen O'Hara... well, the damsel is feisty to an effective degree and acquits herself well, though is oddly over-mannered at times. It is an odd performance, that is half very effective, and half ineffectual. Now, Robert Newton; that wonderfully hammy actor of renown is excellent here as the dashing Jem Merlyn figure. He is one of the few performers to seem as if he is on anything like the same wavelength as Charles Laughton.Charles Laughton? Well, he absolutely strides away with this film, and that is no understatement. This is so, to such an extent that his own vision overwhelms whatever there may have been of Hitchcock's, or indeed Du Maurier's. He plays Sir Humphrey Penhalligon - standing in effectively for the novel's eerie albino vicar, Francis Davey - a thoroughly sneaky, grandiose aristocrat, who is quite wonderfully playing the people of his county for outright fools. He doesn't so much as administer justice as pick and choose allies and inevitably seek to further his own ends. Sir Humphrey's condescending, subtle contempt for those around him sublimely passes the other characters by, while the audience is in on it. One feels entirely complicit in the seemingly jovial fellow's gleeful tricks and crimes; Laughton almost tangibly winks at the audience with his every sideways glance and jocund intonation. What Victorian Melodrama villainy is in the man here; implicitly sending up the limitations of all that is around him by claiming the centre of attention and having so much comedic fun from his privileged position. It completely unbalances any chance of us finding the wrecking *that* serious, as he is an obvious villain from the start, and unlike the otherworldly Francis Davey, Penhalligon is someone we can relate to. His intentions are selfish, but born of a paternalistic High Toryism; the character is manifestly a cultural and social elitist. He does not want to destroy the existing world, but to be happy in it. Only of course, his methods and complete disregard for others are 'not the way to go about it', tut-tut!The ending simply lives up to what has become a Laughton picture; the narrative of the novel has been almost wholly jettisoned by this juncture, and our - or mine, anyway - interest in solely in hoping that the wicked Sir Humphrey will get away with his arrant, errant audacity. Suffice to say, Mary Yellan is not in our minds in the final frames, which are beautifully melodramatic and distinctly odd.I can only conclude by saying just how much I enjoyed watching this film, late that night, recently... It was glorious fun, entirely due to the magnificent Charles Laughton. It is awful overall, if one is looking for a Jamaica Inn close to Du Maurier's great original; but one actor manages to steal the fairly creaky show and catapult it off onto a higher stage. Oh, there's no internal consistency here, but that's part of the delight! A part-marvellous fudge of a film; at least never dull, due to Laughton. "},{"Title":"Classic Hitchcock, classic Maureen O'Hara","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":"  If ever there was a movie begging to be remade, this is it. Set on the rocky shore of the Cornwall coast of England (one of the more treacherous shorelines in the world)in the 1800's, this film tells the tale of deceit and treachery among thieves and noblemen.A ship is spotted off the coast, making its way to England on a stormy night.  A man covers the warning light on the bluffs (this was before the period of formal lighthouses and coast guards) and a band of men wait on the shore for the inevitable shipwreck.  As the frigate grinds itself to death on the rocks, the men kill the unfortunate sailors and loot the cargo.Maureen O'Hara plays a young woman who's parents have passed away and so she goes to live with her aunt and uncle at the Jamaica Inn, a small tavern on the storm-swept coast.  The stagecoach refuses to stop at the inn, a foreboding of the danger that awaits there.  Instead, O'Hara is deposited at the home of the local lord, played magnificently by Charles Laughton (did he ever play any other types of characters?).  Struck by her beauty, he orders a servant to prepare a horse and take her to the inn.  There, O'Hara mistakes the grungy man who answers the door to be a local scrub, when it is actually her uncle.  Reunited with her aunt (a kindly woman bullied by a husband she loves), she goes upstairs to get settled into her new home.In the rooms below, dirty men are drinking and singing loudly as the uncle joins them in the merriment.  Seems that her uncle is the leader of this band of thieves, and that they have smelled a rat in their midst in the form of Robert Newton.  They set about to hang him, but O'Hara hears the raucous men and spots the unfortunate Newton through a hole in the floor.  As the men fit a rope over a beam and prepare to string Newton up, O'Hara cuts the rope.  O'Hara then flees the room as the men charge up from below.Joining up, Newton and O'Hara make their escape to the caves along the shoreline below the inn.  Unfortunately, their small row boat is spotted by the thieves, who drop a dead body down a small hole onto the pair. Distracted, the row boat slips off the shore and floats away, leaving O'Hara and Newton stranded in the cave. As the pair's boat drifts off with the tide, the thieves ready a boat themselves. Slipping into the water, the pair hide behind a rock near the surfzone some distance from the cave as the thieves' boat passes by.  They eventually make their way to shore, where O'Hara suggests they flee to the lord's home for assistance.At the lord's house, O'Hara is led away to be given dry clothes.  When she has gone, Newton reveals that he is actually a lawman, an officer in the Royal Navy, who has been dispatched to uncover the thieves and bring them to justice.  He suspected that there was another man behind the capers, someone who was sending the thieves information about what ships to lure and at what time, but he hadn't learned who that was.  The nobleman, played by Charles Laughton, offers to help, and they both grab their pistols and charge off to the Jamaica Inn to arrest O'Hara's aunt, uncle, and the theives for piracy. Hearing this, O'Hara flees the house to warn her aunt and uncle, so that they may escape the hangman's noose.  Unbeknownst to Newton, the man who is giving the thieves the crucial shipping information is none other than Charles Laughton!There you have the basic outline to the plot, as each character acts and reacts in a web of treachery and deceit, with O'Hara caught between the love for her aunt and her love for Newton.  As with most Alfred Hitchcock films, the plot turns with each moment.If I were a young filmmaker looking for a solid project, I'd re-make this film, casting Anthony Hopkins as the nobleman.  I'm not sure who I would want to play Maureen O'Hara's character.  O'Hara was a treasure who isn't easily matched, even in the 60 years since this film was originally released! "},{"Title":"Rousing","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" If it weren't for the cinematography we wouldn't recognize Hitchcock. He must have liked Daphne DuMaurier, using the Birds and Rebecca later. This is just a pretty confusing, pedestrian film, with some great actors. The story is, however, quite bland. It involves the arrival of a beautiful young woman at the evil Jamaica Inn. The inn is the hiding place for a band of pirates who lure ships unto the rocks,murder the crew, and pillage. The head of the organization is Charles Laughton at his pompous, window, Henry VIII best. He is in control of every scene, overacting and winking at the audience. The young woman is caught up in her trust for this man, and finds herself in his clutches by the end of the movie. The rest of the band, including Robert Newton (A-a-a-r) from Treasure Island are quite photogenic. It's an OK movie but just a little too much to swallow. I had always been curious with it and am investigating the Hitchcock films I had never seen. "}{"Title":"Somewhat Interesting But Lesser Hitchcock","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":"  While Hitchcock's adaptation of Daphne Du Maurier's Jamaica Inn has some interesting features, overall it deserves its reputation as one of the great director's lesser efforts.  While it has some good moments and a good performance by Maureen O'Hara, it is rather clunky and often implausible.The story holds some possibilities.  At the beginning, we find out that there is an old inn along the coast of Cornwall, which serves as the meeting place for a gang of criminals, who deliberately cause shipwrecks and then rob and kill the survivors.  O'Hara is the niece of the innkeepers, who comes to stay with them and then gradually discovers the inn's sinister secrets.  This gives rise to a melodramatic series of chases, escapes, and showdowns in the inn and along the nearby seacoast.Unfortunately, the pacing is quite irregular and often too slow, and some of the more fast-paced scenes sometimes seem implausible.  Just as one example, there are too many times when someone slips away solely because whoever is doing the chasing forgets to look in a rather obvious place.  There are also not enough interesting characters.  O'Hara is good, and Charles Laughton is entertaining as Sir Humphrey.  But Laughton over-plays his role for all it is worth, and he swallows up most of the other characters.  There are some pretty good actors in the rest of the cast, who just don't get very much to do.There are still some interesting developments, and a couple of decent twists.  Hitchcock fans will probably still want to see Jamaica Inn at least once.  But it is hardly one of the director's better films, and not really good enough to be of more general interest. "},{"Title":"Not a real Hitchcock, more like a real Laughton","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" JAMAICA INN is one of the Hitchcock films which might be said not to be a Hitchcock film. Its not that one or two 'Hitchcockian' elements are missing but almost all are missing. JAMAICA INN is adapted from a Daphne Du Maurier novel and was his last English film. Hitchcock's next film and his first American film would be REBECCA also from a Du Maurier novel. He would later go on to direct another film from a Du Maurier original, THE BIRDS, so there is no incompatibility there. The writers were the usual Hitchcock suspects from his English period. Frequent collaborator Sidney Gilliat and long serving Joan Harrison, later the producer of Hitch's TV show, as well as wife Alma Reville, were credited along with J.B. Priestly who gets an additional dialogue credit.The villain of the piece, Charles Laughton, as the unlikely Sir Humphrey Pengallan, the local magistrate on the Cornish coast, is revealed almost immediately. The hero however is obscured for the first reel. The film is built around Laughton and he chews the scenery most wonderfully. It is essentially his picture, the producer, Erich Pommer, a German refugee and one of the founders of famous UFA studios, was Laughton's house producer. Priestly must have been brought in to goose up Laughton's dialogue. Another factor making this film sort of the anti-Hitchcock is the lack of humor whether provided by the situation or the mixing of classes. Laughton is funny, in a way, though he could have been funnier if he had gone completely over the top. As such there is a bit too much naturalism in Laughton's portrait of a Regency rake straight from the Hellfire Club, gone to seed and off his head with greed, rather like the last panel in a Hogarth series of etchings. While Hitchcock villains could be unspeakably cruel they always had a modicum of wit to go along with it.Think of Otto Kruger in SABOTEUR and most especially James Mason in NORTH BY NORTHWEST issuing the foulest threats is the most cultured and dulcet tones. Laughton never gets this type of exchange going  (from NORTH BY NORTHWEST) Roger Thornhill Apparently the only performance that will satisfy you is when I play dead. Phillip Vandamm Your very next role, and you'll be quite convincing, I assure you.For all his facial gymnastics Laughton is pretty straight forward a villain, with only his position to throw people off the scent, something else the real Hitchcock would have found very amusing.Hitchcock even uses terrible screen clichés without even a special twist or variation on them. Usually Hitchcock will use the audiences expectations to his own advantage. There is the one where some one is about to mention the name of the murderer/villain-in-chief and just as they are about to speak the name a shot rings out and they fall over dead and mute forever. In this case it doesn't even make sense as everyone knows who the villain is but its used anyway because it is always used in this sort of picture. In Charlie Chan pictures it's usually preceded by Number one or number two son exclaiming Look pop, the lights are flickering and then blam! the stoolie doesn't get to spill the beans after all and we have another twenty minutes of film for sure. Its as if Hitchcock really just doesn't care.There is one moment where the film is lifted into the territory rare and wild that bears the special attentions of Hitchcock. I'm sorry to say that it concerns bondage and sadism. The scene has Laughton first gaging Maureen O'Hara and then tying her hands behind her back. It is so effective not because of its graphic nature but because Laughton tells O'Hara what he is going to do before he does it. With the white silken gage pulled taught in her mouth he drapes a hood over her head so that she begins to look like the Virgin Mary bound and gaged. The photography is particularly Germanic here (Pommer and Hitchcock had made THE PLEASURE GARDEN, his first complete film, together in the silent days) and I was reminded not only of the Virgin, but as a Munch like Virgin with her face frozen in anxiety and also the Good Maria from Metropolis. It is a scene which pops out from the rest of the hectic goings on of the rest of the film.Since its not very good Hitchcock it is rarely shown. Even in this sub genre it is outclassed by Fritz Lang's MOONFLEET or even De Mille's very silly REAP THE WILD WIND. JAMAICA INN was just, as John Ford used to put it, a job of work and Hitch was off to America. Seeing this film made me want to dig out one of my copies of Truffaut's extensive interview with Hitchcock to see what he had to say on the matter. He was usually brief when discussing terrible failures like JAMAICA INN. In sum, it is not a Hitchcock film but a Laughton one. "},{"Title":"Underrated Work of Alfred Hitchcock","Date":"28 November 2009","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" In the Nineteenth Century, in Cornwall, a group of pirates leaded by Joss Merlyn (Leslie Banks) uses false beacon to misguide ships to wreck on the rocks of the coast; then they kill the survivors to rob the cargo and gather in the Jamaica Inn, a place of ill fame. When the Irish orphan Mary Yellen (Maureen O'Hara) travels to Jamaica Inn to live with her aunt Patience (Marie Ney), the coachmen of her stagecoach refuses to stop in the infamy inn, and Mary asks for help in the house of the magistrate of the Justice of the Peace Humphrey Pengallan (Charles Laughton) that rides with her to the inn. Her aunt had not received her letter but lodges her in a room. During the night, Mary overhears the pirates hanging their mate Trehearne (Robert Newton); however, she saves his life and escapes with him. They run to the house of Sir Humphrey, where Treheame identifies himself as Officer of Law. However, they do not know that sophisticated and arrogant Sir Humphrey Pengallan is the head of the gang of pirates.Jamaica Inn is an underrated work of Alfred Hitchcock. The story is too dark, especially considering that it was released in 1939. The cinematography in black white is magnificent, and Charles Laughton has an awesome performance in the role of the ambiguous Sir Humphrey Pengallan. Maureen O'Hara is also amazing in an unusual role in 1939 of a strong woman in her first lead role. The DVD released in Brazil by Continental Distributor has 8941 minutes running time and it is visible the edition of the movie when Mary and Trehearne are lodged by Sir Humphrey. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) A Estalagem Maldita (The Damned Inn) "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Thriller from Two British Heavyweights!","Date":"14 September 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" In my attempt to catch up with everything directed by the brilliant Alfred Hitchcock, I put in my disk three of Alfred Hitchcock The Legend Begins. This is a fantastic box set that contains all (as far as I know) of his films from the U.K pre 1940. I had never seen Jamaica Inn, and greatly looked forward to the experience -- if only for the first oddball pairing of Charles Laughton and Maureen O'Hara who were both soon to be immortalized in The Hunchback of Notre Dame. Hitchcock is unable to disappoint his audience. What we find here is a spooky tale set in Cornwall in the early 19th Century, based loosely on a novel by Daphne Du Maurier -- who goes uncredited. Story features a murderous gang of hoodlums who prey upon ships that seek shelter in a nearby harbor during hazardous storms. The films opens with an exciting sequence depicting this activity which functions almost as a prologue to everything that follows, and really draws the audience into the story. Disturbing, dark and frightening as this prologue is, one can only wonder what will follow.Next, in scenes perhaps inspired by Tod Browning's Dracula, a careening carriage whisks young Maureen O'Hara through the pitch black night. She insists that the driver deliver her to the Jamaica Inn, but he outright refuses to do so, and speeds right by the place. He lets her off nearby at the home of one Squire Pengallon, who he says will care for her. The haughty squire is played of course by Charles Laughton, who employs his unctuous charm to reassure the nonplussed O'Hara that all will be all right, and that he will escort her to her Aunt and Uncle at Jamaica Inn. Maureen O'Hara soon discovers that her Uncle functions as the ringleader of the gang, and her abused but devoted Aunt is an enabler to his illicit lifestyle.From what I've read, Hitchcock wasn't too fond of this film, and didn't care for the direction Laughton took with his character. Nevertheless, Laughton remains fascinating to watch, as much of a ham as he is. His Squire registers as somewhat of a pathetic and yet supremely conceited character, and the ultimate revelation of what he's capable of comes as a real stunner. O'Hara is of course beautiful and feisty, as demonstrates that she has much more heart than just any glamorous young girl posing prettily for the camera.A special mention should go to Emlyn Williams, who plays a despicable but magnetic ringleader of the cutthroat gang. I was really surprised and entertained by his contemporary attitude and swagger, which wouldn't seem out-of-place in a movie from the 21st Century.So, a minor Hitchcock certainly, but also as good a thriller as anyone else was making at the time.**** out of ***** "},{"Title":"unusual early Hitchcock film","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" I'm not sure if I can explain the low rating of this film overall on IMDb, because I thought it was a remarkable action/suspense film, full of excellent actors and unforgettable moments. You've got the screen debut of Maureen O'Hara, who's playing a young woman who gets involved with a group of pirates when she travels from Ireland to England to stay with her aunt Patience (Marie Ney) and her abusive husband Joss (Leslie Banks). Very quickly we find out that the local magistrate, Sir Humphrey (Charles Laughton), is the mastermind behind their scheme of tricking ships into wrecking on the shores of Cornwall, murdering the sailors and stealing their cargo. She befriends a young pirate (Robert Newton) who the others want to hang for skimming the take and together they set about trying to prevent another robbery.The story itself is very interesting and takes us to a location and period in English history that we don't hear much about. There's a wonderful seedy quality to the clothing of the pirates and the locations they inhabit. Hitchcock and his writers seem infatuated with the lifestyle of the thugs. The story is from a book by Daphne Du Maurier, who was apparently one of Hitchcock's favorite authors (he also did films of her Rebecca and The Birds, both much more well known than this film). Unfortunately a lot of the story elements are very predictable -- Laughton's behavior from the very beginning is far from the gentleman who O'Hara seems to take him for rather naively even though she's seen him toss a bag of coins to his compatriots after losing a bet on her beauty. I suppose on a certain level the film is a warning about the deception of appearances -- Joss starts to seem like a more sympathetic character than Sir Humphrey, especially when he essentially sacrifices himself for Mary (O'Hara) towards the end. This is fairly standard melodrama -- you have an impossible love between the aunt and the uncle; the conventions of melodrama (not to mention the PCA) will not allow him to escape punishment for his crimes, but his love for his wife is true so the writer allows him to make the sacrifice so that this conflict will resolve itself in a way that satisfies the audience. All through the film there's a hint that Joss might be sexually interested in Mary. Only in the act of sacrifice does he reveal his real nature.But then the film has yet another surprise for us -- Laughton's character becomes more and more irrational until we reach a point by the end where Mary realizes along with the rest of us that he's actually completely insane. This is revealed largely through the relationship between Sir Humphrey and his manservant Chadwick (Horace Hodges), one that has vague homo-erotic connotations (possibly just a fanciful invention of Laughton, though Hitchcock couldn't have failed to have noticed it). Touchingly, Sir Humphrey bids another servant to watch over Chadwick after he leaves because he's worried about the other man's mental health! That's just one of the examples of offbeat humor that Hitchcock employs in this film, often using the humor to offset and relieve the intensity of the suspense. For example when James (Newton) has gathered the troops and is trying to arrest Sir Humphrey, he stops by Sir Humphrey's estate just long enough for one of his foppish hangers-on to comment hey, you're wearing my uniform! I couldn't say I noticed any other typical director's touches, except the pan that reveals Laughton as the collaborator. I'm not a huge expert on Hitchcock in particular though, but I have noticed the humor involved in his suspense scenes, a device he also used in The Lady Vanishes and all the way through North by Northwest. The performances are all solid. I liked what O'Hara was able to do with her eyes after Laughton tied her mouth up; she was clearly naturally talented as a screen actress. Laughton is always tough to assess because he likes to play around so much and have so much fun inhabiting the role that it sometimes damages his performance, and he was a guy with a world of talent.... so much so that it seems like he gets bored with it and does other things, sometimes things that work and sometimes things that don't. I'd say this film is a 7 or 8 out of 10 on the Laughton scale. He's sufficiently creepy in the early scenes and his playfulness works nicely with the madman angle that the writers wanted to take towards the end. Leslie Banks' work in the film was probably the most impressive in my opinion because he also had the broadest character to work with, and managed to make this character work as a human being.Certainly an exceptional British film from the period, giving us a rather unusual story filmed with great skill and played by a group of talented actors. "},{"Title":"Connoisseurs of ripe acting may enjoy this one. Laughton outdoes Laughton as Sir Humphrey Pengallan","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" If sinking your teeth into over-ripe fruit is one of your pleasures, then Jamaica Inn should be your dish. It features one of the ripest and most ludicrous performances I've ever seen from Charles Laughton as Sir Humphrey Pengallan, and that covers a lot of territory. As the squire who is the full-figured mastermind behind a gang of murderous wreckers on the Cornish coast, Laughton sports the latest dandyish fashions, a false nose, false eyebrows which almost have lives of their own, a carefully coifed comb-over, a piggish over-bite and line readings that would make Bette Davis at her most mannered envious. Close behind in the ripe playing sweepstakes is Robert Newton as Jem Trehearne, law officer and hero, who roles his eyes almost as much as Laughton, and Leslie Banks as Joss Merlyn, the leader of the gang and the owner of Jamaica Inn. The only person who manages reasonably well is Maureen O'Hara who plays Mary, the plucky and beautiful niece of Merlyn's wife. Even she is largely confined to earnestly crying out for decency and screaming. Don't get me wrong. Jamaica Inn is so over-the-top it's a delight to watch, especially when Laughton is chewing the scenery. Hitchcock, making his last movie in England before leaving for the United States, supposedly became so bored during filming that he didn't care what the actors did. The story is a bodice-ripper by Daphne de Maurier; in fact, Maureen O'Hara's bodice gets ripped not once but twice. The time is about 1800. The place is Cornwall on the rocky coast. Jamaica Inn is a stone hulk of a building close by the warning light that shows ships where to avoid the rocks in the stormy seas. Someone with advance knowledge of ships with rich cargoes has been blocking the warning light. When the ships founder, wreckers work their way to the ships, slaughter all the sailors and take the cargo. Merlyn and his gang are the heavies, but who is the mastermind? Then young Mary, whose parents have died, shows up late one night at Jamaica Inn's doorstep to be taken in my her aunt, Merlyn's wife. At the same time we learn that the gang has a ringer in its midst, an officer of the law determined to bring justice to Cornwall and identify the mastermind. We also learn (this is no spoiler; we find out very early in the movie) that the mastermind is the effete, mannered Sir Humphrey. It all comes together with madness and murder on the wind, switching from Jamaica Inn and the rain-swept coast to Sir Henry's elegant mansion and his imperious demands. Listen Merlyn, Sir Humphrey says, I want money. I know what to do with money when I have it which is why I must have it. Do you understand? I must have it! The movie looks great. There are crashing seas, stormy nights and coaches drawn by galloping horses. Jamaica Inn itself has that detailed, threatening look that Hitchcock achieved with the wind mill in Foreign Correspondent. Stone stairways go up and down, nothing fits well, shutters rattle in the wind. The scenery chewing isn't confined to the leads, either. The gang members get their moments, too, especially Emlyn Williams as Harry, an invariably cheery and dirty young man with a knife. The movie rises or falls, however, not on Hitchcock but on Laughton...and Laughton is so ripe he's spellbinding. You have to see him to appreciate his way with these words, spoken to a bound and gagged Mary, We may be going a long way, you know. Nearer the sun, of course...the Isles of Greece. You're thinking that'll cost money, but I have enough. One must have enough. I always knew that to live like a gentleman, spaciously and with elegance, one must have money...and a few beautiful possessions, of course, like you, my deah. Sir Humphrey's last words bring the movie to a satisfyingly ornate ending Make way for Pengallan! "},{"Title":"I liked it.","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" This was the first early Hitchcock film that I saw and I liked it. A lot of people complain that it wasn't quite like the book. I hate people who say that. People who say that should watch the movie first then... sorry. I started to rant there. Any ways, people said that this didn't have the mood, atmosphere, and suspense of the book. Which may be true, I didn't read the book. I thought there was plenty of suspense. Like the scene when Mary is looking through the floor cracks as the bad guys get ready to hang one of their own or when they're on the run and end up in that cave. Is it the most suspenseful movie I ever saw? No. But then again I said that I liked it. I didn't say that I loved it. It was an OK movie. I was expecting a mediocre-to-good movie and I wasn't disappointed. As for mood and atmosphere, it was fine. So it's not as moody and dark as the book. Get over it. Wow, this is less of a review and more of me lashing out at the fans of the book. All in all, the movie is fine. I recommend it to fans of Hitchcock. Some people complained about his directing in this one. It was his last film before he went to Hollywood and apparently actor Charles Laughton, who was also the producer, didn't listen to Hitchcock on the set and did his own thing; which caused Hitchcock to say Screw it. and just coast through. So I agree this isn't up to par with his usual direction, however it ain't bad either. I mean even when he sorta gives up it still turns out OK. So just watch with your expectations low so your not disappointed. "},{"Title":"You'll find out Mr. Law Officer.","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Somewhat unusual for a Hitchcock film, I found myself drawn in and actually enjoyed it. I think that probably had all to do with the performance of Charles Laughton as the haughty squire, Sir Humphrey Pengallan. There's no two ways about his wickedness, he's a perfect cad - just catch the way he sizes up Maureen O'Hara's character when she first makes her appearance at his home. And oh, those eyebrows! - you'll marvel at the makeup job that just adds to the extreme of Laughton's over acting. Oh, and one other thing - it's hard to understand what he's saying sometimes, but he's so entertaining in the delivery that you just don't seem to mind so much.The story itself deals with a band of cutthroats, thieves and smugglers on the Cornish Coast of England, while the dark and moody atmosphere of the picture gives it the feel of a pirate film that mostly takes place on land. Laughton's Pengallan is the mastermind that pulls the strings on waylaying ships to their doom on the stormy coastline. Robert Newton appears as the anti-pirate in this one, and after narrowly escaping death at the hands of Joss Merlyn's (Leslie Banks) rowdy bunch, he takes charge to bring Pengallan to his ultimate demise.Here's something to keep an eye out for. After Trehearne (Newton) and Mary (O'Hara) escape from the villains by swimming out to their boat, they wind up seeking refuge at Pengallan's home. While still in his soaking clothes, Trehearne pulls a dry folded piece of paper from his pocket. How'd he do that?As most of the comments on this board suggest, the film deserves a chance, even if it doesn't hold up well for the professional critics. The best way to view it would probably be late at night, with a nice warm brandy to take off the evening chill. A dark and stormy night would do just fine in keeping with the on screen atmosphere. I think Pengallan would agree. "},{"Title":"One of the best villains ever!","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" I just saw Jamaica Inn (1939) and was shocked to find it right at home at any exploitation film fest. While it was directed by Hitchcock, it doesn't feel like a Hitchcock movie at all, and the true auteurs of the film are the dialogue writer (separate from screenplay writer in the credits), Sidney Gilliat, and the star, who is also the villain, Charles Laughton. The dialogue seemed straight out of A Clockwork Orange, as if both films take place in the same alternate universe. One character in particular sounded like one of Alex's droogs. Coupled with this fantastic dialogue was one of my top ten favorite villains in movie history. Charles Laughton chewed the #$*! out of the scenery in this role, with better-than-perfect comic timing and a villainous role straight out of an exploitation film. While not technically an exploitation film, I think you could only get into it by watching it in the same way you would watch an exploitation film, otherwise you probably wouldn't 'get it' and think it was just some early undeveloped Hitch film. For example, I thought the last 10 minutes or so of Laughton kidnapping Maureen O'Hara's character was just a 1930's metaphorical way of filming an exploitation rape scene. Just watch the way Laughton does the most insanely despicable things and seems to have the most blasé and yet innocently boyish fun doing it. Play this in the middle of a triple bill of 1970's exploitation films and it would feel right at home. Probably the only way to watch it. Viewing this instead as most people do, as Hitchcock-in-development, will probably only lead to disappointment, as can be seen from other user comments. "},{"Title":"Antiquated drama.","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Jamaica Inn is a rarity in Hitchcock's filmography a film that was BEHIND its time (it could have been an early talkie). It is notable only for the hints of sexual perversion one can find in the performances of Charles Laughton and Leslie Banks; in fact, the villains of the piece are much more interesting than the bland heroes. No Juno and the Paycock, but still one of Hitchcock's weakest.    (**) "}{"Title":"Hitchock's weakest film but not without its good points","Date":"2 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Three or so years ago, I was under the notion that Alfred Hitchcock had never made a bad film. Admittedly, that would be true if I had seen every film of his, truth is at the time I had not, and maybe I was rather biased as Hitchcock is my favourite director. While he still is, I do think he has done some bad and disappointing films, but none of them are completely and utterly terrible. Jamaica Inn is perhaps the weakest he did, but I still consider it a disappointing one, considering the talent, rather than terrible. Of course, there are good points, Robert Newton- in a role that couldn't be more different from his performances in Oliver Twist and Treasure Island- is an understated and likable hero, Emlyn Williams is sinister with some droll lines and delivery, there is some nice scenery and the opening shipwreck and ending are exciting.Maureen O'Hara, in her debut(good historical point), is gorgeous to watch but rather shrill and wooden, and most of the supporting cast is stagy. People will remember the character of Pengallen and will love Charles Laughton as him, but I found him so over-the-top with little attempt to reign in that it harmed the film and seemed as though he was acting for a completely different film. I know Laughton can be hammy and subtle at the same time, he was brilliant in The Paradine Case(also directed by Hitchcock), where his role was much more interesting than here, and Mutiny on the Bounty and Witness for the Prosecution(non-Hitchcock films) were the same. Pengallen is a creepy character sure, but rather one-dimensional. The rest of the characters are also sketchily drawn.And as much as I love and admire Hitchcock, it did seem as though his heart wasn't in it, it is an unusually pedestrian directing job and has little of his trademark/distinctive directing touches. I'd go as far to say that Jamaica Inn didn't seem like a Hitchcock film but more a Laughton one, that's how much he and his character dominated the film and doing it that way it came at the expense of everything else. The editing lacks finesse, in regard to editing Jamaica Inn is the least well-edited, while the dialogue is stilted and the story tediously paced and confused. The make-up especially for Laughton is garish. Overall, has its good points but for me Hitchcock's weakest. 4/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A Whole New Slant on Jamica Inn!!!","Date":"30 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Like many viewers, I heard that this film was one of Hitchcock's worst movies. But it hit me in a whole different way IT WAS LIKE A HAMMER FILM! It opened up with a sinister murder scene BEFORE the title and credits were shown (a common Hammer procedure). Charles Laughton was the evil and cruel rich guy. The hero barely escaped being hung in the middle of the movie. If this movie were in color, and had it been produced by Hammer and not Hitchcock, it would fit right in with films like Curse of the Werewolf and others.Now, perhaps you can help me the original English release was 108 minutes (1 hour, 48 minutes) and everybody seems to be selling DVDs that are about 8 or 10 minutes shorter. If you know of a version for sale that runs 108 minutes, please let me know at jeffcain104@gmail.com........THANKS! "},{"Title":"That's women for you -- save your life one minute, frightened of you the next.","Date":"21 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock's last film made in the UK before heading to the US is one of his worst. It's a period thriller (light on thrills) about a gang of criminals who cause shipwrecks on the coast in order to steal the cargo and kill the surviving crew. The gang uses a spooky inn as a headquarters to meet and discuss their shipwrecking schemes. The film opens strong but once Charles Laughton's character appears, things start to unravel. Laughton is usually cited as one of the main reasons why this movie is so flawed. Laughton was one of the producers on the film and evidently interfered with Hitchcock at every turn. Without even knowing the story behind the production, it's easy to lay primary blame at Laughton's doorstep while watching this. He's over the top and campy; often comical to the point that it's impossible for Hitchcock to effectively build any suspense. There are some nice atmospheric moments with howling winds and stormy nights and the like. But the atmosphere is undone by Laughton's ridiculousness. The unconvincing makeup and fake nose don't help. The rest of the cast isn't that much better, with master ham Leslie Banks overacting as much as possible and a stiff Maureen O'Hara as the heroine. Maureen's as lovely as ever but, this being one of her earliest roles, her acting is pretty limited. It's a flawed movie with many boring stretches, too much bad acting, and mysteries that are not very mysterious. Still, it's Hitchcock so there are enough interesting things going on to warrant a look. But you'll likely be satisfied with just one look. "},{"Title":"Spine-tingling Thriller!","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Charles Laughton was brilliant as Sir Humphrey Pengallon, a local Cornish squire and Lord of the manor. He led a double life where he is respectable and admired while he is the local mob leader for a gang of local pirates led by Joss who lives with his wife Patience at the Jamaica Inn with a notorious reputation. When Mary, Patience's Irish niece, comes to live with them in Maureen O'Hara's film debut. She is brilliant as Mary. Actually the entire cast is first rate especially Charles Laughton in a masterful performance of such a diabolical character. Marie Ney is perfect as Joss's loving wife. You can see how Alfred Hitchcock's film career evolved from the silents and over the decades. His Jamaica Inn is an absolute classic! "},{"Title":"Ingrate expectations","Date":"18 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" While Jamaica Inn would be a disappointment to viewers only familiar with Hitchcock's later Hollywood work, this is not that out of line with his earlier British films. That said, if you didn't know this was a Hitchcock film, most people would not guess it from the directing.The story has the classic Hitchcock elements of deception, suspicion and paranoia; however, the film does not. They are not brought out clearly, and the viewer is not left in the cold sweat of terror, even vicariously, or in much suspense. What is left is the bare telling of a story and some action.I suspect most viewers well-versed in the Hitchcock style, or the Du Maurier style, would watch this and groan at the missed opportunity, and with the feeling that even they could do better. But that style of psychological drama would only be brought into clear relief beginning with the Hollywood films of Rebecca and Notorious. So that carping is easy in hindsight.This being based on a story by Daphe Du Maurier, the Shakespeare of the Gothic romance, the other element not clearly developed is the romantic element between Joss and Mary. We don't get a feeling for this, as we would in the novel.If Hitchcock's name weren't on the film, if instead, a run of the mill director's were, people would judge it more kindly, saying it was a good, above average film. What makes it above average is the intricacies of the plot. The acting, judged apart from the famous names, is really just B movie fare. But Laughton's performance, while not great, is still pretty good.The bottom line is that Jamaica Inn is worth watching because it is reasonably entertaining. And it is of some academic interest because of its place in Hitchcock's works. People now demand only the best from a Hitchcock film, and are all too quick to kick him when he's down. If only it had been made a few years later, in Hollywood, under Selznick, this would have been a great movie, like Rebecca.Note It is also interesting for those who like The Shipping News, which has a common plot element. Du Maurier lived in Cornmwall, was fascinated by its history, and set many of her stories there, so it is fun to see the area presented on film. "},{"Title":"Farewell Ol' Cornwall","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Jamaica Inn is a movie that is more a story about its setting than anything else. Essentially this is a movie where girl escapes Ireland, girl moves in with relatives in Cornwall, girl finds out something fishy is going on and has wacky adventures.Cornwall is the southwestern tip of England south of Wales. The Cornwallians must have been a rough and tumble people as there is little evidence of Roman ruins in this region of England. The opening scene of the movie depicts a stormy windy scene in which a ship is dashed upon the rocky coast of Cornwall. Sailors jump overboard to escape the sinking vessel only to be greeted by a gang of knife-wielding ruffians, who are in fact rough and tumble. There are no survivors. Wait there is one! Send someone over there for a final stabbing.The ruffians are generally second rate pirates who squabble amongst each other like a bunch of retired New Yorkers in a barber shop. They inhabit the Jamaica Inn which appears to be neither Jamaican nor much of an inn, but it provides the immoral center for Hitchcock's final British film. Hitchcock would move to Hollywood after its 1939 release &#x96; whether he was avoiding England's bad weather or Nazis is not clear from the film. It is clear that it was a profitable film, so Hitchcock was not taking his talents to Long Beach for the money.The film offers only two female characters. Maureen O'Hara plays the lead and never stops doing the right thing in the film. She is an Irish orphan named Mary who has come to live with her Aunt Patience (the other female) who has remarried to a shady character name Joss Merlyn. Joss greets his niece with the look of a man who probably needed to register with a local sex offenders' agency.But everything in this part of Cornwall is run by a Boss Hogg fellow named Sir Humphrey Pengallan, played by Charles Laughton. Laughton cajoled Hitchcock into giving him a larger role than had originally been written for his character. Pengallan fancies himself a true gentleman and chides the pirates of Cornwall for being beneath him. He befriends Mary and wins her trust which provides the dramatic irony that makes the audience members scream No! Get away from that guy! Another main character emerges in the person of James 'Jem' Trehearne. Jem is a quasi-romantic figure for Mary but is really the secret agent who is almost hanged when found out to be a traitor early in the film. Mary actually cuts him down from makeshift gallows and their life on the run begins. The film is replete with amazing escapes and daring deeds which will keep all viewers thinking you can't do that on television. Hitchcock shows his talent with the outdoor scenes and Laughton is a hilarious villain.The final shot of the film curiously belongs to a butler leaving us to wonder if Hitchcock would bring his butler to California or hire cheaper labor in the Los Angeles area. "},{"Title":"What are you all waiting for, a spectacle?","Date":"13 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" It was probably just coincidence that Hitchcock's last British film and first Hollywood one were both adaptations of Daphne Du Maurier novels. While there are some similarities between the source novels of Jamaica Inn and Rebecca, the two cinema adaptations could hardly be less alike.Rebecca, which Hitchcock made the following year for David O. Selznick, is a very full and faithful adaptation of the book (Selznick insisted it be so), but that does not make it any less of a Hitchcock picture. In fact, it is rewarding to see Hitch outside his comfort zone and having to rely upon his command of cinematic form to bring out the best in the story. Jamaica Inn by contrast is a very Hitchcockian reworking of the novel, stripping out or changing swathes of the story to create a simple action yarn. It really isn't the right treatment for this period drama, and to make matters worse it appears that Hitchcock, who already had his invitation to the US, couldn't really be bothered to follow it through with his direction.I think the biggest problem with this adaptation is that, in order for Hitch to do his thing of revealing all the villains and plot twists early on, Maureen O'Hara's character is neglected and underdeveloped. Neither the screenplay nor the direction bring out her sense of trepidation or the hint that she has the will to fight back (although what we see of her performance does). There are also some rather naive changes made to characters, especially Jem who was originally Joss' brother and a petty-criminal, rather than an undercover lawman. Some might say in its defence that this is supposed to be a fun, adventuresome version of the novel, but even the action sequences are all rather unimaginative constructions.Hitchcock's direction looks fairly accomplished because he was of course very experienced by now. Perhaps the biggest stylistic link between this and Rebecca is that they both make good use of space. The eponymous inn is made to look claustrophobic, with overhead beams and foreground clutter framing the interior shots. It's also rather neat the way the gang members when grouped together seem to fill up all the space, creating this sort of dark mass, whereas in contrast individual characters tend to get filmed against a white background. While it's good that Hitchcock has abandoned the very obvious expressionism that marred some of his earliest works, there is a lack of those attention-grabbing instants that at least made those pictures fun and fast-moving. Some snappy editing gives a bit of impact to the odd moment, but the excitement never builds up.So, bad screenplay and lacklustre direction, but (unusually for a Hitchcock picture) the saving grace is the actors. Best of the bunch is Maureen O'Hara with an energetic yet convincing performance, making it all the more frustrating that her character is sidelined by the script. Charles Laughton is, well, Charles Laughton, playing his usual type to his usual standard. It will come as a surprise to aficionados of 1940's British cinema to see Robert Newton (Bill Sikes, Long John Silver etc) as the heroic lead, and not doing too bad a job of it either, although once or twice you do see the rolling eyes and wide, twitching mouth. I guess he just couldn't help looking villainous. In fact, had the film been made ten years later Newton might well have landed the part of Joss. As it is Leslie Banks delivers an unexaggerated performance in that role, which nicely counterbalances Laughton's scenery-chewing. Finally an honourable mention goes to Emlyn Williams, whose swaggering, sinister turn as gang-member Harry is like a proto-Clockwork Orange droog, and whose delivery makes lines like shut yer misbegotten mouths sound like gags.Despite the delights of the cast, Jamaica Inn is a sorry end to Hitchcock's British years, not worthy of the director and practically an insult to Du Maurier. Oh well, there's always Rebecca to make up for it. "},{"Title":"That place - Jamaica Inn. It's got a bad name. It's not healthy, that's why. There's queer things goes on there.","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Jamaica Inn is easily the weakest Alfred Hitchcock film I've yet seen. Actually, Jamaica Inn isn't so much a Hitchcock film as it is a Charles Laughton film. Now I generally enjoy Laughton's brand of acting. In fact, I rank his performance in The Island of Lost Souls as one of the all-time best performances in a horror movie. But in Jamaica Inn, his overacting, scene-chewing performance is too much. Although there are a few scenes with Laughton I enjoy, particularly early in the movie before we discover his character's true nature, he becomes something of a joke - a giant buffoon sucking whatever atmosphere and drama the film had. His over-the-top characterization is out of place with the other elements in the film.Hitchcock was, however, effective in creating tension and atmosphere in the scenes without Laughton. There's a particularly nice scene early on where our two heroes, played by Maureen O'Hara and Robert Newton, are trapped in a cave. Or the scene near the end where O'Hara finds herself at the mercy of the band of cutthroats whose plan she has thwarted. In these instances, Hitchcock creates real tension. But of course it's not long before Laughton enters the picture to steal the moment away from everyone - including Hitchcock.I suppose my favorite part of Jamaica Inn was the chance to see a young Maureen O'Hara. She was as feisty at 18 as she would be throughout her career. She does a nice job given the circumstances she was working with. "},{"Title":"Hitch, History, Laughton, and Du Maurier","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" In the early 1930s Alfred Hitchcock did a historic costume movie called WALTZES FROM VIENNA about the Strauss Family. He obviously never enjoyed such films (he never tried musicals or pseudo-biographies again). But it was the first of three attempts he made to do a historic film. While none were total disasters, none is usually counted among his best films. One can't deny this is fair with WALTZES FROM VIENNA but JAMAICA INN should not be totally denied as being a good Hitchcock film.It was his first attempt to do a story from novelist Daphne Du Maurier. This would also be part of the reason for JAMAICA INN's low rating - the following year Hitch would do Du Maurier's REBECCA, as his first Hollywood film, his first film with David Selznick, and it would be his only film to win the Oscar as best picture. Without trying to rip down REBECCA, it's higher production standards outclass JAMAICA INN. JAMAICA INN would also be the first of two films that Hitch made with Charles Laughton. Given that the other was THE PARADINE CASE, neither of them are in his top films. Hitchcock would always say that he always found Laughton a very difficult actor to direct, and claim that Laughton insisted on trying to base the character of Sir Humphrey on the walk he had. Supposedly his mincing little walk was that of a public school boy who had peed in his pants. Yet his regency baronet and his corrupt Old Bailey Judge were both excellent performances, and are among Laughton's best characters.The film is about wrecking during the Regency period (roughly 1810 to 1837). As such one can see it as a kind of continuation of George Arliss' DR. SYN (later remade with Patrick MacGoohan as THE SCARECROW OF ROMNEY MARSH). That was set in the 1770s - 1780s. But the issue of the wreckers is handled differently. The Arliss and MacGoohan films stress the economic unfairness of the revenue anti-smuggling laws, and how they impact on the locals who support the smuggling ring. Arliss, in his trial scene, reminds the jury how he helped his neighbors. MacGoohan's followers insist on chanting a sardonic mantra, THE KING'S LAW, THE KING'S LAW, when discussing the revenue laws. But Hitch follows a pro-law and order point of view. The wreckers have murdered people and are targeted by the government for destruction. Robert Newton is sent as their leading agent to find out the smuggler's secret.Newton (here young, vigorous, and not the slave to alcohol he became a decade later) learns that the key is at Jamaica Inn, a desolate, ill-famed hostelry, run by Leslie Banks (this would be Banks' second film with Hitchcock - he'd been in the original THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH). Banks does not like strangers too much, but he has his hands full - his niece Maureen O'Hara has shown up in need of a home and job. O'Hara notices the comings and goings of certain locals at the inn, and so does Newton. Eventually they join forces to solve the riddle. They find only one ally the local magistrate and baronet, Sir Humphrey. Laughton's regency buck is far better than the mincing step story suggests. He is a cultivated type surrounded by boobs, and he lets us know what he is up against. His performance, supported by Newton, O'Hara, and Banks, makes the film.But the best dramatic moment in the film is by Stephen Haggard, the youngest of the smugglers. When told he will be hanged, he gets hysterical, screaming about he's too young to die. Even the last scene with Sir Humphrey is not quite as effective as that moment. A scene like that should have guaranteed a lasting career for Haggard in film. Sadly, if you look up his filmography on this board, you will find he was (like Leslie Howard) a war casualty in 1943. "},{"Title":"Unusual Hitchcock","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Alfred Hitchcock is considered by many including myself to be one of the great directors of the twentieth century. While watching one of his masterpieces, one can expect suspense, revelation and maybe a shock or two - but amongst all, entertainment.Jamaica Inn is one of Hitchcock's more earlier and most irregular weird, if you like films. This dated, very much inaudible and terribly not well-preserved piece from the director concentrates on the pirate attacks on ships near the Cornwall coast in the 1800s, involving theft and brutal treatment, nothing thrilling. Charles Laughton takes over the rather tedious film as an eccentric and well-respected local squire and magistrate who is happily leading a double life as the pirate gang leader and Maureen O' Hara makes an effort as the young heroine, an Irish girl who has come to live with her relations in Cornwall her uncle being a pirate and getting mixed up with the the smugglers but fails to draw attention.Overall, Jamaica Inn is a Hitchcock flop, and the director was probably taking up time before moving to Hollywood where he became an institution for the rest of his career. If you enjoy a Hitchcock picture, then view some of his later work such as Vertigo, Psycho and The Birds, otherwise give this a miss. "}{"Title":"Hitchcock's Pirate Picture","Date":"20 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Jamaica Inn begins with a gang of pirates wrecking a ship, killing the survivors, and looting the booty. We cut to Charles Laughton and a false nose and eyebrows, taking a lady in who is looking for her sister at the infamous Jamaica Inn.The picture is not really about the Jamaica Inn so much as about the pirates who operate out of there. There are a few cool twists, and some attractive leads, but the tone is Dickensian and theatrical, not what you might expect from a Hitchcock. Its a period piece, and some of the costuming and acting contributes to the hokey tone. That was initially what turned me off it, along with the VHS-like quality of that first public domain release I saw. Don't bother unless you're watching the high definition version. This is a public domain piece so is quite common in horrible versions with fuzzy picture and audio so bad you can hardly understand it. The 2015 Cohan Blu Ray is the only way to watch.Overall its a good news bad news situation. At times, the dialogue is wooden and the framing boring mid-shots like in the worst Hitchcock movies. At other times, it has a nice flair for a dramatic twist, like the best Hitchcock. I'd call it non-essential viewing. "},{"Title":"Charles  Laughton movie","Date":"19 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" he is not only the star but the pillar of this Hitchcock without great ambitions movie. the script, the atmosphere, the fragility of story are good supports for him to do a strange, fascinating character exploring each possibility to proof his great art. he is more than the villain but seducer and master of each scene,ideal spice for a film who has little chances to be memorable. so, Laughton is , in fact, ideal tool for Hitchcock genius and the cause for Jamaica Inn to not be only an another film of its director. film of an extraordinary actor, Jamaica Inn has piece from a large adventure series, nice, soft, with each ingredient at its right place, amusing and dramatic, sketch of justice and love.but Lauhton is not only peak , an interesting presence remains Horace Hodges. "},{"Title":"Gothic, Gloomy With Charles Laughton Unforgettable","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Considering the director of the movie, one may be misled by various assumptions about some hallmarks of the Master of Suspense. Right, JAMAICA INN is Hitchock's last European production before he left for Hollywood but if you are well acknowledged of the director's legacy and expect to see it as another Hitchcock, you may end up at a sort of 'Hitchwreck.' It echoes Expressionism, it echoes Gothic atmosphere of Ufa Studio films, it echoes these specific literary sources like LES MISERABLES, of course, but it does not echo any of Hitchcock's popular films (perhaps, being a prelude to REBECCA, his first Hollywood production and a film adaptation of the same author).Quite soon after the release of JAMAICA INN, the New York Times reviewer, Frank S Nugent, accurately pointed out that the film is a merely journeyman melodrama...which will not be remembered as a Hitchcock picture, but as a Charles Laughton picture. Indeed, the actor is at the center of attention though he does not play the protagonist. At the same time, the movie's superb direction, excellent casting, expressive playing and fine production offset owes a lot to the style couched in pure silent German Gothic (Fernando F Croce). Consider the opening shot, the locale of the setting, the images of the sun and the moon, the feast at Sir Humphrey's, the dark, gloomy moments near the finale and the detailed touches of mystique and glamor. However, as it appears not that right to reveal the atmosphere of certain scenes, let me highlight the most significant aspect(according to Nugent's viewpoint) - CHARLES LAUGHTON.Undeniably one of the very best actors of the old English tradition with superb elements of wit and drama, of sarcasm and devotion, I could agree with many of the praise that hailed his performance. Sometimes, being likened to his role in the aforementioned LES MISERABLES (the roles which indeed carry certain significant similarity), he portrays a two-faced villain who HAS A LAW. Sometimes, his mimics strikingly evoke the Mephisto of Murnau's FAUST. With a few liberties taken (considering the literary source), Laughton manages to add the incredible emotional resonance to the entire depiction of a decadent, corrupted man - calm, discreet, patient and deceptive. Finally, however, he is able to grasp the ambiguous combination of self pity and insanity. Depraved though insane mind to portray on the screen must have been a tremendous challenge for an actor whose performance is best described by Dennis Schwartz as hammy eye-rolling and eye-catching. This very well counted and powerfully handled makes for (perhaps) the only merit of JAMAICA INN for today's viewing. Really a towering performance!As far as other performances are concerned, a note must be made of ravishing and sensual (at moments) Maureen O'Hara, practically a newcomer at the time. She has beauty, no doubt, but also brains to avoid certain clues towards sheer melancholy and naiveness that evokes from her role, from the roles of many women of the time. As a result, her performance, fortunately, lacks the laughable clichés and saccharine sentimentality (which may be good in other films but which would, naturally, spoil a lot in a motion picture like this one). But, after longer inspection, she does not stand out. As her co-star comes .....whose performance goes flat very quickly. If there is anyone more worth attention, this is, probably, Mary Nay as Patience, not for the virtues of acting that much as the virtues of the character portrayed.Naturally, there are typical overtones of the cinema of the time like evil punished in quite a predictable manner, some lengthy sequences, certain flaws in the dialogs. But...all in all, JAMAICA INN is a movie worth seeking out for its heavy influence of gloomy German Expressionism (who like the atmospheric Gothic touches, of course) and unforgettable Charles Laughton. 7/10 for the entire film. "},{"Title":"'The cruel rocks of the wild Cornish coast'","Date":"21 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" I have just seen brave daddy Laughton in a couple of his movies, only a bit antiquated. I got interested in daddy Laughton when I was 17&#x97;by way of Pacino, in whose life Laughton had the place of a mentor, it is said. The first of the these two movies is JAMAICA INN. (The name might suggest exotic meridians; yet it is but a Cornish story about the barbarous deeds of the coast people.) The second is THE BEACHCOMBER, which reunites on screen Laughton and his pretty wife, Mrs. Lanchester. Take this from a Laughtonian&#x97;they're both movies to be seen.JAMAICA INN is a Gothic swashbuckler in a Victorian dress (--as a matter of fact, the 1820s, not quite yet the Victorian era--), a thundering Victorian show oozing with that peculiar brio of this director, a rogues melodrama; and a proof that the lesser Hitchcock is vastly preferable to others' accomplished outings. In this melodrama, Hitchcock is amply rhetorical&#x97;and it begins in force, in what could be termed Hitchcock's 2nd style (that of the '40s), with discussions of beauty, etc.. There's, of course, Laughton who indulges himself in one of those peculiar, colorful, over&#x97;the&#x97;top performances of his &#x85;; and this period movie introduces Maureen O'Hara, whom Laughton, liking the girl, wanted in. (I can't refrain from quoting what Elsa Lanchester, Laughton's wife, said about Mrs. O'Hara'--She looks as though butter wouldn't melt in her mouth, or anywhere else'.)As usually, Hitchcock had a difficult relation with his actor&#x97;here, with Laughton. I often think Laughton's only follower, in terms of style and gusto, could have been Burton; but Laughton was uglier, wholehearted and, I believe, more endowed. "},{"Title":"Underrated Masterpiece","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" This long forgotten corner of the Hitchcock universe has occasionally been called Hitchcock's Lemon but I personally feel that title is undeserved.Sure it's not perfect (a sentence I never thought I'd write about a Hitchcock film) but a bad Hitchcock movie is pretty damned good by everybody else's standards.The tension and push-pull of criminal behavior meeting it's inevitable end at the noose has long built some damn good dramas but some how Charles Laughton's performance elevates this to near madness. His version of Sir Humphrey turns an average movie villain into a fascinating character, a repulsive yet lovable nut who elevates himself yet pushes down the little guy. When confronted by a lesser person about how similar they are and how he's no better then anything else, Laughton nearly foams at the mouth. When the hero unwittingly insult's Laughton's manhood and social status there's a definite moment where Sir Humphrey nearly plugs the unsuspecting protagonist right in the back.All in all, good but not great film. A must for Hitchcock fanatics. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" When I think of Alfred Hitchock and DuMaurier, I think of Rebecca. Jamaica Inn, another screen adaptation of a Daphne Dumaurier novel done by Hitchcock, doesn't come close to the masterpiece that is Rebecca - but to be fair, it's not as good a story either.Part of the problem I had with this film was that I saw a horrible, grainy print. You certainly can't beat the cast Charles Laughton, Maureen O'Hara, Robert Newton, and a fine supporting cast.Set in 19th Century Cornwall, Mary Yellen (O'Hara) comes to the inn to live with her Aunt Patience (Marie Ney). Her aunt's husband (Joss Merlyn) leads a band of men who cause pirates to shipwreck. The real boss of this gang, however, stays in the shadows.There are some interesting elements about Jamaica Inn - the wonderful performance of Charles Laughton as the elegant and evil Sir Henry, the incomparable beauty of 18-year-old Maureen O'Hara, and last but perhaps most fascinating today, seeing Robert Newton as a young leading man. He's very different from the persona we think of as Robert Newton in later films, and he's excellent here. Sam Goldwyn thought he would make an excellent Heathcliff, and indeed, he would have, if not as romantic looking as Olivier.A big ending that's a little too much - this is not quintessential Hitchcock, but worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Robbers, smugglers in a Hitchcock gem.","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Director Alfred Hitchcock adapts a Daphine Du Murier novel for the silver screen. Great Black & White atmospheric tale of treachery in Cornwall circa 1800. Young Mary(Maureen O'Hara)seeks out her Aunt Patience(Marie Ney)after her parent's death. She finds shelter from a rainstorm in the home of Sir Humphrey Pengallan(Charles Laughton). Aunt Patience resides at Jamaica Inn, a hideout for a gang of smugglers, who lure ships to crash into the seaside rocks and loot the valuable goods. The bounty is taken to the Jamaica Inn where Aunt Patience's husband Joss(Leslie Banks)divvies up the take. Sir Humphrey will figure big in the dramatic finale. Other players include Robert Newton, Wylie Watson and Edwin Greenwood. "},{"Title":"where's Alfred","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" The one thing that ticked me off.. no Alfred Hitcock cameo, i always look forward to trying to spot him in the movie, anyway as for the movie here goes... Maureen o' Hara. she is very young , beautiful. sexy in this movie. she is taken prisoner in the film for a rich older English gentlemen. Her Aunt Patience who has invited her to stay with her is married to Joss. the leader of a crew of Pirates.. who wreck ships in the early 1800's off the coast of Cornwall, England. I thought at the beginning this movie did get off to a slow start, but began to pick up steam later in the movie as time went by. This is by no means one of Hitcock's great works, but it's not bad either, This is the type of movie in my book that grows on you, and requires,, excuse me if i say this a little Patience to watch. overall though not a bad movie. "},{"Title":"Make Way For Pengallan!!!!!","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" What starts as an action packed cut-throat jamboree overflowing with absolutely incredible atmosphere quickly becomes a stagy film with too much talking. It's not without it's humorous jabs at both the upper and lower class and although it's rather over the top, Charles Laughton's performance is almost enough to carry the film alone. There are some surprisingly dark moments (both in light and tone) particularly the opening scene and the nighttime exterior shots are simply magical. Strangely lacking in some of the more distinctive camera techniques one would expect from Hitchcock, Jamaica Inn overall is still an enjoyable watch &#150; just slow. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece  from 1939","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is truly a great classic film starring Charles Laughton,( Sir Humphrey Pengallan) who is a ruthless ruler who heads a gang of thieves who look for shipwrecks along their coastline with many huge rocks and boulders. These crooks live in the Jamaica Inn and deliberately turn out the lamp that would guide the ships away from their rocky coast. Maureen O'Hara, (Mary) is traveling from Ireland as she lost her mom and seeks to find her aunt who lives at the Jamaica Inn. However, Mary does not have any idea what she is getting herself into until she realizes that the local town people do not want anything to do with the Jamaica Inn and her coachman leaves her a mile or two away from the inn along with her luggage. Maureen O'Hara was just starting her career and was very pretty and thin and you just knew she was going to become a great star. Charles Laughton gave one of his best performances in this great 1939 Masterpiece of great acting. "}{"Title":"Hitchcock must have been smarter than his fans . . .","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" . . . so many of whom are wailing here about being cheated out of their preferred Hitch. They demand better suspense! wimpier blonder heroines! a better century! Honestly, folks, Baskin-Robbins can have 31 flavors of ice cream, but Alfred Hitchcock can't have more than one flavor of suspense? I liked this movie. It's not a thriller, and surely not for the kiddies. It is a multi-character study of depth (and, I'll admit, predictability). Not all the considerable bondage involves ropes and scarves; most of it's social -- painful, constraining, and unattackable as a knot behind one's back. This is, for me, Laughton's creepiest role ever, and that's saying something. He was actually hard to look at. (Am I the only one who got subtle hints that his galloping madness owed something to syphilis?) Almost everyone in the cast contributes some glint of acting genius or gravitas to this Gothic tale of moral choice and social submission. In addition to O'Hara and Newton, who are both outstanding, I have to single out Marie Ney (Aunt Patience), in a role they don't write for women of any age any more, and Horace Hodges (Chadwick, the butler), whose eloquent silence closes out this fine movie. "},{"Title":"That place - Jamaica Inn. It's got a bad name. It's not healthy, that's why","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Jamaica Inn (1939) is remarkable in many ways as almost every movie directed by the great Alfred Hitchcock. It was the last movie he directed in England before he moved to Hollywood. It was his first screen adaptation of the book by Daphne Du Maurier - his next movie, the Oscar winning Rebecca is also based on Du Maurier's novel as well as the later The Birds (1963). Jamaica Inn introduced 18 years old Maureen O'Hara in her first starring role as Mary, a young orphan girl who arrives to stay with her aunt at the inn located at England's Cornish coast around 1820 to quickly find out that the inn is a headquarters of the of the pirate band. Finally, Jamaica Inn was the first collaboration of two cinema giants, Alfred Hitchcock and Charles Laughton. While Jamaica Inn may be not the best or most memorable Hitchcock's film, nobody would argue that Laughton, a performer of an incredible range stole the movie as Sir Humphrey Pengallon in the performance that mixes elegant grossness, gallant and sardonic, pure madness, and certain grandeur to his defiance.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"An adventurous romp","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" I would be inclined to think Hitchcock made this corny film deliberately tongue-in-cheek if he had not all but disowned it in interview comments. Cheesy FX -- uneven performances -- but fine Gothic atmosphere and some great moments. Taken as it comes it is an enjoyable adventure a la Treasure Island -- except that Robert Newton plays the handsome hero! Of course Laughton is over the top as others have said - but if you like Laughton you should see this film for his performance alone. Emlyn Williams also plays a delightfully sinister and menacing character -- I mistook him at first for Robert Newton (being prejudiced by the latter's subsequent typecasting).Make sure you get the more recent Kino Video release (VHS or DVD) -- there was an earlier VHS version that was all but unwatchable. "},{"Title":"Hitchcockian film noir at its best!","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Oh Lord, we pray thee -- not that wrecks should happen but that if they do happen  Thou wilt guide them --  to the coast of Cornwall -- for the benefit of the  poor inhabitants. So ran an old Cornish  prayer of the early  nineteenth century, but in that lawless corner of England, before the British Coastguard Service came  into being...... there existed gangs  who, for the sake of plunder deliberately planned the wrecks, luring ships to their doom on the cruel rocks of the wild Cornish coast. Thus begins Jamaica Inn. Mary is an Irish colleen whose mother has just succumbed. She comes to stay with her aunt Patience in Cornwall. Uncle Joss is head of this den of thieves who lure and loot shipwrecks. Mary stops here. The carriage rears for notorious is its band. She meets its mastermind Sir Humphrey Pengallan, who has made his fortune thus. Jem Trehearne is an English spy who's just recently joined ranks with the rogues.   He is being hanged by them on suspicion of treachery when Mary rescues him. They steal in a cove and narrowly escape to Pengallans where they tell him the story.   He feigns shock and promises to bring justice. They meet the rogues at their hideout where they are tied up for the final big loot which will bring much booty. Pengallan gets away and Trehearne convinces Aunt Patience who is a soft touch that it is best.   Mary saves the day by thwarting the wreck with a fire lantern light that drives them away from the rocks. Joss takes her back by buggy but is shot immediately and Mary tries to nurse him but he dies and Patience is shot right away so she is alone with Pengallan who takes her hostage. Pengallan tries to take Mary onboard a seacruise faraway, but she escapes upon seeing the English police authorities and is held by Pengallan at gunpoint.  Trehearne has scurried aboard and has a gun at Pengallan's head, so Pengallan scales the mast to a crowd of onlookers below and declares  If you want a spectacle, you shall have it!,  and proceeds to leap to his death.  The end is his manserveant Chadwicke looking bewildered at the whole scene.  It is disturbing.  I would recommend this movie.    "},{"Title":"Not Such Great Hitchcock","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":"  To think this movie was made 4 years after he made the 39 Steps a year after he made The Lady Vanishes does give this movie some historical significance but not much else. It does mark Maureen O'Hara's screen debut (she does very well here). Charles Laughton does not show very well here and the rest of the cast is just okay. This film does show some of Hitchcock's enduring themes. His love of the misunderstood hero and his romantic involvement with a reluctant heroine, the evil erudite villain. But all of these things are done so much better in his other efforts. It's as if he didn't really have his heart in this one. I understand he was becoming disillusioned with film making in England and he may have been on his way to the US in his thoughts at least while making this one. His best works come just after he came to America, Foreign Correspondent and Saboteur and later North By Northwest. See this only if you're a devoted Hitchcock fan and see it for the history. "},{"Title":"A real scary Hitchcock movie about wreckers on the Cornish coast","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I first saw this film when I was nine years old and it scared me to death. It was atmospheric for a young boy to watch and full of dark brooding camera work. Charles Laughton was excellent in the type of part in which he always excelled. Maureen O'Hara looked suitably beautiful and Robert Newton made a convincing Revenue man. This film cries out to be remade. "},{"Title":"great acting, poor direction","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Odd to say about a Hitchcock movie, but this movie is so poorly paced, it almost seems to be made by a college amateur. Coming off the heels of his classic 'The Lady Vanishes', it is certainly a disappointment. Obviously his heart wasn't it, as he was nearing a contract with producer Selznick in the states. My guess is that before he could start work on 'Rebecca', he had an obligation to make one more film, and he finished it as quickly as he could. This story of a turn-of-the-century band of murderous pirates is an enticing one, though. It's certainly worth a look if only for the performances. Charles Laughton, in particular, is amazing. He creates one of the all-time great Hitchcock villains(right up there with Robert Walker of 'Strangers on a Train' and Joseph Cotten of 'Shadow of a Doubt'.So, in short, if you're looking for the classic 'Hitchcock' movie, this is certainly not the place to turn. But if you want to see great actors playing well-written characters, I wholeheartedly recommend this movie. You just have to tolerate the plodding pace and choppy editing. "},{"Title":"The Eyes Have It","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Along the coast of Cornwall, duplicitous Charles Laughton (as Sir Humphrey Pengallan) helps budding romantic twosome Maureen O'Hara (as Mary) and Robert Newton (as Jem Trehearne) fight smuggling pirates. Everyone comes to the conveniently shore-situated Jamaica Inn, where leader Leslie Banks (as Josh Merlyn) and his gang hang out. Alfred Hitchcock directed this old English costume drama, before taking his work to Hollywood. So, there are some understandably well-directed moments; and, the coastal and cave scenes are nicely done. However, Jamaica Inn is a poorly staged version of Daphne du Maurier's novel. The actors and director make it mildly entertaining; but, the story does not captivate. Apparently, the cast had a contest involving outrageous eye make-up, which Mr. Laughton obviously won (by a hair). **** Jamaica Inn (5/15/39) Alfred Hitchcock ~ Charles Laughton, Maureen O'Hara, Robert Newton, Leslie Banks "},{"Title":"JAMAICA INN is not an early sound film as someone else suggested...","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" To think of all the talent wasted on JAMAICA INN--and for the project to turn out so interminably dull and poorly staged--well, it's a shame. First of all, we have Alfred Hitchcock as director before setting off for America. The film, under his guidance, has so little pace, is poorly edited and seems like amateur night compared to his later successes.It's a film of many oddities. First among them, CHARLES LAUGHTON with his beetle brows and all of his hammy eccentricities on full display as the nobleman who is really the leader of a band of cutthroat pirates. Second oddity is that ROBERT NEWTON gives one of the film's most understated performances as the good guy, an actor who could give Laughton competition in any ham contest if he wanted to.Third oddity MAUREEN O'HARA in a not very good performance that tries the patience of the viewer even while she appears fetching (but not as beautifully made up as she would be once Hollywood got its hands on her). She's simply not the terrified Hitchcock heroine we came to expect in later years.Fourth oddity The look and sound of the film is so primitive, it's hard to believe it was made during the same period where American films had reached the finesse shown in GONE WITH THE WIND ('39). Someone else has commented that this was an early sound film which is untrue--that label would only apply to films made ten years prior to 1939. This was made at a time when 1939 signified some highly professionally made films by the big Hollywood studios. It looks as though the technical abilities of the British technicians who worked on JAMAICA INN were indeed either sub-standard or highly suspect, since much of Laughton's dialog is unintelligible and the soundtrack muffles virtually all of the dialog in the print shown on TCM.Summing up Easily a Hitchcock film you can afford to overlook. I always thought UNDER CAPRICORN was one of his worst, but this one is far less worthy of viewing.Trivia note It's no wonder that Daphne du Maurier was highly displeased with what they did to her novel. "},{"Title":"A dull excursion for Hitchcock.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Apart from the gorgeous O'Hara and the odd good scene, this film drearily lacks force, until a good final 15 minutes, where you can finally feel for O'Hara's character and actually care about Laughton's character getting what he deserves. Overall; Hitchcock's least. 2.5/5 "}{"Title":"The Ham Who Chewed Too Much","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Talking about bad Hitchcock films is kind of fun given Sir Alfred didn't make many of them, just enough to show himself human. And as bad Hitchcock movies go, Jamaica Inn is moderately more entertaining than others like Number 17, The Paradine Case, and Topaz, though for the same reason it is so awful Charles Laughton.Laughton plays Sir Humphrey Pengallan, lord of a coastal Cornish fiefdom that includes Jamaica Inn, a den of cutthroats to which journeys young Mary (Maureen O'Hara), niece of the innkeeper's wife. After rescuing one of the gang from hanging, Mary finds herself seeking Sir Humphrey's mercy. But just how merciful is his lordship? Not very, if all the scenery we see him chewing in his opening vignette is any indication, muttering airily about the lack of true beauty in the world and having as the guest of honor at a fancy dinner party his prize horse. The Caligula touch is apropos of Sir Humphrey as we get to know him, and of Laughton, too, as he takes every line in the script as a license for excess.Laughton held the overall reins of this project as his pet producer was in place over Hitchcock, and you can see how he was granted free roam whether Hitch cared or no. Most actors playing characters with dual identities are content with one revelation scene; Laughton must have three. Every other line of his is delivered in extreme close-up, twitching an outrageously fake pair of eyebrows and stepping on lines by the other actors like they were ants at a picnic.Next thing you'll be telling me you're as good as I am, he sniffs, beetle brows popping at a hapless extra, upper lip puffed as if full of Skoal. You're not as good as me. Nature was against you from the start; everything else has been against you since.Hitchcock didn't make many period pieces in his career, so the fact that this one is set in Regency England circa 1819 is a source of some positive anticipation, as is O'Hara making her screen debut. Original author Daphne Du Maurier gave Hitchcock the source material for two of his most well-regarded films, Rebecca and The Birds. Laughton and Hitchcock possessed the same mordant wit, an eye for taking the mickey out of a highly-charged scene.Yet none of it comes off here. O'Hara is shrill and wimpy, crying Aunt Patience, Aunt Patience every five minutes and taxing our patience continually. The rest of the cast, led by Robert Newton as Mary's hamster-cheeked companion, is uniformly bad, especially Leslie Banks as the overbearing innkeeper and Marie Ney as Patience his wife, always looking right at the camera as she does her Tammy Wynette thing in explaining to Mary the merits of her Springer-worthy marriage. Instead of a coherent storyline, one stares at a screen dark as an oil slick from which various dime-novel tropes occasionally squeak out. Some like web reviewer Self-Styled Siren see this as intentional comedy; with all respect to her Bloggeress I must disagree. There is no sign of irony here, just a lot of clinkers.The only redeeming virtue in Jamaica Inn is the same thing that makes it worse than other Hitch flops like Topaz Laughton's overripe performance. He's so over-the-top and without restraint that he's often hilarious. I don't flatter myself to think I can look down on Laughton; at his best he was quite a brilliant actor. But here is a case of a talent in losing battle against his own formidable ego, playing every scene with a flip hauteur that seems to mock anyone else's attempt to be engaged.That unfortunately included Hitchcock himself, as can be seen from the way scenes trail off or start suddenly, completely lacking the Master's usual polish. He had other worlds to conquer by this time, preparing to embark on his most fruitful patch of work by sailing to the United States. Too bad he left England on such a bum note. "},{"Title":"A Rare Hitchcock Misfire","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":"  If you're not familiar with Jamaica Inn, there's a very good reason it's one of Alfred Hitchcock's rare misfires as a director. Despite a top-drawer cast, director and author (Daphne DuMaurier of Rebecca fame), this melodrama is alternately logy and overblown. Even Charles Laughton, whose splendid hamminess has saved many a film, seems out of place. With his garish makeup and eccentric characterization, he appears to be a Dickens character in search of a good Dickens film in which to play!  Hitchcock does achieve some characteristically good visuals, in spite of the studio sets, but lacks his usual control over the story. The film is notable for two performances that of the radiant Maureen O'Hara (in her first British film) and Robert Newton, who, amazingly for the screen's definitive Long John Silver, plays the leading-man role and gives perhaps the most understated performance in the film!! "},{"Title":"Lots of talent involved, little of which makes it to the screen...","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" A dreadful Alfred Hitchcock film, perhaps one of his very weakest. Just before leaving England for Hollywood to shoot Rebecca, Hitchcock squeezed into his schedule this windswept adventure for Charles Laughton's Mayflower Films. Based on a novel set on the Cornish coast by Daphne Du Maurier, the same author and setting as Rebecca, Laughton plays a decadent, deceitful nobleman who shelters a young orphaned woman from a band of cutthroats living down the road; seems these land pirates are in league with a not-so-mysterious benefactor to sabotage the ships attempting to port, ransacking their vessels and killing everyone on board. Laughton, made up and dressed to resemble a baroque clown, seems to be having a good time, but all his leering and over-affectation is used for little purpose here--his character simply doesn't make any sense. Laughton's real-life discovery Maureen O'Hara has her first major movie role here, and she's posed prettily and is amusingly irate throughout. The climax is elaborately staged and exciting, with Hitchcock finally shaking off the cobwebs and giving us some of his trademark shock effects, and Harry Stradling's cinematography is first-rate. Otherwise this busy, boring drama never finds an appropriate tone or style. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"BFI restoration -- spectacular!!","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" I am only giving Jamaica Inn a ten star rating here on the basis of the recent restoration commissioned by the British Film Institute. I have no intention of reviewing the film itself.This is one of the most spectacular B & W restorations I have ever seen; the Criterion Hitch Blu-Rays, for example, pale in comparison. I just watched The 39 Steps on Blu-Ray and it was somewhat disappointing due to how stunning Jamaica Inn looks.Whatever you think of the film, if you have any interest at all in Hitchcock or Laughton (or even Maureen O'Hara), give it a look. Jamaica Inn took my breath away at how detailed and clean the picture is, and that doesn't happen too often. "},{"Title":"underrated film, if not vintage Hitchcock, with a fun Laughton and beautiful O'Hara","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" If you read one of Hitchcock's biographies (or just the Truffaut interview in that book), the director didn't really care for or have a particularly great time making Jamaica Inn, an adaptation of Dapne Du Maurier's novel - albeit he might have made it in part to cozy up to Du Marier/her estate in order to make Rebecca, so in short it was worth it though - and it doesn't appear to be like that many other films he's made. It has some suspense but not in a way that seems as tightly calibrated in the mis-en-scene or in the pacing. And yet I probably enjoyed it more than many, in large part because it does become more interesting the more it goes on, and the identity of Charles Laughton's character to people around him (the Robert Newton character especially, an undercover officer basically) gets slippier.Supposedly the book was very different (Laughton's character was totally different), and of course this being Laughton he gets a full course of ham with his major-school villain. His whole thing is that he appears to be a sophisticated dandy, a high-society guy (or rather a wannabe deep down), and he gets his money by having a group of on-shore pirates arrange (somehow) to get ships ship-wrecked and then the gang goes to vandalize and take whatever loot is theirs. His usual plans get in some trouble when the niece of his main underling Joss (the late, achingly beautiful Maureen O'Hara in one of her first roles), and she starts to notice some funny things going on at this Inn she is told not to go to (initially, anyway).This is kind of a cat-and-mouse game and a story of an undercover cop (it's a period piece so he's not called that, but basically that's what he is), and the sort of damsel-in-distress caught in the middle. I'm glad O'Hara was cast in the film; I don't know if Hitchcock had the say or Laughton as producer, but she is really excellent at making Mary never seem like a victim, even when she gets tied up or bound/gagged. She looks like she can (and does) hold her own, and how she gets away from this gang at times, like on a rocky coast-line, is rather creative to see. She helps to make up the sort of serious, emotional backbone of the movie.Meanwhile, if you want a full load of Laughton, this is a good place to get it. I'm not even sure he's particularly *good* in the role, as far as selling me early on some of his line readings and such. But he really gets to have fun playing this duplicitous role of this uptight, foppish aristocrat (the kind that loves to get angry at his butler, see the scene at the top of the staircase where he knocks over a bunch of papers flying about), and then the brains of a criminal operation. As far as giving the audience a truly memorable, meaty, unapologetic and yet rather human villain, there's a lot to enjoy with him in the role, especially when he has to obfuscate who he is to the Robert Newton character (see his face when the man pulls out his badge/paper saying who he really is, it's a priceless piece of hammy acting).I can see why this is not looked at as one of the films people return to over and over again with Hitchcock, much less one of his better British films. It probably isn't - it's no 39 Steps or Sabotage or Lady Vanishes, and I might even like Man Who Knew Too Much a bit more - but for what it is, a thriller with lots of 'who IS this person' logic and the theme of trust being thrown about a lot, it succeeds. I liked that there was a relatively serious back-drop, with Mary's aunt being stead-fastly supportive of her husband Joss, even after she is told point blank that he is a criminal (she has to stay by her man and all, he's not all THAT bad, you know, despite how friggin dastardly and cunning Leslie Banks makes this character). And it all leads up to an actually intense climax on a ship that is about to pull away from port.So in short, its not something great overall, some of its predictable and the opening ship effects haven't dated well. But it is nothing short of fascinating to see Hitchcock work with a more conventional thriller that gets better the more the character dynamics get twisted with Laughton trying to hide who he is (sometimes in front of his own gang!) "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's Ultimate English Film","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" The last film directed in England by Alfred Hitchcock, Jamaica Inn was produced, in part, by Charles Laughton.The story, adapted from a novel by Daphne Du Maurier, begins with a beautiful young woman named Mary (Maureen O'Hara) traveling by coach through a stormy night to meet her estranged aunt and uncle, who reside at Jamaica Inn--a place feared by outsiders. Her aunt Patience receives her with open arms, but Uncle Joss is a leering sort whose associates and business enterprises are suspect.Sir Humphrey Pengallan (Charles Laughton) is a landowner and the region's seat of justice. He represents refined, indulgent nobility. Laughton insisted that the size of his role be increased, effectively changing the film from a whodunit to a suspense film that is part character study. Hitchcock was disappointed, but I think Laughton was correct in casting himself as Pengallan rather than Joss (as originally planned) and then maximizing his role. Laughton's Pengallan is a complex character who displays cunning, eccentricity, and levels of mystery. Despite himself, Hitchcock delivers a film of atmosphere and style. He abstains from his usual cameo, but his hands are all over this moody work of suspense that was a box office hit.After the production of Jamaica Inn, Laughton and O'Hara would go to Hollywood to produce the wonderful The Hunchback of Notre Dame. Hitchcock would also be lured to Hollywood with the intention of creating a film about The Titanic, but instead would direct Rebecca, an adaptation of another Du Maurier novel. "},{"Title":"Laughton and O'Hara  give sensational acting in this costume/adventure film by the genius Hitchcock","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" At the beginning XIX century , Cornualles , where rules and inquisitive judge , Sir Humphrey Pengallan (Charles Laughton) . There is going a young orphan called Mary (a gorgeous Mauren O'Hara is eighteen years old) to live with her uncle (Leslie Banks) , owner of the Jamaica Inn . Soon afterwards , she is realized the inn is the base of a band of criminals who are planning shipwrecks on the rocky coast for rob it .This nice picture is a costume drama with action , suspense , romance , adventures , tension and formidable interpretation . It's a romantic story with exciting images narrated in amazing agility and swiftly ; thus it happens  murders , storms , shipwrecks , escapes , pursuits... The film along with ¨Walzes from Vienna¨(1934) and ¨Under Capricorn¨(1949) is one from trio Hitchcock's epoch tales . And it is the first of Daphne of Maurier adaptations along with ¨Rebeca¨ and ¨The birds¨. Although Alfred Hitchcock was unhappy with the script and Charles Laughton's performance , still he experimented on this film just as he did on his previous film , The lady vanishes (1938) . Hitchcock had problems with Charles Laugthon (1899-1962), both of whom had a difficult and obstinate character and they bore remarkable physical resemblance . Besides , the sadomasochist relation between Laughton and Mauren O'Hara reflects the tempestuous relationship Hitchcock had with this actress . Evocative photography in black and white . Hitchcock and cinematographer Harry Stradling Jr. gave the film a darker look in order to make it very atmospheric . Stradling later worked with Hitchcock in Mr and Mrs Smith (1941) and Suspicion (1941) . This movie has background music only at the beginning and the end This is the last film from Hitchcock's British career . Soon afterward this movie , Hitchcock was contracted by the great producer David O.Selznick (Gone with the wind) for the direction of the hit smash ¨Rebeca¨. He started the plenty successful American career and no returning to England until ¨Frenzy¨ (1972). "},{"Title":"Forget the Hitchcock factor","Date":"22 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Having been talked into it by Laughton, Hitchcock soon regretted his involvement, not least when the co-producer/star insisted on doing things his way. Besides, he knew he would soon have bigger fish to fry across the pond. Had this been directed, say, by Roy William Neill, it would be seen for what it is, a melodramatic tale of a piratical gang of cut-throats, that is if anything, above average for a British film of its day. Though perhaps no classic, it is gripping and fast moving, reminding me of a Hammer film so much, I was expecting an appearance from Michael Ripper at any minute. Charlie's eccentric, theatrical performance is fun, let's face it, while in contrast Emlyn Williams is all too convincing as a 'street-wise' psychopathic thug; when he fetches the rope in the attempt to hang Robert Newton, early on, you almost think he means to do it for real. The young Maureen O'Hara, recruited by Laughton, does well in the lead, considering little help from the director. The initial ride to the Inn is memorable, and the wrecking scenes are convincingly portrayed, considering that even the top British studios could not match the resources of the major Hollywood outfits, a weighty factor in Hitch's decision to work for them. "},{"Title":"Lesser early Hitchcock, but far from his worst","Date":"15 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Good effects of the wind and rain during the shipwrecks, and good set designs all work in this film's favour, and give it an appropriately dark and ominous, oppressive feel; bleak, hopeless, but that clashes with the costume drama/ stage play feeling that too much of the film has.I think this film would have been a lot better had it been set in the then-present day, rather than set in the 1800s. The plot, thieves orchestrating shipwrecks in order to loot and plunder the remains, was fairly interesting, but the over emphasis on the time, rather than the plot itself, was too distracting. Film feels more like a period piece, or costume drama, than anything.Far from being Hitchcock's worst, as several reviewers claim, but still a bit of a chore to watch. "},{"Title":"Wreckers The Dregs of Cornish Society.","Date":"22 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Jamaica Inn is directed by Alfred Hitchcock and collectively adapted to screenplay by Sidney Gilliat, Joan Harrison, Alma Reville and J.B. Priestly from the Daphne du Maurier novel of the same name. It stars Charles Laughton, Leslie Banks, Emlyn Williams, Robert Newton, Marie Ney and Maureen O'Hara. Music is by Eric Fenby and cinematography by Bernard Knowles and Harry Stradling.The Cornish coast of England and Jamaica Inn is the HQ for a gang of smugglers who cause shipwrecks and then promptly loot the cargo and murder any survivors. When orphaned Marie Ney (O'Hara) goes to live with her Aunt and Uncle at the Inn, she learns of the Inn's dark secret and gets involved in helping an undercover agent to expose and destroy the gang.It has become common knowledge about Hitchcock's distaste for how Jamaica Inn turned out, and with du Maurier also unhappy with the adaptation of her novel, it's no real surprise to find that the film's reputation as one of the director's lesser lights is well founded. The charges of over theatrics from principal cast members are fair, as are the statements that production value veers from good to bad at frequent intervals, yet it's not an awful movie. It still has enough brooding mood to entice you in to the dastardly workings at the heart of the plot, Laughton prancing around like a giant Munchkin has to be seen to be believed, and Hitchcock stages his action scenes in exciting period fashion.Hitchcock's last British film before he started out for America, where he of course would make some of the classic movies he is primarily known for, Jamaica Inn, it should be noted, was a box office success. It had fans in the public then and continues to do so today. It's a film that retains some antiquated charm, an interesting look at some acting styles of the time and of course it was a step up the ladder of future development for some of the cast. Is it a Laughton movie and not a Hitchcock one? Yes, Laughton got his way pretty much on the picture. However, the great director still manages to offer up the odd glimpse of skills and styles to come. It may not be a memorable movie, and we are still waiting for someone to really bring the novel to life on the big screen, but it is still a watchable piece. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"22 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Jamaica Inn (1939)** (out of 4) Major disappointment from Hitchcock has a young woman (Maureen O'Hara) coming to stay with her uncle and then learning that she's living amongst a group of criminals who cause shipwrecks to make a profit. I've read that Hitchcock agreed to do this movie because he wanted to later film REBECCA and we all know how that turned out. This movie was listed in Michael Medved's Fifty Worst Films of All Time and while it isn't that bad you can't help but feel really cheated when you look at the talent involved in this film. I think the biggest problem is the screenplay, which is confusing from start to finish. Not that the story itself is confusing because it's easy to figure out what's going on, the confusing part is that there isn't any mystery or suspense going on. It's as if the film itself doesn't know what it's trying to do and perhaps that's because, as rumor would have it, Laughton pretty much took over the production and wouldn't do anything Hitchcock said or asked. I'm not sure how true that is but you can look at this picture and not see too many of Hitchcock's usual touches. With a story like this Hitchcock should have worked wonders but instead we're left with an incredibly dull film that doesn't contain too much life. Laughton is incredibly hammy and over the top in his performance but at least O'Hara delivers something worth watching. She's certainly the best thing in the film. The cinematography was also quite good and I really enjoyed the darkness of the movie. Outside of that there's very little to recommend here. "},{"Title":"For Hitchcock Completists Only","Date":"23 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Jamaica Inn is an eighteenth century coaching inn on Bodmin Moor, Cornwall. It is said to be one of the few old Cornish inns not to have been used by smugglers; it is about as far from the sea as it is possible to be in Cornwall, and its exposed position on open moorland by a main road would have made it easy to detect any suspicious movements of goods. Nevertheless, its atmospheric setting appealed to the novelist Daphne Du Maurier, who used it as the backdrop to her novel Jamaica Inn, which deals with the activities of smugglers and wreckers in early nineteenth century Cornwall.Period costume drama was not really Alfred Hitchcock's forte, so he was not the most obvious choice to direct the film version of Du Maurier's novel. (According to some accounts he only did so in order to secure the rights to another of her novels, Rebecca, made into one of his most famous films the following year. A third Hitchcock film, The Birds, was also based on her work). The film is set in the 1820s. Jamaica Inn, which in the film is closer to the sea, closer to Truro and further from Bodmin than it is in reality, is the headquarters of a gang of wreckers, led by the innkeeper Joss. The wreckers conceal coastal beacons in order to cause ships to run aground. Then they loot the wrecks and kill the surviving sailors.The main character is Mary Yellan, the orphaned niece of Joss's wife Patience, who comes to stay with her aunt and uncle after the deaths of her parents, but who flees from the inn after discovering her uncle's criminal activities. In the original novel Mary was herself Cornish, but here she is made Irish, presumably to accommodate Maureen O'Hara's accent. Another change to Du Maurier's plot concerns the main villain; in the book he was a parson, but in the film he becomes the local squire, Sir Humphrey Pengallan, who is in league with the gang. He uses his powers as a magistrate to offer them legal protection in exchange for a share of their loot, which he needs in order to fund his lavish lifestyle. This change was made in order to comply with the American Production Code, which forbade unsympathetic portrayals of clergymen. Even in the thirties America was the main export market for British films, which meant that the Hays Office could exercise its influence on both sides of the Atlantic.Pengallan was played by that old ham Charles Laughton, who also acted as co-producer and insisted on rewriting the script to give his character greater prominence. Most of the blame for the failure of the film must be laid at his door as it was he, rather than Hitchcock, who had the final say on these matters. Laughton was often prone to overacting, and his performance in Jamaica Inn is one of his hammiest. The ending, rewritten to give him a dramatic death scene, is particularly melodramatic and implausible. Laughton was also responsible for the casting of O'Hara, even though Hitchcock had not wanted to use her after a poor screen test. Her performance in the film itself is a wooden one; Laughton overacts badly, but she underacts equally badly. (Surprisingly, the film was good for O'Hara's career. Laughton was, unaccountably, so taken with her performance that he invited her to play Esmeralda opposite his Quasimodo in The Hunchback of Notre Dame).The critic Michael Medved included Jamaica Inn in his Fifty Worst Movies of All Time. I suspect that Medved was being deliberately provocative; he must have realised that he could not fill his book with fifty examples of Z-movies like Santa Claus Conquers the Martians and that nominating a minor work of a major director for a golden turkey would be a good way of generating controversy. Nevertheless, the film is one of Hitchcock's weakest, lacking not only the drama and suspense we have come to associate with Hitchcock but also the touches of humour he often used to lighten the mood. (Any humour in the film is inadvertent). It is hardly surprising that Du Maurier disliked the adaptation and that Hitchcock left Britain for Hollywood as soon as possible after completing it. Today it is of interest to Hitchcock completists only. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Melodramatic and pure illusion","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" These films of the 1930s, 1939 in this case, are amazing. Simple acting, yet still quite inspired by silent movies technique. Very simple setting not cluttered with too many useless props and other decorations. The dialogue is necessarily simple and the voice work is a caricature of dramatic speech. It was all recorded directly when the film was shot on a sound stage most of the time and the microphones were still very primitive. So what could you expect? No integrated music, no sound effects or very poor ones, no visual effects of course with most of the time sedentary cameras. And the lighting was still far from particularly brilliant. And yet these films were magic because they did not even try to look real, realistic. They had to work the way the technique dictated it. Then the rest was compensated and supplemented by the imagination of the audience. And the zippers in the backs of the monsters were not bothering anyone at the time since it was such a marvelous improvement to have the puppets on the screen speak in real voices. It is amazing to see such an old film by Hitchcock. He was already a great director who could get some real gripping action or situations even with all the shortcomings of his equipment. We have to watch them again these old films, these first talkies, to ,be able to appreciate what modern films have to offer but also what we have lost along the way, a lot more than we may think, and particularly the magic of black and white illusion. But we can't be and have been at once, that's obvious. So let us be living in our time and nostalgically revisit the past.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine & University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne "},{"Title":"Hitch at  his worst.","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Jamaica Inn was the last film Alfred Hitchcock made in England before going to Hollywood before the war and from the sloppy look of it he must have been in an awful hurry. A more dreadful Hitch sound film I have yet to see. The cinematography is murky beyond necessity, the editing choppy and telegraphed as the suspense is relegated for the most part to goofy land pirates running amok snarling and terrifying a youthful Maureen O'Hara.A rather odd time and plot (and it shows) for the usually contemporary setting Hitchcock it deals with 18th century pirates that manufacture ship wrecks along the coast of Cornwall. The brains behind the cutthroats who are more caricature than menace is a highly respected landowner, imbalanced perhaps by the ravages of tertiary syphilis (Tabes dorsalis? Then again I'm no doctor). Charles Laughton plays Sir Humphrey Pengallen with a recklessly overreaching almost unintelligible (to fellow actors as well as the audience)disdain for everything as he jabbers incomprehensibly throughout. Laughton seems to act oblivious to all around him and some scenes look more like a rehearsal as he adopts different nuance and utters non-sequiturs as if searching for the right fit. Hitchcock who once referred to actors as cattle clearly has a case of mad cow disease with Laughton. In addition to Hitch's poor handling of the cast (the pirate gang is pure keystone cop dressed in buccaneer) his pacing is off as well with action and suspense scenes lagging and having the imagination of Saturday matinée serials. An incoherent muddle of a film from start to finish featuring two cinema giants at their worst one would be wise to avoid checking in at Jamaica Inn. "},{"Title":"Dull,....unbelievably dull!!!","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" I had heard about this movie from Harry Medved's fantastic book THE FIFTY WORST FILMS OF ALL-TIME, as it is one of the 50. Because of that, I probably had a slight predisposition to dislike the film--though I liked it more than Medved, as it was not even close to being that bad! But, I could easily see that Medved's recounting of how the film was made would conspire to make a poor movie. Apparently, Alfred Hitchcock was the director of this film, but Charles Laughton was both the star and owned the production company. Apparently, again and again, Laughton ignored his director and instead of a subtle or believable performance, he was shrill and bellicose--looking nothing like the great actor he was in some of his other films. In fact, I noticed in several of his early films, Laughton yelled his lines and over-acted terribly and without a director in firm control, I could really see it impact the film. Plus, apparently, in disgust, Hitchcock pretty much gave up on the film and quickly completed it so he could leave England for Hollywood. If this troubled production in any way contributed to his decision to leave the UK, I just don't know.Apart from the overacting by Laughton, the biggest problem is that I expected a mystery or suspense film. But, as the secrets of the film were revealed in the first few minutes (duh--it was pretty obvious that young Maureen O'Hara had walked into a nest of vipers), there was no suspense or mystery at all. Like the silly nose that Laughton wore throughout the film, the movie just seemed fake and silly--just not bottom 50 bad--maybe bottom 250! "},{"Title":"Rightfully forgotten Hitchcock","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" In the 1800s in England a young woman (Maureen O'Hara) finds out her uncle is part of a smuggling gang. They purposefully arrange shipwrecks, kill the crew and take anything of value from the ships. She tries to stop them but has to deal with evil Sir Humphrey (Charles Laughton).Ho-hum. This was an expensive production and the last film Hitchcock directed in England before leaving for America. (He wouldn't return until the 1950s for Stage Fright) The plot is, to be blunt, pretty dull and obvious. I saw everything coming from a mile away. Also there is a laughably obvious toy boat used in the shipwreck we see--but that was probably state of the art in 1939.Acting doesn't help. Maureen O'Hara looks lovely but gives a surprisingly bad performance--but she was only 18 at the time so she can be forgiven. Laughton however overacts--badly. He always overacted but usually directors reigned him in. Hitchcock couldn't. Laughton and him had huge fights on the set which Laughton always won. That's too bad because his WAY over the top acting harms the film.It isn't totally unwatchable. There is (of course) some beautifully directed sequences--including the opening shipwreck. And there is an eerie atmosphere helped by the b&w photography and dismal settings. But the story is dull and it's obvious that Hitchcock's heart wasn't into this. It took me 2 showings to stay awake--I kept falling asleep. Unless you're a Hitchcock completest you can skip this. Not recommended. "},{"Title":"Moderately entertaining","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Hitchcock's thriller is typical of the post-war era, containing all the ingredients of those classic, but dated, suspense flicks. Charles Laughton plays a Cornish Justice of the Peace, a dastardly, scheming villain whose band of cutthroat thieves pillage unsuspecting ships after deliberately wrecking them off the coast. Maureen O'Hara plays the damsel in distress who has come to stay with her Aunt at the dangerous Jamaica Inn. Needless to say there is a dashing hero who comes to the fair lady's rescue.Sadly Jamaica Inn does not stand the test of time due to the melodramatic performances and plot. Laughton is at times amusing, but little else inspires in a moderately entertaining film.Friday, April 29, 1994 - Astor Theatre "},{"Title":"Average melodrama","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" JAMAICA INN is a film that I wanted to see mostly because I like Daphne Du Maurier's novels (my favorite is FRENCHMAN'S CREEK) and admire Maureen O'Hara, here in her film début. I must say the film is only average and far below what I have come to expect from Hitchcock. Production values are mediocre and the special effects are atrocious. I ask myself why the wonderful Cornish coast was not used to dramatic effect in this production, as the film was mostly shot in poorly designed studio sets. Charles Laughton gives such a bad performance I could hardly believe my eyes and ears. Maureen O'Hara is lovely, however, and the film is mostly worth watching on her account. She already shows her promise as an actress to splendid effect. Marie Ney as Patience is also very effective in a supporting role. "},{"Title":"Jamaica Inn","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" I never thought I'd be saying this, but the Master of Suspense, director Sir Alfred Hitchcock made a bad film, and he doesn't even make a cameo appearance, this is it. Basically it is 19th Century in Cornwall, where young orphan Mary (introducing Maureen O'Hara) has been sent to live with her Aunt Patience (Marie Ney) and Uncle Joss Merlyn (Leslie Banks). They are the landlords of the Jamaica Inn, and not long after arriving Mary realises that the inn is the meeting place, or base if you want, for a gang of ship wreckers who lure ships to their doom on the rocky coast. The girl starts fearing for her life with the knowledge she now has, and obviously she can't tell the authorities without Sir Humphrey Pengallan (Charles Laughton) finding out. He is the head of the gang, and after a lot of villain chats and maybe a small chase or two, it all comes to a head with Pengallan holding a gun up to Mary, before climbing the rope ladder to the top of a ship's mast, and jumping to his death. Also starring Robert Newton as Jem Trehearne and Wylie Watson as Salvation Watkins. I think one of the biggest reasons this film doesn't work for Hitchcock is because it is not the modern day, his attempt at a dark costume drama is rather ridiculous, the cast don't do enough to keep you interested, it just doesn't feel like it was done by him, a silly period adventure. Adequate! "},{"Title":"Plot flaws mar film; ending lacks convincing tension","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Other commenters here have covered just about all other issues, but one not covered concerns basic plot implausibilities which I will summarize here, concerning the ending sequences of the film. First, just as the aunt is about to tell the heroine who the mastermind is, the aunt is shot dead. OK, this is standard film fare kill the witness who is about to expose the real bad guy. We wonder who did the shooting? Well, it turns out, it is the very man the aunt was about to expose. Who, of course, has just exposed himself as a villain, by stepping forth and revealing himself as the shooter. But that contradicts the whole motivation for the shooting, and, indeed, he immediately confesses to the heroine anyway, and then kidnaps her. The squire already knows, before he shoots, that the lawman has escaped, so he knows that his own identity as the mastermind is going to be known to the authorities, so there is no need to silence the aunt. Instead, the squire should leave the aunt alive and tell the heroine that unless the heroine cooperates, the squire will order his henchmen to kill the aunt. That threat would serve to keep the heroine submissive to him as he kidnaps her.Second, the squire and the kidnapped heroine escape the inn in his carriage, the cut-throat crew arriving just as they slip off, and then a few minutes later a troop of soldiers led by the lawman arrive at the inn to capture the cut-throats. Given the barren coast, the few and desolate roads, and the short time between the departure of the squire from the inn and the arrival of the soldiers at the inn, the soldiers would almost certainly have encountered the squire, or at least seen his carriage, before they got to the inn. Third, earlier, when the squire was leaving his own house, he would not have told his staff honestly where he was going (to the south coast port to take ship for France), since that would merely provide the means for the law to track him down. He would have lied to his staff and said he was going north, or inland, or something else. Fourth, when the squire arrives at port to take the ship to go to France, he could not have had an advance reservation, since he had only just decided to leave an hour or so before, and there was no way to get word to the ship in advance. Thus his arrival and request for a room would be quite unexpected to the ship captain, yet there is no great surprise shown. Fifth, the ship is, of course, a sailing ship, and its departure from the pier would be a very slow matter, and would almost certainly await daylight. And even if it got underway before the good guys arrived, they could have sent a fast smaller ship to catch it and order it to return. The attempt to manufacture tension at the end thus fails; it is like saying will they catch that turtle that is crawling off? The tension at the end should have been entirely different (a) the squire, after having left his own house to make his escape, should have shot his own coachman on a desolate stretch of road, before arriving at the Inn (to remove the coachman as a witness to where the squire really would be going), (b) the squire, with the kidnapped heroine, should have arrived quietly in the port, left his carriage, slipped quietly aboard the ship, bribed the captain to keep silent, and been in hiding; (c) the good guys, ignorant of where the squire went, should have been searching fruitlessly to find him until at last someone reported seeing the squire's abandoned carriage in the port; (d) this report should have been the news that brought the good guys to the port, where by some accident or an action by the kidnapped heroine, they find the squire, who could then ascend the mast and dramatically jump to his death as in the existing film. That kind of suspenseful ending would have been more plausible and more like a real Hitchcock film; the film as shot is not. "}{"Title":"An Inn To Stay Out Of.","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" I know this was directed by Hitchcock, written by Gilliat and Joan Harrison, and it features Charles Laughton, Maureen O'Hara, and Basil Radford, so it ought to be a fine coming-together of various talents.But I wish you luck in getting through it. I've managed to do it twice, each time fighting to stay awake.It's about this gang of scavengers who lure ships onto the rocks and then loot them. The story is murky, the screen dark, the images grainy. Maureen O'Hara was only eighteen and her frizzy hair is pulled back unflatteringly. I'm not arguing that it's GOOD to be Sydney Guilaroffed but that beauty shouldn't be deliberately stifled without proper justification.The director was about to leave for Hollywood where he would work under David O. Selznick and maybe that's why he seems so distracted here. If you didn't know it was Hitchcock, you probably wouldn't guess it. "},{"Title":"Beware of the pirates! They are eeeeevil....","Date":"24 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" ...or maybe not. Pirates have always been a shaky element in films, until 'Pirates of the Caribbean'. But back in 1939, not even the roller-coaster ride was in anybody's mind, and film portraying pirates might have looked ridiculous even then.What is surprising about the fact that this film is outdated is that it's a film by Hitchcock, whose films never quite seem to out date, apart from his silents. Yet, it's the pirates that are to blame. Even a master like Hitchcock feels must have felt awkward in making this film, and as a result, nothing works. It becomes a dark comedy thriller with drama and romance, none of these genres ever quite mixing in. Charles Laughton is not the one to blame, he's possibly the best thing in the film. However, Maureen O'Hara definitely has no idea of what she's doing, she doesn't even know what accent she's doing! Still, the viewer must remember not to count this as a true Hitchcock film. Though the elements are there, particularly the 'runaway' element, it's very weak. Again, it is Hitchcock's fault, but it's mostly the fact that this is a film with Pirates in them, and they rarely make for believable actors... "},{"Title":"Piracy","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" Hitchcock eventually made some transcendent films. But that would be way later than this period, where he did his work as instructed and on time.His contribution to cinema was the invention of the camera whose awareness deviated from the narrative bound in the actors. In other words, the camera sees things and goes places that the characters don't. Sometimes it knows what they do, sometimes it drifts apart from that awareness.This business about establishing an independent awareness between characters and viewers opens many new dimensions. But before all that, he was a hack. A competent one for sure, but a hack, and no evidence is stronger than this disaster.It is stolen from others, other projects that happened to be sailing by. And Laughton is the character he portrays, a prancing fat gob who sucks up the flotsam from the work of others.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Jamaica Out","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Crime","Review":" I like to think that after shooting this drek Hitchcock left for the USA one jump ahead of a mob of discerning movie-goers handicapped by the huge amounts of tar and feathers they were carrying. It's the Romantic in me. Of course the truth is vastly different if unconvincing; Hitch went on to become the idol of those who worship mediocrity and managed to dazzle Truffaut (and if ever two over-inflated filmmakers deserved each other ...). So, what of this, his last effort on British soil for a couple of decades. The glib answer is that Hitch had no gift for 'period' pieces - witness Under Capricorn, the biggest turkey since the one Scrooge bought for Tiny Tim - but that implies that he had a gift for SOMETHING. Lots of folks out there think so but it's always proved elusive to these hard-to-please eyes. Charles Laughton hams his way through the lion's share and grudgingly allows the likes of Leslie Banks, Maureen O'Hara and the best actor in the movie, Bobby Newton, to get a look in. Oh, yes, it's about smugglers and set in a papier-mache Cornwall. Easily Pleased Enjoy. "}]