[{"Title":"Beloved Early Animation Classic","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"38 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Just throw any negative comments you read here from IMD comment contributors in the wastebasket. I don't know what they were smoking.Gulliver's Travels is beautiful! It is just as beautiful now as it was 60-plus years ago when it premiered, perhaps even moreso with the wonderful restoration we have now on DVD. This film doesn't have to compete with anything by Disney, and I don't see how this story has anything to do with Snow White. It stands on its own two feet as a captivating and charming classic story that children can enjoy over and over again, made when animation was really animation, and all the cells were handpainted by artists, instead of slopped together on boring, cookie-cutter computer models.The storyline is perfect and has an anti-war undertone that was a bit daring for its time, made on the eve of World War Two. Even Disney's Snow White didn't have the guts to do that! So kudos to the Fleischer Brothers!The songs are all wonderful and the soundtrack sounds marvellously enhanced on the new DVD version. We're All Together Now, All's Well, It's A Hap Hap Happy Day, Bluebirds In The Moonlight, and especially the haunting Come Home Again, Sailor Man are all perfect and flow into the action of the film, instead of being placed there with no relevance just to try and get a hit song. These sheet music pieces always sell well on Ebay, highlighting the fact quite clearly that this is one of the most beloved animation movies of all time.  "},{"Title":"Solid gold, from animation's Golden Age.","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"31 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Talk about unforgettable music! I saw Gulliver's Travels forty years ago on Saturday-afternoon television, and I can STILL hum much of the Ralph Rainger/Leo Robin score, especially Faithful, Forever, Faithful Forever, We're All Together Now, and Orchids in the Moonlight. What a songwriting team they were.It's impossible to not compare Gulliver's Travels, and its songs, to today's animated product, and it's sad when I try. The knack seems to be lost in all regards. Lanny Ross and Jessica Dragonette, top radio stars of the period, actually enunciate the lyrics, and in tune, and with varying dynamics. What a relief to remember a time when that was mandatory in film music.And we can also luxuriate in the well-drawn visuals, which allows the audience time to wallow in the rich colors and narrative (without the slam-bang short-attention-span cutting that sea-sickened me during Atlantis and similar Y2K material).Give the youngsters a taste of the Golden Age of animation, songwriting and storytelling with Gulliver's Travels, and take the time to enjoy it with them.Highest recommendation. ****  "},{"Title":"Forget the put downs....I dig it !!","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"33 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I've seen this many times over the years, and it's one of my absolute favorites. Some folks seem to think the Fleischers have to take a back seat to Disney. NOT !!They were, in many instances ( such as this one), far more inventive than Disney, and their work did not lose touch with common emotions,and had broad-based appeal to all ages, despite technical complexity.Mickey Mouse will never go off the air. But neither will Betty Boop or Popeye.In its own special way, Gulliver's Travels rivals the Disney features with its complexity, and its lack of laziness. If you really look at it, and keep in mind that this is animation done by hand...the old fashioned way, you will have a keener appreciation for the hard work that went into it. In those days, Disney and the Fleischers had to run the studios like a factory. It took teams of men in units and working shifts to concentrate on just the movements of the characters to make them appear lifelike (not like the computer animation of to-day, or even the TV animation of UPA or Hanna-Barbera in the 1950s). Roto-scoping, a process invented by the Fleischers, made the task that much more daunting. But the Fleischers had to be perfectionists/masochists. The love of their craft shows in the movements, the backgrounds, the stories, and the music...not to mention the characters. I am truly taken with the score. It is warm and dreamy and romantic....tearful to some. Some folks can't get with it, but it's a shame we don't don't hear much real music like that anymore in the mainstream. Win Sharples and Victor Young did a very fine job...one of the best of All cartoon scores. Work on this film appears to have gotten Win Sharples the scoring job for the Fleischers, one he held down after the Fleischers were given the gate by Paramount, and which he continued to hold until Famous Studios was padlocked.I can't recommend this feature highly enough. It's good clean fun, an accurate character study, terrific music, animation...the whole nine. "},{"Title":"WONDERFUL!!!","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"20 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Gulliver's Travels is one of the great animated features of its' time. It was made as a response to Disney's wildly successful Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. Today, Gulliver's Travels is not accorded the same respect as the Disney pictures and is pretty much forgotten.Why? This is as good as Snow White. After all, it was made by the Fleischer brothers, contemporaries of animation and in my opinion, geniuses. They made the 17 classic Superman shorts that still spellbind people today, including myself. They made those classic 20 minute plus Popeye shorts. Betty Boop, Grampy, Screen Songs, Little Lulu, Gabby (spawned from this feature) the list goes on. Famous Studios was one of the most prolific animation studios of its' time.While purists may complain that it doesn't  stay faithful to the book, I think the changes are appropriate. What kid would understand Swift's social satire? What adult would really want to see a wholly faithful cartoon of the book. Besides, we have the 1996 epic film with Ted Danson to go to with accuracy.The songs are surprisingly great considering how some can be overkill in a film like this. The characters are endearing and the story is solid and involving. What more could you ask for?**** out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"Just as marvelous today.","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" My mother broght this for me on VHS when I was around six or seven years old.I watched it so much I wore the tape out.While shopping in the grocery store last week I happened upon this classic on DVD. I thought this would be a great way to let my children watch something that I used to watch as a tyke.They loved it.And I even at 27 years old found myself watching it with the same enthusiasm as I did when I was but a mere pup.beatufil animation even in the computer age.Rivals anything done today. "},{"Title":"Swift's Satire Becomes Children's Fantasy","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Shipwrecked by a storm in 1699, Dr. Lemuel GULLIVER'S TRAVELS would bring him to a strange island inhabited by tiny little people.While not one of the great animated features (it was only the second released in the United States, Disney's SNOW WHITE AND THE SEVEN Dwarfs in 1937 being the first) GULLIVER'S TRAVELS is an enjoyable film which should bring pleasure to uncritical viewers. Technically it is well made, with Technicolor animation of a generally high quality. The movie's main drawback is that none of the characters really have any 'heart' - they don't come alive on the screen in the way Jiminy Cricket would a year later in PINOCCHIO.However, it is ultimately unfair to compare the Fleischer Studio output with that of Disney. Max & Dave Fleischer had their own star to follow; their contribution - and it would be a considerable one - would be in the realm of the one-reel cartoon. With their POPEYE and BETTY BOOP series they created alternate realities as viable as any produced by other cartoon studios. GULLIVER was their first foray into feature length animation (HOPPITY GOES TO TOWN would be their second in 1941), and eventually they would expend their energies again on the cartoon short subject, including the highly acclaimed SUPERMAN series which would commence in 1941.GULLIVER'S TRAVELS is of course based on the classic novel by Jonathan Swift (with a little nod to Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet) focusing only on the section dealing with the minuscule kingdoms of Lilliput and Blefuscu. In place of Swift's irony is a great deal of slapstick, but such is the nature of the animated cartoon. The personalities of the royal youngsters, one from each of the rival nations, is left completely unexplored and their romantics is at the expense of more screen time with Gulliver, as are the exploits of the three incompetent Blefuscu spies. The film's main character is actually night watchman Gabby, who isn't very appealing (yet not too repellent to spawn a few further cartoons featuring his exploits). The film is at its best when it de-emphasizes plot for the visuals, as in the binding & transportation of the giant, or when the rotoscoped Gulliver tows the entire hostile fleet from Blefuscu up onto the beach by the ships' anchor chains.Jack Mercer, famous as the voice of Popeye, here speaks for silly King Little. Pinto Colvig (best known as the original voice of Disney's Goofy) provides the vocals for Gabby. Gulliver is voiced by Sam Parker, while Jessica Dragonette & Lanny Ross sing for Princess Glory and Prince David.The film has some pleasant songs including 'All's Well' and the Oscar nominated 'It's A Hap Hap Happy Day.' The two national anthems, 'Faithful' & 'Forever,' are fine romantic tunes which deserve to be rediscovered.It is unfortunate that the Fleischers' remarkable Stereoptical Process, which could produce beautiful 3-D effects, is only glimpsed for a few moments during the opening credits. "},{"Title":"Wonderful restoration of an animated classic","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Fleischer studios were best known for their Popeye and Superman shorts, but the caliber of animation and story-telling in this 1939 feature-length film were on a par with Disney at that time.  Had they not gone bankrupt in 1942, I suspect they would have surpassed Disney in many ways.The idea here was to do Disney's Snow White one better, and they came very, very close.  The restored edition on DVD shows the depth and beauty of the artwork to perfection.  Fleischer was even perfecting a stereo-optic process to add 3-dimensional depth to their images which was used in this film to good effect.  The music is typical of the period, rather sugary for today's tastes, and the Gabby character introduced in this movie isn't nearly as funny as they seemed to think at the time.  (Two Gabby shorts are also included on the DVD; draw your own conclusions.)I can only guess at the reactions of movie-goers who first saw this film in 1939, but I suspect that they were blown away by the sheer scope of the artwork.  Gulliver is a man-mountain to the Lilliputians, and the scale and perspective between him and the tiny people is perfect throughout the film.  The sequence where the tiny townspeople use a variety of skills to truss up the sleeping giant and cart him (literally!) to their king's palace is, by itself, worth the price of the entire movie.The pacing is a bit slow during the first part of the film, but the filmmakers do a nice job of setting up the conflict between the two tiny kingdoms, which (true to the spirit of Swift's story) is caused by the pride of the rival kings.  I would've preferred less Gabby in this sequence, but I understand they were trying to establish a new character to compete with the Mouse.If you like good animation, you will enjoy this DVD. "},{"Title":"Excellent animation for it's time.","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I thought that it was well done. The script closely parallel the book. This animation and love ballad must be critiqued in the context of it's time. Filmed in Techi-color and just the second full-length animated feature, it rivalled many of the light musicals on the silverscreen in the 1930's.If you have not seen it, judge for yourself.  "},{"Title":"Great Little  Animated Feature ,not Disney, but almost....","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" ..The Fleischer Brothers in Florida wanted to establish an East Coast Disney Studio, so they turned out some fine shorts and even some cartoon-features ..Production and artwork at times, were very-very good. Though their best efforts may have been the 4O's Superman color cartoons, many fans believeGulliver an excellent  effort to try and match Snow White...and as a new cartoon-factory ..they almost did it with this feature. It had some memorable moments to see and songs to hum. This is a real Favorite ...FOR MANY....! "},{"Title":"A Slice of Childhood","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I remember watching very few movies and even less television as a child. This was one of the movies that I would check out periodically from the main branch of the library and I remember it being a very special treat. I had forgotten about it completely until recently I found it laying on a shelf in my local Wal Mart for a dollar. I bought it and watched it a few days later.Looking at it through adult eyes, I saw that yes, the animation was poor, the singing extremely 60s choir and not at all pleasant. The dialog and storyline were hardly complex but then again, what episode of Barney has complex dialog and storyline? It's a kids' movie and personally, I think kids would benefit far more from watching this than Barney!Gulliver's Travels is the timeless story of a man who washes up on the shore of a country inhabited by little people. While the town crier strives to inform the king that There's a giant on the beach!, the king is planning a fantastic wedding for his daughter, who is engaged to the prince of a neighboring country. A simple disagreement between the two monarchs leads to war and Gulliver looks to find a way to make peace between them. I laughed harder over this movie than I have over most of Disney's new fare.It's not rocket science, but it's a nice way to spend 78 minutes, especially if you're only five years old or remember this movie from childhood. "}{"Title":"Beautiful and timeless","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I haven't read Jonathan Swift's story for a long time, but I remember loving it very much. This 1939 animated film mayn't be the best, definitive or the most faithful version, but can I be honest, it's actually my personal favourite. I don't know why, maybe because of nostalgia, this was a favourite of mine when I was a kid and I still love it. It is so warm, entertaining and beautiful, and might I say I consider it timeless too? The animation is actually really lovely, not tedious, undistinguished or dated as it has been criticised as. Instead it is beautiful and colourful. The colours are lavish, the backgrounds are mellow and the character designs are typical Fleischer, while the use of the Roto-Scope is incredibly effective.I also love the story. As I have said it is not the most faithful to the original story, but it is still a great and sweet one. It is one that tells of love, hope, friendship, adventure and even humour, all those qualities that makes an animated film so great. In some ways the first half-hour is better than the rest of the film, however the film is full of charming moments such as when Gabby pleads not to be eaten, when Gulliver brings David and Glory together, there's a giant on the beach, the interaction between the spies and of course my favourite the really touching ending. There is a bit of Romeo and Juliet too, with the idea of the feuding kingdoms and I think it works.The script is really nice too, I admit I've heard better dialogue but there are much worse as well. Anything Gabby says cracks me up and Gulliver says some interesting things too. In fact, there is a perfect balance of humorous lines and touching sentiment. And I love the characters as well.Gulliver apparently was made to look like a real person, a bold and ambitious move and one that pays off, is it me or isn't he handsome and I love his rich baritone voice, reminds me of Emile from South Pacific. The King of Lilliput is also a nice character, bumbling and humorous, same with Bombo who appears to be rather mean but there is a small part towards the beginning that suggests otherwise. David is someone we don't see much but he is very handsome with a kind presence with a voice that takes you to another world. My favourites though are Princess Glory and Gabby. Princess Glory is absolutely beautiful, and while she has a quivering vibrato(like Snow White does) she has a very limpid and pleasant voice. And what do I need to say about Gabby? There may be times in his cartoons where Gabby comes across as selfish, mean and unapologetic, but we see a different Gabby here. A somewhat funnier Gabby, and in some ways you feel sorry for him too.The voice acting is also top notch for the time. Pinto Colvig, the wonderful voice actor he was, is great as Gabby, and Jack Mercer has fun as the King. Jessica Dragonette and Lanny Ross provide the voices of Glory and David beautifully, while Sam Parker is interesting as Gulliver. The pacing is brisk too, so the film never feels tedious or draggy, and while Gulliver's Travels is short it is very fulfilling.But do you know what my favourite part was? It was the music. It's all an acquired taste of course, but I absolutely love this sort of music, the mellow and rich sounds that are almost reminiscent of Rodgers and Hammerstein. All's Well has had me humming the tune for days on end, It's a Hap Hap Happy Day is quirky and upbeat and We're All Together Now is wonderfully uplifting and memorable. Come Home Again is hauntingly beautiful, while Forever and Faithful are sweet and romantic.In conclusion, beautiful, timeless and I think underrated film. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Wow!!!","Date":"7 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I had completely forgotten this film existed until the notice about Jack Black playing (im assuming) a live version of the title character. I used to watch this all the time when I was little, I absolutely loved it! The animation was brilliant for the time, the story was wonderful, full of hope and romance and everything I had wanted as a little girl.I have never read the book so I am not sure of how close it follows the story, but even as a stand alone film you could not deny the magic behind it! I'm away to find it on DVD so I can watch it again and bring back all the happy memories! D "},{"Title":"The Fleischer Spin on Jonathan Swift","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The second feature-length animated film Gulliver's Travels gave Walt Disney something to think about after the Mouse House had released the first animated feature Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. The imagination and expertise that the Fleischer studios poured into this 76-minute Paramount release is almost as good as Disney's Dwarfs. Indeed, the night watchmen and several other characters resemble the dwarfs with their bulbous noses. This adolescent adaptation of Jonathan Swift's classic tale substitute slapstick for satire. The scenes where Gulliver grasps the anchor lines and drags the navy away are fantastic. The musical numbers, some of which received Oscar nominations, are worthy of a Disney. The weakness of Gulliver's Travels is its anemic characters. The beautifully roto-scoped Gulliver is a bland character while most of the supporting characters behave in a goofy manner. Not only are the characters weak, but also you don't care that much about them. The war between two small kingdoms about to be bound in wedlock is restrained until the latter half of the action. Gulliver spends a great deal of time out cold allowing the natives to lash him down fast. Animation addicts who haven't seen Gulliver's Travels is missing a real treatment. "},{"Title":"More than a 'wannabe Disney' ...","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Gulliver's Travels was the second animated movie in Cinema's history, released only two years after Disney's milestone Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs and right before the no-less iconic Fantasia, Pinocchio, Dumbo and Bambi. It's easy to tell that the film was meant to counterattack Disney's growing control on the world of animation&#x85; and even easier to guess that it failed, overpowered by the mastery and incomparable magic reached by the Disney studios.Disney pushed the edge of the envelope so far, making Gulliver's Travels suffering from any comparison. Yet it would be very unfair to label the film as a wannabe Disney and let random trivia affect an opinion toward a film mostly made for children. My guess is whether for Gulliver's Travels, All Dogs Go to Heaven or Time Before Land, children wouldn't care much about the logo introducing the film or any technical consideration, no more anyway than the on-screen experience carried by the story, the images, the songs and naturally, the characters. On that level, Gulliver's Travels provides all the ingredients of the best animated classics, and it's a great entertainment for children.Now, allow me to wake up my inner child, the little one who saw the film for the first time on a crappy VHS and after that, during a nice Saturday in my uncle's home. Coincidentally, the same year, I read a comic-book involving another character who, after a stormy night, found himself on an island inhabited by little people. It was enough for me to believe that any person washed up on an island would become a giant. In my child's imagination, it had to do with drinking too much water or something like that. Pretty crazy, isn't it? But that's the way I looked at Gulliver and never thought the Lilliputians were meant to be 'little people'. Needless to say it didn't change the film's over-all effect.I remember I also loved the cute scene-stealing Gabby, the town crier, voiced by Pinto Colvig (Goofy's voice for the experts) who through his exuberance, seemed to embody the most endearing traits of the seven dwarfs. His desperate attempt to tell the Lilliputians that there is a giant in the beach was my favorite part, closely followed by Gulliver's struggle to get rid of the ropes fixing him on the wooden platform, quite impressive for its physical realism. And when I saw the film again, a few years ago, as soon as Gabby started to shout All's Well, the whole music resurrected in my mind, and I could whistle the tune all the way. As for Gulliver's first stand, I understood why I was so intimidated by his look as a kid when I learned he was animated by rotoscoping, a process involving tracing live-action forage frame by frame, probably one of the film's strengths, proving that it wasn't trying to imitate Disney.Indeed, the rotoscoping creates the perfect distinction between Gulliver and the Lilliputians, and from my adult's second viewing, I remember I was in awe when I saw Gulliver's expression, noticing the screams of Gabby in the castle's dungeon and his bewildered eyes when he realized it was a little man, not to mention his suave and low-pitched voice, that's animation at best, and it's still strange that Disney never thought of that process. Disney improved the drawing of human features with time, making rotoscoping useless, but within the context of Gulliver's Travels, it gives the film a touch of modernity that slightly surpasses Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. It also highlights one of the film's unavoidable flaws, the design of Prince David and Princess Glory, who're the only 'little creatures' that don't look comical, but still feel like archetypes of the handsome prince and beautiful princess.However, the film doesn't overuse the two lovers from rival islands and the two annoyingly cute little birds who seemed to be borrowed from the 'other studio', but cleverly uses them as the hostages of their islands' enmity, even more unbelievable since it started on a disagreement over the songs to perform at the wedding  Faithful or Forever, not as memorable as Some Day, My Prince Will Come or even the catchy All's Well or It's a Hap-Hap-Happy Day that became standards of Paramount studios, but performed together, they give the film the typical classic touch, deserving their Oscar nomination for Best song. At the end, children have the songs, comic reliefs with Gabby and the three spies, and Gulliver has quite an authoritarian presence and a hidden charisma that perfectly contrast with the other characters and contradicts the golden rule of a memorable villain, established by Disney. Who needs a villain with such a larger-than-life hero &#x85; literally.Now, it's easy to let cynicism cloud the appreciation of the film. Some can picture the Fleisher executives telling their animators Listen, guys, we didn't want to make a film, but Disney proved it could work, so let's make our 'Snow White'. Then, the classic tale of Gulliver from Jonathan Swift, allows them to use similar plot devices such as a realistic person surrounded by goofy little characters, a romance, cute animals, and nice songs. But despite these similarities, Gulliver's Travels stands as a classic on its own, and comparing to Snow White is like comparing between Bambi and The Lion's King. And again, would children really do such comparisons? Gulliver's Travels deserves in my opinion, the term of an animated classic, even by Disney standards. Granted it doesn't have the status of Disney movies from the era, nor a brighter palette of colors, something that can even be pointed out by a kid, but the second animated feature of all time, the first from a non-Disney studio deserves some credit for its nice attempt to compete with the Goliath of animation. And as far as I am concerned, within its own simplicity, all's well in Gulliver's Travels. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Fleischer studios followed Disney into the uncharted waters of feature length cartoons with this adaptation of Gulliver's adventures in Lilliput.It is colourful, charming, respectful, and gentle. The moral of the original shines through.The animation is perhaps of the same standard as Disney's shorts and, maybe, falls short of the heights achieved during Snow White (there is some obvious reliance on certain movement cycles, something you often saw in Disney's shorts of the time but less so in features).The comic relief elements may seem out of place, or they may appeal - this is a matter of taste. They are fine for kids.I personally felt that the rotoscoped Gulliver contrasted a bit too much with the hand animated Lilliputians, but that shouldn't be taken as a criticism - this is a pioneering film, and a good one. "},{"Title":"A classic favourite","Date":"5 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I used to love this animated film version of Gulliver's Travels when I was a child, and hadn't seen it for almost twenty years. A few times over the last few years, I'd seen it on a shelf at video stores and thought about hiring it out, but had always moved on, which was unfortunate, because it's a genuinely lovely film. The animation can't be compared to Pixar or Dreamworks, as it was the standard of animation almost seventy years ago, but you can tell by watching it that the film was made with a lot of skill and love by the artists. The world created within the film seems a lot more innocent than today's fare due to the era in which it was created - you won't find any popular culture references like in Dreamworks' Shrek or Disney's Aladdin, which is a good thing, the story is able to stand on its own two feet.*Spoiler* I was surprised by how much a few of the comical moments in the film made me laugh - the part where the town-crier (Gabby) goes to the king's chambers and tells the king that the giant won't fit in his room, and the king's response? 'So, it's not good enough for him?', followed by the king seeing the giant for the first time, and immediately streaking back to his chambers, being pursued by a whirlwind of flying furniture that his wind motion has generated, I honestly couldn't stop laughing! Don't expect this film to be at the standard of today's animation, because you'll be disappointed. But if you view it as a children's film which was lovingly made and has excellent artwork considering that it was all hand-drawn, then you may very well like me find yourself watching it again two or three times within a week before reluctantly returning the copy to the video store. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"An Old Gem","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Have you ever watched a cartoon you used to watch a long time ago? Like watching the 1940's Superman today, Gulliver's Travels from 1939 leaves viewers of today not only feeling nostalgic, but like it was a good movie by the standards of today. True, tastes in movies change with time, but true classics never die.The animation style of Gulliver is simple and the story straightforward. It starts with Gulliver being shipwrecked onto an island full of tiny people, about the size of ants. One nation's princess is getting married to another nation's prince, and the kings are planning the wedding. When it comes down to the wedding song, both kings suggest their own songs and have a fight about it. They end up going to war over it, but before the war can start, Gulliver is found and captured by the tiny people. He escapes and becomes allies with the people of Lilliput, the nation with the princess. The rival king has sent spies to Lilliput and asks them to kill Gulliver. The movie progresses with the countries warring and Gulliver trapped in the middle. Gulliver reunites the prince and princess and is about to put a stop to the war when the spies pull his own pistol on him. The prince hops on his horse and knocks the gun off just in time, but falls down a cliff in doing so. Gulliver picks up the boy and tells the kings how stupid they've been, fighting over a song, and that the prince is dead. In the end, the prince turns out to be alive and sings his country's song with the princess singing her country's song. Gulliver gets a new ship and is on his way. All is well.The most striking thing a viewer will notice in the movie is the differences between characters. The smarter, most knowledgeable and reasonable characters like Gulliver, the prince and princess all are animated to look lifelike, whereas the villagers, spies and kings all have a sort of dwarfish, cartoon style about them. This puts a visual line in the sand between the characters that becomes more and more obvious as the movie goes on. The kings are acting foolish and the people from the village are acting on their behalf. The spies and Gabby, the man who finds Gulliver all have the most cartoonish movements and are the most comic-relief type characters. The animation style provides for a visual representation of the character's personality, subtly hinting that real people should be more reasonable and intelligent, lest they look like the dwarfish, ignorant people.Another element that draws attention to itself is the repetition of Gulliver's line Oh my. Oddly enough, he only says it at times where the plot is thickening, such as when the prince comes back for the princess. He doesn't seem to find it odd that people not much bigger than ants are clothing him and dancing for him for no reason other than he's a giant to them. This may be surprising, but considering Gulliver's character, it could just be a part of his kind-hearted nature. This distinction between Oh my being something surprising, and Gulliver's Oh my meaning something is about to happen, becomes more concrete as the movie goes on. Thus, when an Oh my is heard from Gulliver, the audience knows it should pay attention to this point in the plot, as it is important to the overall storyline.The most notable animation achievement is the realism behind Gulliver. Nowadays, amazing things can be done with 3D animation, making characters look more realistic, but for some reason, they still have an unnatural feel to them. This comes down to the motion of the characters, which this movie nailed with Gulliver. His movements look like that of a human being, jerky at times, possibly slow, but always realistic in those flaws. Nobody moves swiftly across the floor with little bounce, or keep steady, fluid motion, and this lack of fluidity is captured in Gulliver. Good examples of this include when Gulliver steps over the town and during the first shipwreck scene. Before he steps over the buildings, he pauses slightly as if to gain balance and keep going. This slight pause is what separates him from the CGI of today. When Gulliver's ships wrecks and he's drowning, his head comes above water a few times, but his arms are seen flailing, wildly, but with purpose, as if in an attempt to get air. Their movement is almost random, but meaningful. This level of realism within Gulliver is still astounding today, almost seventy years after the film's production.The director Dave Fleischer has something to do with this animation style. At that time, he was a great director of many cartoons, most notably Popeye. Gulliver had a huge step toward realism and it continued on in Fleischer's work. A few years later, he went on to direct the Superman cartoons, which are still held in high acclaim for their animation style and techniques of realistic movements and absorbing story lines.Though this movie may have been forgotten by many, its animation style, subtle repetition of elements and straightforward storyline all lend to this movie's timelessness. Normally, people look to the future for the latest and greatest, but Gulliver is a shining example of what the past can teach the future. "},{"Title":"One of the best Literary Films of 1939","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I love animation from the Fleischer Studios, along with Disney,Rankin/Bass, Hanna/Barbera and Studio Ghibli from Japan.I thought this is a excellent film, and beautifully animated. My favorite characters from the film are Princess Glory, she's really beautiful and I should tell you that this film is the reason I love her singing voice actress Jessica Dragonette; Prince David and Gabby the town-crier, he's very funny. The film also has an excellent soundtrack with great songs too.I was quite intrigued with the story of Gulliver and his adventures in the land of Lilliput,I had watched the Mickey Mouse cartoon Gulliver Mickey from 1934 and the version with Sanrio's Keroppi the frog. I think I would like to read the original novel sometime - I love literary films both animated and live action. In short, Gulliver is great fun, and should be enjoyed by everyone in the family - young nor old. "},{"Title":"Love Conquers All","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" What a beautiful story. Just incredible. I saw it when I was a little girl. It kept going through my mind. I had to watch it today. For me it's the story of God shipwrecked into our lives for the sake of LOVE. It's also the story of the church trying to tie down God (Gulliver) and He loves us enough to let us for a little while, but He knows our nature is to war and He has to stop it. So He sends His Prince to show His Glory and when His prince dies and everyone's heart is crushed and they realize the error of their ways, He lets His prince live again with Glory and romances the longing of our heart with LOVE. Precious. LOVE CONQUERS ALL! "},{"Title":"Fleischer Studios staff stretch their legs","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Paramout Pictures wanted something from their cartoon supplier Max Fleischer Studios to follow up Disney's success with Snow White. Paramount financed a state of the art animation studio in Miami Flordia so the Fleischer brothers could complete this ambitious undertaking.Max and Dave Fleischer augmented their original New York City staff by over 400 employees to achieve the results Paramount wanted so badly. Did the Fleischer brothers succeed? That, to this day, is a matter of subjective conjecture.Gulliver's Travels is by any standard of animated film techinique a rare gem. The story may not adhere to the book as closely as purists would have wanted, but in the realm of animated cartoons it stands proud.The background artwork is stunningly detailed with rich colors, captured by the three strip Technicolor process. The rotoscoping of the title character is flawless. The painstaking animation of the supporting cast is 100% Fleischer comic whimsy, done this time to the most meticulous standards as yet undertaken by the Fleischers.I would recommend this feature to anyone who appreciates the time and money it took to hand draw this flight into fantasy, both from an enjoyment standard and from a historical look at what the Fleischer staff could accomplish.The film is beautiful, the score regal, and the overall effect spellbinding. See it, hear it, cheer it! "}{"Title":"Classic animation.","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Wonderfuly done, and at that point in time when animation was REALLY animation and not just the same art shown over and over or computerized stuff. The music is very well done, with great voices and good score. Given that it was made in '39 this film has held up beautifully. It still conveys a good antiwar message which, in this day of Home Land Security and international political blundering, we all might do well to remember. All in all, for its sweetness and wholesomely entertaining story line, this thing is STILL a treat for young and old alike. You want a nice story with a good message, well done animation with pretty music? Something to just relax with and enjoy? Travel with Gulliver. "},{"Title":"A great little animated escape","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  No, it does not have any of the social sarcasm of swift's book.  And it is not animated in today's flawless though empty androidal style.  Yes, it is GREAT FUN!  The Fleischer style, in the long form, spins a bouncy Hollywood-ized yarn that is every kid's dream To be bigger than all the adults and have them all in awe of you.  Fun to the end.A gem. "},{"Title":"Oh, what it might have been.","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  When I was a kid, back in the early sixties, cartoons on television consisted of old high quality studio cartoons and the earliest, simplified, made-for-television cartoons.  And I really liked a lot of them from both styles.  But it was a special occasion when Gulliver's Travels was shown.  I even preferred it to Disney's animated movies.  Watching it again as an adult I can now see it's many weakness including it's primary flaw that Fleischer Studios tried to make a Walt Disney movie instead of a Fleischer brothers movie.  It is too clearly a reaction to Snow White.  And that's a pity.  Both as a child and even now, my favorite cartoons of all are the Fleischer productions of the thirties... Betty Boop and especially Popeye.  Disney's short cartoons generally just don't compare; too shallow, too insipid.  I didn't use those words 40 years ago, but I felt the same then.  And although Gulliver reproduced these Disney deficiencies, enough of the Fleischer style was present for me to really like it.  If only they had followed their own hearts instead of Uncle Walt's I might be enjoying it as much now as I did back then.  "},{"Title":"Visually beautiful film with some flaws in its sub-plots","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is a feature-length animated film loosely based on the Swift novel and produced by Fleischer studio. There will be spoilers aheadFleischer studio decided to follow Disney's lead after the success of Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs and produce a feature-length film. They chose to do an adaptation of Jonathan Swift novel, albeit very loosely. Parts of the plot work very well and parts don't work well at all. What works is more or less the Gulliver material and some of the added characters (Sneak, Snoop and Snitch work well, for example). There's a romantic subplot which doesn't really work because it's under-developed with a couple of characters who are cardboard in Prince David and Princess Glory. The who war subplot is just silly, but it at least leads to some nice animation.The musical score is very good, with several songs which are enjoyable, such as Faithful/Forever and It's a Hap Hap Happy Day. The animation is nothing short of breathtaking in spots, particularly in the opening sequence when Gulliver is swept overboard and winds up on the beach. The rotoscoping on Gulliver is beautifully done. The film comes to life whenever Gulliver is on the screen. The two best sequences are when Gulliver is being tied down and removed from the beach and later on when the Lilliputians make Gulliver a new outfit.The single most annoying aspect of the film is a character named Gabby. He's the town crier and he's a whiny, annoying jerk and cry baby. Fleischer actually took the character and made eight shorts starring him and the character is still an annoying twit in those. End of sermon.This film is available on a beautifully executed Blu Ray done by Thunderbean Animation and is well worth getting. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Can You Say ROTOSCOPE?","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" HOT ON THE heels of Walt Disney's SNOW WHITE & THE 7 DWARFS, Disney competitor, Max Fleischer and his distributor, Paramount Pictres (who released the Fleischer Brothers Studio product), were eager to enter the new field of the full length animated feature film. SNOW WHITE had outperformed the predictions of all. Rather than causing nausea and dizziness to viewers (as was predicted about such lengthy a dose of cartoons), the only contagion produced was mass enthusiasm.IN THEIR CHOICE of subject matter, Fleiscer and Paramount went with this classic story; which was almost as well known as the SNOW WHITE fairy tale. In much the same mode as Disney, adaptation was applied freely. Rather than attempting to bring the entire novel to the screen (a herculean task for sure*), this Fleischer/Paramount collaboration opted to feature only Gulliver's encounter with the Lilliputions.THE ADDITION OF a central theme of a Royal Wedding's potential to unite the Kingdom of Lilliput with Blefuscu, the romantic involvement of the young Prince and Princess and the difficulties that arose between the prospective in-laws provided plenty of fodder to support a healthy proliferation of songs, snappy or otherwise.THE RELEASE OF this GULLIVER film, though met with less than spectacular box office, was followed by MR. BUG GOES TO TOWN (aka HOPPITY GOES TO TOWN).THE ONE TRUE legacy of GULLIVER was not really any sort of sequel; but rather the discovery of one of its characters. That character would be the town crier. Voiced by veteran Pinto Colvig, GABBY was promoted to his own series of cartoon shorts.NOTE * Doing a literal adaptation of GULLIVER'S TRAVELS would take an effort as lengthy and ambitious as Abel Gance's silent NAPOLEON (French, 1927). "},{"Title":"2014 Thunderbean Blu-ray Great value and restoration of several gems","Date":"7 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Ratings out of 10 Movie 8, Video 9, Audio 8, Extras 9This 1939 classic feature film cartoon is still widely reproduced and you can read plenty of reviews of the film online, so I will focus on the technical details of this 2014 Blu-ray release. I received this in the mail yesterday and have watched most of the content, but I probably do not have as discerning an eye as others, nor have I ever written professional Blu-ray reviews. As a final introductory note, the DVD and Blu-ray contents are virtually identical (other than the higher quality of the latter); I will note a couple of differences in the extra features. Steve Stanchfield, chief archivist on the project, has written a detailed review of the restoration and embedded (through his YouTube account) a 2-minute sample of 1080-quality video highlighting each title on this release. http//cartoonresearch.com/index.php/gulliver-comes-to-bluray/VIDEO With a few minor exceptions, the visual quality of the feature and shorts on this disc are excellent. I am accustomed to Kino and Criterion Blu-ray releases of films from the first half of the 20th century; the high quality of this Thunderbean release deserves to be compared to both of these larger companies. The only obvious problem I noticed was a small green blotch on the left edge of the screen for about three minutes, starting at the 30-minute mark. The 8 shorts are of varying quality, but they were not cleaned up as well as the Gulliver feature.AUDIO Most likely as good as these releases will ever sound. I don't know if any noise-reduction editing was done, but there is minimal hiss and all the content on these discs sound about average for most films I've seen restored from this era. I noticed at least twice a shift in the sound for a few seconds (one at 4017). I assume this is probably a transition between film reels; the video is consistent, but there are significant blips in the sound.EXTRAS There are at least two hours of extra video and audio material on this disc. It is a wealth of Fleischer content. My only (very minor) complaint is the reduced navigational ability of the Blu-ray compared to the DVD on the audio content. I could not fast-forward through the Decca audio content, and some of the image galleries required the use of the Play button instead of the track-advance button.Cartoons (5434 total) - Modeling (1921) - In My Merry Oldsmobile (1931) - Is My Palm Red? (1933) with Betty Boop (I believe this should be Read) - The Little Dutch Mill (1934) Color Classic - The Paneless Window Washer (1937) with Popeye - Ding Dong Doggy (1937) with Pudgy - Two for the Zoo (1941) with Gabby from Gulliver - Swing Cleaning (1941) with Gabby from GulliverBonus Features - Production Artwork (at least 80 images) - Decca Album (8-tracks, featuring Victor Young and His Orchestra and Max Terr's Choristers, audio with photos of each album side) - Guy Lombardo (Decca single of Bluebirds... and It's a Hap..., audio with photos of each album side) - Trailer (220) - Books and Publications (43 images) - Publicity Material (43 images) - Radio Broadcast (2343, Good News of 1940, 12/21/39) - Popeye & Gulliver Pencil Test (027) - Toys & other Merchandise (20 images)Booklet (12-page b&w insert), includes various essays on these releases. - Liner Notes by Steve Stanchfield (order of The Paneless and Ding Dong shorts switched in this description) - Gulliver's Travels Notes by John McElwee - The Miami Gamble by Ray Pointer - On Gulliver's Travels by G. Michael Dobbs - Gulliver's Travels Music to My Ears by Chris BuchmanSUMMARY This is the first Blu-ray release from Thunderbean and it is clearly a labor of love. The video and audio restoration of Gulliver in particular are the best these releases have ever been on home video, and the wealth of extras alone make this an invaluable set of discs to add to your collection. "},{"Title":"Perfect if you enjoy the old style cartoons","Date":"26 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is an old classic movie I grew up watching. There is a little bit of nostalgia about this show and the comedic way they play some of the characters. Seriously, how they make some of them feels a lot like a joke on society. A war starting just because of a song that would be played at a lovely little wedding. It seems similar to why friends may bicker about little things and then not talk to each other for a rather long time. Anyway, back to the review. The comedy is really slap stick with characters getting hurt or having exaggerated expressions as their main gimmick. In other parts of the show, they tug at your heart and in some cases, we even see what is going through Gulliver's mind and his homesickness.The artwork is rather pretty (Comparing it to other shows around this time) and each character moves smoothly and consistently. It's interesting how much detail they placed on Gulliver and how really simple the little people are. Most little people look rather fat and/or out of proportion except for the princess and prince. Well, them and Gulliver. Colors are rather saturated and yet you can see pretty much everything. I say it's close to the old version of Disney's movies. Now Gulliver seems like a really cheerful man and is always smiling or having an over exaggerated movement to show his pleasure or feelings. It feels odd but I believe that is what they were actually going for.The voices are classic fun with Pinto Colvig (Who was the voice of the original Goofy and Grumpy from 'Disney's Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs') playing Gabby, Jessica Dragonette (famous singer) playing Princess Glory, and Sam Parker as Gulliver. I'm not really sure about Sam Parker's play on Gulliver thought because he seems to be rather bland of a character. Nothing seems to startle him as he wakes up to find tiny men all around him and a war starting up. When someone or something surprises him, all he really says is 'My My&#x85;' and leaves it at that.So what do I like about this show? Well, it's not as stupid as many of the new stuff and is rather nostalgic for me even with its faults. Even if you don't really like animated shows, you should really take a look at this one. If you do like animated shows, its something I consider part of history. "},{"Title":"Good children's' fare.","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" As another reviewer mentioned Swift's tale was satire (and a bit of farce) commenting on the social structure of the time, and the absurdity of the system's shortcoming immersed in suspicion and fear. Swift's perspective was that the illogic of favoritism only lent itself to inequity, and who could argue against so fine an observation.But we aren't given the entirety of Swift's saga regarding the humble physician from the English coast, but rather a children's rendition of one of the more popular episodes of Lemuel Gulliver's Travels; i.e. the part where he's a giant among two warring factions of miniature populations.The characters are apt for the audience, and the artwork and animation on all levels comes from a time when labor wsa a bit cheaper and hence more care could be injected into the works produced at the time. It matches a lot of Disney quality art, but even so you can certainly see where Disney's rivals, (Harmon and Ising for example) still lacked a certain something. Gulliver's Travels, and the short films derived from it, has been mistreated here and there, and forgotten, with poor dupes appearing on UHF and independent VHF stations in the 60s, 70s, and 80s. It's a miracle the print survived to this day so well intact. And thanks to the people at a variety of companies who came together to preserve this masterpiece, the full film can now be seen in all of its original glory, with a color corrected print and remastered soundtrack.Not being a parent, just a film enthusiast (and animation as well), I can't say how well this will hold up to today's offerings for young audiences. I really can't, but, even so, I still think it a fine piece of animated film making, and I think the children will forgive it for not being a CGI experience by the quality of the art and vibrant colorful visuals.Again, the story is essentially an episode of the Swift's saga, but it does entertain on a basic level. Give it a shot, and maybe try watching it with the family.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"A touch of schmaltz","Date":"7 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Fleischer's Gulliver might be the cartoon I have enjoyed most in my life; not only a masterpiece of the Fleischers&#x97;but of the old cartoons, as well. It ain't for nothing that Fleischer is still so highly regarded. So let us try, for our readers' sake, to give a balanced account of the accomplishments and faults of this flick. This schmaltzy cartoon made by the Fleischer team (well, produced by one and directed by the other) 72 yrs ago is very loosely based on Lemuel Gulliver's storyline; we're plunged directly into schmaltz and dire triteness&#x97;a dwarf from Snow&#x97;White and a marriage&#x97;the hallmark of nicety and prettiness, plus a lot of harmless romance, the epitome of blandness, a Gulliver operetta&#x97;which is fine, if that's what you wish to settle for. Otherwise, yeah, the kitsch is thick enough to be enjoyable&#x97;to be more than palatable. The craftsmanship is impressive. This might be&#x97;what&#x97;the 4th cartoon I'm reviewing for IMDb (a Japanese one&#x97;a parable&#x97;a Hnsel &#x85;--you see, not all of it was garbage, not all of it &#x85;--that parable looked a tiny bit under&#x97;populated and even under&#x97;drawn &#x85;); what can I say, Fleischer as a cartoonist is kitsch enough, is schmaltz enough&#x97;even the gist of schmaltz. Basically, the same bland, tame buffoonery, because here the team has to supply for everything and, though done with undeniable, commendable craftsmanship, 'Gulliver' amounts to a roller-coaster of gags and niceties&#x97;which is way less than the required. The nuisance is, even apart from the couple of singing lovers, Gulliver himself, cast here as a simpleton and a soft-head. Lemuel Gulliver cast as the blandest, amidst the colorful dwarfs. So, yeah, a bit of a 'Snow&#x97;White' rip&#x97;off, instead of the cunning midgets of the original. Despite the prettiness and the dreadfully unlikable arias bellowed by the characters, Fleischer's Gulliver looks like an ancestor of the Spielberg/ Lucas flicks&#x97;it's all an American fashion&#x97;a clownish roller-coaster, as already described by the underwritten reviewer. Anyway, I took a little, unexceptionable pleasure in charming and lulling you with my prose &#x85;. (2) But then again, 'Gulliver' as retold by the Fleischers is an eminently likable yarn. So, it is simultaneously lurid, enjoyable, and bland, tame, schmaltzy, derisory, petty. Bland schmaltz. But then again&#x97;concomitantly lurid and tame, quite disconcerting; it will be enjoyed presumably more by the kiddies, which is only well, given that the adults' craze for cartoons is rather uncanny. Almost no relations whatsoever to the womanizing (or, possibly just repressed) Irish clergyman's original writings&#x97;yeah, but what a fairy tale! Gulliver suggests a fellow who can be gulled; and we also remember the surgeon from the Jack Ripper tale&#x97;the surgeon Gull, see 'From Hell'. "},{"Title":"Reuniting Old Animosities","Date":"3 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Paramount's animation department never got the same acclaim as Walt Disney's or Warner Brothers or MGM. But Max Fleischer who created the Popeye cartoons for Paramount made his bid for immortality with this animated version of Gulliver's Travels with radio announcer Sam Parker voicing Gulliver and radio singers Lanny Ross and Jessica Dragonette as the Blefuscuan prince and the Lilliputian princess who in fact are a love match and would like to rule peacefully if they're fathers can keep from reuniting old animosities.In the Jonathan Swift book it was which end of the eggs do you crack, the big or the small end. Here it is the song with the same music and the same lyrics save for one word, Faithful for Lilliput and Forever for Blefuscu. Mankind does go to war stupidly over some trifles and sad to say still does.The song sung by Ross and Dragonette received one of the two Oscar nominations for this film for Best Song. The songs were written by Paramount contract team, Leo Robin and Ralph Rainger. The scoring of the film netted the second Oscar nomination for Victor Young.I have a feeling had this been done over at Disney or Warner Brothers some additional zip would have been in the film. It moves way too slowly. The closest treatment of Swift's satire to what he had in mind is probably in the film that Ted Danson did as Gulliver back in the Nineties. "}{"Title":"not all that bad","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This was the Fleisher Bros. one real effort to compete with Disney on Disney's own turf - revising a classic story for American tastes - and this in itself led to the film being dismissed by many critics as imitative of the Disney technique. This is not really fair, because the Fleisher's had a keen sense of the culture of the 1930s that the Disney people consciously decided to ignore - the depression; growing concern over the unstoppable march to the Second World War; an American pop-music culture adopting African-American motifs more and more; and a growing sense that working-together could provide us with a brighter future than rigorous individualism. All these elements of '30s American culture receive positive comment in the film, and thus make it more directly American than anything comparable by Disney.But the film has real problems - these began virtually at the beginning of production, when the Fleisher's decided they would keep costs down, despite the ambitions of their project. This involved some shoddy dealings with their animation crews, and effacing creative credits other than their own whenever possible. Bad production strategy and tactics show forth in a certain blandness to the background of the animations (among the least interesting background art in the Fleisher catalog) as well as a curious lack of unity to the story - for instance, the three spies, while providing excellent comic relief, seem to come from some other film entirely, and the plot twist they provide could have been constructed along other, more innovative lines.Still, there is certainly nothing objectionable here, the music is rather interesting, and the story is pretty upbeat - on the whole, it succeeds at entertaining, and is short enough not to be dragged down by its flaws.Pretty good for children, and not all that bad for adults. "},{"Title":"30s animation conventions - plus and minus","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" When I watched this, I understood how my college-age students sometimes feel when we show them a film from before the 1970s - the conventions are so different that it's hard to maintain patience in some places. My DVD - Marathon Music&Video - is not top quality, so the restoration doesn't do much to unfade original colors - but even with this taken into consideration, some parts are just too slow or pointless to me.I do like some of the conventions - the Capraesque use of individual faces in crowds - the more stylized, less natural drawing style, the plasticity of the bodies. I tell my students that good movies teach you how to watch them, if they don't resist too much. But I don't ask them to ignore that resistance either. You can't reach across a barrier if you don't acknowledge its presence. So if you're going to watch this, don't expect to be moved in the same way that The Lion King, say, moves you. Try to relax, and accept the occasional doldrums. There's enough here to satisfy some aesthetic needs. "},{"Title":"Fleischer flick is likable but lacks the charm of rival Disney","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This was one of the top 20 box office films of 1939 and even garnered two Academy Award nominations for Victor Young's Best Original Musical score (losing out to The Wizard of Oz) and Best Original song, Faithful Forever (losing out to Over the Rainbow from The wizard of Oz) so it was well received by the public of it's era but it isn't Disney. Paramount released this film from the Max Fleischer animation studio with the original concept for their popular Popeye to be Gulliver. It actually might have worked better. Instead they chose to use a process that the Fleischer's, Max and Dave invented called Rotoscope where they film an actor and trace his features into animation. Sam Parker is the voice and features of Gulliver. Longtime Disney Pinto Colvig, best known as the voice of Goofy is the voice of Gabby. Colvig had left Disney in 1937 and freelanced for Warner Brothers and worked for Fleischer as the voice of Bluto until 1941 when he returned to the Disney fold. Jack Mercer who was the longtime voice of Popeye is the voice of King Little. Lanny Ross is Prince David and Jessica Dragonette is Princess Glory. I've seen this many times and have always liked it but you are a curious observer to it and not drawn into the story like you would be to a Disney animated film. The story only deals with an interpretation of the first part of Jonathan Swift's classic story Gulliver's Travels. It's a nice movie but it lacks the charm of Disney. I would give it a 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Very Good Animation; Solid Light Version of the Story","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The animation, which is excellent for 1939, is probably the main reason to watch this version of Gulliver's Travels. The story is considerably lightened and distilled from the original, yet judged on its own merits it is a solid light version that concentrates on a couple of the simpler aspects of the story.Jonathan Swift's story is one of literature's most thorough and most caustic studies of human nature, and this animated feature does not attempt to do the same thing. Concentrating on the well-known Liliput episode, it keeps most of the details regarding Gulliver's size relative to his hosts, while simplifying or replacing many of the other familiar details. It changes the tone of the story completely, but it works for what it is trying to do.The animation, especially towards the beginning, is rather impressive for 1939. One of best and most interesting scenes is the lengthy sequence of the Liliputians finding Gulliver and attempting to restrain him. It is smooth and detailed, with some good humorous touches.The rest of the movie never quite comes up to that level again, but on its intended level, the story works and it makes a couple of points that, while much simplified, are in keeping with at least the basic perspective of the original. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Animated But Disappointing Overall in Terms of Its Story Presentation","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Lemuel Gulliver, his ship wrecked in a fantastic storm, washes ashore on the island of Lilliput, inhabited by people so tiny that Gulliver is a giant in their eyes. Soon Gulliver finds himself entangled in a war between Lilliput and neighboring Blefuscu, all brought about because the two kings of these lands couldn't decide which song was to be sung at the wedding of their two beloved children, who happen to be deeply in love with one another.The animation is often breathtaking here especially when it focuses on the fairytale like romance between Prince David and Princess Glory. Unfortunately we never fully learn their back story or get to see much of them at all except when it's absolutely necessary to advance the plot. The rotoscoping process used for Gulliver is also fascinating to watch both in terms of its historical significance and the interesting visual impression of realism it creates on screen.However Jonathan Swift's satirical story is almost completely sacrificed here in favor of fairytale fantasy which arguably borrows more from Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet than it does Gulliver's Travels. Its main focus also is on the wrong character, a town crier named Gabby who isn't particularly appealing to the viewer. Too many of the other far more interesting and fun characters get sacrificed to make room for him. Actually the best fun here comes the two kings and their interactions with one another not to mention the hijinks that goes on between Belfuscu spies Sneak, Snoop, and Snitch. Gulliver himself is reduced to friendly giant peacemaker. Prince David does get a great moment towards the end. Of course, it would have had far more impact of the viewer was actually made to care about him. "},{"Title":"A Thorough Discussion","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Gulliver's Travels was made in 1939 by the studios of Max Fleischer, which was best known for their Popeye cartoons, as well as musical cartoon shorts in the vein of Disney's Silly Symphonies.  When it was learned that Disney was making the first full length animated feature Snow White, Fleischer set to work on making Gulliver's Travels in order to try and compete with the full length animated feature market.  Viewers today, especially historians of film have frequently tried to compare Snow White and Gulliver's Travels, though the two films are very different, most different of all being the plots.Gulliver's Travels is based upon an adaptation of the book, and is not faithful to the story, so if you are looking for a faithful rendition of this, look for the late 1990s film starring Ted Danson.There are two main types of characters here, Humans and cartoon characters.  The human figures, those of Gulliver, the Prince and Princess were all created using a process by which live actors were filmed doing various things.  The film was then taken and the humans were traced frame by frame in order to get their movements as realistic as possible.  This is a process known as rotoscoping.The other characters are the typical late 30s style of animation, though theses characters have all 5 fingers instead of just 4 as is typical in cartoons.  The films score was nominated for an Academy Award.  Today the songs are pleasing, but not quite as catchy as tunes from Disney films.  The film strikes me as being made primarily for a childrens audience, and the animation of the cartoon characters is typical 7 minute long cartoon animation.  Today this film would be targeted for very young children.This film got a second life when it slipped into the public domain in the early 1960s and frequently showed up on television.  This film, because it is Public Domain can be found of VHS and DVD, usually very cheaply.  Because of its public domain status the print I viewed was scrated and dark, however I am sure the original film looked fantastic on a big screen. "},{"Title":"The early scenes are the best...after that, it's downhill...","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  While I'm sure 'Gulliver's Travels' is still perfect fare for the very young who don't yet know what great animation is, when viewed today it pales in comparison to what today's artists can do. And yet, there are some astonishingly impressive scenes early on in the film--especially those involving the Lilliputians and Gulliver's body stretched out on the beach. Their ingenious methods of strapping him down, etc. are delightful moments that make the first twenty-five minutes of the film rewarding to watch. After he is brought to the castle, the film loses all of that originality and charm and becomes second-rate in terms of animation and story. When you consider that this film was made hurriedly in order to compete with 'Snow White' the same year--and before anything like computer wizardry was possible--it's quite an achievement. As a child I was dazzled by it. Seen from the distance of time, it's quite another matter--but the early sequences are still moments to cherish. Victor Young's score is tuneful but undistinguished and does little to add true value. "},{"Title":"A Charming Little Classic but Badly Restored","Date":"14 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" It's must be public domain as the copy quality varies a great deal. Most copies suffer from drab, faded colors-reddish brown. It's a cute story Gabby, the Lilliputian night watchman, discovers Gulliver, the giant on the beach so they tie the giant up and transport him to town. Meanwhile, the two kings are fighting over the proper song to be sung at their children's wedding, which leads to war between the two countries. Gulliver stops the war by rounding up all the gunships and towing them to shore. There are several humorous characters the spies, a goofy carrier pigeon, the townspeople. The story is really more about them than Gulliver. It seems padded, as there is not much going on, and the scenes seem to drag. Is it cute? Yes. Is it in the same class as Disney animation from the same period? Not even close. The first part of the film is very well-animated, but the rest of it seems rushed to be finished. One good song It's a Hap Hap Happy Day. Mis-shot frames abound, but this is always a problem with early cell animation. A few shorts with Gabby were also made after this feature. Paramount then set up their own Famous Studios after firing Max Fleischer; which would be like firing Walt Disney! (I am looking for Mr. Bug Goes to Town. I have never seen it, and it is supposedly Max Fleischer's best animated feature.) Gulliver is still great fun to watch, but it's hard to find a decent copy. The new Blue Ray is terrible, as it stretches the picture and cuts off heads. "},{"Title":"Charming film, some good songs","Date":"17 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" In 1699 sailor Lemuel Gulliver's ship is caught in a storm. Lemuel is knocked over board, and washes up on shore in the land of Lilliput, where he is a giant in comparison to the locals.Princess Glory of Lilliput is set to marry Prince David of Blefuscu, but when their fathers argue over wedding details, war is declared between the two kingdoms. When King Little of Lilliput is told of the giant on the beach, he sees Gulliver as the perfect weapon to defeat King Bombo once and for all.Released in 1939, just 2 years after Disney's Snow White, Gulliver's Travels was the second feature length animation ever produced. The film makers, Dave and Max Fleischer are better known for their work on Popeye and Betty Boop. The brothers feature film making efforts were ill fated however, with Gulliver's Travels released at the beginning of the second world war and their follow up Mr Bug Goes to Town released just two days before the bombing of Pearl Harbour, were it not for these events, the work produced at Fleischer's studio may be as famous today as that of Walt Disney.The film is an adaptation of the classic Novel by Jonathan Swift, intended as a biting social satire, Gulliver's adventures span four novels. Most well known is the first regarding his arrival in Lilliput, though Gulliver visits several other mysterious places. The book tells the story of a man finding himself in strange lands, while the film approaches the subject mostly from the Lilliputians point of view.On its release the movie was nominated for 2 Oscars for its soundtrack (Best Animated Feature wasn't a category until 2001) The opening song All's Well is a catchy number with a great twist, however the tunes are very 'of their time' and may not prove popular with today's children.The film has a certain innocence to it, it keeps a slow, steady pace rather than racing from one set action piece to another as modern films often do. There's a scene of perhaps 15 minutes without any talking as the Lilliputians tie up Gulliver and transport him, unconscious, back to the city and the King's palace. Their methods are ingenious and highly amusing feats of engineering. The extreme differences in size are used to great comic and visual effect, King Little dances with Gulliver's hand, three Lilliputians are trapped in Gulliver's pocket watch and he is able to put out a house fire by cupping water in his hands.A charming film, wonderful for younger children, though perhaps a little gentle and slow for older ones. The film is also a great starting point to discussions about filmmaking and the evolution of animation. "},{"Title":"Give it up!","Date":"16 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" No, this isn't Madagascar, Lion King or Shrek. Not even Peter Pan or Cinderella but this film demands the respect of something created in 1939. That's right '39! Not 1989, 1979 or even '69. I'm amazed and the amount of effort that must have gone into this animation.I'm curious to know if Gulliver is rotoscoped. The little people are obviously traditional animation but there is definitely something different about Gulliver.For an excellent verion of Gullivers Travels including all of his travels (not just Lilliput) catch the made for TV version starring Ted Danson. "}{"Title":"Wonderful animation and story! Bing Crosby as voice of Gulliver?","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I came across this one by accident at the drug store for $1, and what a bargain! 1940's style animation - (think Casper the Friendly Ghost), with a few entertaining musical numbers. I think it's Bing Crosby doing Gulliver's voice, but didn't see his name on the credits. Some funny Lilliputians, including the King, really make this one fun to watch for the whole family. There are sword fights, and I was really intrigued by the animation for sea washing up on the beach at night. Gulliver is very life-like, replete with the shadows on his features to capture the lighting of the scene, which I found very striking for the time. Also, I think it's actually released in 1940, according to the credits. "},{"Title":"Fails as both an adaptation and on its own merits","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This infantile adaptation of Jonathan Swift's <Gulliver's Travels> shows that the creators were simply not up to the task.  It depicts only one of Gulliver's four journeys, and fails to render even that accurately.  The film communicates none of the themes of Swift's literary classic. Instead, the creators fabricate a Capulet and Montague style feud that captures none of the absurdity of Lilliputian politics, the grotesquerie of Gulliver's size, or the misplaced pride of both Gulliver and the Lilliputians.  In fact, in this version, Gulliver does not speak until 40 minutes into the 75-minute film.Aside from the fact that Gulliver washes upon the shore of Lilliput where he is restrained by tiny people, the plot of the cartoon bears virtually no resemblance to Gulliver's voyage to Lilliput.****  spoiler this paragraph  ****A series of Snow White inspired string-laden ballads separates scenes of insipid Lilliputian gags.  The only clever turn is Prince David rescuing--rather than slaying--the Goliath-like Gulliver.****   spoilers done   ****I'd steer clear of this, even for the kids, as there is plenty of better material out there for all of you to enjoy.3 of 10 "},{"Title":"Of historical interest only.","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  America's second animated feature - for whatever that title may be worth. Although it dates from the days when animated films were still finding their feet it lacks the honour of being a pioneer.  Not that being a pioneer makes a poor film any better.  Honest viewers have to admit that Snow White lacks the assurance, and, bluntly, isn't as good, as Disney's five subsequent masterpieces (Pinocchio, Fantasia, Dumbo, Bambi).  But at least Snow White shows the results of years of consideration and more man-hours than I care to think about.  In addition it has a genuine charm - due to the fact that even in 1935 Disney knew what he wanted.  The Fleischer brothers just wanted to finish something, anything, before a ridiculous deadline.Consequently their animators didn't have time to learn how to animate all the humans.  (Disney's animators didn't quite get it either, but had the sense to limit themselves to three, only two of which were major characters.)  The Lilliputians are the usual Fleischer creations, good enough in their way.  The prince and the princess are awkward genuflections in the direction of Snow White.  Gulliver himself is entirely rotoscoped. (That is to say, a live actor was filmed and the footage - down to the very wrinkles in his clothing - was traced over into drawings.  I don't know who the actor was but it seems they told him to move as woodenly, and as little, as possible.)  There is, to say the least, a serious mismatch of styles.One might be willing to call these technical flaws and forget about them but there isn't really anything else to redeem the movie.  The elements of the plot fit with each other as poorly as the drawings do.  If pressed, I would describe Gulliver's Travels as a love story - a love story with singularly uninvolving protagonists and a good deal of excess incident - that is, padding.  This film has all the clumsiness of a pioneer with none of the conviction. "},{"Title":"A Disney wannabe","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" As you probably know, Gulliver's Travels was an attempt by the Fleischer brothers to compete with Walt Disney in the animated feature film market after Disney's success with Snow White. The movie was profitable (though not as much as Snow White), but the critical reaction was less enthusiastic as what came for Snow White. Seeing the movie today, one can understand why this was so. Now, I will say that the animation is very good; there are some really detailed bits of animation that will make you wonder how they were pulled off without the use of computers.However, great animation is not enough for an animated movie. Disney understood that an animated movie needs a good script as well; long periods were spent by his staff polishing the stories for their animated movies before the drawing started. This was not the case for Gulliver's Travels; it was rushed into production, and it clearly shows in the end results. None of the characters, for one thing, are particularly compelling. They are thin, and sometimes they are annoying. Also, the story is inadequate. There's barely a story here, meaning there are long chunks when essentially nothing of importance is happening.Despite what I just wrote, I do think there is an audience for this movie. Kids, for one thing, will probably find the movie a lot of fun. As for adults, if you have an interest in animation and are curious about the first American attempt to compete with Disney in the animated feature film market, the movie definitely has some interest. "},{"Title":"The First Full-Length Animated Feature Made","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Actually, Gullivers Travels was the first animated feature made. It was completed before Disney completed Snow White. The problem was that no one would take a chance with it. Like they said about Snow White, No one will sit through a full-length cartoon! Of course, Disney proved them wrong. Howard Hughes was no fool and that's why he took the chance and originally disturbed Snow White through his corporation R.K.O. Radio Pictures, but the animators for Gulliver were in contract with Paramount and when Snow White became a great big success, then Paramount finally released Guliver on the heels of Snow White figuring it finally would get the success it really deserved! So, just as Snow White's soundtrack was released on a three 78 rpm record album, Decca released the soundtrack from Guliver on a three 78 rpm album.So, where did Disney get his idea for the multi-plane camera? Could it be that there were spy's at Paramount reporting to Disney that they had invented a two or three plane type of animation while they were producing Gulliver? But has anyone, today, known that Gulliver was produced in a 3-D version where you had to wear the 3-D glasses? For some reason it has never been shown in that format, the same as when 3-D was going out, they never played The Day The Earth Stood Still in the 3-D version and probably at this time it probably disintegrated long ago.So, back to what I've said before A lot of people who see these old movies, today, see them on television and not in the theaters as we did growing up. It's very easy to criticize an old movie like Gulliver's Travels and seeing what you might think are imperfections. Let's face the facts, when these features were made, they photographed on drawings that were about the size of a 21-inch television picture. You don't really see the beauty and entertainment value unless you see these old moves on the great big theater screen. None of you know what a marvel it was the first time you saw The Robe in Cinmascope with 3-channel stereophonic sound, or the thrill when Lowell Thomas said, This Is Cinerama! and how you sat there in awe while you felt you were actually on that roller-caster ride. Today, everything is wide-screen and an inferior stereophonic sound! It's just like going to another movie, except in our day to get in the movies you payed as a kid 10-cents and got a ten-cent bag of buttered popcorn with a newsreel, serial, previews of coming attractions, and 2 features. If you were an adult, you paid 25-cents and two bags of buttered popcorn would be 20-cents. So, you could take a date to the movies for 70-cents. We should have it so good today! "},{"Title":"an interesting piece of animation history","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I found this video at a thrift store and had actually never heard of this particular film, but thought it looked interesting. On the surface, it's pretty silly and pointless, but in context it totally makes sense. The movie contains obvious references to Disney, for instance, a female character who is dressed like Disney's Snow White makes a comical cameo appearance, and there's a pair of night watchmen who look strikingly like they could be the eighth and ninth dwarfs. There are also some references to 1930's pop culture, such as flapper dancing, and a reference to the popular jazz song And it Comes Out Here (and probably a lot of other things that I'm too young to recognize). I thought the rotoscoping was interesting, but seemed weird when mixed with the cartoony Popeye-ish miniature characters... probably an artistic choice to emphasize the difference between Gulliver and the little people, but it just seemed weird--- probably because I associate the rotoscoping effect with the things for which it was later used, like Monty Python. "},{"Title":"It's pretty clear here why the Fleischer Studio was never a serious challenge to Disney.","Date":"9 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" My assumption is that the Fleischer Studio was working on Gulliver's Travels for a very long time before it finally debuted in 1939. In fact, they were probably working on it long before the first full-length cartoon, Snow White debuted in 1938. I say this because had they seen just how inferior their product was in comparison, I doubt if the Fleischer project would have ever gotten off the ground. In every possible way, the story pales when viewed side by side with Snow White. The story is dull, the characters dull, the animation dull and the songs, SUPER-dull in comparison. In fact, comparing the two full-length films is like comparing a Yugo to a BMW. Yes, they are both cars and have four wheels but after that, the differences are huge.The number one problem with Gulliver's Travels and other films made since on the same topic is that they usually take a minuscule portion of the famous Jonathan Swift novel and bring it to the screen. And, in the process, they focus on the obvious while ignoring all the metaphor and political allegory intended by the author. So, while Swift intended the Lillipution portion of his story to be an attack on the monarchy and other small-minded individuals, here in the Fleischer story it is just a superficial story--with TONS of Jeanette McDonald and Nelson Eddy sort of tunes tossed in to boot. As a result, it has no depth---none. And so you are left to appreciate the film only on a superficial level--and in this sense, it is also a dismal failure. Terrible songs, adequate animation and little in the way of character development, I could see why kids never grew to love this film like they grew to love Snow White...and why the Fleischers soon gave up on the idea of making more full-length films. At best, adequate. "},{"Title":"Animation or not, that is the question","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" A black and white film that looks like animation but is none. The film is a very, very personal rewriting of Gulliver's Travels to Lilliput. In fact the whole film concentrates on two small kingdoms in Lilliput that are planning to marry their princess and prince but the fathers have a disagreement on which of two songs will have to be played at the wedding, Faithful or Forever. And that leads to war. Gulliver is going to bring peace to this part of the world by making love win and by joining, merging, splicing them together. This rewriting is just charming but that's all. What makes that film unique is its date, 1939. That was a dream of this film maker to have peace in Europe, to bring together Hitler and Chamberlain, Freedom and Fascism like he was bringing Faithful and Forever together. A dream full of naive peace-loving but also blind humanism. In 1939, due to all kinds of mistakes for at least twenty years the war had become inescapable, unavoidable. But it is always refreshing to go back to the great idea that peace is possible in this world provided we accept to respect the other and to look for a reasonable compromise. But what happens when such a reasonable compromise is no longer possible? We look for Weapons of Mass Destruction, of course.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"for little kids...but interesting plot","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie was OK. It had scenes that were boring, some were for little kids. This film is written with carelessness. The animation is not the best, but OK. I think this film could have been alot more interesting with better animation and more care about older people. But it was OK. 5 out of 10. ***** "},{"Title":"Useless film by today's standards","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Like many before me, I wanted to see this film purely for it's historical worth. I can say it was at least interesting to see it but at the same time it was a terrible film. Especially when the only thing Gulliver's Travels may be compared is Disney's Golden Age.The animation in itself was acceptable but character designs and their emotions were the real reasons (with storytelling) for the score of 1. It is pretty sad but even Plane Crazy had better animation and 10 times better story.I won't spoil the story but I will say this don't expect anything good from it. Songs were really bad, especially the first one. They had no real melody and the lyrics weren't any better.This film really stole ideas from Snow White. The clearest example are the birds. Their design, role and actions were a clone from Snow White's birds. I must say Princess Glory reminded me of Snow White very heavily (maybe because both were animated by Grim Natwick). Some of the characters' actions were just like the dwarfs' movements.Historically this is very a important film. Fleischers were Disney's last real rival and this was their first feature (and the second hand- drawn film in history). Now I understand why Fleischer studio was defunct by 1942.Don't watch this film if you look for a good film or entertainment. This film's worth is purely historical. If you are interested in early animation history watch this. If you are interested in marvelous and timeless films watch any film from Disney's Golden Age. "}{"Title":"A complete disaster!","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  There are virtually no redeeming features in this tedious piece of animation.  The songs are awful, the vocal characterisations weak, the story confused, the dialogue puerile and the animation, at best, a pale imitation of Disney.  The only thing that it has going for it is a plea for peace, which, given the year that it was made, was certainly timely. "},{"Title":"`Strictly for kids' watered down version","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Gulliver's ship sinks and he finds himself washed up on a strange land.  He is discovered, asleep by the guard of the Lilliput people &#150; on his night patrol.  He is captured by the Lilliput.  However a potential war between two of the Lilliput Kings over who's song should be played at their children's wedding put Gulliver in a situation where he can help.This isn't really about Gulliver &#150; it's more about the Lilliput people themselves.  In fact half the film has gone and Gulliver is still asleep on the beach, we get a 40 minute comedy routine with the dwarves, sorry, Lilliput little people!  It makes a nonsense of the story, but I suppose it is simply enough and silly enough to appeal to very young children who don't mind the old fashioned animation.The comedy focus on the dwarf-like people falling over etc, and the reliance on singing numbers really dates this badly.  However it's not terrible and there are some amusing moments if you're in the mood.  The animation is really Snow White like in it's imagining &#150; it's clear that they're basing all the characters on that and it is OK for the time.  Gulliver himself is poorly animated and they often leave him out of shot as much as possible &#150; just showing a hand etc.Overall a poor story, poor characters and poor dull songs.  The comedy appeals to the most childish audience and there's little to enjoy.  However it's very short and it's over before you know it! "}]