[{"Title":"A necrophilic family reunion; We're all dead here.","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"63 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" With the runaway success of the re-issue on a double bill of both Dracula and Frankenstein in the late nineteen thirties, Universal Studios decided it was time to resurrect their most lucrative property, the Frankenstein Monster, if the studio was to have any chance of surviving the fiscal year. True to form they originally intended to produce nothing more than a quick cheapie to cash in on the public's renewed interest in horror films. Director Rowland V. Lee had other ideas. He envisioned the film as a modern fairy tale with Frankenstein's Monster as the traditional giant ogre stalking a primordial landscape, and to be sure it is in this film that he first enters the realm of myth. To help achieve this goal he set Jack Otterson to create the most expressionistic sets of any horror film since The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari. The universe of Son is a world of perpetual night and fog; rain swept castles and blasted heaths; terrifying flashes of lightening; shadowy corridors where giants lurk; hidden passage ways leading to underground crypts, where time, dust and the worm aren't the only things that move among the dead. Son of Frankenstein is the most visually impressive of all of Universal's horror films and George Robinson's gorgeous black and white cinematography captures every shadow, every out-sized distortion beautifully.This would also be the last time a Frankenstein film would have a script worthy of the subject. Willis Cooper fashioned a contemporary Grimm's fairy tale in which the journey of the film's outsiders, Wolf, Elsa, and Peter will become progressively more nightmarish the deeper they descend; where even breakfast in the morning will be overseen by a pair of monstrous gargoyles. They're journeying by train to inherit the Frankenstein estate, unknown to them a house literally at the edge of Hell, and these opening shots are the most normal in the entire film. They think of themselves as explorers and exploring something so foreign we can't even imagine what its like. They speak of the castle being haunted, while outside the window we see through the wind and the rain a gray expanse of desolation and dead trees. What a strange country! Elsa exclaims. Their passage into the subterranean netherworld of mad doctors, murderous hunchbacks and monsters has begun and will climax in a necrophilic family reunion, (We're all dead here.) in the Frankenstein crypt, in which both grandfather and father are dead, but the step-brother, the monster and family black sheep is very much alive. Do you mean to imply that is my brother? Wolf asks. Igor, the true Frankenstein family retainer replies, Only his mother was the lightening. And it is Wolf's voyage from arrogance and ignorance, (Why should we fear anything!) to humility and wisdom, (Never in my life have I known cold fear until that moment I felt his hand on my shoulder!) which is central to the film.While the film is a follow up to Bride of Frankenstein, it very much stands on its own. Gone are any references to the Bride and Dr, Praetorious, both presumably blown to atoms at the climax of that film. Also the monster doesn't speak. All traces of speech, at Karloff's insistence were eliminated. The portrait of Colin Clive as Henry Frankenstein dominates the castle's study, and recalls the earlier films. In the scenes on the train Wolf refers to the, Blunder of a stupid assistant who gave his father's creation the brain of a killer instead of a normal one. This is of course, a direct reference to the first film. Karloff's return to his greatest role completes the linking of the three films. And consistent with the impressive visuals, the Monster is given his most striking look. Gone is the distinctly twentieth century black garb so beloved of the Universal Frankenstein films. Instead the Monster is clothed in a crude sheepskin jersey, with heavy shirt and trousers stitched together with strips of leather. Indeed, his whole appearance has become that of a giant, an ogre out of Grimm or Perrault. He even gets the traditional giant's club in the form of Krogh's wooden arm at the film's climax. As if to underscore this, Peter gives the Monster a present-a storybook of fairy tales!The film may have the greatest horror film cast ever. There is Karloff dominating as the Monster. Given less screen time than in the previous film, his scenes are still among his most powerful. To cite just two examples, the scene where he rises like Lucifer out of the pit is like an image from Dante's Inferno while his primal howl of grief upon discovering the dead Igor is one of the Monster's greatest moments from any of the Frankenstein films. Bela Lugosi easily has his best role after Dracula as the broken neck, hunchback, Igor. Creepy, roguish, even pitiable, one is reminded of what a fine actor he could be with a role worthy of his talent. Lionel Atwill with his beautifully clipped vocal delivery and sardonic sense of humor has his definitive screen role as the one arm Inspector Krogh; he doesn't miss any opportunity for scene stealing bits of business with that wooden arm. And there is Basil Rathbone as Wolf. He doesn't have Karloff's make-up or Lugosi's broken neck or Atwill's wooden arm, but he gives a full-blooded commanding performance that refuses to get lost in this who's who of cinematic ghouls. William K. Everson once said that only a truly great actor can get away with a little deliberate ham now and then, and if Rathbone is a little over the top, it is ham well seasoned and served and adds enormously to the enjoyment of the film. Finally Frank Skinner's incredible film score would set the standard for Universal's horror films for the next decade. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good Sequel","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"37 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Usually the third film in a series shows signs of decline either in quality or inventiveness. Even the third 'Godfather' was significantly less than its predecessors. Universal's 'Frankenstein' series that began in the early 1930's was no exception and showed some wear by the end of the decade when 'Son of Frankenstein' was released. Under the sensitive direction of James Whale, the original 'Frankenstein' was a classic, and, in the first sequel, 'Bride of Frankenstein,' Whale even managed to better it. However, while Whale was not involved with 'Son,' the third installment turned out to be a surprisingly good movie even if it failed to match the two preceding films. Perhaps the major reason for the success of 'Son' was the casting of Basil Rathbone as Wolf Frankenstein, the original Baron's son. Rathbone is a fine strong actor, and his characterization certainly exceeds Colin Clive's somewhat colorless portrayal of his father in the preceding films. Rathbone holds the viewer's attention throughout as he becomes immersed in the legacy of his father and fails to comprehend the consequences of what he is doing. Boris Karloff returns for a third time as the monster. Although he does a fine job, there is less opportunity for the actor to show the range of emotion in this film that he displayed in 'Bride.' Another aspect of 'Son' that raises it above the ordinary is the set and lighting design, which owes a debt to German expressionism. The sets have bold diagonals in their construction, and the cameraman has lit them to cast equally bold shadows against bare walls and create abstract patterns that often recall 'The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari.' The lighting and design of one particular section of a cave under the Frankenstein laboratory could have been blown up and framed as an expressionist photograph. Although it does not reach the heights of the Whale films, 'Son of Frankenstein' is a worthy successor and an engrossing film in its own right. "},{"Title":"Shadows of Frankenstein","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"35 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Series note I strongly recommend that you watch the Frankenstein films to this point in order. Each builds on the events of the previous entry and will have much more meaning and significance if watched in order. The first film is Frankenstein (1931), and the second is Bride of Frankenstein (1935).The third film in Universal's Frankenstein series, Son of Frankenstein is set after the first two film's Henry Frankenstein has passed away. Baron Wolf von Frankenstein (Basil Rathbone), Henry's son, is on his way to claim his inheritance from his father, and receives a not-too-warm welcome from the small German town that has been frightened out of its wits by Henry's doings with monsters. While staying at the family castle, Wolf opens a box containing his father's research records and a note from his father encouraging him to follow in the same footsteps. He initially believes he's not worthy of such encouragement, but becoming a mad doctor may be easier than he thinks.In both the overall tone of the film and in the tone of Boris Karloff's last turn as The Monster, Son of Frankenstein is much more closely allied with James Whale's first Frankenstein film, rather than the camp-fest that was Bride of Frankenstein. New series director Rowland V. Lee has everything played various seriously, even Bela Lugosi's Ygor, which could have easily become funny, intentionally so or not.Adding to the atmosphere are the sets, which are just as grand in their own way as anything in either of Whale's two Frankenstein films. This time around the expressionist influence is at its strongest, but it is combined with a prescient minimalism. While the first two films had strong surrealist visual touches combined with their expressionism, Son of Frankenstein dispenses altogether with any concerns of approaching realism or naturalism. The idea here instead is to create starkness and shadows, often with a maximum of intentional artificiality. It's an appropriate approach that both pays homage to the earlier films and reflects the plot of the present film--shadows are an offspring of their parent objects, and the monster is an artificial man. The production and set design of the film is even more remarkable when one realizes that art directors of the era routinely worked on many films at once. Son of Frankenstein's Art Director Jack Otterson, for example, worked on over 50 films in 1942 alone! It's a rare treat to have three genre icons the caliber of Rathbone, Karloff and Lugosi together in one film. They mesh exquisitely, managing to enhance each other's performances with no one upstaging anyone else. Lionel Atwill, as Inspector Krogh, easily holds his own with the trio (although any fan of Mel Brooks' Young Frankenstein (1974) is sure to laugh at occasional moments involving Krogh, since he is so perfectly spoofed in Brooks' film), as does the beautiful Josephine Hutchinson as Frankenstein's wife Elsa (named after the woman who played The Bride in the previous film, Elsa Lanchester) and Donnie Dunagan as their son Peter.Lugosi's Ygor was supposedly improvised then written into the film--Lugosi was originally slated to play a policeman. This is remarkable in that his shepherd character and relationship to The Monster are so well integrated. The Monster symbolically wears a heavy woolen vest/smock, and has a deeply symbiotic relationship with Ygor that is the core of the film. Ygor is also undead in his own way.While Son of Frankenstein is not nearly as epic as the first two films, it should not be. Its aim is to unfold more like a stage play, with highly abstract, symbolic sets and finely integrated performances from a skilled cast. As such, it is every bit as good as the first two films in the series. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" The last Boris Karloff Frankenstein. The Baron's son Wolf (Basil Rathbone) comes to move to his late father's estate--a big beautiful castle. Inside he meets Ygor (Bela Lugosi) a crippled madman who wants to revive the Monster (Karloff). Naturally everything goes wrong.Elaborate sequel to the series--the last really good one that Universal spent money on. The sets are huge and incredibly bizarre (note the huge wooden stairs going to the second floor). Also they're shot using weird camera angles and making very good use of light and darkness. There's ALWAYS something to look at in this movie. The script is intelligent and literate with almost uniformly good performances. Basil Rathbone chews the scenery as Wolf. Josephine Hutchinson is given nothing to do as his wife--but she does it beautifully. Lionel Atwill (already typecast as a policeman) is good and very amusing with his wooden hand. Lugosi is really creepy as Ygor. Best of all is Karloff--he uses pantomime throughout the whole picture (even though in the previous Bride of... he had learned to speak) and gets every meaning across. He doesn't even really start going until an hour in but he makes up for it!The only debit is Frankenstein's son played by an annoying child actor named Donnie Dunagan. His acting is laughable (even for a child) and he speaks with a distinct Southern accent!!! Then again he WAS from Texas.Still, a really good, spooky, elaborate horror film. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Memorable","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  A strong cast (including Boris Karloff in his last screen appearance as the Monster) makes the second sequel to Frankenstein memorable.  This time Henry Frankenstein's son, Wolf (Basil Rathbone) revives the dormant monster with the help of Ygor (Bela Lugosi, in his most underrated performance).  This is an impressive, intelligent production that scores highly in all departments. 9/10 "},{"Title":"...he does things for me","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"16 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"   Son of Frankenstein is the third installment of Universal's long running Frankenstein series. It is also the longest running at 92 minutes and was given the biggest budget of all the Frankenstein films. Apparently Universal wanted this film to be their showpiece for 1939 and actually planned to film it in color. Unfortunately, the monster's makeup photographed a pale green and they went back to the old reliable black and white. With all the hoopla and first rate cast, this film comes up short of the first two in the series. The story picks up some years after the first two. Baron Wolf von Frankenstein (Basil Rathbone), the son of Henry, his wife Elsa (Josephine Hutchinson) and young son Peter (Donnie Dunagon) return to the family castle. The village resents him having not forgotten the carnage created by his father's creation. Lurking about the castle is the mysterious Ygor (Bela Lugosi) who harbors a deadly secret. Frankenstein confronts Ygor who shows him that the monster (Boris Karloff) created by his father did not perish. Ygor explains that He is my friend...he does things for me. We then learn that several prominent villagers have been mysteriously murdered and that the killer remains at large. Frankenstein gets his creative juices flowing and agrees to restore the monster to his full potential. Unknown to Frankenstein, the monster has been in contact with his son and has been moving about. A suspicious police inspector (Lionel Atwill) begins to watch Frankenstein's movements. Realizing that Ygor is in control of the monster the Baron confronts him and..... Director Rowland V. Lee takes over from James Whale as director and seems to favor dark shadowy geometric designs for his set pieces. Gone are the classic gothic creepy settings of the first two films. What we have are a sparsely furnished barn of a castle and only remnants of the glorious laboratories of the earlier films. This was the final appearance for Karloff as the monster. Here, he is given little to do except to be Ygor's henchman. He no longer talks and invokes no pathos whatsoever. Rathbone is way over the top as usual, as the Baron. Lugosi, in his best part in years, steals the film. He is the real villain of the piece. Given the time of the film, Lionel Atwill's character seems to be a lampoon of a German officer. And poor old Dwight Frye, wasted again, appears in the crowd as a villager. After this film the series would degenerate into B status with running times of just over an hour.   "},{"Title":"Or...The Legend of the Frankenstein Monster!","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"16 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  'Frankenstein' and 'Bride of...' pretty much told a complete story. And the story was fashioned in such a way that the viewer is watching the events as they unfold. As the events unfold, the story shifts from the torment of the creator, Frankenstein, to the torment of the creation, the Monster.Now in 'Son of...', the emphasis is shifted back to the scientist. And Karloff no longer has a monopoly on the role of the 'Back From the Dead'; he shares that with Lugosi's 'Ygor'. Nor does he have the monopoly on the 'Artificial Human'; he shares that spot with Atwill's one-armed 'Inspector Krogh'. Nor does he possess his personality that was gradually evolving in the first two entries. The Monster has been reduced to a hulking henchman bound to the will of the evil Ygor. The 'Monster turned pawn' had actually begun in 'Bride of...' as Pretorious used him to force Frankenstein to create the Monster's mate. You could almost say that the Monster was used as a tool for Henry Frankenstein to play God; a tool for Pretorious' dream to create a new race; and a tool for Ygor's desire for revenge on the jurors who condemned him to the hangman's noose. The difference in 'Son of...' is that the Monster no longer evolves and the character is left with no where to go.But this is still a fascinating film. Director Lee replaces realistic sets and background with surrealism. Details from the first two films are abandoned for light background and twisted, gargantuan shadows. And much of some great action set-pieces have already occurred off screen, before the movie begins. Which means we're left with alot of talk of 'what was' and 'what happened before'. Which kind of fits into the definition of what a legend constitutes. Fortunately, the actors doing the talking are Rathbone, Lugosi and Atwill. Even Rathbone's over the top performance can be forgiven, knowing his next film(?) was his signature (& debut) role as Sherlock Holmes in 'Hound of the Baskervilles', a role he was absolutely brilliant in.Even though Karloff has a much reduced role, the gigantic sets, dead trees and slanted architecture compels the viewer to be constantly aware of his lurking menace. It is this approach that, standing on its own, makes this a fine film. The viewer is forced to rely on imagination more than the first two movies put together. It is certainly a more polished film than the original. And Lugosi and Atwill's support acting are leagues above the wooden Mae Clarke, John Boles and Valerie Hobson. Like the Monster; tis better to have been made, than never to have been made at all. We would have missed out on all that fun.7 out of 10 !  One of my favorite 'Frankenstein' films. "},{"Title":"Karloff's Last  As The Monster And Lugosi's First As Ygor","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" The Son Of Frankenstein was made by Universal Studios under a new regime in 1939.Gone was Carl Laemmle Jr. who was so responsible for all of the great chillers that are true classics that every filmmaker is in someway inspired by whenever a new fright film is made.The new heads at Universal had realized that there was money to be made from the ghoulish creations that the Laemmles,James Whale,Tod Browning and the Great make-up wizard Jack Pierce had created.It was a year or so before Son Of Frankenstein was released when a wise theater owner had booked both Universal's Dracula and Frankenstein on a double bill which had audiences clamoring for them...so Universal realized they still had hot properties and so they decided to make another sequel to the famed Frankenstein series. The Great Basil Rathbone now played Baron Henry Frankenstein's son who would journey to his homeland to claim his inheritance.Rathbone is Baron Wolf von Frankenstein and his wife is Baroness Elsa von Frankenstein(Josephine Hutchinson) who have a little boy.Rowland V. Lee is the Director of this film and has made what is considered to be the darkest and most germanic film in the series.The village is now known as Frankenstein and the villagers are hateful even when Rathbone tries to reach out to them by making a passionate speech regretting what has happened to them and his Father having been responsible for the creation of the Monster...but it's to no avail as the Burgomeister says to this Baron von Frankenstein,we come to meet you, not to greet you. Colin Clive would be seen in the series only in clips now from the first two films he was in because he'd expired in 1937.Ironically,Basil Rathbone was in real life older than the man who'd played his Father with this Son Of Frankenstein having been born in 1892 and Colin Clive in 1900. The old watchtower is now on the Frankenstein estate where Rathbone's character goes and explores one morning.It is inside this old structure that he meets Bela Lugosi's greatest role of all timethe evil Ygor.A shaggy Lugosi with a moustache,beard, having a broken neck and speaking with a gravelly voice in broken English leads Rathbone to a secret crypt in the old watchtower where Baron Wolf von Frankenstein sees where his Father-Baron Heinrich von Frankenstein(better known as Henry) and his Grandfather are now buried. As Wolf and Ygor walk farther into this crypt he discovers the Frankenstein Monster(Boris Karloff) in a comatose state.In this scene,the Monster flinches as Rathbone's Baron von Frankenstein screams out in shock,He's Alive! ...proving he has the same great Frankenstein blood flowing through his veins as that of Colin Clive. This film is this writer's favorite of the Karloff and Lugosi films with Basil Rathbone and Lionel Atwill as Inspector Krogh giving excellent performances as well. The world that these character's live in this film is the most unreal of any in the series.It's always overcast or foggy with enormous dead trees that Karloff's Monster topples over while he goes about doing Ygor's bidding.Josephine Hutchinson had said that she,Rathbone and Lionel Atwill had found the movie hard to take seriously which may explain why Rathbone is delightfully hammy at times.But don't get this writer wrong I LOVE THIS FILM AND CONSIDER IT AN ALL TIME CLASSIC. Lionel Atwill is excellent as Inspector Krogh who had his arm pulled off by the Monster as a child and makes a point with it in numerous scenes throughout this movie. But Karloff and Lugosi work excellently together seeming to be the absolute closest of friends as Monster and the evil Ygor.Boris Karloff left this series on truly a high note . Son Of Frankenstein is one of the greatest movies ever made.The Great Boris Karloff would return to the Universal series one last time in 1944 in House Of Frankenstein to play the mad scientist Dr.Gustav Niemann...and he makes the most of this evil character too. "},{"Title":"Karloff, Lugosi and Rathbone in one movie? Someone please pinch me.","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" What a delightful sight, seeing Basil Rathbone, Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi all together in this movie. Seeing the three of them in one shot gave me a special feeling, these three guys are among the biggest screen legends of all time.Basil Rathbone is always a big pleasure to watch in a movie, he was a true great 'classic' actor. Bela Lugosi was almost unrecognizable in his role as Ygor and he played his character with lots of passion. Unfortunately the age was showing for Karloff. He was well over 50 years old when he played the Frankenstein monster for the last time in this movie. His 'old' age is truly notable, even through his make-up. I think it was a good thing that he never played the famous classic horror character again after this movie.The story is still interesting enough to make this movie original, even though the depth and emotions of the previous two Frankenstein movies is missing.It's a bit strange that the first two Frankenstein movies with Karloff are very well known but this movie is not. This movie is truly excellent and should deserve so more recognition and appreciation. The atmosphere is just as good as from the previous two movies and the monster is still one powerful horror character, even though his role is rather limited compared to the first two movies. This time the real main part is Baron Wolf von Frankenstein played by Basil Rathbone. Some people might be disappointed by this but being a fan of Rathbone I'm not complaining about this.The movie has enough originality and the story is surely interesting enough to call this movie a worthy addition to the Frankenstein movie legacy. But what made this movie truly interesting and amazing to me, were the three main actors of the movie Rathbone, Karloff and Lugosi.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Frankenstein III Monster & Son","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Son of Frankenstein (Universal, 1939), directed by Rowland V. Lee, marked a new beginning to the second cycle of Universal horror a lavish, stylish, stagy production as well as the longest (94 minutes) movie in the FRANKENSTEIN series. Boris Karloff returns for the third and final time as The Monster, but unfortunately, after such a grand performance in The Bride of Frankenstein (1935), in which Karloff got star billing, The Monster in this production is of secondary importance, coming late into the story and spending more than half the film lying in an unconscious state on an operating table inside the lab. Star billing goes to Basil Rathbone as Baron Wolf Von Frankenstein, the son of the scientist who brought nothing but misery in the German town, but the scene stealer in this production happens to be Bela Lugosi, almost unrecognizable as the bearded character of Ygor, possibly his best performance in his latter day career. It features Lugosi in a performance unlike anything he has done thus far, and he virtually helps the story along especially during its numerous slow spots. This also marked his fourth teaming opposite Karloff, but this time, Lugosi outshines Karloff's performance. Then there is Lionel Atwill, another horror film veteran, making his debut in the series, playing a one armed police inspector, another interesting presence to the story.The story, set in a Gothic German village, finds Wolf Von Frankenstein (Basil Rathbone) returning by train to the town where his parents once lived. He is accompanied by his charming wife, Elsa (Josephine Hutchinson), and their little boy, Peter (Donnie Donegan). Wolf hopes to make amends to the villagers from what his late father had done (creating a Monster who terrorized their village years ago) and become their good neighbors, but with the Frankenstein name, the family is cursed, and nobody wants anything to do with them. The Frankensteins are first met by Inspector Krough (Atwill), a police official with an artificial arm, claiming to have lost his real arm when he was a young boy when the Monster ripped from his body by the roots, but in spite of all this, Krough is on duty to aide the Frankensteins in case trouble amongst the villagers prevails. Also in the castle where the Frankensteins are staying are Aunt Amelia (Emma Dunn), and Thomas Benson, the butler (Edgar Norton).While the movie starts off rather slowly, it then comes to life when Wolf encounters Ygor (Bela Lugosi), a crazed bearded shepherd who was once or twice sentenced and hanged for grave robbing, and still lives. Ygor is also the master of the Monster (Karloff), who does things for him. His coma condition happens to be a result of an aftereffect of being struck by lightning, and Ygor calls on Wolf to help revive the monster.Son of Frankenstein is more of a science fiction nature than horror, since the movie spends a great deal of footage in the laboratory having Frankenstein examining his father's creation and how this physical being has survived such ordeals after finding his heart containing two bullets, etc. But after Karloff's monster is revived, he manages to present himself with some key scenes, such as looking at himself in the mirror and pulling Wolf along side him as a comparison; and the Monster's fondness of children, especially Wolf's little boy who fears him not.The storyline, however, contradicts what had been said and done in previous movies, such as letting the Monster, who had learned to talk in The Bride of ..., resorting back to only grunts. It even fails to explain how the Monster had survived his demise from the earlier film. And what's the deal with the woolly garment he is wearing? In spite of these drastic changes, the movie itself is full of characters, ranging from Lionel Bellmore, the Burgomaster in 1931's Frankenstein, now playing Emile Lang, along with Gustav Von Seyffertitz (the villainous Grimes in the 1926 silent classic, Sparrows) as one of the jurors. While Colin Clive's Frankenstein character allowed himself to become hysterical in the first two entries, viewers expect and accept this, but when Rathbone's character calls for him to do the same, especially during the dart playing sequence with Krough, this somewhat becomes embarrassing to sit through, in spite that Rathbone is a very capable actor who seldom overacts as he does here.While not on the same scale as James Whale's earlier carnations of the Frankenstein films, Son of Frankenstein is still watchable, mainly because of its Universal staff players, and added sound effects of thunder and lightning, as well as very moody setting made to the comforts of home for the Frankenstein family. The underscoring by Frank Skinner introduced here would be heard time and time again in other Universal horror films of the 1940s. This movie played on numerous cable channels, including the Sci-Fi Channel, American Movie Classics (1991, and again from 2000 to 2002, 2006), and finally on Turner Classic Movies where it premiered in January 2003. It can also be found as a video/DVD purchase or rental. (***) "}{"Title":"One doesn't easily forget, Herr Baron, an arm torn out by the roots.","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" When Baron Wolf von Frankenstein (Basil Rathbone) arrives to take over his father's estate, the locals immediately begin to fear for the worst. Wolf's father created a monster that terrorized the community and the townsfolk want no more of that. Wolf assures everyone that he has no intentions of creating a monster. But when Wolf finds Ygor (Bela Lugosi) living in the ruins of his father's laboratory, he is soon headed down the same path of destruction that claimed his father.Over the years, there have been volumes written on the Universal classic horror movies. Realizing that it would be foolish of me to attempt to improve or add much to the writings of these scholars, I'll instead focus on a couple of areas that make Son of Frankenstein so special to me.1. The Acting. Son of Frankenstein features a Who's Who of the best of the classic horror actors. Joining Rathbone and Lugosi in the cast are Boris Karloff and Lionel Atwill. While each gives a noteworthy performance in their own right, Lugosi's performance is generally held up as the best of his career. And while I agree, Rathbone makes Son of Frankenstein a joy for me to watch. There are very few actors that I can think of who could have played Wolf with the same type of intelligent energy that Rathbone exhibits. He's wonderful. As for Karloff, I'm glad he decided to make Son of Frankenstein his last as the monster. By the time of the second sequel, Karloff's monster became little more that a prop for Lugosi, Rathbone, and Atwill to fight over.2. The Sets. I'm not exaggerating when I say that the sets in Son of Frankenstein are among the best I've ever seen. The sets are amazing with their bizarre angles and shadows. Two that immediately come to mind are the dining table set and the staircase set at the beginning of the movie. They are in a class of their own.Every fan of horror, or just good classic movies in general, owes it to themselves to see Son of Frankenstein. It may not be as well known among the casual fan as either Frankenstein or Bride of Frankenstein, but it many ways it's the equal of those two films (if not better). "},{"Title":"It Runs in the Family","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  Basil Rathbone plays Wolf, the son of Frankenstein, returning to his inheritance of castle and lab with wife and child in tow.  Along the way he meets his father's old assistant Ygor, who has a broken neck from having been hanged and living, and the creature his father created.  The townspeople get excited, a couple die, and mayhem takes over.  This movie is above-average for a number of reasons.  First and foremost it is a highly stylized movie in the German impressionistic manner.  The sets are incredible and director Rowland Lee spares little in showing us his appreciation of movies such as Nosferatu and Caligari.  The castle is a huge atmospheric temple and each room is just as big in its own way.  This is the film that inspired most of Mel Brook's Young Frankenstein both in look and plot.  The plot is good but the acting carries it beyond that.  Karloff as always does a great job in his final role as the monster.  Rathbone makes a great scientist trying to avenge his father's name.  He starts the movie very relaxed and his tension builds and builds.  His scenes with Atwill are his best.  That brings us to the two great performances of the film...Lionel Atwill and Bela Lugosi.  Lugosi as Ygor is perhaps his greatest role after Dracula.  His voice, his leers, his manner are all wonderfully played.  It is Lugosi that steals every scene he is in.  That is not bad because Lionel Atwill steals every scene he is in(the two have no scenes together).  Atwill brings life into his role as an inspector with a wooden arm.  Atwill has grace and charm, and a generous dose of humour.  This is his best role as far as I am concerned.  Just listening to him give his speech about his encounter with the monster as a child is at one hand chilling and at the other emotional.  Son of Frankenstein deservedly ranks as one of the great Universal horror pictures.  It is not as good as The Bride of Frankenstein, but looks better than any of the Universal horror pictures.  And that is as great a compliment as any! "},{"Title":"The son is even better than the father!","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Son of Frankenstein ushered in Universal's Second Golden Age of Horror. Inspired by the turnaway business generated by a double bill revival of the original Dracula and Frankenstein, the new Universal management decided to revive the monster for the third time. Once again, Karloff played the monster (for the last time in the movies) and here he was brilliantly supported by the finest horror cast ever assembled Bela Lugosi (who for once has a decent-sized role&#151;built up by director/producer Lee&#151;which he plays with admirable intensity); Basil Rathbone (supremely jittery as the misguided baron, Rathbone plays the heir with a clipped, compelling authority that is both convincing yet sympathetic); and Lionel Atwill (probably his most memorable part as the punctilious police inspector who uses his wooden arm as a grotesque prop).Although the monster doesn't enter for some time, the atmospheric build-up is absolutely terrific. This is achieved not only by clever scripting, skilled acting and a tingling, eerily tense music score (entirely composed and scored in a frantic fortnight, Lionel Newman tells us, in order to meet the pre-set Hollywood premiere on 13 January 1939), but by the amazingly effective use of expressionist sets (superbly lensed by ace cinematographer George Robinson, a specialist in film noirish lighting). Often Lee cleverly keeps the sets right in the foreground, while the players are grouped at the back. Naturally, as soon as the sets started to receive widespread favorable critical comment, supervising art director Jack Otterson (who had not initially been all that enthusiastic) started to claim credit for the whole idea. Heavily influenced yet quite distinct from Caligari, these psychological sets, as Jack Otterson called them, represent a remarkable arrangement of oddly angled and slanting lines intersected by heavy masses and shadows. All told, an extraordinary achievement that, although wholly successful, was never again attempted in a Hollywood movie. On all fronts&#151;screenplay, acting, direction, cinematography, sets and atmosphere&#151;Son of Frankenstein is an absolute winner. Not only the best in the series, it's one of the all-time greats. Its only flaw&#151;and it's a small one&#151;is the occasionally too-stilted performance delivered by young Donnie Dunagan (whom Lee had used in a featured role in 1938's Mother Carey's Chickens and was to use again in a very small part in his 1939 Tower of London starring Rathbone and Karloff). "},{"Title":"The Frankenstein Legacy","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" For the last time on the big screen Boris Karloff got on the heavy makeup and elevator shoes to play the Frankenstein monster in Son Of Frankenstein. The title role is reserved for Basil Rathbone who has returned with his wife Josephine Hutchinson and and son Donnie Dunnagan to reclaim title to the castle that has the laboratory where his father conducted those experiments that had such an impact on those around the area.For which reason the local villagers aren't really thrilled to have a Frankenstein family member back in town. Rathbone is as much the scientist as his old man and would dearly love to clear his family's reputation. He gets that chance when the hunchbacked Igor leads him to the monster.The two roles that are unforgettable in Son Of Frankenstein are Bela Lugosi as Igor and Lionel Atwill as the one armed inspector Krogh. Both certainly were lampooned in Mel Brooks's Young Frankenstein, but they are played straight and real here. Lugosi was a graverobber who used to unearth dead bodies for Rathbone's father to experiment on. He was hanged for it and unfortunately for all around it didn't take, just left him with a crooked shape and a thirst for revenge.As for Atwill as a child his right arm was ripped from its socket and he makes do with what probably was a state of the art prosthetic arm for its time. He's got the biggest score of all to settle with the monster and he bides his time knowing that Rathbone's scientific curiosity will get him experimenting again in the family tradition.Son Of Frankenstein takes its place in the pantheon of the Universal horror collection. With a cast well versed in the genre even after seventy years, the film still has the capacity to frighten. "},{"Title":"The Rot Is Starting To Set In","Date":"16 January 2010","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" SON OF FRANKENSTEIN marks the last appearance of Boris Karloff as the Frankenstein monster and it's easy to see why he started to feel unhappy with the character . Where as in BRIDE he gave a memorable performance bathed in pathos here he merely becomes an instrument for Ygor . It's also at this point you notice how clumsy the studio are to continuity . Where as in the previous film the monster has the power of speech here his vocal communication begins and ends with grunts and groans . This clumsy - dare one say ignorant - lack of continuity would dog Universal through the rest of their FRANKENSTEIN franchise SON is a very mixed bag . One thing noticeable is that war with Germany is on the horizon and America was far less neutral than she was during the last one hence the need for Frankenstein's son to be Anglinised . It's interesting to see the native German characters being both Teutonic and suspicious of outsiders . There's also a noticeable scene where a spy can be easily bought . You can't trust these Germans , especially if they're poised to invade the rest of Europe Director Rowland V Lee isn't really in the same class as James Whale but does bring a directorial touch to the film . The sets are expansive and impressive and he makes good use of shadow lighting which gives the movie a bleak mood . Unlike the previous two films there does seem to be a large lack of studio exteriors which might make the film more claustrophobic but also makes it appear more static too He does have an erratic time with the cast though . Bela Lugosi is best remembered as Dracula but as Ygor he probably gives a lifetime best performance and he's the standout character of the film . Karloff is less good because the screenplay by Wyllis Cooper makes him an archetypal monster , ( Though it's interesting to see a reference that erroneously confuses the monster with the creator , a mistake that lasts to this day ) while Donnie Dunnigan as Peter is like most child actors from the period bloody irritating whilst Basil Rathbone as Baron Frankenstein over acts every time he's supposed to nervous All in all this is a rather uneven film , more so if you've seen either of the first two films very recently . It continues the standard by the earlier FRANKENSTEIN films by blending chills and off beat humour (  You spat on me  -  No I didn't I was clearing my throat  ) but shows flaws that become more and more apparent in later films of the franchise of poor continuity and having the monster as literally a monster . You can see why Karloff went off to pastures new "},{"Title":"The Monster That Revived Horror at Universal","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" In the mid-30s, Universal saw a change in management and slowly moved away from the horror genre. In 1938, however, theaters in the states began showing a successful double bill of Dracula and FRANKENSTEIN which revived interest. Naturally, Universal saw this publicity opportunity and went to work on a new monster movie. The success of this movie would lead to relaunching of all three of their original monsters in the years to come after.Of those three monster series (FRANK, Dracula and MUMMY), the Frankenstein flicks seems to make the most sense in terms of continuity. Yes, there are plenty of plot points that seem to conveniently forget anything that has come before, but for the most part each movie picks up where the previous left off.This movie is nowhere near the classic that the first two entries in the series are, probably owing to the loss of director James Whale. It's lacking the Gothic shadows and electrical mad science lab feel of the original. Gone are the whimsical humor (though maybe not a bad thing) and humanization of the monster from BRIDE. Instead, we get a less atmospheric sequel focused more on an evil new character, the son of Frankenstein slowly descending into hysteria and more violence and murder.The best additions are the two new actors. Bela Lugosi plays Ygor for the first time here and is remarkable. I am a huge Lugosi geek (even loving his poverty row cheapies) but the majority of the time he plays the same character in different clothes. Here, we have his most fully realized character since Dracula. Ygor is an evil little man, hellbent on revenge for a botched execution. Lugosi plays the role well, even using a voice acting that almost eliminates traces of his accent. The other addition is Basil Rathbone as Wolf Von Frankenstein. He does a very admirable job of running through a range of emotion. At first humbled by guilt for the sins of his father, his discovery of the monster leads to the same fervent fever for creation of life that overtook his dad. Eventually, as he realizes the implications of his actions, he begins a descent into hysteria that only culminates in the finale of the movie as he atones for those actions.The monster is a disappointment, though. In the first movie, we got a sense of his complicated nature, as we see the innocence as well as the monster to fear. In BRIDE, he begins to talk and really develop as a sympathetic creature. All of that is gone here. He is, essentially, a minion of Ygor, sent to do his bidding and we only briefly see glimpses of his humanity. Of course, this is Karloff's last appearance as the monster and it would continue to devolve in the following movies.This is definitely one of the better Universal sequels and would prove to be the last time Universal sank a large budget into one of their horror offerings. From here, they are all strictly b class. "},{"Title":"Adequate Sequel To Universal's Frankenstein","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" By the mid to late 1930s, horror film production was in a slump. The unexpected success of a triple bill re-release of King Kong/Dracula/Frankenstein convinced Universal to invest in an all new color production of Frankenstein. Although the make-up tests looked terrible enough to scrap plans to film Son of Frankenstein in color, the production went on with Basil Rathbone cast as Wolf Von frankenstein, taking over from Peter Lorre whose failing health forced him to withdraw from the film. The uncanny Boris Karloff opted to reprise his role as The Monster one last time despite a script that reduced his role to one-dimensional proportions. And Bela Lugosi appears for the first time as the conniving Ygor, a ghoulish hunchback who befriends the monster. Director Rowland (The Wolf of Wall Street) Lee tries hard to construct a film which embraces the surreal look and feel of Frankenstein and it's immediate sequel but he's not the visionary James Whale was. The Son of Frankenstein was a huge hit for the studio anyway and The Ghost of Frankenstein was set to follow. "},{"Title":"The last non-pedestrian sequel in the Frankenstein cycle.","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  I have always loved this film.  It was the second Universal Frankenstein film I ever saw (first was Abbott and Costello).  I feel that Lugosi's Ygor was his best acting on film.  Some people complain that Rathbone's performance was too hammy and over the top.  I disagree.  This film was meant to be surreal fantasy and a high-strung Wolfgang Frankenstein fit in perfectly.  I remember being genuinely scared by the Monster's post-resurrection appearance with Rathbone in the lab.  Karloff did a fine job with his last appearance as the Monster.  Atwill was vintage Atwill. All-in-all this is an enjoyable film and a true classic. "},{"Title":"Best of all the Universal Frankenstein Films","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" I recently purchased the Frankenstein Legacy Collection and enjoyed seeing all the Universal Frankenstein films. After enjoying Frankenstein and Bride of Frankenstein, I feared Son Of Frankenstein would be a poor attempt to bring in a few extra dollars using the Frankenstein franchise. Boy was I wrong! I found this to be the best of the Frankenstein films. For the first time, the motivation of a mad scientist is explained. Previously, audiences were not given a reason for Henry Frankenstein's madness. This time, they learn that Wolf von Frankenstein seeks to vindicate his father's work. The monster has never looked better either. He wears a sheep skin pancho that gives him an even grimmer appearance. Bela Lugosi really shines as Ygor who has befriended the monster. Inspector Krogh is a great addition to the cast as a fair but cautious lawman. I feel this film was the peak of the Frankenstein movies as it seems Ghost of Frankenstein and House of Frankenstein did not match the quality of Son of Frankenstein. "},{"Title":"His mother was lightning.","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Wolf von Frankenstein (Basil Rathbone), the son of Henry Frankenstein from the first two films, has returned to Europe from America to inherit his father's castle. He brings along his wife and young son. They are greeted coldly by the local villagers, who are suspicious of anyone bearing the Frankenstein name. Their suspicions are soon justified when Frankenstein meets Ygor (Bela Lugosi), a graverobber who has a deformed neck due to a botched hanging. Ygor takes Wolf to the comatose body of the monster (Boris Karloff) his father created and the son decides to follow in his father's footsteps by reviving the creature.The third film in Universal's Frankenstein series and the first without James Whale. It's a terrific movie that adds a lot to the Frankenstein mythos, particularly Ygor. It doesn't get as much respect as the first two Frankenstein films but it really should. It's just as creative and influential. The plots of the Frankenstein sequels that followed would owe more to this film than its predecessors. It would also be the primary source for the Mel Brooks parody movie Young Frankenstein. Rowland V. Lee's direction is impressive and he more than proves himself worthy to follow in the footsteps of Whale. The music by Frank Skinner is wonderful. I love the Expressionistic sets. The cast is one of the finest Universal ever assembled. Horror legends Bela Lugosi and Lionel Atwill both have roles here that are career highlights. Lugosi's Ygor is often touted as his best acting performance, something that is very hard to argue against. Atwill's wooden-armed Inspector Krogh is undeniably memorable and might be his finest role as well. For his part, Basil Rathbone plays the part of Wolf brilliantly but he doesn't get much respect from critics, who call him hammy. To me, he's never over the top or distracting in his performance. If he's hammy, it's with a precision that many actors could learn from. This was Boris Karloff's final turn as the monster in the Frankenstein series. While he's given less to work with than the last film, he still manages to create a sympathetic and human monster. The subsequent actors taking on the role would pretty much play the monster as a mindless, hulking creature with little personality. When it comes to actors portraying Frankenstein's monster, there's Boris Karloff and then there's everybody else far down the list. The only oddity in the cast is Donnie Dunagan, the little boy playing Frankenstein's son. He was from the (American) South so he has this noticeable accent that stands out, as well as being a pretty poor little actor. He flubs several lines. Still, for avid fans like myself there's a certain charm to his quirky casting. Perhaps it's because so many of the Universal horrors took place in a blended 19th/20th century fictional world with actors of various nationalities all playing countrymen.Son of Frankenstein serves as a perfect finish to the series. Yes, there are more sequels but those films, while very entertaining, are not on the level of the original three masterpieces. The trilogy of Frankenstein, Bride, and Son are among the finest, most creative films Universal put out, regardless of genre. There is genuine artistry on display in these three films. While the first two get an appropriate amount of respect and praise, I can't help but feel this one gets the short end of the stick. It's really a fantastic movie and one of my favorites of the entire Universal horror catalogue. "}{"Title":"Wow, Its Still Alive, Really!","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" I love Son Of Frankenstein, its a fantastically made film and it does deserve all the praise it gets... but it doesn't have what made the first two Frankenstein films so great.I think the fact that they basically threw away all the characterization of the monster annoyed me to no end. The monster by the end of Bride was a fully formed character, we knew who he was as a character and was fully relatable. Son decides to toss that out the window and basically reboot the monster. In fact, Son actually ignores Bride almost completely, it doesn't mention anything of Dr. Pretorius, what happened to the Bride etc. I realise this takes place about 40 years after Bride because Baron is Henry Frankensteins son, and at the end of Bride he didn't have a son, but ... I don't care, you can throw all the excuses you want as to why everything makes perfect sense from Bride to Son but to me it doesn't feel as connected as it should.Karloff isn't the heavyweight he was in the original and Bride. He puts in a good performance but after Bride you expected more from the character, and because the character has reset, Karloff really can't do much with him, so I blame the writing, not Karloff himself.But lets get into why I love this film. Bela Lugosi and Basil Rathbone as Ygor and Baron Wolf Von Frankenstein. Lugosi as Ygor rivals Dracula as his best performance. The weird, raspy voiced man with a broken neck completely upstages Karloff in every scene, a character that was probably as much fun to play for Lugosi as it was to watch for me. Baron is a fantastic character, having to deal with being in the dark shadows of his fathers actions he slowly becomes a nervous wreck as the film progresses leading to a great scene with Lionel Atwill while playing darts.Lionel Atwill as Inspector Krogh is a blast as well, great dramatic performance as a man whose armed was ripped from its roots by the monster when he was a young boy.Overall, Son Of Frankenstein is a fantastic film. I wish they had of continued to explore the monster from Bride but instead we got given this, but if getting what I wanted means loosing Lugosi as Ygor, then I would pick Son every time. "},{"Title":"A (Pre)Urban Legend","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" From a visual presentation, Son of Frankenstein is fantastic. It features some of the best sets of the series. All the buildings in the village have weird sloping roofs. The boxes of the judge's house loom high over the floor. Grotesque stone gargoyles framed either side of the Frankenstein dining room, glaring down on the family as they eat. The cave leading into the laboratory has a hallucinatory rocky ceiling. A giant circular opening leads up into the lab, the bubbling sulfur pit casting an eerie glow over all the electronics. The architecture casts odd shadows on the wall. While the film mostly builds atmosphere with these elements, it has at least one scene of good old fashion foggy nights, a moment of the Monster wandering through the countryside. The film is well-shot. I love the Monster's reveal, which involves a slow pull back, the body on a slab before Basil Rathbone and Ygor. In another scene, the Monster is raised up on the surgical table, the soles of his boots right in the viewer's face.Often regarded as the last good Frankenstein movie, there are aspect of Son that are utterly fascinating. Ygor watching over the sleeping child, peering in through a secret window in the wall, is frankly nightmarish. The son of Colin Clive's Henry Frankenstein (Here called Heinrich, first of many continuity gaffs), Wolf returns with his family to the ancestral home. He too is a man of science and is determined to reclaim his father's legacy as one of good. In a particularly effective scene, Wolf discovers a vandal has written on his father's tomb Maker of Monsters. Once he has decided to resurrect the creature, he carves Maker of MEN over the graffiti.Wolf is under constant security from the villagers and his attempts to hide his obvious guilt leads to him being highly nervous throughout. In a montage, the Monster is studied from every scientific angle and we realize just how truly inhuman he is. Basil Rathbone supposedly didn't want to do the film but I actually like his performance quite a bit. His constant anxiety could be seen as a little over the top but I think it works. It adds a certainly energy to the film.This was the last time Karloff played the Monster, fearing the character had been reduced to a mindless killing machine. His concerns were valid. As far as emotional depth goes, the creature isn't given much to work with. Mostly he lumbers about, rather stiffly, doing Ygor's work. The Monster kills without remorse and doesn't seem much interested in anything else. Even then, Karloff manages to sneak in a moment or two. He slowly sneaks up on Wolf, places a hand on his shoulder. The doctor faces the Monster, horrified, as the creature's hands slowly work around his throat. However, Karloff steps back, rubs his head, confused. The Monster is still disgusted with his reflection and the late scenes with the little boy recall the flower girl sequence from the original. Still, as a hardcore nerd committed to fan-wankery, you can justify this behavior. He's been blown up and struck by lightening. His mind is bound to be scrambled.Even from a character development angle, it can work. In the forty-some years of his existence, the Monster has had to live with almost total rejection and fear. Reacting to any other life with murderous rage shouldn't be unexpected. His anguished wails over Ygor's death are probably the closest Karloff is allowed to get to the earlier film's diversity. I can't blame Boris for dropping out after this one. And, for the record, I like the shag jacket.Ygor is an odd character. He's the primary villain in the film. Up until the very end, the Monster is a moving plot device, manipulated by the madman. I love the idea of a man who survived a hanging, a permanent knot in his neck. Lugosi, growling his lines in broken English, certainly gives a very different performance then his Dracula.Lionel Atwill's Inspector Krogh is another famous contribution to the Frankenstein legacy. Atwill's monologue about how he lost his arm is deeply effective. He doesn't overact with the wooden arm. Honestly, it's cool and sets up an awesome moment at the end. I personally love that the Monster has become something of a (pre)urban legend, something whispered about, more myth then actuality at this point.I honestly like Son of Frankenstein a lot. It pales helplessly compared to the first two films but, as a sequel, it follows up the themes in logical ways while providing a few cool addition of its own. Young Frankenstein owes way more to this movie then most realize. "},{"Title":"Great Third Entry To Universal's Frankenstein Series","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" While not quite on a par with its brilliant predecessors, James Whale's masterpieces FRANKENSTEIN (1931) and BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN (1935), this third entry to Universal's classic FRANKENSTEIN franchise is yet another great film that must not be missed by any lover of classic Horror. Rowland V. Lee's SON OF FRANKENSTEIN (1939) is filmed in a great visual style that often resembles the earlier silent Horror films from the era of German Expressionism (such as THE CABINET OF DR. CALIGARI) rather than that of other Universal Horror films. The film is wonderfully creepy and has a brilliant ensemble cast including Horror icons Boris Karloff (as the monster), Bela Lugosi (as the fiendish Ygor) and Basil Rathbone (as the eponymous Son of the infamous Dr. Frankenstein).After his father's death, Baron Wolf von Frankenstein (Rathbone) comes back to the village of Frankenstein with his wife and son. The inhabitants of which are still more than aware of the elder Frankenstein's macabre experiments and their fatal results. A scientist himself, Frankenstein laughs off their worries at first. Of course, the fascination with his father's work soon becomes overwhelming, however...Frankenstein's monster is less human than in the predecessors, and mainly a tool used by the vengeful Ygor (Lugosi), who once survived his own execution. As it was often the case, Bela Lugosi delivers the most interesting, creepiest character here while the younger Frankenstein played by Rathbone is basically the same as his father, with a slightly stronger sense of morality. The set-pieces are wonderfully creepy, and especially the use of shadows reminds of German Expressionist cinema. Overall, SON OF FRANKENSTEIN is yet another great entry to Universal's FRANKENSTEIN series and no Horror lover can afford to miss it. "},{"Title":"Baron Wolf von Frankenstein","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Son Of Frankenstein, directed by Rowland V. Lee and starring Basil Rathbone as Baron Frankenstein, Boris Karloff as The Monster his last turn as the creature, Lionel Atwill as Inspector Krogh and Bela Lugosi as Ygor. That's quite a cast list, add in a sharp script from Willis Cooper and the stunning sets from Russell Gausman, and you got a sequel that's well worth its salt.Following on from Bride Of Frankenstein 25 years later, the film sees son of Frankenstein Baron Wolf von Frankenstein Rathbone return to the family home and scene of his fathers monstrosities. Receiving a less than Luke warm reception on arrival, Wolf is presented with a box containing his fathers papers. After being told in no uncertain terms that continuing his fathers work will not be tolerable, Wolf laughs off the notion. However the next day he's out wandering in the ruins and comes across Ygor, his dead fathers assistant. Where it's revealed that The Monster is still alive but very much comatose. Wolf then becomes obsessed with bringing the monster back to full life, thus to prove his father had the right intention but not the execution of his ideas.It's a ripper of a sequel is this, perhaps lacking in the humour that James Whale brought to the first two films, it is however a well constructed feature boasting great performances from Rathbone the part was originally planned for Peter Lorre, Lionel Atwill having a riot with his false arm and Lugosi possibly a career high in terms of substance. Lee stamps his own marker on the piece and I think the nicest thing one can say is that his film sits well with Whale's classics. The only let down is actually Karloff's monster, stripped of voice at Karloff's insistence, the monster is now reduced to being a lumbering robot. It's not a fitting farewell to the great work that Karloff did with this brilliant creation. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Last of the great Frankenflicks","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Frankenstein film number 3 for Universal, major changes were afoot with SON OF FRANKENSTEIN. The most significant difference is the departure of James Whale from the series; Rowland V. Lee takes over with confidence and competence, but alas he is not nearly as inspired as Whales. Fortunately, he is a good mimic of Whale's style, and the film retains many of the trademarks of the first two Frankenstein films; great, Gothic, expressionistic sets and a total absence of sunlight... gloomy and foggy are as good as the weather gets in the town of Frankenstein, and that's in between violent thunderstorms... these are stylistically consistent with FRANKENSTEIN (1931) and BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN (1935), and, in fact, Lee often brings these elements to new heights. He also carries over some of the humor of BRIDE, especially if one believes the character of the Inspector with his famous artificial arm, and Wolf von Frankenstein himself, with his clumsy attempts to cover up the nature of his experiments, are intentionally funny characters (I'm not sure they are!). Another huge difference in this third picture is the absence of Colin Clive (who had unfortunately passed away prior to this picture). Basil Rathbone as the title character gets a little over the top as the film progresses, and I found his acting to actually be one of the film's few liabilities (along with some minor revisionist continuity with the first two films). But this is more than compensated for by the outstanding performances of Bela Lugosi as Ygor (in my opinion his finest performance), and Karloff, in his last performance as the Monster. Karloff actually has less to do in this film than in the previous two and for the most part isn't given much room to show off his acting chops, but he comes through with a vengeance in the scene where he discovers his only friend, Ygor, has been killed. His performance in this scene is heartbreaking, and the pinnacle of his involvement in the Frankesntein franchise. This film doesn't quite match the first two films in the series, and the happy ending seems kind of abrupt and out of place, but there is some genuine excitement during the climax of the film, some creepy atmospherics leading up to it, and definitive performances from the two greatest actors in the illustrious history of classic Universal horror. "},{"Title":"What a gem!","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" I recently viewed this in HD on DishNetwork's Monster channel. The pristine quality of the film was wonderful. What a treat! I can't believe I never saw it before. It was obviously the inspiration for Mel Brooks' Young Frankenstein, in particular the mechanical arm of Inspector Krogh. Even included the dart throwing scene when Krogh stuck the darts in his wooden arm. Bela Lugosi was hardly recognizable as Ygor. The housekeeper didn't hold a candle (no pun intended) to Cloris Leachman but Josephine Hutchinson (Elsa von Frankenstein) was excellent. I thought the entire cast was terrific and overall the film was well acted. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"... your father made him to live always.","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" How great was today, the American Movie Channel offered back to back showings of Frankenstein, Bride of Frankenstein and Son of Frankenstein as part of it's ten day Halloween fest. For the latter two films, it was my first opportunity ever to view both, and it made for a wonderfully entertaining day. Basil Rathbone appears as the titled Son of Dr. Henry Frankenstein, the Colin Clive role in the first two films. In perhaps an odd coincidence, reference is made in the story to Scotland Yard relative to six murders; in his very next film, The Hound of the Baskervilles, Rathbone would begin a hugely successful run as detective Sherlock Holmes.There are a number of departures from the earlier movies, the main one being Boris Karloff's entirely differentiated attire from the 'classic' look of the Frankenstein monster. Here he's wearing an out of character (at least for me) sheepskin type vest, reduced to the guttural grunting of the first film, whereas he was learning to speak in the interim film Bride. While Dr. Henry Frankenstein's assistants in the first two movies were named Fritz and Karl (both portrayed by Dwight Frye), this is the one in which we're introduced to the familiar 'Ygor' sidekick, masterfully played by Bela Lugosi.Now if the appearance of Rathbone, Karloff and Lugosi weren't enough, this film adds Lionel Atwill in a role that's almost a caricature, that of police Inspector Krogh. Perhaps I've been contaminated by the Kenneth Mars role in Young Frankenstein, but if I had never seen this film, I would have believed Mel Brooks made up the whole dart scene in his screen send up. Instead, when Krogh rams all those darts into his wooden arm, I could no longer contain myself.In fact, more than any other Frankenstein film in the series, this one probably provides the most fodder for director Brooks in his hilarious offering. How about Elsa von Frankenstein's reply to 'that awful knocker? And didn't Gene Wilder bear just a little more resemblance to Rathbone's character than can be explained by mere coincidence? And when you get right down to it, those arm gyrations of the Inspector made it almost seem like Son was a parody of Young Frankenstein and not vice versa.Getting back to the matter at hand, it did seem to me though that the film got more and more camp as it progressed. By the time Baron Wolf is confronted by Krogh near the end of the film, he's (Wolf) just about over the top with his explanation of Ygor's demise - He tried to murder me with his hammer, so I shot him. Besides that, he seemed pretty deadly with the darts, it looked like he hit the bulls eye more than once.If you have the chance, try to view the Frankenstein films in order of release, as each sequel builds on the events of the prior movie. If that's not possible, no problem, as each movie stands on it's own legs pretty successfully as well. As an added bonus, throw in Young Frankenstein as the cherry topping onto the mix, it will only add to your appreciation of all three. "},{"Title":"Son of Frankenstein (1939) ***1/2","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" The third in Universal's original Frankenstein trilogy begins with Wolf von Frankenstein (Basil Rathbone in a part said to have been passed over by Peter Lorre) arriving with his wife (Josephine Hutchinson) and son Peter (Donnie Dunagan) in the village of Frankenstein to claim his late father's heritage. He meets a dark and gloomy reception from the bitter villagers residing there who recall only too well the horrors committed by Frankenstein's monstrous creation. When scientific equipment gets delivered to Wolf's castle, Police Inspector Krogh (Lionel Atwill) pays a visit to the Frankensteins and informs Wolf that he is ready and willing to aid them if the concerned citizens should get out of hand. Krogh himself can relate to their apprehension, having lost his right arm to the monster years ago as a child when the fearsome creature tore it out by the roots. Wolf assures the Inspector that he is not involved in any type of bizarre experiments or monster-making.Exploring the charred remains of the lab the next morning, Wolf encounters a sly old blacksmith named Ygor (Bela Lugosi) hiding out there. Ygor was once convicted and hanged for body snatching, yet somehow managed to survive with a broken neck and a twisted body. He shocks Wolf by leading him to a hidden cellar where the comatose body of his friend, Frankenstein's Monster (Boris Karloff), lies still, awaiting a cure. Ygor sparks Wolf's curiosity and the doctor wastes no time in charging up his electrical machinery to restore the monster and possibly clear his father's good name as well. But the sinister Ygor has plans of his own and begins to use the revitalized monster for his own personal agenda.SON OF FRANKENSTEIN was the first in the cycle of new horror releases to emerge after a mid-1930s ban on fright films was lifted. It remains the last of the great early Frankenstein pictures, owing to wonderfully bizarre and shadowy set pieces, a rousing Frank Skinner musical score, and a great cast of actors. Basil Rathbone has been both despised and applauded (I choose the latter) for his mounting, over-the-top theatrics as Wolf, who undergoes a nervous breakdown as his paranoia escalates. His battle of wits with the excellent Lionel Atwill in a masterful performance as Inspector Krogh make for highly entertaining filmgoing. Boris Karloff as the monster is imposing enough (and even sports a welcome slight change of attire) but the actor could sense the downward direction his creature was heading in, and so he gave up the part after this film. Though Boris shines in some fleeting emotional moments, it's clear that the character was taking a back seat to other shenanigans on screen, here being used as merely Ygor's pawn. Indeed, as portrayed by Bela Lugosi, his devilish Ygor is the highlight of the movie and practically steals the show. His performance is so great that it (arguably) surpasses Dracula as the best role he ever played.This has all the classic ingredients of a great old monster film, but it just narrowly misses the mark of being note- perfect, mostly due to a sinking middle and perhaps slight overlength (it's the longest film in the saga at nearly 100 minutes). It's interesting to add that the film was originally scheduled to be shot in color, but reportedly Karloff's makeup didn't photograph that well. Fortunately, Boris' daughter Sara has presented color home movies featuring a minute or so of her father in full monster costume on the set of SON, and they have been seen every now and then on various documentaries over the years. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Not up to the standards of the first two Frankenstein films.","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Wolfgang Frankenstein, Basil Rathbone, returns to his ancestral manse and soon becomes drawn into his father's life-creating work in this second sequel to 1931's Frankenstein. While an entertaining film in its own right, Son of Frankenstein does not live up to the standards of the first two films. Director Roland V. Lee doesn't have James Whale's flair or subversive sense of humor. Nor does this film reflect the same style of the earlier films, as is evident even in the sets. The sets, while interesting, are more modern and streamlined than the Gothic ones used in the first two films. The lighting and cinematography, while more than adequate, isn't as interesting as the expressionism of the earlier films. More importantly, however, the monster loses most of his personality. Boris Karloff managed to breath life into the creature in the first two films, inspiring both menace and sympathy, but becomes little more than a menacing hulk. His friendship with the boy Peter is both obvious and perfunctory. It was a pity the writer rendered the monster mute this time out. His voice gave him perspective and personality. This film marks the end of the monster as an interesting character. After this the monster simply becomes a menacing pawn in the hands of various unscrupulous characters. Still, this film remains entertaining. Bela Lugosi is a welcome addition to the series as Ygor. He gives one of his best performances in this film. Basil Rathbone also does a great job as Wolfgang Frankenstein, and Lional Atwill is excellent as Inspector Krogh. Well worth a look, but The Bride of Frankenstein remains my favorite film in the series. "},{"Title":"A Worthy Sequel","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" While both Frankenstein and Bride of Frankenstein are regarded as masterpieces of the genre, Son of Frankenstein, the third chapter of the Frankenstein saga is often overlooked.Filmed 4 years after Bride, what started a cheap attempt to get some cash using a tried formula, was soon transformed by director Rowland V. Lee into a wonderful piece of art, that surely deserves the same status as the previous installments of the series.Rowland V. Lee takes a weak script and gives it flesh and form with wonderful set design that definitely pay homage to the expressionist German movement that inspired Universal horror movies since their beginning.Boris Karloff repeats the role of the monster and a brilliant addition to the cast is the inclusion of legendary actor Basil Rathbone as Baron Wolf Von Frankenstein, the son of Henry Frankenstein who returns to home only to find his father's creation. Also, Bela Lugosi plays Ygor, a deformed man who befriends the monster, but also uses him to his evil purposes.The creature has lost the ability to speak, due to the damage he suffered in Bride, so Karloff relies again in mimic to show emotions in a super way. Of great significance are his scenes with Wolf's son, and the allegory of the creature as a fairy tale ogre is very well handled.Rathbone shows his range as his character goes from innocent tourist to demented scientist as Ygor forces him to help the monster. Lugosi gives a worthy performance that is often overlooked.Definitely a weaker story than it's predecessors, the movie is saved by the amazing performance of the cast, as well as Lee's solid direction and outstanding use of set design to build the fitting atmosphere of madness that is the theme of the movie. 9/10 "}{"Title":"I stole bodies....uh, they said","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Son of Frankenstein The movie that begins the descent of the monster from tragic figure into a mindless minion, and ironically, he's controlled by a shepherd named Ygor. Maybe Universal felt the monster had become too human in the previous installment & wanted to (re)establish him as the undying menace, with comments right at the start of the film describing him as a senseless, murderous monster and the later examination scenes where Wolf von Frankenstein explains to his assistants & the viewers that there isn't one part of his father's creation that's human. And we get a preview at what the monster's role in the later films would be reduced too, as he spends most of his time lying on his back here.Still, Karloff, when given the chance, is able to display some of the emotion that made the monster a very complex character in previous films, like that scene where he meets Wolf Frankenstein face to face & compares reflections. And he retains his fondness for children, yet Rowland V. Lee never shows any of these tender moments between the monster & Peter on camera, but does give us the on-screen visual of the monster contemplating throwing the boy into a boiling sulphur pit (?!).Despite my criticisms of the monster's role, there's also much in this sequel to praise, starting with the man (who in spite of his third billing) is the real star of the film, Bela Lugosi as the sly & cunning Ygor who manipulates the young Baron into reviving the monster so he can continue his revenge against the eight jurors who sent him to the gallows. Watching Lugosi here, I can't help but wonder why in the hell did Hollywood waste him so?!? Basil Rathbone does a fine job with his leading role as the somewhat naive Baron whose good intentions to clear his father's name go all wrong & doing a bit of his own scene-stealing is Lionel Atwill, who became a regular staple of the Frankenstein movies. Overall, 'Son of Frankenstein' is a very good sequel, but it also lays the groundwork for the damage that would be done to the monster some years later. "},{"Title":"Superior horror film still chills the blood","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" *VERY MINOR SPOILERS*Son of Frankenstein was the third of Universal's Frankenstein series, and possibly the best. It's a richly atmospheric film, with vast, staggering, eerily beautiful sets, a fine score, fascinating, brilliant new characters (including Lugosi's repulsive, evil Ygor and Atwill's suspicious, one-armed Inspector Krogh) and a cold, fatalistic feel. Shot and lit for maximum effect - with the angles of the sets casting cruel shadows on high walls - this is a unique monster movie and, focusing increasingly on psychological terror, though Karloff's Monster, used sparingly, looms ominously in the background. Basil Rathbone was a decent actor and he does a good job here as the figure of the title - succumbing to temptation and cagily continuing Colin Clive's brilliant, foolhardy experiments.This is highly recommended for all fans of classic horror - a much overlooked masterpiece well up for reappraisal, and the last great film in the series. "},{"Title":"Underrated, thy name is Son of Frankenstein...","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  Definitely the most underrated of the three Karloff-as-Monster films.  To my mind, it's the one that plays best today.  Bela Legosi gives his finest, most understated performance as Ygor.  The cinematography is spectacular. Lionel Atwill's performance is my favorite of his (and one of the few times he didn't play a villain).  I could go on and on ad infinitum, but I don't see the reason to.  The film speaks for itself.  It gets one of my highest recommendations. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece in its own right.","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Although needless and severely lacking the element of surprise, this sequel to James Whale's classic twosome Frankenstein and Bride of Frankenstein is an astonishingly great film, containing some of the best acting performances of all the Universal horrors and unquestionably featuring the most impressive decors and cinematography of vintage American cinema. Director Rowland V. Lee takes us back to the stylish sets of German Expressionism, yet he terrifically blends it all with the familiar and chilling story lines of Whale's originals. Son of Frankenstein unites no less than FOUR legendary horror names in its cast and two of them &#150; Lionel Atwill and Bela Lugosi &#150; give away their finest performances ever. Several decades after the initial tragedies that hit the little European town, Baron Frankenstein's son Wolf returns to the cursed place with his wife and five year old son. Supposedly just to claim his inheritance, but Frankenstein junior rapidly becomes obsessed with his father's misunderstood work and decides to stay, very much against the will of the townsfolk. When visiting the old laboratory, he discovers that that his father's former assistant Ygor still guards the monsters inside a hidden crypt and even agrees to revive it once again using his father's notes. Wolf is unaware, however, that the malicious Ygor is only interested in the monster's inhuman strength and abuses him to kill the eight jury members that sentenced him to death for snatching corpses. This sequel is reminiscent to the other two films, yet at the same time an entirely different accomplishment. Frankenstein's persona is more or less the same, namely a gifted researcher who has a bit of trouble distinguishing moral from science, but Karloff's monster is portrayed entirely different all of a sudden. There were he still had human characteristics and emotions in the other two films, he merely is a dangerous killing attribute here, operated by the truly malicious and mad raving Ygor. Perhaps the abrupt change in themes and the genius transition of evil to the formerly supportive character of Ygor is the best thing that could have happened to an overly known series as Frankenstein. As stated before, the sets are breathtaking and bringing back the fond memories of such German milestones as Der Januskoph and Das Cabinet des Dr. Caligari. Every interior filming location, whether it's the Frankenstein mansion, the deserted laboratory or the town's courtroom, is like a magical labyrinth of secret passageways and gloomy shadows and the tense atmosphere these bizarre constructions create is superb. And even when you aren't admiring the sets & scenery for a minute, there are still multiple strong moments to experience, like Constable Krogh's (Atwill) tremendously chilling story of how he ended up as a simple small town police man with an artificial arm. Or the interrogation of Ygor by a suspicious town's council regarding the several unsolved murders! Especially remarkable is that these exact same two characters also provide the film with brilliant flashes of comedy! Krogh's fake and difficult to operate arm provide some genuine laughs (never play darts with someone who has a wooden arm!) and you haven't lived until you see Ygor spit at a jury of prominent citizens. Boris Karloff is indeed sadly underused in this installment, but his presence is naturally required, if only just to complete one of the most staggering ensemble casts in cinema ever. The first scene where Basil Rathbone and Bela Lugosi are standing around the table where Boris Karloff's body is lying has now become one of my most fond & treasured horror memories. Son of Frankenstein is a great classic horror achievement in its own right; highly recommended to all the real film-lovers. "},{"Title":"Son of Frankenstein!","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" This is one of the best sequels in the Universal Monsters series! The monsters look great! Boris Karloff is once again great as Frankenstein's monster! His performance is excellent! Bela Lugosi performs excellently as Ygor! The makeup by both of these actors is really tremendous! The music is great! The acting by all of the actors in this film are really good. In My opinion this is a great sequel to the original! In My opinion I think that its great to have these two characters to be in the same film! If you like Boris Karloff, Bela Lugosi, the classic Universal Monsters, great black and white movies, and horror films then I strongly recommend that you check out this film today! "},{"Title":"A dutiful son picks up his father's work.","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  The son of Dr. Henry Frankenstein moves with his family to the family castle. Now it is Dr. Wolf von Frankenstein(Basil Rathbone) laboring at bringing new life to the Frankenstein monster.Rathbone is over shadowed by a great cast. Boris Karloff is perfect in his third role as the monster. Bela Lugosi is menacing as Ygor. Lionel Atwill is outstanding as the Inspector. "},{"Title":"A Quintessential Frankenstein Flick!","Date":"5 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Son of Frankenstein delivers on all fronts. Sporting great sets, a classically chilling atmosphere, and a superb cast, this has become my go-to movie whenever I'm in the mood for an old fashioned monster flick. The film differs from many of its kin because its a whooping hour and forty-some minutes long, but it is leisurely paced and not a moment of it comes off as boring. I've heard from various sources that Universal Studios cut the director a bigger budget for this movie. This really shows in the quality of the set designs. While I do believe there is nothing quite like the barbaric infamy of Colin Clive's laboratory, SoF's overly detailed, sulfur pit infested castle and lab rivals it's father.Speaking of rivaling his father, the titles spotlight character, Wolf von Frankenstein, proves to the audience that he is not just a clone of his father. Wolf (masterfully portrayed by Basil Rathbone) stands out in my mind as one of the best performances in any Universal Horror film. Where Colin Clive's mad doctor boasts a manic and intimidating screen presence, Rathbone's portrayal comes off as warm and caring then spirals into a frantic, guilt riddled hysterical mess. Through his interactions with his wife and son and his desperate attempt to appease the townspeople you get the feeling that Wolf von Frankenstein is a caring, sweet man. Then, sure enough, the old Frankenstein obsession starts to show and when it does the film starts to go a mile a minute. While watching these movies I'm never afraid or creeped out by any means. Modern Hollywood has left me desensitized. However, I must admit that there was a part in this movie that legitimately sent a chill up my spine. I won't spoil it, but when it happens you'll know what I'm talking about.Opposite of Rathbone is Lionel Atwill playing the persistent Inspector Krogh. Upon first seeing Atwill's introduction in the film, I found myself rolling my eyes and thinking Here comes the stereotypical, paranoid townsman ready to demonize Frankenstein. I could not have been more wrong. Atwill's Inspector Krogh is one of the most interesting character's I've ever encountered in an old horror film. His sympathy for Frankenstein's family and the cat and mouse game it turns into leaves you invested throughout the whole plot. The entirety of the film you are left wondering who will win, the witty, young doctor or the sharp, weathered inspector. Not to mention, Krogh has a very personal and interesting reason to fear the Monster. In many ways, I found myself regarding Krogh as the hero of the story.But let's not fool ourselves, we don't watch these movies for the heroes. We watch them for the monsters!Boris Karlof and an unrecognizable Bela Lugosi are here in full form. This is Karlof's last appearance as the Monster and its a memorable one. His first appearance in this film is not something I'll soon forget. This is not the most aggressive you'll see the Monster, but definitely the most terrifying. This is largely due to the fact that he is being controlled by Bela Lugosi's Ygor, who sports enough cunning to use the monsters as a killing machine. Rather than going on a mindless rampage, the Monster is sent on James Bond-esque missions to assassinate Ygor's enemies. As you witness these murders happening you realize that this makes for a rather disturbing concept. Lugosi's Ygor is undoubtedly the highlight of this movie. Personally, I found this to be the Hungarian actor's best performance, even outshining his legendary role as Dracula. His lines are delivered with such savagery, you can absolutely tell what kind of a life Ygor has led and what kind of ideas go through his head just from his voice alone. The makeup here is superb (though his wig is a little iffy at times) and Lugosi's dedication to Ygor's unique 'posture' makes you forget that the seductive Hungarian is beneath the beard and fake teeth.Son of Frankenstein is a must see for any horror fan. I could also see this acting as a 'gateway drug' for budding horror enthusiast. While not as classic as the original or as interesting as the sequel, Son of Frankenstein is exciting and can keep just about anyone entertained. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Solid Universal Feature","Date":"20 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Son of Frankenstein stands on its own as a solid entry in the Universal horror franchise. It's got a glossy A list production feel, and the Gothic European sets are imposing and unique. There's great use of lines and shadows in this movie, almost like a German film from the 1920s.Basil Rathbone is almost too urbane for this type of movie, but he sells his role well. Karloff is great in his third and final outing as the monster. The character most people talk about from this movie is Bela Lugosi as Ygor. He adds an unmistakable air of menace throughout the film. Lionel Atwill is also especially memorable as the one armed inspector. Very soon his career would go down in flames after an out of control party at his home and a perjury charge.After this film, Universal started milking the Frankenstein idea for everything they could get out of it- with monster crossovers and semi- sequels in some truly second rate features. "},{"Title":"classic","Date":"22 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" a film who impress. for the build of atmosphere, step by step. for the performance / Bela Lugosi does one of his memorable roles. for the filming angles. and for the huge rooms who are inspired tool for the tension of story. it has ordinaries clichs but that is only a not bad detail. it has force and old fashion charm, seduce and gives to terror credible roots and sense. a movie who use, as last part of series, in smart manner the pieces from the first two films and the spirit of novel. that is its secret. not to be great. only a good work in which basic solutions are mixed with inspired option for each scene. more than a horror, it is a classic. and , maybe, useful lesson about a style to make cinema. "},{"Title":"Third Frankenstein.","Date":"23 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Rowland V. Lee took over as director for this sequel, set many years later, with Basil Rathbone as Wolf Frankenstein, younger son of(now deceased) Henry, determined to claim his father's inheritance by returning to his German homeland from America with his wife and son. He is not welcomed by the villagers, though local police Inspector Krogh(played by Lionel Atwill) does come to warn him of possible dangers, and to make sure he wont continue his father's experiments. Of course, he does go to the ruined laboratory, where he discovers the monster still alive, but sick, and being cared for by evil shepherd Ygor(played by Bela Lugosi in his best performance). Wolf then sets about reviving the monster, but Ygor instead uses him as an instrument of revenge against those who wronged him, leading to a violent showdown near the sulfur pits still bubbling in the lab...Well directed and designed film, featuring Boris Karloff's last performance as the monster, also has a good story and superb score. It does go on too long, and Rathbone is a bit hammy, but features a memorable climax, and is a worthy addition to this mythology. "}{"Title":"The former Dracula becomes da Bela da Ball.","Date":"31 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" More things for Mel Brooks to spoof in Young Frankenstein were added to this third installment, and the last in which Boris Karloff played the monster, now mute again, having survived thanks to a flood which ultimately froze him and introduced him to a certain broken-necked former shepherd named Igor. (Not Eye-Gor as later spoofed, but the original Eee-Gor.) Bela Lugosi is outstanding as this pathetic creature who survived hanging and is out for revenge on the men who originally had him put to death. You won't soon forget Lionel Atwill here as the Burgonmeister, having been (off-screen) maimed by the monster when he, as a boy, had his entire arm ripped off from its socket.The Frankenstein castle looks nothing like it did in either one of the two films, its interior decoration looking like something more out of The Lion in Winter than the early 1800's. Basil Rathbone adds on much authority to the morally torn son of the original Dr. Frankenstein, with Josephine Hutchinson equally as disgusted as her unseen mother-in-law Elizabeth over Rathbone's obsession with his father's work. The film really makes an effort, not to outdo the original in horrors, but expand on the story and even give hints of dangers with the European political atmosphere of the late 1930's. Although much longer than the first two entries, it never lags in pacing, and for that, the results are a third installment that retains an A status, soon to be reduced to B's with its follow-ups that just got sillier and sillier. "},{"Title":"Packs a Decent Enough Punch","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Baron Wolf von Frankenstein (Basil Rathbone) is a decent young man who just wants to start a new life with his beautiful wife, Elsa von Frankenstein (Josephine Hutchinson) and son in the castle bequeathed to him upon his father's death. Upon entering the laboratory he encounters a rather unsavory character named Ygor (played by none other than Bela Lugosi) who shows him a secret room which contains the crypt of his father and his grandfather. It also contains the live body of the monster known as Frankenstein (Boris Karloff) who has been seriously injured. After a thorough examination, and at the urging of Ygor, he decides to bring the monster out of his comatose state. Things begin to spiral quickly out of control after that. Anyway, this is the third film in this series and while it might not be up to the same high standards of Frankenstein and The Bride of Frankenstein, it still packs a decent enough punch. All of the actors did well and the story contains enough suspense and drama to keep things moving along quite nicely. Definitely worth a view for fans of classical horror. "},{"Title":"Not so surprising it's a good sequel considering the date","Date":"31 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" People seem surprised that this is a rather good third film in the Frankenstein series. But I'm not surprised since the original was made in 1931, and this sequel in 1939. Film and sound had undergone tremendous improvements in those 8 years...keep in mind that 1939 was the crowning glory of the all in-color Gone With The Wind. This film was to be made in color, as well, but apparently they just couldn't get the color of the monster's face reasonable.We aren't told how many years have transpired since the monster was created and destroyed (or was it?), but you do see a car in this film, and the inspector Lionel Atwill) -- whose arm was torn off by the monster when he (the inspector) was a boy appears to be around 50 years old. Baron Wolf von Frankenstein (Basil Rathbone) -- the son of the creator of the monster -- takes his wife (the marvelous Josephine Hutchinson) and young son (Donnie Dunagan) back to the village where it all began to claim his inheritance. Unfortunately, Rathbone decides to also redeem his father's reputation. But, the villagers still hate everything to do with Frankenstein.One day, Rathbone stumbles upon Ygor (Bla Lugosi), a crazy old blacksmith who survived being hung for grave-robbing...deformed neck and all. They then find the monster -- in a coma -- in a crypt. Rathbone decides to revive the monster to vindicate his father. The monster seems to have an affection for Ygor, and murders at his command -- all jurors at Ygor's trial. In a fight between Rathbone and Ygor, Ygor is shot and the monster decides to kidnap Rahtbone's son as revenge. But, a more gentle side of the monster prevails and he does not harm the child. Cleverly, the monster is cornered, and in the battle, it tears out the inspector's false arm. Rahtbone manages to save his son by knocking the monster into a boiling sulfur pit.As the film closes, the villagers cheer the Frankenstein family as they leave by train. Is this the end of Ricco...I mean Frankenstein? Of course not, but that is for future sequels! Make no mistake, this film focuses on Basil Rathbone, and he definitely brings some class to the story line, although his acting is a little over the top when things begin going wrong late in the film. But, it's rather nice seeing him in a role where he is -- for the most part -- the good guy. As far as Boris Karloff goes, he does nothing but lie there comatose for the first half of the film, and then -- finally -- he rolls one eyeball. He does no real acting (as it were) until a full hour into the 1 hour and 39 minute film. It is no wonder that he chose to make this his last appearance as the movie monster for many years. Bela Lagosi is bearable here, in part because his face is covered with a scruffy beard. Other character actors do their jobs, with special note being given to Lionel Atwill. A particularly nice touch is when Atwill and Rathbone are playing darts, and Atwill holds his darts by sticking them into his wooden arm! This is a good horror film and well worth watching. The sets are stark and dramatic, and really aid the film. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A very good sequel.","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Rowland V. Lee takes over the directing reigns from James Whale for this entertaining entry in the Universal series. Basil Rathbone is great fun in the title role, Baron Wolf von Frankenstein, who comes to claim his inheritance upon the passing of his father, and in no time flat causes no end of problems trying to clear the family name. He finds that the Monster (Boris Karloff, in his final performance in the part) is still alive but not doing well, and that the evil Ygor (Bela Lugosi, in one of his best ever performances), an evil body snatcher who managed to survive a hanging and a resulting broken neck, has a powerful hold on the Monster, and that it is doing Ygor's bidding, all in the name of vengeance. Son of Frankenstein is notable for a number of things. To start with, it has good atmosphere as so many Universal horror films of the '30s and '40s did, but it takes place in a more modern setting, with Lee taking away some of the Gothic trappings of their other productions. We do still see wonderful lab sets, a foul looking sulphur pit which we know will have to be paid off at some point, and the standard issue angry villagers, although by this point the set up is familiar and rather formulaic. We know without a doubt that Wolf is going to be intrigued with his father's work, too intrigued for his own good, and that he will spend too much time trying to rehabilitate the Monster rather than just finding a way to end its suffering and saving everybody a whole lot of trouble. What makes Son of Frankenstein something worth savouring are the ingenious characters of Ygor, whom Lugosi plays to the hilt, and the tough, stolid Inspector Krogh, a one-armed policeman portrayed with conviction by the always delightful Lionel Atwill; fans automatically recognize that this is the character that inspired Kenneth Mars's Inspector Kemp in Mel Brooks's Young Frankenstein. A decent supporting cast also helps, including Josephine Hutchinson as Wolfs' lovely wife Elsa, and old pros like Lionel Belmore and Michael Mark. Unfortunately, the Monster just doesn't get to do too much this time around, as the accent is largely placed on both Wolf and Ygor. But it's still a treat to see Karloff in the role, and the interplay between Rathbone and Atwill is great, as we see Krogh constantly regarding Wolf with some suspicion even though he has sworn to protect him from the presumptuous villagers, and as Wolf, racked by guilt, starts acting in an antagonistic manner toward the Inspector. Clocking in at 100 minutes, pretty long for a genre film during this period, when they usually came in under 80 minutes, the story is pretty involved, and enjoyable enough that the time goes by quickly enough. The finale is reasonably exciting stuff, and getting there is fun, too. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Ton of Visual Imagination","Date":"5 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" No need to recap the plot, which is pretty much formula, anyway.So what do you do if you're filming a sequel of a sequel with stereotyped roles and not much money. Why you load it up with visual imagination, like this movie. For example, get a load of that castle interior. It looks like Dali designed it while on a two-week bender. What with its strange off-center contours, weird wall projectiles, and a staircase to heck, who would live here but the terminally wacko. In a place like this, anything can happen, and does. And get a load of Ygor. His buck teeth look like the grill-work on an old Buick, plus there's the inspector's metal arm that appears to operate on a pulley (did Dr. Strangelove see this). Actually, the monster may be the most normal looking critter in the place.Credit set design and art direction for these unforgettable assets. Looks to me like Universal just left the sound stage floor bare and concentrated on the rest. And if there's a chair anywhere in the furnishings, I couldn't spot it. But who cares, given the surreal effect. And catch that fiery pit that also serves as a doorway down to somewhere. It looks straight out of Dante's Inferno, another great effect.I guess my only reservation is with an over-heated Basil Rathbone, of all people. No cool and calculating Sherlock here. In fact, by the end, he's almost chewing the scenery. I wouldn't have believed it if I hadn't seen it. I know he didn't like horror movies (IMDB), so maybe he thought getting over-excited would be a fun departure from his usual icy composure. Anyway, this has to be one of the most visually stunning of all horror movies, and shows what lots of imagination can do even without much money. "},{"Title":"The Frankenstein Saga... Part Three","Date":"21 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Some years after the death of Frankenstein, his son Wolf returns to the castle with his wife to claim the family property. He also finds his father's writings, explaining how his research was conducted and how to generate life.Exactly when this takes place is sort of curious. The last film is 1935, and this film is 1939, a mere four years. Yet, Wolf is full grown with a child of his own, despite not even having been both yet in the last film. That puts the two at about a twenty-five year difference, maybe thirty years.Basil Rathbone, who had been known to dislike horror films, is the perfect choice for Baron Wolf von Frankenstein. Distinguished and a fine actor. Allegedly, Claude Rains and Peter Lorre had tried out for the part. Lorre is a bizarre consideration, maybe Rains could have done it, but Rathbone is perfect. He has the look to replace Colin Clive. (Clive had unfortunately died at in 1937 from tuberculosis.) Boris Karloff is The Monster. How he survived the last film, where he seems to commit suicide, is unclear. But a monster played by anyone but Karloff is not the same.Bela Lugosi is an exceptional Ygor, the demented man with the broken neck. Some consider this Lugosi's best role, despite his being more well known for playing Dracula. Lugosi has been known to dip into camp, but this is not camp and it is a great makeup job, as well.Lionel Atwill is Krogh, the local cop. Howard Maxford says that this film is sometimes unintentionally funny due to Mel Brooks, and I presume that the character of Krogh is what he has in mind when he says that.Mike Mayo correctly says the acting carries the film, with Lugosi seldom better, Karloff excellent, and Rathbone and Atwill never upstaged. This film is widely considered to be the last good Universal Frankenstein film, before following the sad path to the Abbott and Costello travesty, to quote Ivan Butler. (I, for one, do not mind those films.) "},{"Title":"Atmospheric but overblown","Date":"15 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Son Of Frankenstein is of course Universal's 3rd entry in their Frankenstein series, and contains much to admire. Sadly the film also displays its extremely rushed conception the movie was completed only a week before its premier, and Universal would surely have shortened the movie given a little more time.The plot concerns Basil Rathbone's Wolf Von Frankenstein's arrival at his father's castle after years spent abroad, determined to redeem his father's reputation as a cursed creator of The Monster (Boris Karloff), whom we last saw destroyed when he blew up the watchtower in Bride Of Frankenstein. Wolf, however, quickly learns the monster survived and is now cared for by an old shepperd named Ygor (Bela Lugosi). Keeping an eye on proceedings is the clipped and precise Inspector Krough (Lionel Atwill) who had a childhood encounter with the monster. One does not easily forget, Herr Baron, an arm torn out by its roots. With its Germanic expressionistic sets the film looks fantastic and Director Rowland V Lee gives us many memorable moments; but the movie is unevenly paced and full of variable performances. Rathbone gives one of his worst ever showings, overacting so much that the darts scene is unintentionally funny. Karloff is a looming presence as the monster but the part is not interestingly written this time out, and he decided to portray him no more after this movie. But it's Atwill and Lugosi you'll remember - they steal the film from the higher-priced actors with some deliciously fruity line readings. What out for Ygor's He...does things for me! A high quality product then, but far from perfect. As far as the monster was concerned the rot set in after this... "},{"Title":"three of the vintage movie icons in a film that's not in the same league as the first two Frankenstein pictures, but plays well enough on its own","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" If there is any significance at all in the third chapter of the long-running Frankenstein movie series, it is that it brought together the two most iconic and famous vintage horror movie stars and one of the greatest hero actors to oppose them. The movie stars Basil Rathbone (Sherlock Holmes) as the&#x97;like the title suggests&#x97;the son of Dr. Frankenstein, who was played by Colin Clive in the first two movies. The son of Frankenstein, while investigating the decimated ruins of his father's old laboratory, comes upon the comatose remains of the Frankenstein monster still played by Boris Karloff. In addition, the living corpse of Ygor, played by Bela Lugosi (Dracula) keeps a close eye on his half-living, half-dead companion and uses the new Dr. Frankenstein to return life to the green-skinned creature.Son of Frankenstein is not a very significant horror movie and is not in the same league as the first two movies of the series, but in comparison to a great many of the sequels that followed, it does stand out as one of the few passable entries. I enjoyed this twice as much as I did the 1994 adaptation of Mary Shelley's novel Frankenstein; Rathbone, Karloff, and Lugosi are all very good in this film. I also liked Lionel Atwill as the one-armed, mustached inspector trying to find out what's going on. I also liked the touch of how the villagers have prejudicially turned on Baron Wolf Frankenstein on account of what his father created before him.Now what I did not like, and what cost the movie what was potentially a higher rating, was the long moments of dead space in between the monster sequences. Karloff does not have very much to do in this film; he mostly just lies around or stands around. I also did not find the self-destruction approach of Basil Rathbone's character like I did the one with Colin Clive in the first two Frankenstein pictures. The most interesting thing in the movie is Lugosi as Ygor and it does rival his performance in Dracula (1931). It's just a shame his performance here wasn't in a better, more significant film.Nevertheless, on the whole, I did enjoy Son of Frankenstein and found it a lot more pleasing than a lot of the absurdly ridiculous follow-ups that came after it. No, it's not in the same league as the original Frankenstein (1931) or the surprisingly wonderful Bride of Frankenstein (1935), but very few horror movies are. But it is at the same time a missed opportunity and will probably only work for the fans. I recommend it for three things Rathbone, Karloff, and Lugosi. "},{"Title":"Another enjoyable Frankenstein sequel","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Son of Frankenstein has Basil Rathbone as Wolf von Frankenstein, the son of Dr. Henry Frankenstein, returning to his ancestral home and his father's workshop with his young family. The once-executed body snatcher, Igor (Bela Lugosi), is hiding out in the ruins with the now comatose Monster (again played by Karloff) and seeks the new Frankenstein's help to revive it, so that he can carry out his revenge on those who had previously convicted and sentenced him.There is a certain warmth in the friendship between the outcasts in this film-the Monster and Igor, especially, but even with the young Dr. Frankenstein who is not welcomed by the town and only wants to heal the Monster to clear his father's name. The chemistry between Lugosi and Karloff is one of the more striking things about this movie, as is the young Peter Frankenstein's acceptance of the giant.There is a decent, if fairly predictable plot to this movie, and it is executed well enough in somewhat the style of its prequels. While not as good as Frankenstein and The Bride of, it is nevertheless an enjoyable addition to the Frankenstein saga. "},{"Title":"Not that bad at all","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Son of Frankenstein is nowhere near the classic originals but is still pretty fun.**SPOILERS**Arriving in the town of Frankenstein, Baron Wolf von Frankenstein, (Basil Rathbone) and his family, wife Elsa, (Josephine Hutchinson) and son Peter, (Donnie Dunagan) to a really hostile reception. Trying to get over the villagers' suspicions of his father's work before, they arrive at his castle and settle in. Discovering his father's notes, he tries to put their fears to rest by promising not to continue any experiments. Touring the house, he finds housekeeper Ygor, (Bela Lugosi) living at the castle and shows him to a secret room containing his friend, the still-alive The Monster, (Boris Karloff) waiting to be cured of an accident. Attempting to restore the creature to it's former glory, he manages to revive him once again after a long battle. Keeping him in the castle out of fear the villagers won't take it nicely, the creature's eventual escape forces action by all parties for the creature's safety.The Good News While not a classic like the original entries, this one is a lot of fun. When the discovery of the creature is made, this one really kicks up a little bit. The initial resurrection is quite spectacular, as it's a little unknown if the experiment will bring it back to life. The various methods used, from the scientific explanations about the creature to the medical work done to fix damage done and the final blow comes in the moment where the electricity comes into play. This scene is all the more watchable once that comes in, and makes the scene all the better once the electrical bolts try to animate him. One incredible sequence later, where the monster's first moving appearance as it emerges as a silhouette behind an unsuspecting character and slowly lumbers over to them makes for a great visual to open with. The house itself does have some great designs to it that give it a distinct look. That the creature also manages a slight rampage at the end of the film, including the one highlight where it stalks the victim through a mountain pass, and then there's the really spectacular part where it goes berserk in the laboratory makes for some exciting scenes. The final fate of the creature is quite exhilarating, making it a little on the sad end of the spectrum, does have a sense of lifting the film out of it's action doldrums and putting some life into the proceedings. The rebuilding of the creature looks quite good and just as great as ever. Overall, this was a really fun entry in the series.The Bad News There isn't a whole lot that doesn't work in this one, but there is a pretty big reasons. The film's biggest flaw is that it manages to dredge up the same feelings from the locals for the same three films being repeated here again. It was understandable in the second one after the events before, but to trot it out again while making no mention of why they're even allowed to stay is quite confusing. Rather than making some other member associated with the family rather than making the son the one who comes, as that just brings up all the same old feelings again when they could've done something new. That also gets the film's other main problem, the repetitiveness of the town's villagers holding meetings to get rid of the family before they recreate the past. These are repeated with alarming frequency throughout, especially when something exciting is about to happen, and this gets quite annoying as it appears to be a several-day-long conference held that interrupts the action with the same conversation as the last interlude. Taking out the subplot of the different meetings both corrects this and shortens up a little bloated running time that probably could've used a little shortening to start with. Otherwise, this is a really fun entry in the series.The Final Verdict One of the more entertaining entries in the series, this is quite fun but not without it's flaws. It's good enough for fans of the other entries to give it a shot, but for those inexperienced with the series should find the first two first before giving this one a good, long look.Today's Rating-PG Violence "}{"Title":"Son of a ........Frankenstein","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Wow , this was a lot better than i thought that it would be.. First off you got Basil Rathbone,, one of the horror greats in here, as Wolf Frankenstein,, then of course you got Bela Lugosi, as Ygor the hunchback assistant,, and last but certainly not least the Monster,, Boris Karloff, also note that this is the last time that Boris plays the monster,, in later films,, it's Lon Chaney,, but this film is wonderful,, i loved the sets,, the shadows,, how dark everything was,, the inspector in this one,, reminds me of a modern day Columbo,, but kinda different,, i loved all of the secret rooms,, and ways that Wolf,, and the Monster, just seemed to sneak around that big house,, This is a wonderful addition to the first two movies,, just a hair below the first two,, but nonetheless very good indeed for all horror fans of all ages a definite must for anyone's collection. "},{"Title":"A Charming Sendoff","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  It's a curious thing, watching Son of Frankenstein.  The Frankenstein Monster, played by Boris Karloff for the last time, has comparatively little screen time -- we see him in the lab, menacing Wolf Frankenstein, doing Ygor's bidding, then going on his final rampage.  Most of the time, though, he's off-screen, but always looming large in our minds, adding to the atmosphere of tension and suspense.Son of Frankenstein, third in the series, is not as good as the first two, but still light-years ahead of the sequels that follow.  Son gives us fantastic performances all around.  Basil Rathbone's Wolf Frankenstein is a perfect portrait of a controlled, fearless man who gradually flies apart as his experiment gets away from him.  Bela Lugosi's Ygor is a fiendish delight, watching how this broken-necked schemer manipulates both Frankenstein and the Monster into doing his will.  Lionel Atwill's Inspector Krogh almost steals the picture -- any scene between him and Rathbone is worth watching over and over, just to see these two fine actors matching wits.  And then there's Karloff's Monster, just on the verge of becoming a shambling caricature, but redeemed by Karloff's mixture of innocence and cunning.One last thing you'll never look at a dartboard the same way again after seeing this movie. "},{"Title":"Although not quite as good as Frankenstein or Bride of Frankenstein I am still very fond of it","Date":"17 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" When you think of a film with Boris Karloff, Bela Lugosi and Basil Rathbone you know you are going to be in for a treat. And a treat Son of Frankenstein is. I do prefer Frankenstein and Bride of Frankenstein, but even with a couple of rushed parts and some laughable acting from Donnie Duggan it is far superior to the films in the series that succeeded it. It does look stunning visually, eerie and lush at the same time. The music is haunting and really adds much to the atmosphere. The script is wonderfully arch and the direction matches the sometimes eerie visuals superbly, while the story moves along briskly and is majestically macabre and suspenseful. Even if though you slightly miss those touching moments that Frankenstein and Bride of Frankenstein had, especially the latter with the hermit. I loved the cast as well. Josephine Hutchinson's Elsa is beautifully played, though the role doesn't require her to do all that much. Basil Rathbone is not as subtle as he is as Sherlock Holmes, Guy of Gisborne and Karenin and while he does chew the scenery considering the genre and how eponymous the Baron is it kind of works. Lionel Atwill plays an eccentric sort of role and is a riot, especially with his arm. Bela Lugosi seems to be having a whale of a time as Ygor, and it really shows, his make-up is also exceptional. Boris Karloff continues to give a performance in the role of the Monster that is both imposing and moving. Overall, am very fond of it. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Cosmic Science","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" I went on a binge, watching all four of the first Universal Frankenstein movies. I know that many believe Metropolis to be the first mad scientist movie. But that wasn't about science or scientists, but about repressive society. The science there was actually technology and had as much to do with things as the devices in 1984. This, this, I think is the first movie series where the whole point was that science was inerrently evil in its tendencies. Its different than a Faust story, where powers were conveyed for selfish ends; here the ends are discovery. Its no mistake that there's the heavy hand of religion in the village context that surrounds the man and his work.So when I watch these, I pay attention to two things. One is how science is portrayed. Its radically different in all four. And the second is how the cinematic grammar is used to present that notion. Its a sort of hobby of mine to compare sequels and remakes.+++In this third one, we go even further away from the notion of science than before. That last one had a folded wrapper, an enclosing narrative. This one has a much simpler wrapper, a train ride in and out, using what seems different lens and film stock.This time, the science is changed again. Now the scientific notion is back on discovery, but its not about life from the human perspective. Now it is more cosmic, more celestial and yes, even godly. The son &#151; who is smarter than his dad &#151; knows that what his dad thought was the power in lightning was REALLY cosmic rays. They are the source of all life. So it isn't merely a matter of humanity, it is a matter of understanding god. Note that even though the filmmaker and support are less talented, they strike out in a radically new direction cinematically. Now we do get German influence. We get a Prussian inspector who is seeking in precisely the same manner the doctor is. We get German fairy tales. The sets are theatrical in themselves, not supportive. They are simpler and starker. We have boiling pit of sulfur in the lab, not mentioned before. We have the charming intrusion of music folding in. Gone are the violins of previous films, now substituted by reeds, particularly an oboe that is mirrored by Igor.Its a different twist on the science, possibly the one least twisted of the four in this respect.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Good, but weak by comparison","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Though it is nowhere near as good as the first 2 Universal Frankenstein films, this is still a fairly enjoyable outing.The plot is straightforward, yet still interesting. As the title would suggest, it centers around the son of Henry Frankenstein, who originally created the monster. He returns to the village where his father lived and worked, only to be met with hatred by the townsfolk. He soon comes across Ygor, who has been protecting the monster after the explosion that supposedly destroyed him. I would say more...but that, my friends, would be spoiling it for you.Basil Rathbone does a very good job as the titular character, and Bela Lugosi's Ygor is quite possibly his greatest post-Dracula role. Karloff, playing the monster once again, isn't as good as in the previous installments. Lionel Atwill was one of the highlights of the film, playing the local detective whose arm had been ripped off my the monster. Perhaps it would have been better if I had seen this prior to Young Frankenstein, because I found myself chuckling every time he moved his fake arm. The rest of the cast is pretty typical for supporting casts of the time period, AKA not very good.One thing that really stood out were the sets and their design. It almost seemed influenced by Dr. Caligari, which I found very interesting.This isn't one of the best Universal monster flicks, but it's still worth a watch. It's very slow, but still enjoyable.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Possibly the best horror film ever","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  Yes, many people will say that sequels run out of steam after their great originals. That certainly wasn't the case with the Frankenstein series, escpecially when it comes to Bride Of Frankenstein and of course Son Of Frankenstein. Son Of Frankenstein is driven by great storyline and a very subtle tension between Inspector Krogh (Lionel Atwill) and Wolf Frankenstein (Basil Rathbone). As the film progresses the tension is growing in intensity, which provokes great dialogue and wonderful performances from Rathbone and Atwill. With this growing tension...just throw in the Frankenstein Monster (Boris Karloff) and a twisted blacksmith named Ygor (Bela Lugosi) making this one of best horror pictures ever made. Wolf Frankenstein is cornered by Ygors manipulation along with the Monsters terror, and of course he is being subtlely shadowed by Inspector Krogh. Son Of Frankenstein is probably the best of the Frankenstein series and arguably the finest horror picture. "},{"Title":"A MASTERPIECE OF FANTASTIC TALENT !","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"                          This picture histrionically is outstanding due to the fact that Basil Rathbone, Boris Karloff, Bela Lugosi and Lionel Atwill put their hearts and soul into their roles.  This of course was Karloff's last film for Universal as the Frankenstein Monster and he was glad to get away from being extremely type cast to act only in horror films and was eager to seek other roles on Broadway and radio Lights Out.  Universal was considering making this film in Technicolor after obtaining the British-made color film, and after filming began in October 1938, they found out that Karloff's makeup didn't appear correctly in color.  Karloff celebrated his 51st birthday on the set with a hugh cake for the entire cast. "},{"Title":"The best of the Frankenstein series.","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  Basil Rathbone made an amazing performance! The letter reading scene the breaking down right in front of Lionel Atwill. The addition of Ygor into the script. The original script did not have Ygor or Krogh. This film would have never worked, these 2 characters along with Rathbone as Wolf Frankenstein and of course The Monster, Boris Karloff. Bela Legosi and Boris Karloff work great together. And Lionel Atwill as Inspector Krogh works well too. This is probably the best of the Frankenstein series, the scenes, the characters, the story, the actors made this film work. The Son Of Frankenstein was the finest, and greatest of all the Frankensteins in the series, the first 3 Frankensteins were easily the best. "},{"Title":"Stylish sequel","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  Even though James Whale did not make this sequel to his FRANKENSTEIN and BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN, the film has a stylish look befitting the first two films. Part of this look comes from the expressionistic sets that combine dream and nightmare.Bela Lugosi is remarkably wry and humorous as Ygor, giving perhaps his best non-vampire performance. Basil Rathbone is excellent as the son who is equally crazed by the scientific ambition of his father.The unpleasant villagers are at it again, banging at the gate and threatening mayhem. One wonders if there is any political statement being made about Germans, considering that the film came out in 1939 as Hitler began to really frighten the world.Viewing this movie is a must if you have seen YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN because so much of that satire is based on what happens here. See SON OF FRANKENSTEIN and shudder as you giggle at Ygor and think of Mel Brooks' film. "},{"Title":"Son of Frankenstein (6/10)","Date":"6 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" In the third installment of Universal's Frankenstein series, viewers are introduced to a new scientist in the Frankenstein family, Baron Wolf von Frankenstein, played by Basil Rathbone. Rathbone is very good in his part, living up to expectations of Colin Clive who played Henry Frankenstein, the family and creator of the monster. Son of Frankenstein seemed to tell a story that was awfully similar to the original in quite a few ways, a knock on original material. However, I did find myself enjoying Son as a film a bit more than Bride with more interesting characters and a nice pace, while Bride rushed an ending. This would have been a good way to cap off the Frankenstein franchise for Universal but apparently the business at the box office was too good to stop here. "}{"Title":"The horror continues.","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" So here's the story. I was watching The Pink Panther on KBHK TV-44 (please read my Sprinkle Me Pink review) and I saw a commercial for The Son of Svengoolie. I saw a skull with a mustache and he was talking about a movie called The Son of Frankenstein. I was amused by not only the monster that was shown in the clip, but the skull, because it reminded me of the Sesame Street skit with the Count called Bones Inside of You. Bear in mind I was four when I saw this commercial and I grew up in the 1980's which is a time where things were politically correct for juvenile thrill-seekers. Fast forward to some time in the middle of 2015 where I finally saw the movie on Svengoolie and let's just say, I loved it and it is not bad. The music is great and the cinematography is wonderful. My favorite part was when he sees himself on the mirror and starts growling because we found out why people were scared of him. Also the inspector is a character that got spoofed in Mel Brooks parody, Young Frankenstein. All in all it is a pretty good film and that is all what I got to say about it. Not rated, but it contains some scary scenes and peril. "},{"Title":"Great Third Film In The Series","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Excellent film - this third film did loose any of the story, chills and horror of the first two in the series.The son of Henry Frankenstein, Wolf von Frankenstein returns to his family's manor home from the United States. He is not received well for the town folks still feel anger towards Wolf's father for what they blame the Monster for (see the first two films). Wolf is handed a briefcase by the local Burgomaster which contains all of his father's notes. Trouble soon starts when Wolf finds the Monster in Ygor's care. The Monster is in a coma and will soon be revived.Wonderful film. The casting is terrific, story highly interesting, cinematography outstanding - everything just great as the previous two films. Worth watching! 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Mild spoilers follow ...","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Due to unexpected popularity (which caused round-the-block queues) of the original 'Dracula' and 'Frankenstein' re-screenings, Universal at last lifted their curfew on horror pictures with this hugely budgeted, star-studded sequel to the mighty 'Bride of Frankenstein.' Alongside Basil Rathbone's ambitious Baron Wolf Von Frankenstein, the viewer is literally transported from the real world into a vast, rain-lashed and unforgiving removed reality of horror via a train journey that really does traverse from one to the other very effectively. The town (now also called 'Frankenstein') is populated by those who want nothing to do with the new Baron, his wife, or his mop-headed, curiously Texan-sounding son Peter (played by future voice artist for Bambi, Donnie Dunagan). Understandably, they remember well the chaos brought about by Henry Frankenstein's creation, or more accurately, their own townsfolk's brutal treatment of him.Rathbone is brilliant in this, transforming from impetuous family man to hysterical 'mad doctor' with great skill. Bela Lugosi plays Ygor in one of his greatest performances, a part that was strengthened in order to give Lugosi a greater share of the action. Lionel Atwill, enjoyable in any part, gets probably his best role &#x96; that of Inspector Krogh, the wooden armed Police Inspector determined to protect both Wolf's family and the townsfolk.The sets are huge and expressionist, casting great shadows and rising imperiously above the tremendous cast, and the music used here would crop up again and again in future, less well-funded Universal horrors and mysteries.So why does this film seem slightly disappointing to me? Even after all this time, I still cannot answer that. Could it be that Peter, such an integral part, is entrusted to a four year old? Dunagan is a terrific performer for his age, but perhaps if the role was given to someone slightly older, they could invest it with just a hint of gravitas. Could it be that a thicker, jowlier Boris Karloff is given a strange sheepskin vest (presumably by friend Ygor, who upstages him regularly) and given no scenes of sympathy as he was so effectively in earlier films? Could it be that the film is just slightly overlong, and suffered from an unfinished script at the time of filming, which as a result, means that it plods &#x96; rather like the monster &#x96; in places? I don't know why I'm less than satisfied by this. Maybe it is because it follows what I consider the greatest film of all time? There's no doubt that so many elements are excellent here, and this clearly is one of the last Universal horrors to benefit from a generous budget (indeed it was their final 'A' production for a Frankenstein film). "},{"Title":"One of the best sequels ever made","Date":"15 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" This is a sequel to The bride of Frankenstein. It is a great movie. The son of Victor Frankenstein. Who is also a scientist reanimates the monster. This is a very scary movie. It as a great story line. It also has great acting. It also has great special effects. It is one of the scariest movies ever made. If this movie does not scary you then no movie will. It is true horror classic. It is very intense. This one of ever few movies that is scary then Frankenstein (1931). It is also one of very few movies that is scarier then The bride of Frankenstein. This movie is a must see. I need more lines and I am running out of things to say. "},{"Title":"An Above Average Sequel! Nothing More, Nothing Less.","Date":"9 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Baron moves into his Father's place and gets a rude awakening from everybody. Not only that, but it turns out the Monster has survived and was simply in a Coma. Baron revives him, only to realize that the monster is doing Igor's bidding for him. This isn't as good as the first two movies, but it is enjoyable. It's only natural they'd move onto the son! Any excuse to make money. In all seriousness, they did as good as they could with this sequel. It was a natural step forward in this series. The main reason to see this sequel is the dream team of Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi. Bela turned down being the Monster, and this was sort of his redemption. They doesn't disappoint. Karloff is fantastic as The Monster, and Lugosi is his match as the manipulative Igor. Basil Rathbone is a bit bland at times, but he's solid for the most part. He's not as good as Henry Clive. Lionel Atwill is good in his role. My only major complaints are pacing issues and over length. Running over 90 minutes was not a wise choice. I also thought the ending was anti-climatic, despite Basil's heroic rescue of his family by using a rope, which I thought was nifty. If you're a fan of the first two, you'll most likely derive enjoyment out of this movie. It's a solid sequel that is well worth a look, just don't expect the same emotional impact from the first two. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Monster's third outing","Date":"10 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" This was Karloff's last outing as the monster, as the monster becomes increasingly a plot device in the movies and less a character.The Son of Henri Frankenstein returns, played by Basil Rathebone (of Sherlock Holmes fame), to the village terrorized by the monster years before. Oddly, there seems to be some serious discrepancies. They take up resident in the castle, which apparently had some wacky art-deco redecoration done in the years since they left.And even though Wolf wasn't even a gleam in his father's eye in Bride, he's a full grown man in at least his 40's. (Rathbone was 47 when this movie was made.) He meets up with Ygor (Played by Bela Lugosi, who turned down the role of the Monster in 1931) a hunchback hanged for assisting the original Frankenstein. (Again, the hunchbacks had different names and were played by different actors and were killed in different ways- by the monster) in the two previous films.Okay, not to belabor the point. There was very little attempt at continuity between the this film and the previous two, other than getting Karloff back.So for some inexplicable reason, Wolfe decides to repower up Dad's monster. It's never really made clear why. Ygor manipulates the monster into going out and killing the jury members who hung him 40 years before. This leads to a confrontation where Wolfe kills Ygor (who still manages to get better in the next movie) and dumps the monster into a sulfur pit.The best part is Lionel Atwill as Inspector Krogh, an officer with a wooden arm who is on to the mad doctor. Atwill was a fixture of 1930's/40's horror, but this is his best remembered role.For all its flaws, it's still a pretty good movie, if you take the first three as a trilogy before they cheapened them in the sequels. Frankenstein and Bride of Frankenstein are considered the Classic movies, but this one has its own merits, and isn't just another cheap sequel. "},{"Title":"In retrospect,a disappointment","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" It has been ages since I saw this film so I recently bought it on DVD.I have read several reviews of this by renowned critics and it is almost universally praised.I watched the movie very recently and felt a tinge of disappointment with what I saw.The film is actually quite boring a lot of the time with lots of talking and very little action.It is the longest of the three Karloff Frankenstein movies and it definitely suffers because of this.The story is stretched out and it drags.The acting is generally OK.Basil Rathbone is not too bad as Baron Wolf though he doesn't convince as much when he approaches near mania towards the end of the movie.Lionel Atwill clearly has a ball as Krogh but the false arm story is overcooked a little.The best performance comes from Bela Lugosi as Ygor but he too seemed to be bordering on pantomime villain at times.One of the biggest weaknesses here though are any scenes where child actor Donnie Dunagan has any dialogue.He is awful and you can feel the unease of the actors every time he has something to say.I don't know what the makers were thinking giving him so much to say as he obviously struggled at times and it was a relief when he had actually got his lines out.It isn't all bad.The sets are fantastic and it is great to see Boris Karloff again as the monster.It must be said though that in this film he really doesn't have too much to do except obey the orders of Ygor.In the first 'Frankenstein' the monster really did look like the walking dead.In 'Bride Of Frankenstein' the monster showed a more human side but here he is almost robot like and absolutely nothing is added to the character.There are a couple of good scenes with the monster.When he compares his face with Baron Wolfs and you can sense the anguish of the monster and the scenes where the Baron gives the monster a medical are interesting and well done.This isn't a terrible movie at all but it falls well short of the first two.Then again,they were a hell of a lot to live up to. "},{"Title":"The 3rd and best of the Karloff as Frankenstein","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" First off I must say that I am relatively new to the classic horror movie scene. I was very much in to the B horror movie scene with mostly 70s and 80s gore flicks. I always thought that old original horror movies were almost to the point were they were so old that they were unwatchable. Well I was proved wrong with the Frankenstein series. The original shows its age with the lack of music and sudden camera cuts but by the time Son of Frankenstein came along in 1939, It seems like all those issues were gone. The castle of Frankenstein set was great. Very large and creepy looking. The Lab wasn't as strong as the one used in Frankenstein and Bride of Frankenstein but the added sulfur pit was a good addition. Ygor played by Bela Lugosi (who played Dracula is the Dracula series) played a great part by being Frankensteins puppet master. Basil Rathbone acting was very good for this time. The paranoid aura with him toward the end makes it very enjoyable to watch. Believe it or not, there wasn't a whole lot of the Monster in the movie. It really wasn't necessary. The story alone held the movie up well. To bad the first two Frankenstein movies weren't 25 minuets longer like this one was. I think they could of been a lot stronger. But this movie made me more of a believer of old cinema! I look forward to more classic Universal monster movies. "},{"Title":"Frankenstein Movies Son Of Frankenstein","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Son Of Frankenstein (1939) Boris Karloff, Basil Rathbone, Bela Lugosi, Josephine Hutchinson, Lionel Atwill, Donnie Dunagan, Emma Dun, Edgar Norton, Lawrence Grant, Penny Ivins, Lionel Belmore, Michael Mark, Caroline Frances Cooke, Tom Ricketts, Ward Bond, Ed Cassidy, Betty Chay, Dwight Frye, Clarence Wilson, Bud Wolfe....Director Rowland V. Lee, Screenplay Wyllis Cooper.This film was the sequel to Bride of Frankenstein and is the third and last of the Frankenstein film franchise that Universal Pictures profited from after the success of the original Frankenstein. The story is not elaborate, nor complex, nor as interesting as the original Frankenstein. Rather, it's formulaic and a sort of re-telling of the original with Dr. Frankenstein's son the Baron Wolf (Basil Rathbone)taking over his father's monster-making and being responsible for the danger and threat in the same town that Frankenstein had once terrorized. He comes to claim his inheritance, Frankenstein Castle, with his wife and son, Elsa and Peter (Josephine Hutchinson and Donnie Dunagan). Immediately, Inspector Krogh (Lionel Atwill) suspects that the Baron will soon fall under the same Frankenstein spell and he would revive the monster previously thought dead. This is exactly what he does, though he justifies his actions by stating he's conducting important scientific experiments in discovering what makes the monster click and what makes him superhuman and how he could get men to tame him. But his scientific ambitions are foiled when the monster, seduced by Igor (Bela Lugosi) and his hypnotic music, begins to murder villagers once more. The film is good, there's no doubt about it and a worthy successor to the original Frankenstein. It's downside is it's long running time and the lack of action for the first part of the film. It does'nt pick up any real energy or excitement until about the last 15 to 30 minutes when the Monster wreaks havoc in town and even threatens the life of the Baron's son. Boris Karloff owned the role of Frankenstein and here he is allowed to display more emotion and more humanity. Of course, he is the same old stereotypical monster that can't speak intelligently and is actually like a retarded, overgrown adult that can only grrrrrr at everyone, but many scenes depict his sensitivity and his attempt to make sense of the world. He realizes, for example, that the Baron resurrected him, but knowing that he is not a real father figure he turns to Igor, with whom he bonds very closely. When Igor dies, he is so crushed he suddenly gets the concept of revenge, knowing that the Baron has killed him. But for the most part, we see a more tame and less dangerous Frankenstein, seduced into doing evil only by Igor's power. Igor is the real monster here, as he is even able to influence the Baron into reviving the monster. Bela Lugosi (Yes Dracula himself) portrays Igor with great aplomb. Lugosi and Karloff were said to be rivals but working in this film, one can see that they had chemistry, at least on screen, and Bela Lugosi proved he could do more roles than that of Dracula. In Frankenstein Meets The Wolf Man he portrays the Frankenstein Monster. Lugosi's tragedy was the fact that although he tried doing other roles besides Dracula, and he did them well, he could not do anything other than the same type of horror films for Universal and most always in the role of Dracula. But if you want to see Lugosi doing another role, his Igor is his best. Igor is a calm force of evil, having outlived his executioners and he possesses a wicked carelessness that's interesting to watch. This film uses great sets, costumes by Vera West (look at Elizabeth's long gowns) and original music by Frank Skinner which is romantic sounding and dramatic. A lesser film next to the original Frankenstein but a good one nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Following Father's Woodstops","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Though not as dread-inspiring or iconic as the original Frankenstein, 1939's Son Of Frankenstein is my favorite of the classic Universal series, a strong sequel and progenitor in its own right of my favorite Frankenstein film, Young Frankenstein from 1974.It's a few years after events in the previous installment, Bride Of Frankenstein. The monster is dead now, and so is his creator, Dr. Frankenstein. Frankenstein's son Wolf (Basil Rathbone) comes to town to claim his legacy, but it is a more involved legacy than he knows, as the troublemaking Ygor (Bela Lugosi) makes clear. Ygor knows more about the fate of the monster (Boris Karloff) than anyone else, but sharing this knowledge with Wolf comes at a steep price.I almost titled this review Bela Basil and Boris Oh My until I realized that shortchanges the best performance in the film, Lionel Atwill's as Inspector Krogh. Atwill is at the heart of what makes Son Of Frankenstein a good film, his Krogh a figure of both menace and warmth who makes us care a little more about the victims of the monster's crimes than the more cynical if stylish earlier installments did.Son Of Frankenstein has style, and sparks of humor, but it also tells a story. Director Rowland V. Lee lacks the polish of the man behind the earlier Frankenstein films, James Whale, but he at least takes the horror more seriously than Whale did in Bride of Frankenstein, a legendary film that doesn't hold up to inspection.Son, however, does; working the mood of overwhelming dread from the first moments in. Wolf sits with his wife on a train passing a countryside of barren trees enfolded with fog, wondering where his noble father went wrong.Why nine out of ten people call that misshapen creature of my father's experiments... Frankenstein! calls out a conductor, announcing that the town of Frankenstein is the next spot.Like other posters here, I'm impressed by Lugosi's subtlety and humor, playing Ygor not as a diabolical maniac so much as twisted by his own isolation, not to mention the hanging that broke his neck but left him curiously alive. They died...dead! he cackles, regarding the men who sentenced him to die. I died...live! Rathbone is by turns hammy and effective, but the real loss here is Karloff, playing the Monster for the last time. Except for one scene where he catches a glimpse of himself in a mirror, and another near the end where he menaces Wolf's young son, Boris is very much a third wheel in the proceedings. It's good he doesn't repeat the mistake of talking from Bride, but he seems to lose a spark of his otherworldly light in the transition back to the hulking brute of Frankenstein.There is also patness at the heart of the story, involving unsolved murders in the village of Frankenstein. We never really rekindle the existential menace of the original Frankenstein, but in its place we do get a story of real human warmth, between Wolf and his family, Wolf and Krogh, even the Monster and Ygor. While not a classic, Son is a singular treat, combining storyline, atmosphere, and characterization in such a way as to make it a model for classic monster movie making.Just ask Mel and Gene. "}{"Title":"sherlock Holmes meets Frankensteins monster","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" The third in the Frankenstein series this time the son of Dr Frankenstein(basil rathbone)takes over.Boris Karloff plays the monster one last time,until he makes a guest appearance as the monster in the TV series route 66.along with peter Lorre and Lon Chaney Jr.anyway this one is kind of fun,this time there's a new character Ygor played very well by Bela Lugosi,there's a one armed inspector played by the great Lionel atwill.there's a lot of great special effects and the monster is sporting a new furry sheep's fur coat provided by his friend ygor.basil rathbone went on to play sherlock Holmes in the universal series.the music was used in later universal monster films,including the serial;the phantom creeps.its a great movie,a must see,but only after the first 2,otherwise you'll be confused,9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Almost as good as Bride.","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" This work, as has been extolled by countless reviewers at IMDb, features Boris Karloff (as the Monster), Bela Lugosi (as Igor), and Basil Rathbone (as Wolf Frankenstein, Henry's son). The single fact that these three are involved in the same work, a beautiful collaboration, is enough to make it one of my favorites! All that was missing was Lon Chaney, Jr. as the Wolf Man. It is also the third (and final) chapter of source material which was later worked into Mel Brooks's phenomenal Young Frankenstein masterpiece. SYNOPSIS Wolf arrives onto the Frankenstein scene for the first time, his wife and young son in tow, to claim his immense legacy. When he and his family arrive, no one seems to welcome him whatsoever. He meets Ygor (or Igor) who asks him to resurrect the Monster who is lying in a coma. An honest attempt is made, but after the apparent failure of Wolf's resurrection attempt, some venerable villagers begin to turn up murdered. Unfortunately, many of the victims are the same villagers who condemned Ygor to the gallows, and it isn't hard for the villagers to piece it all together. Soon after Wolf discovers Ygor is the Monster's puppeteer, the Inspector sent to investigate begins pressuring Wolf to the point of bringing on a fit wherein Wolf kills Ygor. The Monster is so tormented by the sudden loss of his only friend, he goes after Wolf's darling son Peter as a replacement. Wolf must save his son and (he finally hopes to) destroy this walking family curse in the process.You can see portions of this work which are obvious studio sets; namely, Henry's lab sequence. From the outside it is obvious and horrible! In the first two chapters, you never really notice, as the action and suspense are adequately riveting that you are distracted from any shortcomings experienced by the editing and backdrops/backgrounds. But in this chapter, the audience is too quickly rushed into the story so that the suspense is not well built of yet, thereby not allowing the audience to be drawn in before introducing factors of bad blending, horrid backgrounds and/or NO attention to set design or details, or Karloff's sudden stilted performance. He is still formidable as Frankenstein's Monster, but his performance is lacking in this work. He lacks the ability to generate sympathy, as if his heart is not in this work. Unfortunately, after this chapter, the role is no longer Karloff's. I can't help but wonder if, at the time, Karloff knew that?Lugosi's performance as Ygor is haunted and bestial, but for some reason, he sounds amazingly like Bergis Meredith. I've always found that marginally odd...and a bit off putting. Nonetheless, Rathbone's Frankenstein is one of style and grace, much like Rathbone himself. He generates this sense of fallen nobility in his portrayals, and in this work particularly. Wolf seeks to vindicate his father's work and reputation. A noble and common ideology which, more often than not, results in villainization of the proposed recipient of the vindication. And with that in mind, our story progresses to a rousing, if difficult, end. It is still wonderfully done and rates a 7.6/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"third film in the Frankenstein series is a top quality production and is almost as good as the first two","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Director Rowland V. Lee, Novel Mary Shelley, Script Wyllis Cooper, Cast Basil Rathbone (Baron Von Frankenstein), Boris Karloff (Monster), Bela Lugosi (Ygor), Lionel Atwill (Insp. Krogh), Josephine Hutchinson (Elsa Von Frankenstein), Donnie Dunagan (Peter Von Frankenstein), Lawrence Grant(Burgermaster), Lionel Belmore (Emil Lang) This is Universal's third installment in the Frankenstein franchise. Unlike some of the other Universal monster sequels such as The Mummy or Invisible Man, the Frankenstein films continued to be fairly big production and this is a rather well made film. The lead character in this movie is Dr. Frankenstein's son Baron. Dr. Frankenstein long ago left the estate but it is still owned by the Frankenstein family and had been taken care of by the family servants. Baron with his wife and son come to the village to lay claim on the estate but they are met with hostility by the local people because of the havoc brought on the place by his father's infamous creation. Baron comes across Ygor (the local shepherd who survived a hanging by the authorities) who shows Baron that the monster is very much alive but comatose. Like his father, Baron is also a scientist and Ygor talks him into reviving the monster. Baron does so hoping he can 'rehabilite' the monster and clear the family name. Things go bad when Igor uses the monster to attack members of the jury responsible for his conviction.Rowland V. Lee, the film's director did a fantastic job especially when one considers that he was filling the shoes of James Whale, not an easy feat! I liked the set design on this film. The grandiosity of the estate reminds me of Citizen Kane. The monster was once again brilliantly played by Boris Karloff, a role he would play in the first three of the five original Universal films. He returned for the last film, House of Frankenstein, but he played a mad scientist not the monster. I have never been a fan of Beli Lugosi as a lead actor (White Zombie is the one exception) but he is perfect for the part of Ygor whom he also played in the next film, Ghost of Frankenstein. The underrated Lionel Atwill is also here as the Inspector. This is a top rated entry in the Frankenstein series. The last two films (which I will eventually review) are not up to par with the first three but are still enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Lugosi steals the show!","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Of all the sequels to FRANKENSTEIN in Universal's famous series, SON OF FRANKENSTEIN is my favorite as far as cast as concerned. That Bela Lugosi was a better actor than given credit for by the studios, and could play something other than vampires and mad doctors is shown by his performance as Ygor. To me, he stole the show from three other fine actors, Basil Rathbone, Lionel Atwill, and even rival Boris Karloff. Frank Skinner's score helped make this movie a personal favorite as well. A classic from Universal's golden age of horror, this film and other horror films of this era stand head and shoulders above films made today! "},{"Title":"The Last truly great film from the Universal Horror Series","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Son of Frankenstien is the 3rd in series of Frankenstien films out of Universal, and it surprisingly remains in quality, but not quite as high as done by James Whale with Frankenstien and of course, Bride of Frankenstien.Son of Frankenstien's main heights are brought in from a stellar cast mainly Basil Rathbone, as the Doctor who makes a great and believable approach as the son of Dr.Frankenstien, Lionel Atwill as the cool wooden-armed Inspector, and Bors Karloff reprising his role as The Monster, who doesn't appear that much in the film actually, but this doesn't bring the film down much at all, considering we have Bela Lugosi in one of his best roles ever, as Ygor, the humorous, and eerie friend of the monster. Essential viewing for his role alone, but there is so much more to this film then just that.Although never reaching the heights of Bride or the original Frankenstien, this film has cool expressionist textured shadows, and probably remains the scariest (as far as scares can come from movies made made over 65 years ago) can be. A good example would be the Monster walk with Dr.Frankenstiens child near the Sulphur pit.This is essential viewings for any fan of film, and probably the last great Universal Horror Flick. If you are in doubt of this film's quality, try watching Ghost of Frankenstien after this, and see if you are sit through it without flicking it off half way through9/10. "},{"Title":"Son of Frankenstein","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Lugosi was great and vile looking as the broken necked Ygor. He really stands out during a hearing in the town courtroom about what all is going on at the Frankenstein castle. Ygor was already sentenced to death once and hung, for digging up corpses. Somehow he survived with a broken neck, and can't be sentenced again unless he commits more disgusting acts of crime. He knows this too, and Lugosi shows this character's happiness grow arrogant and powerful with glee. He's also equally good in Ghost of Frankenstein, but I think that is a less enjoyable film. Lugosi is also awesome in The Devil Bat. But, I do consider White Zombie his best movie, and Dracula I like but it isn't a favorite. "},{"Title":"Third Time Is A Charm!","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  There are not many third chapters in a film series that even come close to being as good as the original, but this one does! It is not quite as good as FRANKENSTEIN, but it is still an excellent film.YEARS after the first two films, Baron Wolf Von Frankenstein, son of Victor Frankenstein, has come to take over his fathers castle. When he gets there, he finds Ygor, a hunch backed freak with a broken neck that has been living in his fathers old laboratory. He then finds out that his father's monster is still alive, but in a coma. He feels that it is his responsibility as a Frankenstein to bring the monster back to life.There are several reasons as to why you should see this movie, and here are two of them Boris Karloff, and Bela Lugosi! Together! The two biggest horror icons of the old black and white days are in the same motion picture! How could it get any better? I will tell you! The acting in this movie is exeunt, and it is truly scary! With most horror series, when you get around to the third chapter, the films are no longer scary. Some are still very cool, but they are usually not scary by then. But if you watch Son Of Frankenstein in the dark, you will see that the series still keeps it's dark eerieness. If you like the first two films, then check this out. You will definitely enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"Worthy sequel","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  Son of Frankenstein is certainly a worthy sequel to the previous Frankenstein installment, The Bride of Frankenstein. In addition to Boris Karloff's final appearance as the Monster, we are treated to one of Bela Lugosi's greatest performances as the mysterious, broken-necked Ygor. Also outstanding was Lionel Atwill as the police inspector who is suspicious of young Barron Frankenstein, played by Basil Rathbone. The atmosphere of the movie, particularly at the beginning, is extremely well-done and helps keep the creepy effect constant from beginning to end. Rathbone gives a fine but not overwhelming performance, but the appeal of this movie is multi-faceted. I highly recommended it to all fans of the horror genre.  "},{"Title":"Here I thought I was losing my Mind","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  Just watched Son of Frankenstein for the First time in Many Years. Wow what a great movie Lots of fun considering that I watched Frankenstine and Bride of Frankenstine and Son of Frankenstine back to back to back. What classic Movies they are. Nothing that I didn't like in any of the Movies. Guess I will have to watch Young Frankenstine again because I did see where all the Elements of Young Frankenstien came from. Something I noticed that at least once in each Movie someone does Shout the Line Its Alive. I also like the use of Black and White Think that would of helped the Movie Van Helsing a great deal. Nothing deep here in this post Just wanted to say my Piece what a great movie.  "},{"Title":"Here I thought I was losing my Mind","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  Just watched Son of Frankenstein for the First time in Many Years. Wow what a great movie Lots of fun considering that I watched Frankenstine and Bride of Frankenstine and Son of Frankenstine back to back to back. What classic Movies they are. Nothing that I didn't like in any of the Movies. Guess I will have to watch Young Frankenstine again because I did see where all the Elements of Young Frankenstien came from. Something I noticed that at least once in each Movie someone does Shout the Line Its Alive. I also like the use of Black and White Think that would of helped the Movie Van Helsing a great deal. Nothing deep here in this post Just wanted to say my Piece what a great movie.  "}{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  SpoilersTraditionally, the farther along the line of follow-ups a movie is, the less likely it will be entertaining.  This film is the sequel of a sequel, so I watched it with low expectations.  I was pleasantly surprised at how good it actually turned out to be.It picks up at least 25 years after the great Bride of Frankenstein left off.  The original Baron Doctor has just died, and his eldest son has come home to the family estate to take over.  There he discovers unfriendly villagers, an intelligent constable, Ygor, and the hidden monster.  The script is cohesive and quite witty at times, focusing on the relationships between the characters.  Beware, the monsters role is smaller in this film, more a supporting character to the more dramatic leads.The great draw back to this film is the low-budget scenery.  The castle looks like, and may have been, the inspiration for the demented architecture in Beetlegeuse, breaking the atmospheric rhythm of the past two films.The great strength of this film, and an unusual one for the horror genre, is the acting, which ranges from fair to excellent on occasion. The cast including Basil Rathbone, Lionel Atwill, and Boris Karloff, seem comfortable with their roles, and are generally convincing in them. However, the great stand-out is Bela Lugosi.  His performance as Dracula may be his most remembered, but he also deserves recognition for this turn as the humorous and sly lab assistant.A must for those who love Young Frankenstein. "},{"Title":"A fine end to the Frankenstein trilogy","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Though not the towering achievement represented by James Whale's two masterpieces, this moody and expressionistic melodrama is a worthy successor. Lugosi steals the show as Ygor, demonstrating the versatility that he was noted for as a stage actor before the Hollywood machine ground him to pieces.(Update regarding the title of my post Yes, yes, I forgot about *Ghost of Frankenstein*, though I think there's a case to be made for drawing a line after *SoF*. On the other hand, no, I did *not* forget about *Frankenstein vs. the Wolf Man* and the following movies. Universal's monster rally pictures are a different thing entirely.) "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable.......","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  I think this is the best of the series, it has Legosi as Ygor and Atwill as mr One-arm, they just add So much to this whole thing. Rathbone seemed to be kinda chewing the scenary more than usual-and the Monster-he was good too.Spoiler? We've all seen this but...You gotta like the ending-Sherlock Holmes pulling a Tarzan and knocking the Monster into the Sulfer abyss. Def. one time you gotta see it to believe it. I had to watch it again to be sure.Great atmosphere, lighting, Strange eerie sets-the whole 9 yards. Def. one time you will wanna watch it again.***1/2 outta ****Better than 'Young Frankenstein' too. Foo.  "},{"Title":"Gorgeous!","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  Simply put, this is a gorgeous film to look at. From the spellbinding camera work, the atmosphere, the use of light(very little) and shadows to the famous Universal expressionist sets it's just a joy to behold. The creepy German countryside swathed in rain and thunder and lightning is a truly wonderful sight to see. Add to that fine performances from Rathbone, Karloff, Lugosi and especially Atwill as the bitter but dutifull Police Inspector you have what is the most literate Universal film in the Frankenstein series. And oh yes, IT'S A HECK OF A LOT OF FUN TOO! Buy it for your collection and watch this wonderful film over and over again. A classic! "},{"Title":"Lugosi and Atwill create memorable characters.","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  As a kid reading Famous Monsters of Filmland and other such magazines I always saw pictures from this movie but until AMC ran it recently I had never watched it.  There are a number of scenes that were spoofed in Mel Brooks Young Frankenstein and when you watch this picture you can't help but smile when you notice them.  Bela Lugosi clearly gave the best performance in this motion picture with Lionel Atwill a close second. If your a fan of the Mel Brooks picture don't miss this one.     "},{"Title":"Bless You","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  I KNEW there was a train ride sequence at thebegining of Bride of Frankenstein when I saw it the first time twenty five years ago, it has been cut from every video and tv version that I have seen since. I knew it was there and my recent visit to the goofs section confirmed it. It is also neat to know that Little Peter Frankenstein supplied the voice to Bambi. "},{"Title":"Son of German expressionism?","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  At the time of release, I'm sure this film's purpose was to frighten and make money. Watching it recently, I realized it was pure poetry. Lighting, set design, Rathbone's rheumy eyes all contribute to a statetment about obsession framed in an alternate reality that can be interpreted as through the eyes of madness. Any on screen obviousness was not unlike Spielberg or DiPalma, and they get castigated very rarely for it. The only problem I had was with the ending, yet that may have been symbolic as well. "},{"Title":"flawed but rather interesting","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  Sequelitis has started to set in here, visible in a certain desperation in the way old plotlines are eked out with second-rate new invention.  One dramatic problem is the way Bela Lugosi and Lionel Atwill are permitted to steal the show between them, yet never permitted to meet.  Basil Rathbone - whom I admire - is out of sorts, going through the motions with a tolerable line in developing rant, but without really drawing you into his torment. Lugosi's revenge plot is hand-me-down and ordinary, a dilution of and distraction from the core Frankenstein mythos.  Then there's Karloff, still unforgettably iconic, a wonderful fusion of make-up, cinematography and physical performance.  But even here there's compromise.  It looks as if the film's consciousness of Karloff's greatness in the role makes it determined to turn the Monster's scenes into virtuoso showcases so we get all the various moods-the tenderness, the sudden violence, the 'demoniacal calm' the Variety reviewer eloquently noted in 1931 - rather by numbers.  His final plummet into boiling sulphur is a bit of a damp squib, too; director Lee lacks James Whale's minute control.  At least Karloff doesn't talk, though.What might have made the movie something special is a better child actor in the pivotal role of Peter von Frankenstein, the young son of Rathbone and his clothes-horse wife (Hutchinson).  (It's intriguing that the wife's called Elsa perhaps there's a glance at Elsa Lanchester who played the female creation in James Whale's The Bride of Frankenstein, further encouraging the confusion - here a genuine moral confusion - between the scientist and the monster.)  Peter's role provides a centre for that stratum of filial and paternal anxiety that runs through Universal's Frankenstein story Lionel Atwill - giving a performance of great charm, humour and authority as Inspector Krogh - takes to Peter as a surrogate son, having none of his own, whilst the Baron increasingly isolates himself; the Monster, too, retains his soft spot for kiddies from the earlier films, increasingly sentimentalized here (odd parallels with the Alien sequels suggest themselves).  In fact, Krogh and the Monster are rather well matched, both partly artificial (something the Monster is responsible for in the case of Krogh's artificial arm), both walking stiffly in a parody march, the Inspector having unfulfilled soldierly fantasies left over from childhood.  Peter, too, is unselfconsciously violent, addicted to the fantasy of big game hunting.  Yet none of the three - Peter, the Monster or the Inspector - strikes one as a naturally violent character.  (Whereas, despite the protestations of sweet wife, one gets the impression with Rathbone's Baron that violence is natural to him, and needs little excuse to come out; his game of darts looks dangerous in a way Peter's rifle toting doesn't.)  This interesting substratum doesn't get far, mostly because the child actor (Donnie Dunagan) is designer cute, and gives an uninteresting performance, lacking in intensity.  If the unflinching quality of his gaze, his willingness to look at everything, and in looking to master it, could have been conveyed, then I think the transmission of a family curse from generation to generation would have begun to develop real tragic resonance. Without that special quality, 'Son of Frankenstein' falls short. "},{"Title":"Weakest","Date":"12 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Son of franknesten I just seen this movie and I didn't think it was that good For me I felt like movie dragged on for to like , there no much action in this movie with the monster.If when the monster was a wake , you don't really get to see him in action , which was dissaponting but I didn't mind the end as had some decent sceneThe acting in the movie but I found the whole movie lacked something that the pass 2 movies and I enjoyed the next sequel the ghost , much more 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"What a family tree!","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Considering that the Universal monster series was petering out and that Son of Frankenstein is the third installment (but not the last) in which the monster appears, this isn't too bad.At least it has a zippy pace and Basil Rathbone's performance is pretty good. The special effects are, well, pronounced. Electrical junk abounds and Van De Graaff generators, with their high voltage and low current, send crackling bolts of lightning all over the place.The purpose of all this display is to bring back to life the monster created by Basil Rathbone's father. The monster is played for the last time by Boris Karloff.Rathbone is Wolf Frankenstein, a research physician, who moves with his family into the castle on the edge of Village Frankenstein. The villagers are not happy campers. They recall only too well Rathbone's father and the creature he unleashed on them.Rathbone has no intention of continuing his father's work but when Ygor, the broken-necked servant, shows him around his father's laboratory, Rathebone finds that the creature is still alive, although apparently disabled, and sets about trying to restore him (or it) to health.Ha ha, thinks Ygor. The fact is that when Rathbone is sleeping or otherwise occupied, the humped-over gnome has been sending the monster out on missions of revenge for previous insults.This may be one of the later entries in the series -- other, much worse, were to follow -- but it's not that bad. It may be the only time that Basil Rathbone has been discomfited on screen, when the Inspector (Lionel Atwill), the one with the stiff posture and wooden arm, tells Rathbone that his father's creature ripped out the arm by its roots. Well -- I --, says Rathbone, in a manner both apologetic and gentlemanly. This isn't Rathbone's default state. I saw him on Broadway in a production of Archibald MacLeach's J.B. He was one of Job's comforters and he STILL was authoritative, commanding, and a little mean. Small comfort.The sets are well constructed. The Rathbone breakfast nook is the size of the Astrodome and has no furniture except a tiny table in the middle of a great empty space. It takes the butler forty-five seconds to enter through the door and scurry over to pour the morning coffee. I counted.The fact is that if this picture had appeared sui generis -- if it hadn't been preceded and then followed by related members of the Universal monster genre, it probably would have become a classic of its kind. "}{"Title":"Best of the Frankenstein series","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" This was the first Frankenstein movie I saw, about 1940, I think. I didn't see Frankenstein or Bride of Frankenstein until years later, and then on TV. Son of Frankenstein can definitely stand alone as a movie, for I understood it completely without even realizing it was a sequel.I'm not a movie critic or reviewer, but speaking strictly as an ordinary moviegoer, I thought this was one of the best movies I have ever seen, and, I think, THE best horror movie. All the elements were there great story, great acting, and a great spooky setting befitting a horror story. There were many scary scenes The monster sneaking up behind Dr. Frankenstein, the monster entering a secret door into the child's bedroom, the monster's anger upon seeing himself in a mirror, The monster's anguish upon finding the body of Ygor, and the monster contemplating hurling the child into the sulfur pit, to name a few. Many were disappointed that Karloff didn't have a speaking role, but to me this made the monster much more horrifying. In my opinion, Karloff did a super acting job in portraying the monster's emotions with gestures, facial expressions, and mannerisms. Later, when I saw Bride of Frankenstein, I thought that speech greatly diminished the mystique and horror of the creature. Bride was a great movie, and Karloff's acting was super, but the movie just wasn't scary--and after all, it was supposed to be a horror flick.Speaking of scary, I was a young kid when I saw Son of Frankenstein, and it scared the heck out of me. Keep in mind that Frankenstein was new then, but today, the monster is no longer scary. That's because scads of movies have been made about the monster, including Abbot and Costello Meet Frankenstein, Young Frankenstein, and Herman Munster. But in spite of that, I think if you sit alone in the dark and watch Son of Frankenstein, you'll feel chills in your spine. "},{"Title":"Third entry in the Frankenstein series, with eccentric performances, weird sets and a tongue firmly in cheek","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Nothing about James Whale's 1931 Frankenstein called for a follow-up, but its success demanded one, so in 1935 Whale gave the world Bride of Frankenstein, a peculiarly funny, horrifying, witty yet sincere movie that has since become a classic. The creators of this second follow-up (including the director Rowland V. Lee and the writer Wyllis Cooper) wisely added their own peculiar humor as well and created yet another excellent film, joining Bride on that short list of great pointless sequels.The son (Basil Rathbone) of Henry Frankenstein has returned with his wife and young boy to the village where his father had created a monster (Boris Karloff), which turned murderous, thus blackening the name of Frankenstein among the villagers and making the prodigal son a pariah. Wolf Frankenstein becomes obsessed with his father's legacy; and when he discovers through a broken-necked freak named Ygor (Bela Lugosi) that the monster lives on in a coma, he decides to revive him.Son of&#x85; has three memorably eccentric performances. My favorite is that of Lionel Atwill, who plays a local inspector in a military uniform. He uses a mechanical arm to replace the one the Monster had torn out when he was a child (One doesn't easily forget, Herr Baron, an arm torn out by the roots). Atwill does two things that amaze me. One he makes the business with the arm hilarious without ever seeming insincere or parodic. Two he's oddly sympathetic, considering that he never seems to aim for the effect and that his character's main purpose is to foil the protagonist. Next is Bela Lugosi as the broken-necked Ygor. (Apologizing for coughing in someone's face A bone gets stuck in my throat.) Lugosi's Hungarian accent and mannered diction made him a very limited actor, but within those limitations he could give splendid performances, as this film shows. Third is Basil Rathbone, who descends into near madness and hysteria without losing our sympathy. Karloff also has several good moments, even though he is given little to do (a situation which inspired him to drop out of the series at this point and never again play the role that made him famous).Frankenstein's weird castle, with its jutting angles, jagged edges, strange shadows, boar-faced gargoyles and huge empty spaces make it the most unliveable family home in moviedom.There's plenty to enjoy; but the story is the weakest of the first three Frankenstein entries. Scenes play out far too long, and few of the plot twists are particularly interesting. It's always the performances, dialogue, sets and lighting that keep us entertained. But that's enough. "},{"Title":"Great third showing for Universal's Frankenstein!","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Often regarded as the best of Universal's sequels to James Whale's classic pair of Frankenstein films, Son of Frankenstein manages to retain the elements that made its predecessors great, and add enough new stuff to ensure that it doesn't simply retread old ground. Rowland V. Lee takes up the director's chair, while the screenplay is direct from the imagination of writer Wyllis Cooper; though it takes in characters created by Mary Shelly. The film benefits from a number of star additions to the cast, including horror icon Bela Lugosi, along with Lionel Atwill and Sherlock Holmes himself; Basil Rathbone, in the lead role. And, of course, Boris Karloff returns as the iconic monster. This film would also appear to be the one that influenced Hammer studios to continually think up new sequels to their massive success, The Curse of Frankenstein. The plot follows the son of Dr Frankenstein, who returns to his father's estate some time after the original doctor's death. He soon meets the mysterious Ygor, who has the monster in a room below Frankenstein's laboratory. When Frankenstein's son is asked to help treat the monster...he can't stop himself picking up where his father left off.This film takes the idea of the villagers treating Frankenstein's son with disdain, which results in a very paranoid film as Basil Rathbone continually tries to convince Lionel Atwill's inspector that he has nothing to do with the new spree of murders causing panic in the village. Basil Rathbone is very much the lead in this film, and he's always excellent in that role. The man has a lot of charisma, and this role sees him bring it out. I'd even go as far as to say that I preferred him in the lead to Colin Clive in the original. The pace is always very relaxed, and it has to be said that this second sequel isn't as exciting on the whole as James Whale's original. The film is also a little on the long side, clocking up almost one hundred minutes. There's more than enough to make up for this, however; as the Gothic locations are a treat, and Wyllis Cooper's script really is excellent. The four stars help one another, and it's great to see all these icons in a movie together. Karloff isn't given that much to do; but both Atwill and Lugosi are outstanding as they lead the film from the back. Writing a new story based on a great classic and making it good can't be easy, but this film manages it. Son of Frankenstein is both a worthy successor to what James Whale and Mary Shelly put forward, and is also a great horror classic in its own right. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Son Of Frankenstein (1939) ***1/2","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Third and last great entry in the Frankenstein series and certainly among the most satisfying sequels ever. It started the second outburst of Universal horror films and while this never reached the heights of the 1931-6 boom, the beginning was promising indeed.Actually, this was only my second viewing of the film and so its plot details, coupled with the artistry with which it is made, managed to yield as much genuine surprise as immense pleasure throughout. James Whale, director of the first two Boris Karloff Frankenstein films, seems to have scoffed at the way the saga would progress but Rowland V. Lee certainly did nothing here that might shame Whale's unique vision - which, however, can't be said of any of the subsequent entries!The film features a compelling narrative with strong characterizations and involves a variety of elaborate sets which rival those of BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN (1935) in their weird stylization. In fact, these two films have probably the highest production values of all the Universal horror output, which alone goes to prove that this third 'episode' was no rush job but a meticulously planned - and executed - affair! This richness extends to the delightful if overlong script and the outstanding performances of the four stars Basil Rathbone is an intellectual but edgy Frankenstein (I find his overacting here intoxicating and, quite honestly, one of the undoubted highlights of the film - pity he seemed not to care enough for the role to warrant a mention in his autobiography!); much has been said, too, about Karloff's lack of purpose this time around I disagree, as he has plenty of opportunities to shine (particularly the mirror scene with Rathbone and his final rampage, certainly among the best bits of acting he's ever done!) and, in any case, he's always fascinating to watch in that make-up - and the sheepskin he wears throughout is an added treat; Bela Lugosi manages to steal the picture with a surprisingly fine turn as Ygor, a great characterization in any film but pitted against Rathbone's histrionics and alongside Karloff's semi-comatose monster (acting as an evil influence upon it, much as Ernest Thesiger had in BRIDE), he is extremely effective - in fact, Lugosi and Karloff's rapport here echoes the one the latter shared with Brember Wills in James Whale's masterful THE OLD DARK HOUSE (1932) and which sadly wasn't replicated in the next entry, THE GHOST OF FRANKENSTEIN (1942), with the monster now played by Lon Chaney Jr.!; Lionel Atwill has his best role in a Universal horror film as one-armed Inspector Krogh - which rather typecast him from then on as a figure of authority! - but, again, his scenes with Rathbone are to be relished (notably the celebrated game of darts), developing from protectiveness towards the Baron to admiration, suspicion and, ultimately, sacrifice!The rest of the cast features series staples like Lionel Belmore and Michael Mark but also horror regulars like Edgar Norton and Gustav von Seyffertitz; Josephine Hutchinson is okay as the current Baroness Frankenstein but Donnie Dunagan's acting as the couple's son is an abomination and, while Karloff's impulse to throw him into the sulphur pit at the bottom of the laboratory - in retaliation for Lugosi's killing by Rathbone - may be construed as a bit extreme, the child nonetheless would have deserved just that fate for his irritating performance alone! The action-packed climax, as mentioned, is memorable and exciting; in fact, even if the film can feel unnecessarily long-winded at times (especially when compared to the brisker earlier entries), it never becomes boring - thanks, in no small measure, to George Robinson's exquisite cinematography throughout and Frank Skinner's magnificently lush score (which Universal apparently recognized, too, as they returned to it time and again in future!). "},{"Title":"A mixed bag. Karloff is disappointing but Lugosi is great.","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  'Bride Of Frankenstein' is arguably the greatest horror movie ever made so any sequel to it couldn't help but disappoint. 'Son Of Frankenstein' is entertaining but doesn't measure up to the high standards of the first two movies in the series. James Whale is nowhere to be found and his lack of involvement shows. This movie is much less imaginative and original than the previous films. It is neither as disturbing or as amusing as they were. Bela Lugosi however gives one of his greatest performances as the broken necked Ygor, and I would recommend this movie to every horror fan for his performance alone. Basil Rathbone and Lionel Atwell are also both very good and the latter adds a touch of the bizarre humour seen in 'Bride..'. It's a pity there wasn't much more of that going on. The real disappointment is Karloff who does very little, and for some reason the Monster has lost the power of speech which he had acquired in the previous movie. Karloff gave an outstanding performance in 'Bride...' but isn't all that memorable in 'Son...' and one imagines this is why he stopped playing the character. So, a mixed bag overall. Karloff is disappointing but Lugosi is great. 'Son Of Frankenstein' is uneven but Lugosi and Atwill make it worth watching. "},{"Title":"Slightly more then routine","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  Son of Frankenstein is pretty disappointing as it's fairly routine despite the talent involved.  Karloff doesn't get a chance to do much and loses some of the feeling from his earlier turns as the monster.  Rathbone hams it up but is fun in most of his scenes.  Lionel Atwill is fantastic as the one-armed police inspector.  Bela Lugosi exhibits great passion and is excellent as Igor.  The script is pretty loose and is not nearly as good as the two previous Frankenstein movies.  The movie is the first of the formulaic Frankenstein movies, where the monster is found and rejuvenated while the angry villagers complain before finally taking up arms and torches.  Son of Frankenstein isn't a bad movie but isn't nearly as good as Frankenstein or as fun as Bride of Frankenstein.  6.7/10 "},{"Title":"Not quite a classic","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" This is a very handsome production with striking design and three good performances at its heart. Basil Rathbone and Lionel Atwill are always fun to watch, but Bela Lugosi is especially good in this movie. He plays evil with real relish.Although it does not really add anything new to the Frankenstein saga, Universal are to be congratulated for trying to make a movie that is not merely cashing in on James Whale's two great movies but is a worthy successor to them. I wish I liked it more.The problem is that, for all its merits, this picture is somewhat ponderous and a bit dull. Every scene is slightly over-written and allowed to drag on too long. Each small plot point is painstakingly established, with the result that it takes 55 minutes for Karloff's Creature to be restored. However, it is only at this point that the actual story can begin. The plodding literalism of the story-telling is in sharp contrast to the allusive spirit of the the production design.Roland V Lee's direction does nothing to help. He is unable to get any energy into the picture because, too often, his camera is perched well away from the action so that he can give us beautifully composed wide shots of the elaborate expressionist sets. It looks like a succession of great stills rather than a movie.I found myself wondering if a good editor could take 15 minutes out of the picture and give it some pace. I doubt it, because of the relatively static staging and the shortage of close-ups and two-shots. For good or ill, this is the picture that Universal made and there is no point in wishing it was any different.It is an honest, earnest, decently-crafted movie, but there is no way to hide its basic problem there is not enough plot to fill its generous 97 minutes.I give it full marks for trying, but its good intentions cannot make it into the Gothic classic it aspires to be. "},{"Title":"Misfire!","Date":"4 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Just watched this movie for the first time since I was a kid. Wow! Considering the talent involved how did this movie drift, nay, run astray?After reading a number of reviews, the consensus was that the stylistic sets were acceptable for the most part or even seen as a plus for the film, but not so for me. A misfire of a choice for what should have been a traditional Gothic style/medieval architecture, why argue with success? What did the director et al. do? Sit around thinking how do we reduce the atmosphere of dread, fear and foreboding? And what was the style? Expressionist? Minimalist? It looked like the scenery budget was cut to be able to hire the full lineup of Universal's horror stars. The interiors of the castle looked like they were hastily thrown together in an afternoon. And what happened, couldn't they afford even one fake spiderweb? It was an equally irritating distraction on par with Rathbone's constant barrage of tantrums.The other major misjudgement that irked me was the ending. I was stunned! Besides bringing the monster back to life and so being partially responsible for the deaths that occurred, Wolfie was constantly lying to everybody to keep his secret. But at the end everybody, the police chief, his wife and all the townspeople not only forgive him, they love him, treat him like a hero, having only moments earlier thrown down their scythes, hangman's ropes and such. He must have had quite a PR man. Or maybe it was the caliber of the Frankenstein villagers, hearts so big they explode! ha ha! And he must have had a good lawyer, too, considering how many laws he broke. Wasn't it grand to have such a forgiving wife whose husband constantly lied to minimize the dangerous situation he put her and their son in.One last thing I just thought of. There really wasn't anybody likable in this movie, especially the kid with his southern accent. (Even he was involved in a murder - didn't the police chief find Benson's watch on him, which made him the prime suspect? Those Frankenstein's are just bad blood) "},{"Title":"That knocker must have been used in the old days to arouse the entire household.","Date":"27 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" A quote for fans of British slang there. There's plenty of more amusing moments, intentional or not, in this second Frankenstein sequel from Universal. Not for nothing did this film get extensively mined for Mel Brooks' classic Young Frankenstein, and the increasingly over-the-top performance from Basil Rathbone is a particular delight.When Rathbone (the titular son), his English wife and their inexplicably American-accented young child travel to his father's old home predictable things begin to happen once more. Gone is the real subtext, wit or invention that the first two classic movies offered, and in its place is something that's merely okay. Karloff is sidelined here, not getting real screen time until almost an hour into the movie, and it's left to Rathbone to carry the film as some kind of extended drawer room farce. It works well enough, even though it's all pretty much repeats, and the four sequels that followed were even lesser returns. Although the Hammer Frankenstein movies of the 50s and 60s didn't reach as great heights (and arguably lower lows), they were able to display a freshness and invention that many of the Universal sequels lacked.The films that follow this were produced as B movies, and without Karloff's presence or the need to credit Mary Shelley for story. Although incredibly formulaic and repetitive, many of them were still watchable and quite charming, with only the melodramatic and dry House of Dracula really killing off the franchise for good. By that stage Universal's output had dropped in quality so far that Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein was not only an effective revival of the series, but one of its high points.Son (and the follow-up, Ghost) strips away one of the most discussed subtext of the first two Frankenstein movies by giving Colin Clive's character sons. It also takes away any attempt at genuine artistry, as well as Karloff's voice. Frankenstein from 1939-1948 was worth watching as a lightweight piece of fun, most of them carried by Lon Chaney as the Wolfman. But for Frankenstein films that had any artistic merit, then stick with the first two. "},{"Title":"Classic Unjustly Regarded as Inferior to the first two Frankenstein films","Date":"11 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" I saw this fine old shocker again recently, thanks to the splendid DVD with its sparkling print, having not seen it for almost 3 decades. It is usually considered inferior to the two earlier James Whale films but I disagree. There are many fine touches here from underrated director Rowland V Lee (who had a real flair for the Gothic) and the script and cast - with the exception of the most rebarbative child-actor in Hollywood - are truly exceptional.Incident-packed, and with a number of iconic ingredients (Lionel Atwill's metal arm clicking among them) the film looks splendid, and as many comment here, benefits from some amazing sets and photography. If the ending seems rather abrupt, that was probably because of the film's unusually generous running time. The music (drawing on earlier scores but also with new material composed by Frank Skinner) is also a major contributing factor to the overall atmosphere. Curiously, it was reused almost note for note in TOWER OF London - also starring Rathbone & Karloff, and directed by Lee that same year!My favourite Universal epigram is in SON of FRANKENSTEIN. After arriving at Castle Frankenstein, Elsa remarks on the curious layout of the master bedroom. A solemn young maid intones the following, as one of the worst storms in any horror film reaches fever pitch, with thunder & lighting crashing outside the huge windows-When the House if filled with dread... Place the Beds at Head to Head!Priceless! "}{"Title":"Adds nothing to the legend","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Made the year Hitler marched into Poland to plunge the world into monstrousness never before experienced, the setting in this film is appropriate; storm clouds in this German locale constantly present, rain threatening to consume everything, dead stunted trees like those in no man's land. And yet at the culmination, what was the point? The sequel to Frankenstein brought up all manner of questions to do with God, mortality, knowledge and passion. This only serves to have the monster as background filler, a hired goon for Ygor. For this he survived? Lionel Atwill is, as ever, the overpowering star, lending his immense talents to every part he played which stands the test of time. Rathbone is expected to ham up before Vincent Price came along to take up the chore, and Lugosi provides strong support in arguably his greatest role. Karloff, a truly versatile and intuitive actor (only see his role in the Mummy to see humanity in a world of darkness and evil) is utterly wasted and is left to mime his part. Peter von Frankenstein is EASILY the most annoying, hateful child ever, beating even Sophia Coppola's cringe-inducing 'performance' in another triquel. Sets are atmospheric in a nightmarish way without having much hold to reality, at times seeming more of a cost-cutting device (especially when looking at the 'stairs' in the castle compared to those in the original film). www.tracesofevil.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Son of Frankenstein","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Stunning sequel to Bride of Frankenstein has the son of Baron returning to the castle and being met by villagers with less than welcome salutations. The village nearby is so traumatized by the monster's rampaging violent past that even the name of Frankenstein gives them the willies.Bela Lugosi stars as broke-necked Ygor who has a secret he bestows upon Baron Wolf Frankenstein(Basil Rathbone, who is nothing short of outstanding)..the monster that was said to be dead is in fact alive and intact in a secret location only they know about. Wolf sees this as an opportunity to make this creature humane while studying what makes it tick through careful research, assisted by butler, Benson(Edgar Norton). Lionel Atwill stars as Herr Inspector Krogh, a policeman who knows first-hand what power the monster has since his own arm was pulled from the torso thanks to Baron's creation. He now has a fake one attached with limited mobility to offer.The conflict within the film is provided by Lugosi's sinister Ygor who has formed a bond of friendship with the monster and when Wolf is able to resurrect the creature from a comatose state, the creature is able to kill certain members behind the hanging of the broke-necked fiend(his sentence was for grave-robbing;in an inspired scene Ygor is being questioned by his peers in regards to what Wolf is up to in his laboratory where the broke-necked fiend pokes fun at them for not finishing what they started). Despite good intentions from Wolf, Ygor has complete control over the monster and soon the violence that erupts will bring the village down on him. He becomes a bundle of bad nerves as Krogh is often probing him not to mention Ygor's murderous activities. Josephine Hutchinson is given a thankless role as Wolf's worried wife who wishes to leave because of this unsettled fear and seeing her husband behaving out of sorts doesn't help..she is quite good and makes the most of the role. But, ultimately, you return to Karloff who just understands how the monster ticks bringing human traits and life to the monster. I feel that the other Frankenstein monsters pale in comparison because he is played merely as an emotionless beast killing and maiming. Karloff makes him human and shows pain and angst in his face(the best scene, in my opinion, is when the monster sees his reflection in the mirror and is terrified at the sight). I think those who question Lugosi's skill need to see this film especially. I think Son of Frankenstein gives Lugosi a chance, much like his primitive Sayer-of-the-Law in Island of Lost Souls, to express himself. Lugosi provides us with an evil, sly creature who knows how to manipulate those around him in various ways, often using his rough exterior to an advantage. It's easy to see others deeming themselves superior to someone who looks so ragged and nasty like Ygor, but he has cunning and knows how to control situations just because he is frowned upon as inferior.The film has amazing massive sets, some fascinating moments such as the interrogations between Krogh and Wolf, and the cast really bring this up to a high level. Not to mention, the film explores the innards of the monster and how his simplemindedness can be used against him, case in point being how Ygor has gained his trust and how he can use the monster to do evil deeds for him.Probably the most underrated of all the Frankenstein films..and perhaps, the best. "},{"Title":"Like father, like son; Karloff's swan song as The Creature","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  SON OF FRANKENSTEIN (1939) *** Boris Karloff, Basil Rathbone, Bela Lugosi, Lionel Atwill.  Second successful sequel to the original Frankenstein with Rathbone as the adult offspring of the good doctor who faces his legacy The Monster and his best friend, Ygor the mad hunchback who has some nefarious plans. "},{"Title":"So this is where Igor came in?","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Baron Wolf Frankenstein (Basil Rathbone) is trying to clear his family name of its infamy, and then creates another monster (Boris Karloff). Well done, Wolf.One thing that I remember about the previous Frankenstein movies is that there wasn't actually any character named Igor. This appears to be where he entered the franchise, played by Bela Lugosi. However, the character who really makes the movie worth watching is the cop (Lionel Atwill) with the funny arm, which Kenneth Mars later spoofed in Young Frankenstein. Otherwise, the movie just can't reach the standards set by its predecessors. Son of Frankenstein is at best a way to pass the time. "},{"Title":"He'll be as gay as a lark!","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Universal decided to take another crack at the horror film, which had faded during the 30s after the success of Frankenstein and The Bride of Frankenstein. The latter was so bad it was high camp.This one adds a few new elements. Basil Rathbone is the son of the late Baron Frankenstein. He moves into the ancient castle with his wife and little son. When he discovers his father's hidden laboratory, with the aid of the deformed Bela Lugosi, he takes up the same sorts of experiments with the monster's body, bringing forth Boris Karloff.In the intervening years the monster has forgotten how to speak and has reverted to the growls of the first movie. Rathbone is driven almost mad by his desire to create life and advance science. At times his eyeballs seem incandescent. But Karloff falls under the spell of the wicked Lugosi, who has him go about the village, killing Lugosi's enemies.There is a violent climax in which the monster winds up par boiled in a bubbling sulfur pit that looks like one of the attractions in Yellowstone National Park. Never fear. He'll be beck.What's different about this cheap movie is the production design and the set dressing. It borrows heavily from -- dare I say it? -- The Cabinet of Doctor Caligari. I watched carefully and could find a scant handful of vertical lines in the movie. Houses lean drunkenly. Stark shadows appear at improbable angles. A Krell could walk through the doorways.All in all, there's not much original in the film, but it's diverting, and if you happen to be in a desolate mood it may cheer you up a bit to see that there are others who are even worse off than you -- the living dead. And at least you can speak. "},{"Title":"Some things to see","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" This movie, while not directed by the astonishingly talented/artful James Whale, is still kinda cool visually. It predates noir, and it's Expressionist out the wahzoo. But storywise, it just sorta spins its wheels. The highlight here is the chiaroscuro compositions. There are lots of neat things to stand in front of (That breakfast scene with raking balconies almost meeting above the table!), but that's not enough to prevent the boredom from creeping in. The wild overacting of Legosi, Rathbone and a terrible child actor can't overcome a so-so story. Some very cheap compositions, shot with just a couple of flats and some dramatic lighting are completely awesome (as when a nursemaid sits outside a child's bedroom at night); some are not (the Frankenstein train station during daylight is total junk). No moment reaches the frantic energy of the creation scenes in the previous two movies. The monster just needs to be stirred from a coma here.It's never clear how the Inspector is getting into the Frankenstein house over and over. He seems to pretty much live there. It has an egregiously vapid ending that should have satisfied no one (the monster is vanquished/killed AGAIN (Wait, isn't that meaningless after both previous movies?). Whatever century the previous movies took place in (it's anyone's guess), this one is firmly happening in the '30s. "},{"Title":"Lugosi's Masterpiece","Date":"27 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" Son of Frankenstein (1939) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Third film in Universal's Frankenstein series has Basil Rathbone playing the son of the original doctor who returns to his father's castle where he runs into the broken necked Ygor (Bela Lugosi) who has befriended the sick monster (Boris Karloff). Rathbone is interested in the monster as a way to clear his father's name so he gives it strength but when the monster is back to normal Ygor has all of the control. This film certainly isn't in the same league as the previous two movies and I don't think it's quite as fun as the two films that would follow but this is still a very impressive film in the genre and it gave Lugosi the role of his career. This film runs about twenty-minutes longer than any other film in the series and I think it would have been better had some of this been cut down. The film has an epic like feeling to it due to the atmosphere created by the director and the production design also gives this a larger than life feel. Where the movie works best is in its performances with Rathbone leading the way with a truly maniac-like performance. Some people complain that he's too over the top but I thought he handled the breaking up scenes very well. Karloff is once again very good as the monster but I found his character to be the most poorly written. Karloff is great at displaying his affection for Ygor especially in their final scene together. Lionel Atwill also shines as the one-armed Inspector Krogh and really delivers a memorable character. Then there's Bela Lugosi as the crazed Ygor who turns in the greatest performance of his career. Lugosi really nails everything in his performance from Ygor's strange walk to his crooked talk. "},{"Title":"This film is a worthy followup film","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" While not quite as good as THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN, this movie is about as good as the original 1931 film. Basil Rathbone plays the kooky doctor's son, who at first hates the idea of creating a creature from the dead but quickly forgets this and plunges headlong into the exciting world of necrophilia. The poor old creature is brought to the doctor by the evil hunchback, Igor. The doc attempts to both revive it--unaware that Igor has in fact been using the monster to murder all those who originally sentenced him to death (he was a hunchback because his neck was broken when he was hung--but he somehow survived). The evil hunchback Igor is played not the least bit subtly by Bela Lugosi, but its a fun performance nevertheless. Well, fortunately for mankind, Igor's plan falls through and we are saved,....until the next installment of the series.A final note--Lionel Atwill's performance of the police inspector is great--plus having his arm be fake after having had it ripped off his body in a previous Frankenstein film is great! The fake mechanical arm and the eye patch--this is one cool supporting actor! "},{"Title":"Snoozer","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  When I was a kid, this was the Frankenstein movie we always got. In those days you were literally at the mercy of independent television programming. If you were a nut about these Universal films, all you wanted out of life was to see the classics aired, and it happened sooo infrequently that you got most of the famous images out of those infamous library books. So rather than one of the good ones, we got this. I like this film now, because I can get into the scenery and atmosphere of it and appreciate its importance. Problem was as a kid, and for casual fans of the present, all you want is plot and monster action. There's precious little of it in this film. The monster is in a coma most of the movie, and he's wearing this odd sheepskin tunic thing that makes him totally not scary. When the monster finally comes to life, Karloff is pretty uninspired, barely ever in shot, and legend has it, he didn't want to do this one to begin with. It shows. The worst thing is the set. Even as a kid, it looked like they had banged this one out on the cheap. There is no dripping stonewalled castle, or elaborate mad scientist room. Instead there's a German impressionism motif that sports wide-open angular skewed stairways, just doesn't work.  Rathbone, Lugosi, and Atwill however are outstanding with a rather intelligent script. This is what saves the film from being a total joke altogether. That, and well it is Karloff under that makeup and that will always carry some weight. This movie serves as the final installment to the trilogy, and it is by far the weakest. If you watch the other two movies, and then slide into this one, it's ok. As a stand alone, fuggedaboutit.    "},{"Title":"Couldn't we install an old-fashioned doorbell? That boom makes me crawl out of my skin.","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":" So says the increasingly mad doctor's baroness to said junior mad doctor, over dinner w/ the ever-suspicious village Burgomeister no less, just before the first murder is reported &#133; and, oh yeah, Benson the Frankenstein family's old and dear butler has gone missing! This TOTALLY ludicrous third sequel plays like a Mel Brooks comedy in my humble opinion and the acting/writing are unintentionally funny through out. The junior mad doctor in one scene says he never knew his father all those years ago growing up, but yet the village remembers (and hates) the original mad doctor quite well! Duh! Then why did the council rename their village Frankenstein?In one early LAUGH-OUT-LOUD scene, Ygor is all chummy w/ the evil villagers, who Ygor stated to the mad doctor in an earlier scene They all think I'm dead. Ygor even coughs all over one of the evil men in a scene that truly plays like a skit from MAD-TV or SNL! In another LAUGH-OUT-LOUD scene, as our junior mad doctor goes to bed he stealthily hides a revolver under his pillow as his NOT-TOO-BRIGHT baroness asks What happened to Benson? (don't you just hate it when the dear and old family butler goes mysteriously missing!) to which our mad doctor non-chalantly replies Maybe he just wants to go out and get drunk. The baroness replies matter-of-fact Benson doesn't drink, dear. And our kewl-as-a-kitten mad doctor lobbies back Oh, maybe he does &#133; sometimes?There are so many unintentionally comical moments in this pseudo-horror film &#133; like when the mad doctor tries to again explain away Benson's mysterious disappearance to the Burgomeister (in fact any scene w/ the village inspector is hilarious because his wooden arm is a BIG ELEPHANT in the room which can't be ignored.) Let's see what is it the mad doctor says about Benson being gone? He pro-offers He's done this sort of thing before &#133; these sudden disappearances &#133; he was in the war, you know &#133; wounded in the head. PRICELESS!!!!PLEASE do not misunderstand my review of this film. I am NOT putting it down as a comedy because it is a COMEDY and any allusions to this being a HORROR film by other IMDb reviewers well &#133; they all must be wounded in the head. LOL!BTW Benson turns up DEAD &#133; in a secret passage, no less! "}{"Title":"The last Karloff monster portrayal","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Drama","Review":"  We've all seen this movie so there is no real need to go into the plot in detail.Boy finds monster,boy gives life to monster,boy loses monster to Ygor...This movie falls behind in the Frankenstein series to a dead last.Basil Rathbone chews up the scenery and spits it out as Wolf Frankenstein.Karloff is given little to do and spends most of his time strapped to a table.The monster shows an uncommon eagerness to attempt to kill a child.Bela Lugosi walks away with this picture as the broken necked Ygor. He convinces Frankenstein to revive the monster for his plans of revenge against those who wronged him.Next to Dracula this had to be Bela's best role.I can only give it a 5 based on Lugosi's performance alone. "}]