[{"Title":"More fun than frightening","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie wisely decides to proceed on a different track entirely than the masterful Karloff The Mummy. Very few horror films could match the earlier entry for sheer atmosphere and dreamy menace.Instead, The Mummy's Hand opts more for adventure, with a generous helping of laughs thrown in. We follow the trail of two American treasure hunters as they seek the lost tomb of Ananka. Little do they know that the tomb is protected not only by a fanatical cult, but also the living mummy Kharis, who has become the guardian of the woman he once loved. Dick Foran is extremely likable as Steve Banning and seems like a regular guy. As wise-cracking sidekick Babe, Wallace Ford sometimes annoys but not to the point where you actually want to see him get killed. Peggy Moran is fiery and most attractive as Marta. Naturally she winds up butting heads with Steve and naturally they are attracted to each other.Two grand old actors really liven things up. Cecil Kellaway is delightful as the scatterbrained magician the Great Solvani who bankrolls the expedition. And George Zucco has a signature role as Andoheb, sinister high priest of the cult of Karnak who controls Kharis. Much time is devoted to the workings of the Karnak cult and the mechanisms that animate Kharis. The lore of the tanna leaves starts here. Nine are needed to fully animate Kharis, but if he ever drinks the brew of 10 tanna leaves, he will become a monster the likes of which the world has never seen. Sadly, we never really see what Kharis would be like with an overdose of tanna leaves.Cowboy star Tom Tyler makes for a creepy mummy in his few scenes. Totally lacking the charismatic presence of Karloff, he instead opts for the familiar crawling lurch that would later become a parody. His blacked out eyes are particularly unnerving.A little bit too much comedy and not quite enough Kharis keep this from being really top notch, but it's still quite an enjoyable programmer. "},{"Title":"The Mummy's Hand (1940) ***","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Not a sequel to Boris Karloff's THE MUMMY, but the start of an entirely different series of non-related films. A group of likable treasure seekers search for the tomb of an ancient princess, but they encounter her still-living mummified prince instead, bent on destroying anyone who would dare defile the ancient Egyptian gods. This was the first and best of four Universal films featuring the mummy Kharis. At this stage of the game the formula was still fresh and not at all clichéd or monotonous, so that already places HAND at a distinct advantage over its other sequels and spin-off's.Tom Tyler makes one very creepy mummy, all arthritic and twisted, with weird eyes that are optically blackened out for full effect in chilling closeups. George Zucco is deliciously cunning as the mad High Priest who keeps the mummy alive and killing via the sacred brew of nine ancient tana leaves. Dick Foran, Wallace Ford, Cecil Kellaway and Peggy Moran are all very pleasant as the awkward explorers who stumble upon Kharis' cursed tomb.Comic relief is well used but never becomes intrusive, as the action always remains dead serious whenever the mummy takes center stage. "},{"Title":"Universal Tea Time - Just Don't Use 9 Leaves!","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Easily the best of the four Kharis films made by Universal as follow-up to their 1932 original The Mummy.  The film differs dramatically in scope and mood from the original.  Whereas the original was darkly romantic, mystical, creepy, this first sequel goes more for humour than suspense and romance.  Dick Foran and Wallace Ford are two archaeologists out of work in Egypt who come across some pottery that leads them to the final resting place of the Princess Ananka.  Just made High Priest of Karnak, George Zucco has pledged his life to defend the secret of her resting place. What ensues is a good, interesting, sometime humourous tale of Zucco trying to thwart Foran, Ford, and their backers, Cecil Kellaway and Peggy Moran.  Obviously not backed with a huge budget, this mummy film is fun.  Foran is very good as the male lead.  Ford is bearable at best, but Kellaway is as always a charming, affable presence on the screen.  Moran is beautiful and effective in her role.  But it is George Zucco's film, as he utters the great lines that have come to be associated with the legend of Kharis.  Zucco has great screen persona and this is really one of his great roles.  Tom Tyler, a western star, plays the bandaged one with reasonable aplomb(okay, effectiveness if you prefer).  Although nothing in stature to Karloff's interpretation of the Mummy, Karl Freund's methodic direction, and the dark atmosphere of the original The Mummy, The Mummy's Hand is enjoyable and has given us the story of Kharis.   "},{"Title":"good mummy movie with some comedic elements, but definitely a horror film","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An Egyptian man is told by is father an account of a Priest named Kharis who was in love with a Princess Annanka, and wanted to bring her back from the dead by stealing Tana leaves. There's no indication that she was in love with him. He is caught, and his tongue cut out, and buried alive with Tana leaves. The Egyptian man in the current day made high priest and is given the responsibility of keeping Kharis semi-alive with doses of three liquefied Tana leaves. If the Princess' tomb is going to be violated, then Kharis is to be revived with nine Tana leaves to destroy those responsible.I found it odd that a man who was going to desecrate Annanka's grave was given the responsibility of guarding it. Perhaps it was poetic justice, and he lacked the ability to want to try to bring her back to life again. Indeed, the mummy of Kharis lacks the ability to do much more than move and carry out orders, and desire Tana leaves almost like a junkie.Two men from Brooklyn stumble across a vase with a clue as to the whereabouts of Annanka's tomb. They see the opportunity to become rich and famous. They run it by the head of the Egyptian museum, who is the high priest, as it happens. He tries to dissuade them. His dual identity reminded me of Karloff's dual identity as mummy and scholar in The Mummy, to which this is only thematically a sequel.The Brooklynites manage to get funding from a fellow Brooklynite and stage magician. After some trouble with his daughter, who was led to believe they were frauds, they go to find the tomb. (Oddly, one of her lines seems to have been dubbed in I'll fix them with my trick revolver, to what purpose I'm not sure.) This of course means that a mummy is going to come to life! The mummy is given creepy jittery all-black eyes which was neat. "},{"Title":"Classic Film Transitions to Classic Formula","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The producers of the original `Mummy' film obviously had not thought about a sequel.  They turned the mummy, Kharis, into a pile of dust at the end and destroyed the Scroll of Toth, which the mummy used to invoke his murderous spells and control the partially reincarnated Princess Ananka.  The `Mummy's Hand' was made eight years after the original had burned the storyline bridges.  Therefore, the writers had to start over and  hope we weren't really paying much attention to the continuity. Not surprisingly, lots of cut footage from the original film was thrown in to set up the story.  This time around, instead of a scroll in a stone chest, we now have an urn full of tana leaves.  This loose sequel introduces the value of the fluid of the tana leaf to give the mummy power (carried on into subsequent mummy films) and the mummy's murderous nightly romps to eliminate those who would find and violate the tomb of the Princess.  The principal investigators this time are Dick Foran, the hero and straight man, and Wallace Ford, the formula sidekick who wisecracks his way through the movie with typical nervous bravado.  The rest of the mandatory characters are the evil high priest, the older scientist, an attractive female and of course, the mummy.  This movie takes on the familiar 40's mystery formula murders mixed with comedy relief.  The original film was a classic, but the `Mummy's Hand' and the mummy films that followed through the mid 1940's quickly reverted to type.  They looked more like entries in a B-movie serial than the subsequent chapters of a classic horror film story.   "},{"Title":"very enjoyable","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" this sequel to the mummy(1932), may have been more of an inspiration for the Stephen Sommers remake in 1999, than the original one, just because of its different style. In the mummy's hand, suspense takes a backseat to action and comedy in this higher paced universal classic. Well cast and decently written, this film is recommended for all fans of this genre of film. If you're not a classic film fan, then just go for the original Mummy with Boris Karloff. Dick Foran and Wallace Ford bounce lines off of each other with great chemistry as the two American adventures stuck in Cairo, until they hatch a get-rich-quick scheme by uncovering an Egyptian princess' tomb. Peggy Moran is cute as the romantic interest of Dick Foran, Cecil Kellaway plays his part well as the jovial magician who backs the Americans venture, and George Zucco is pleasantly evil as the Egyptian priest who schemes to bring Kharis back to life. Also notable in this film is Harry Stubbs as the hapless bartender, Charles Trowbridge as the scientist friend of Dick Foran, and Leon Belasco as Ali the digging foreman. highly enjoyable 10/10 "},{"Title":"Best in the Kharis series","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  *** (of ****)THE MUMMY'S HAND is my favorite mummy film and easily the best in the Universal Kharis saga.Dick Foran, Wallace Ford, Cecil Kellaway, and Peggy Moran make a very pleasant group of amateur explorers as they search out the tomb of Princess Ananka in Egypt. What they stumble upon instead was the first (in a now played-out) deadly mistake a living mummy.Kharis is a bandaged monstrosity kept alive by a high priest (George Zucco in his most sinister role) and is a protector for his long-lost love. When Zucco feeds him a fluid brewed from nine tana leaves, Kharis is kept stalking and dealing death to those who dared enter his lair.Tom Tyler is for my money the best choice to portray the mummy. He creeps and crumbles perfectly, even gaining effect from his dark, staring eyes in chilling close-ups.Some fans complain about the intrusive comedy during the film, and while I too am unforgiving of such practices, in this case I think they help the festivities rather than detract from them. All in all, THE MUMMY'S HAND remains one of the better efforts from the 1940's and definitely the best of the Kharis pictures.  "},{"Title":"just plain old fashioned fun","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie marked the beginning of a new series of Mummy films from Universal Studios--seven years after the original Boris Karloff classic, THE MUMMY. This was the one mummy film starring Tom Tyler as the monster, but it is a really good film--so good that it inspired three followup films.The real star of the film isn't Dick Foran or his pal, Wallace Ford,...nor is it Tom Tyler. No, the guy who really steals the show is the ever-campy George Zucco. In traditional films I don't know if Zucco would have succeeded, but in B-horror flicks, he was great--with his cool accent and crazy eyes. It seems that madman Zucco (that's not much of a stretch) is leader of a weird cult and he is trying to revive the mummy, Karhis, using the dreaded Tanna Leaves! Can he be stopped in time or will this horror be unleashed on the infidels?! Tune in and see.I love this film not because it is great art but because it is great entertainment and is a great example of the Saturday morning B-horror films of yesterday. Kids and adults loved them despite their predictability--because they were just plain escapist fun! This movie has it all! "},{"Title":"Not What I Expected, Including One Shocking Scene","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was a looking for a short, intense, scary horror film. Instead, I got an Abbott & Costello-like film, with a mix of comedy, horror and suspense. Well, if it was entertaining, I could adjust and still enjoy it.....but it wasn't all that good. It was filled with too many movie clichés of the day (with one exception) and the humor wasn't very strong. Nonetheless, it was passable....enough to stick with it. By the three-quarter mark of the film, I was rooting for the mummy, which tells you how much interest I had in all the characters, even the nice guys.Wallace Ford, a Lou Costello wannabe, as Babe was kind of stupid. Cecil Kellaway as the magician The Great Solvani was entertaining. Kellaway was such a likable actor I don't know if I ever saw him in an unlikable role.Peggy Moran is the lone female in here, the magician's pretty daughter who you know (because it always happened) is going to for the manly serious guy of the leading twosome. In this case, that would be Dick Foran as Steve Banning.George Zucco looked pretty convincing as the bad guy. He was the most interesting guy in the film. His demise in this movie came as a shock - one of the few times I've seen any classic-era film go completely against the usual. The goofy Babe had a gun on him and threatened to shoot the villain at point-blank range with the standard, Three.....two.....one....and then - to my utter surprise - bam, he actually shot the guy! The villain went tumbling down some long stairs, apologized to his god, and died. It was amazing, and totally unexpected. The villain, I don't think, was even armed.Well, at least the film will be memorable for if, for nothing else, that one scene. I'll never take for granted anymore that the good guy won't do something shocking and against character! Hey, we're all capable of doing bad things. "},{"Title":"The Mummy's Hand (1940) ***","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the best Universal horror films of the 40s and a worthy follow-up to the 1932 original, even if it wasn't directly related to it and actually spun a series of its own. While in essence no more than a B-film, it's solidly made on all fronts the plot, unlike that of its sequels, is fresh and exciting and it boasts four likable protagonists, as well as a wonderful trio of 'villains' - Eduardo Ciannelli (appearing briefly as the dying High Priest), George Zucco (as his evil successor, in one of his finest performances) and Tom Tyler (as the maimed but relentless revenge-seeking Mummy, who's as good in the role as Boris Karloff had been earlier and Christopher Lee would be in the 1959 Hammer remake, of this one more than the original). The film's first half features a healthy dose of comic relief which I found in no way distracting, as it had proved to be in other horror films of the period; in fact, this element only helps accentuate the effectiveness of the latter sections of the film which offer more standard thrills, culminating in a superb climax - where Kharis has to literally crawl for his life-preserving tana fluid! "}{"Title":"Beware of what you search for.","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A couple of archaeologists are searching for the tomb of an Egyptian princess and have to deal with an embalmed priest serving as her guard.Very interesting and sometimes comical. Very good as far as 'mummy' movies go. Worth a peep and see.Ensemble cast include Dick Foran, Peggy Moran, Cecil Kellaway, George Zucco, Wallace Ford and Tom Tyler. "},{"Title":"Folks who criticize this film are sticks in the mud!","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What a pleasant surprise The Mummy's Hand from 1940 is.  Every time I watch this movie, I enjoy it more!  The thing that surprised me most about this movie is the delightful humor that abounds almost uniformly throughout. Another special thing about The Mummmy's Hand is that the characters are fun to watch!  They are full of life and energy and seem perfectly cast in their roles. Not a bad performance in the lot. Not a bad screenplay either and the directing by Christy Cabanne is actually quite good. However, beware if you are expecting a traditional horror story in the vein of the classic Mummy film made in 1932. Be forewarned that a horror story this is not. Although the ancient curse against those who defile the tomb and the mummy himself are elemental to the plot and there are some spooky moments, the adventure that the likeable characters are on is the driving force of this film.  Hang in there for the first few minutes which are rather like a history lesson on the Princess Anaka, the mummy and the priests charged with protecting her tomb.  The minute Dick Foran as Steve Banning and Wallace Ford as Babe Jenson appear on screen, the adventure begins!  Then add Cecil Kelloway as a loveable magician and Peggy Moran as his spunky daughter into the mix and you have a recipe for great fun!  The folks who criticize this film for not being scary enough are just sticks in the mud who don't know how to have a good time!  Don't miss this lively little film.  I'd rate it an 83/100.   "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mummy's Hand is a rather capable sequel to the classic original.**SPOILERS**Steve Banning, (Dick Foran) and his sidekick Bebe Johnson, (Wallace Ford) stumble upon a broken vase in an Egyptian bazaar, which Steve thinks is the key to finding the long-lost tomb of the princess Ananka. Needing money for the expedition, they find stage Magician Tim Sullivan, (Cecil Kelloway) and his assistant, Marta Sullivan, (Peggy Moran) who agree to fund it. When word gets out about the expedition to Professor Andoheb, (George Zucco) he vehemently opposes it, and calls upon his duties as the newly appointed head of the Cult of Karnack, which has vowed to keep the resting place of the Queen forever guarded, rises the mummy of Kharis, her secret lover, to put a stop to their expedition.The Good News It is pretty safe to say that when one thinks of a mummy film, there is a certain register that clicks off and they immediately know what the film is about. It is interesting, then, when one considers the clichés of the mummy movie that became a staple of the sub-genre, (the slowly shuffling, bandage-wrapped title figure, Tana leaves, reincarnated princesses, mummification as punishment for forbidden love, Ancient Egyptian cults) it is here, rather, than the original that they were first introduced to the public. This film is the starting point for all the misconceptions about the genre, and it therefore deserves some props from that. The film itself, though, does have some other good points. The burial scene, told in flashback, is quite effectively done and manages to create a real air of suspense and atmosphere that the other sequels rarely achieved. The excavation is nicely played out, giving some humor to the way the tomb is uncovered. Kharis, the mummy, looks the best in all the sequels in this one. With a little post-production magic where his eyes were scribbled out, Kharis here has an eerie intensity missing from the remaining sequels. The small attempts at humor early are a nice change of tone from the first one, and are a welcome change.The Bad News Even though it is the best of the sequels, this one isn't as perfect as the original. The differing tone from the first one is likely to not sit well with some, as it's now a knock-off of the Abbott and Costello films that would later actually become reality. The fact that the mummy here for the first time is actually the traditional stereotypical one many think of, it has a tendency to devolve into self-parody when we see Kharis shambling around in the later half of the film. Despite the short running time, there are several instances where stock footage has been inserted into the movie, and while it's not a great crime, the scenes that were selected are.The Final Verdict While it's impossible to come anywhere close to the original, this one is actually surprisingly watch able. Don't go in expecting anything as good as the first one, judge it on its own merits, and you should come away with some good feelings about it afterward. Kharis alone is worth the price of admission.Today's Rating-PG Some implied violence "},{"Title":"Pretty Good B Horror Film","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   Around 1940, Universal began a new series of B horror films. Most ran just over an hour and featured the studio's cast of monsters. The Mummy's Hand (running 78 minutes) and better than most of the series, brings back the Mummy, who had last appeared in 1932 with Boris Karloff in the title role. This time the role is filled by veteran western performer Tom Tyler who gives a chilling performance as Kharis the mummy. Dick Foran (also a veteran of ridin' the range) as an out of work archaeologist and Wallace Ford as his partner (and comic relief) set out to finance an expedition to find the lost tomb of an ancient Egyptian princess and all the riches therein. Along for the ride are Cecil Kellaway as the expedition's backer and Peggy Moran as his daughter and Foran's love interest. The venerable George Zucco plays the High Priest and villain of the piece. Eduardo Ciannelli has a nice bit as the old High Priest who hands over his power to Zucco. The film suffers from its B mentality and budget limitations but the mummy sequences are among the best that Universal has ever done. The temple setting is also very impressive. Universal would replace Tyler as the Mummy with Lon Chaney Jr. for three subsequent and inferior sequels. Still and all, The Mummy's Hand ranks as a pretty good B horror film. "},{"Title":"Worthwhile and pleasant","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In ancient Egypt, a priest of the god Karnak attempts to use the rare and potent tana leaves to restore life to the deceased Princess Ananka.  He is caught and for this unforgivable sacrilege, he is buried alive and forced to serve as the guardian of her well-hidden tomb.Fast forward to the twentieth century.  The priests of Karnak are still around and are dedicated to protecting Ananka's tomb.  The most recent high priest, Andoheb (Zucco), also works at the Cairo Museum, giving him an excellent means of knowing what archaeologists are up to.Archaeologist Steve Banning (Foran) and his companion Babe Jenson (Ford) come across evidence that might lead them to Ananka's tomb, but lack funding.  They turn to a stage magician named Solvani (Kellaway) who backs their expedition and even joins them, bringing along his daughter, Marta (Moran).  Also accompanying them is Dr. Petrie (Trowbridge), a respected archaeologist.  The expedition must face the dangers of the Egyptian wilderness, the threat posed by Andoheb, and the mummy Kharis (Tyler).The Mummy's Hand is not a sequel to The Mummy (1932) with Boris Karloff though there are a few superficial similarities and connections.  It is instead the first (and best) of four Universal Studios mummy films that were produced in the 1940s.  Set entirely in Egypt, the film is a combination of light hearted humor and horror and is a well-presented work.  The very welcome presence of veteran actors Cecil Kellaway and George Zucco makes this film even better and it is certainly required viewing for fans of Universal horror.  Though the 1940s mummy films got weaker and weaker as time went on, The Mummy's Hand is genuinely good.  Its sequel, The Mummy's Tomb (1942), brought back Foran and Ford in the same roles though the film was set in the United States some three decades later.For those interested in seeing the entire 1940s Universal mummy series (all involving the mummy Kharis), they should be viewed in the following order The Mummy's Hand (1940), The Mummy's Tomb (1942), The Mummy's Ghost (1944), and The Mummy's Curse (1944).As a side note for those who are particular about their Egyptology, there was no god named Karnak though in Egypt there is a very famous temple of Karnak.  Later in the series, the name of the god changes.  "},{"Title":"It's OK At Best - But It Is OK!","Date":"15 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Universal Studios certainly milked the monster cow through the 1940's. They had several well-received horror movies in earlier years, with Dracula (1931), The Mummy (1932) and The Wolfman (1941) being the best remembered, and then chose to create sequel after sequel with the latter two (Dracula - arguably the best of the bunch - having been left out of the sequel business for some reason.) This particular sequel isn't really a sequel, of course. It's just another Mummy come to life story that has to stand on its own. It can't escape comparisons to the 1932 movie, I suppose, but it is its own movie. Compared to the '32 picture (which I personally didn't think was great) this does some things right and some things wrong.It opens with a long (approximately 10 minute) narration explaining the background of the story and the origin of the yet to be introduced mummy. The narration was too long. It might have served its purpose a little better if the story had been unfolded in a way that would have let the narration be offered piece by piece rather than in that opening block. After that there's an extended period of what came across more as a comedy than a horror movie, revolving around the two main characters of Steve and Babe (Dick Foran and Wallace Ford) - a couple of out of work archaeologists who stumble upon a treasure. At times it seemed as though I were watching a variation on Abbott and Costello Meet the Mummy rather than a quasi-follow up to the original The Mummy. The cast was weaker than in 1932, and no one brought the presence to this movie that Boris Karloff brought to that earlier movie.There were some positives, though. I liked the mummy in this one. The problem in 1932 was that the mummy wasn't a mummy. He came back to life then dropped the linen wrappings and fit right into modern (ie, 1932) Egyptian society. Here, the mummy is a mummy - and therefore more of a quintessential monster. Once he starts to play his role (unfortunately, perhaps, restricted largely to the last 20 minutes or so) the nature of this monster adds a horror-type creepiness to this movie (the scene in which his shadow creeps along outside Marta's tent comes to mind.) The climax to this was also pretty good.There were a lot of plot holes that puzzled me throughout; too many to really go into in detail but I found myself scratching my head too often trying to figure out this or that turn the story took. This was OK. It's not great. It's a B-movie, nowhere near the quality of Universal's earlier horror movies, but still OK. "},{"Title":"The Mummy's Hand","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Anhotep(George Zucco)is commissioned by the dying High Priest of Karnak(Eduardo Ciannelli) to protect the secret tomb of Ananka from unbelievers who'd dare defile/desecrate her tomb, removing it's treasures. Anhotep is given instructions by the High Priest to use Kharis(Tom Tyler), an undead Egyptian imprisoned in bandages(..through amazing embalming methods)for breaking the sacred rules of the gods for attempting to resurrect Ananka with Tana leaves, to kill anyone(..such as members of expeditions) which dare to seek out her tomb or disturb it. But, Anhotep must, each night during the cycle of the full moon, dissolve three Tana leaves which will keep Kharis' heart beating. When others threaten to desecrate the tomb of Ananka, Anhotep will dissolve nine Tana leaves to give Kharis life and movement. The Tana soup motivates Kharis to kill anyone near the vial containing what will indeed provide him life. Two down-on-their-luck archaeologists, Steve Banning(Dock Foran) & clownish Babe Jensen(Wallace Ford, the film's comedy relief, providing belly laughs with his silly antics)are in Cairo when they come across a vase from a beggar in the bazaar which contains hieroglyphics which might provide the way to Ananka's tomb. When Banning questions an archaeological colleague, Dr. Petrie(Charles Trowbridge)about it's potential, he questions the Professor of Cairo Museum, who just so happens to be Anhotep! Moving forward despite Anhotep's various methods to trump any kind of expedition, Banning and Babe find a monetary suitor in The Great Solvani, Tim Sullivan(Cecil Kellaway, who is a hoot pulling all kinds of magic tricks, providing the audience with yet another source for comedy, often on Babe)who buys into their pitch for profit if Ananka's tomb is discovered. But, he has a daughter, Marta(the spunky and lovely Peggy Moran)who is visited by Anhotep telling her of swindlers who might rob her pops blind using him for a fake expedition. Anhotep also harbors a lustful attraction for her. At first resistant of Banning and Babe, she soon discovers their legitimacy as they pursue the tomb. Instead of finding Ananka's tomb, however, they make a far more dangerous discovery..the burial chamber of Kharis. As the Egyptian workers who assisted them on the expedition flee for the hills, Anhotep will have a street spy(Sig Arno)infiltrate Banning's camp placing the vials of Tana soup in tents so that Kharis will kill those who draw near. Will Banning and company survive or will Anhotep succeed in his task to annihilate anyone who dares threaten Ananka's tomb? This was a good little surprise. Tyler's affective mummy, Kharis(..a replacement for Inhotep from the first film)is quite creepy thanks to the superb work of Jack Pierce, regarding the bandages which have become living tissue forming his new face. Those black eyes sure work to provide extra chills. Great cast, top to bottom. The comedy actually doesn't detract, but enhances the character's likability. Foran is a dashing, charming lead with Zucco a terrific villainous rival, with hate running through his veins for those who'd dare disturb the tombs of his people. Also affective is Ciannelli as the High Priest who as all the best lines(You hear? Children of the night. They howl above the Hill of the Seven Jackals when Kharis must be fed.)who provides motivation for his apprentice, Anhotep. Magnificent sets(..I read that the temple scenes were appropriated from the film The Green Hell)also enhance the overall film. In my humble opinion, this is one of the finest Universal franchise sequels ever made. Every aspect of the production is top notch. There's a terrific inserted scene of a howling jackal right before Kharis strikes for the first time. Like in future sequels, Kharis has a limp and lame arm which can be used at times to lift..but most of the time, Kharis strangles his victims with his one good arm. The other sequels sadly are rather repetitious and uninspired. While Tyler cuts a formidable Kharis, Lon Chaney's later incarnation is disappointing. "},{"Title":"The Mummy's Brew Got Tana?","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is Universal's introduction of what would become the defining cultural image most people recall when they think mummy--Prince Kharis, a shuffling brute who never shed his bandages & dragged a bum leg behind him. Supposedly his right arm was also useless, yet it never hampered him when it came to the task of scooping up some nubile woman--clad in a form-fitting white gown--in his arms.A secret order known as the Priests of Karnak, keep the mummy alive by feeding him a brew made from the ancient tana leaves during the cycle of the full moon so that he may bring death to any infidel who dares to violate the tomb of Princess Ananka. In the film's opening section, in which Kharis' origin is being explained & a new high priest is being anointed, a tantalizing little nugget is thrown out by the screenwriters Kharis must never be fed more than nine leaves per night or he will become an uncontrollable killing machine. Unfortunately, this potential plot-twist never goes anywhere in 'Hand' or the subsequent sequels.To my surprise, the first Kharis outing is able to overcome the woefully unfunny antics of Joe Pesci look-alike Wallace Ford and the standard dry-as-toast performance from the male lead & be an entertaining 67 minutes of classic B-horror. George Zucco--The King of Poverty Row Horror--turns in a perfectly sinister performance, and Tom Tyler makes for a more than adequate monster, in a role not requiring a whole lot of dimension or nuance. "},{"Title":"Who shall defile the temples of the ancient gods, a cruel and violent death shall be his fate.","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mummy's Hand opens with scenes lifted from the 1932 Universal film The Mummy, and that remains about the only connection to the original. George Zucco as Professor Andoheb is entrusted with the secret formula that will bring the dead back to life, but it must be strictly followed, or the result will be uncontrollable power in the Mummy so revived.Not one, but two veteran B Western stars are brought aboard for this erzats followup to The Mummy - Tom Tyler as the bandaged one, and Dick Foran as the central hero Steve Banning, leading an expedition into the Egyptian desert to locate the lost tomb of Princess Ananka. He is assisted by comic sidekick Babe Jenson (Wallace Ford), magician Solvani the Great (Cecil Kelloway) who finances the expedition, and Solvani's daughter Marta (Peggy Moran), at first skeptical but then a more than willing love interest for Foran's character. But the best performance of the lot goes to George Zucco as Andoheb, who takes control of The Mummy, sending him on a mission to maintain his revival by locating the fluid extracted from tana leaves which accompanied his burial. In addition, Andoheb plans to make himself and Marta immortal as his own personal high priestess - what a guy!When the tomb of Ananka is eventually discovered, it brought me a chuckle. It's HUGE and an elaborately done set, but Banning and his team are constantly frustrated by their inability to find it!Pay attention during a conversation following the discovery of the Mummy's second victim Ali, the foreman of Banning's digging crew. The name Ali must have been on Dick Foran's mind, because he calls Marta Molly.Have fun with The Mummy's Hand, along with the other Universal sequels, but don't expect any to come close to the mood, atmosphere, or conviction of the original. Even Lon Chaney couldn't work that magic in The Mummy's Tomb, The Mummy's Curse, and The Mummy's Ghost. "},{"Title":"Good, but nowhere near as good as the original","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Of all the early horror films that Universal Studios specialized in, my favorite was always the original The Mummy that starred Boris Karloff. Never has mood been better established than in that film. Personally I think Karloff was better in that than his acclaimed Frankenstein series. For whatever reasons Universal did not choose to follow up The Mummy in the way they did with Frankenstein.When they did get around to making another Mummy film it could not be called a sequel because the whole plot premise behind the first one was not used. We still have an ancient Egyptian prince cursed in being buried alive for stealing the secrets of eternal life from the Gods.In the original film Karloff was very much his own resurrected man, but in this one Prince Kharis is both worshiped but also used as a killing machine by his followers who are led first by Eduardo Ciannelli and then by George Zucco who also deify Princess Ananka whose tomb Kharis guards and whom he died for the love of 3000 years before.A couple of itinerant stranded archaeologists played by Dick Foran and Wallace Ford come across some ancient pottery in a bazaar and take it to Dr. Charles Trowbridge at the museum in Cairo. He thinks they've got something but where to get money for an expedition.Here's where the film gets a little silly. Foran and Ford essentially fleece another stranded American Cecil Kellaway of the money needed and Kellaway's daughter Peggy Moran isn't too happy about it. But she warms to Foran the same way Dorothy Lamour warmed to Bing Crosby in those Road films. In fact Foran and Ford really come across as a kind of road company version of Bing Crosby and Bob Hope. And as Foran is a singer, I half expected him to come up with a song.But once out on the deserts the forces from beyond this world with a little help from followers from this world put our archaeologists in quite a bit of peril. The Mummy's Hand and the rest of the Mummy films were good enough horror films in their own right, but they never came close to matching what Boris Karloff did in that first picture. "}{"Title":"A sequel in name only","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mummy's Hand may be known as a sequel to Universal's classic The Mummy, but it's a sequel in name only. And in my opinion, it was a very wise decision to drop the story line and characters of The Mummy and create a new mythos with Kharis. Without Boris Karloff's involvement, carrying I'm-ho-tep/Ardath Bey into a sequel would have been sacrilege (not to mention totally ridiculous as I'm-ho-tep/Ardath Bey dies in the first movie).The Mummy's Hand takes a completely different approach than The Mummy. Gone is much of the atmosphere and horror and in its place are humor and adventure. It's not necessarily a bad thing, just different. Some of Wallace Ford's humor actually hits its mark and still brings at least a smile to my face. Another big difference between the original and the sequel is the mummy's purpose and the way the mummy is presented. In The Mummy, I'm-ho-tep/Ardath Bey is his own man (so to speak) with a singular, driving reason for being. In contrast, Kharis is a pawn for a master. He does not think and act for himself. The Mummy's Hand also differs from The Mummy in the amount of screen time given to the traditional images of a heavily wrapped, shuffling mummy. The Mummy only gave the actual bandaged mummy a few minutes (if not seconds) of screen time. On the other hand, Kharis' bandaged visage is a fixture in the final 30 minutes of The Mummy's Hand.Getting away from the comparisons with the original for a moment, The Mummy's Hand is a nice little film that provides plenty of excitement during its relatively short runtime. The movie never bogs down or gets too slow &#150; there's always something going on. The mummy makeup is well done with the blacked-out eyes being the highlight of the special effects for me. It's such a creepy look. The acting is okay, but nothing great. Cecil Kellaway steals every scene in which he appears as the financial backer of the expedition to find the mummy. He's quite funny without appearing to try very hard. And I cannot say enough positive about George Zucco. Zucco is outstanding as the mummy's master, Professor Andoheb, High Priest of Karnak.Overall, while I will never think of The Mummy's Hand as highly as I do of its predecessor, it's a solid little movie and definitely worth a watch for fans of classic horror. "},{"Title":"Light hearted and surprisingly good","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I found this to have the same upbeat , adventuresome sort of tone that The Mummy remake with Brendan Fraser had. Comic relief abounds between Wally ford and Cecil Hallaway. Something interesting is that the opening scenes and sequences are almost identical to the Boris Karloff Mummy. Even down to the same Nubian's carrying the sarcophagus. Theyretold the tale somewhat, but actually it's not a bad premise.This is not a movie for those of you who can't get past special effects. The effects are decent for the time period, but if you compare it to today- don't waste your time watching it. But if you're in the mood for a laugh , a fight or two, and a little bit of scare, then this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Better than the The Mummy","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is not a sequel to the 1932 film. They just took the same basic story and changed it. In this one the mummy is named Kharis (Tom Tyler) and was buried alive while trying to revive his dead lover. Now it seems her tomb has been found and is going to be opened. Kharis is revived by an evil high priest (George Zucco) to kill the desecrater's of her tomb...Good mixture of humor (some of it actually funny) and horror. The film moves quick and Tyler is actually pretty good as the mummy. Some of the closeups of his face are pretty frightening (the eyes and mouth were optically darkened by the studio). They also used some very impressive sets from another movie. This is also the first movie to introduce Kharis and start up the legend of the tana leaves (which give Kharis his strength).The acting is OK. Dick Foran plays the strong handsome hero, Wallace Ford plays the goofy sidekick and Peggy Moran is the love interest. This is basically a quick, fun and (sometimes) scary monster movie--easily one of Universal's best. Worth catching--it's only 67 minutes. "},{"Title":"This is a fun flick.","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was preferable to the first Mummy flick-though that Does have the great Karloff, alotta it was slowwww w/ people just standing around in a room together. This one they moved, they travelled, there were some laughs, etc. Just move alive overall. And that is good.Dick Foran is a block of wood, but I enjoyed Wallace Ford's proto-Joe Pesci/Jack Oakie/Lou Costello routines. He's a lot of fun here, and doesn't over-do it(much)amidst the undead goings ons. George Zucco was in a role he was born to play, while you get to enjoy Peggy Moran in one of her better roles(why was she only in films up to age 24? odd...)as well.You can certainly see where Stephen Sommers got his Brendan Fraser Mummy ideas, esp. here.I also liked Cecil Kelloway as the 'Magician'. Good stuff! *** outta ****. "},{"Title":"Eyeless near Gaza","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was the first of the 4 Universal Mummy follow-ups to the original in 1932 with Karloff. Of a 65 minute film the first 10 are taken up with flashback recaps of this and a long winded transfer of High Priest power ceremony to Zucco. The next 10 are mainly comedy bordering on slapstick from Foran, Ford & Kellaway, and the introduction of the damsel to be in distress Moran. Pretty short film, eh?But the various components including the set design and music hold together very well to result in an enjoyable film that you can applaud and ridicule at the same time. The first time you ever see the Mummy turning and staring at you it can be unsettling but after the fourth time the shot was used you shouldn't flinch an inch. I wonder if Foran would have cut the mustard in the 1999 remake he's very chunky and pedestrian in comparison with Fraser, but I do prefer my heroines less like Weisz. Not to mention my films without brutal senseless violence! To me that's a plus - you can't imagine anything horrible really happening to our fearless four, but maybe any atmosphere would have been ruined if Foran had gone too far being pleasant and burst into song trekking to the Tomb They Never Found!Along with The cat and the canary, one of George Zucco's finest performances, beautifully slimy and sinister throughout. "},{"Title":"Easily the best of the Universal Kharis films","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The other three Universal Kharis films succeeding were pretty uninspired and uneven, though not without their good parts, however The Mummy's Hand while less than perfect and not exactly great is actually rather decent. Universal are nowhere near at their best here and The Mummy with Boris Karloff also from Universal from eight years earlier is the better film, but of the four Universal Kharis films The Mummy's Hand is easily the best of the four and the only one to come close to a good film.It does start off rather sluggishly and takes too long to get going, it's all relevant but one does wish that the film got to the point quicker than it did. Two performances didn't come over so good, Wallace Ford's bumbling gets irritating after a while and Eduardo Ciannelli is for my tastes rather stiff. And I do have to agree about some of the comedy, some of it is witty and amusing but too much of it was intrusive and unnecessary so it felt more annoying than funny.Visually however The Mummy's Hand is a solidly made film, the best-looking of the four Universal Kharis films most certainly, everything's professionally shot, moodily(appropriately) lit and crisply edited, the sets are suitably atmospheric and it's clear what the time and place is meant to be. The score fits well and is haunting, again the best score of the four films, being very stock in the other three. The story while not much new is interesting and doesn't try to do anything too simple or complicated, while it has more than one type of film genre it didn't feel muddled or have the feeling of not-knowing-what-it-was-trying-to-be and once it gets going it is quick moving and is pretty exciting and atmospherically spooky. The direction is decent and while none of the performances are award-worthy the performances are solid enough, George Zucco's excellent(brimming with sinister authority) performance standing out. Cecil Kellaway is very likable and Tom Tyler is surprisingly good as Kharis, he's actually genuinely unnerving(particularly the eyes). Dick Foran is amiable and Peggy Moran brings charm and spunk to her role.Overall, a decent if not great film and easily the best of the Universal Kharis films. 6.5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"More Mummy, Less Atmosphere","Date":"14 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the terminology of today's film industry, this movie would most likely be called a reboot of the classic Universal Mummy. At the beginning of the 40s, Universal was seeing change in its' management who were trying new approaches. This group had seen some prior success with relaunches like SON OF FRANKENSTEIN and decided to give the Mummy another chance.The film begins with an origin explaining how our Mummy came into existence. This is footage directly lifted from the original Mummy, only they have changed the names of characters (Imhotep to Kharis, Anunk-Su-Namon to Nananka). There is a small change in this footage as part features Tom Tyler (once the mighty Shazam in the Captain Marvel serials) to replace Boris Karloff, though you can still see Karloff in the group shots. Once our story is set, we meet our two American heroes, who discover an old urn in a village bazaar that sets them off on the movie's adventure.Beside the basic plot framework repeating from the original, there is actually very little that I find the two movies have in common. The first movie is often credited as being one of the most eerie and atmospheric horror pieces that Uni put together in their heyday. All of that dream-like tone is gone here, replaced more so with a sense of adventure, spiced with quite a few attempts at humor. Both movies focus quite a bit on the Egyptian relic's quest to punish those who have violated his tomb, though the original spends a great deal of time revolving around Karloff's obsession with the modern re-incarnation of his lost love. There is, really, none of that present here except for a brief unexplainable diversion where the high priest suddenly decides he is going to make our heroine immortal to be his bride. One of the things that I think this movie does better is more focus on the mummy, itself, in its' linen-wrapped glory. As a child, when I first discovered the Universal classics, it always disappointed me how little we got to see the mummy itself in the Karloff classic. They rectify that in this movie by putting the full focus on the creature, though that is both good and bad. The director does some nice creative work of blacking out the mummy's eyes and mouth in order to give it a more sinister look. On the other hand, Tyler does a rather poor job of suit-acting with lowered head and timid movements that make the mummy feel less monstrous than most other versions I've seen.As I stated before, the movie never really captures any of the essence of the original and never establishes any real atmosphere. In that regard, it feels much more like the Brendan Fraser modern remakes as action movie more than horror movie. I, also, found the comic relief sidekick to be very irritating. I don't know if his humor came across as more funny in 1940, but most of it fails for me, as a viewer, and contributes to the lack of any real mood.I have seen pretty much every Universal monster movie and all their sequels. All in all, this is one of the better sequels that I've seen. It just can't compare to the original, which is probably an unfair comparison to make in the first place. "},{"Title":"Fine Horror Film","Date":"8 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mummy's Hand has all that you can expect from a good old fashioned mummy movie. An adventurous group of archaeologists (led by Dick Foran and Wallace Ford), while searching for the hidden tomb of the Princess Ananka accidentally stumble into the tomb of the mummy Kharis, who was buried alive 3,000 years prior as punishment for trying to revive the deceased princess. The entire cast is great, and at times funny, for this movie has a lot of comic relief. Peggy Moran plays her part well as the witty Marta Solvani. Tom Tyler is also good as Kharis. Props and set design are very detailed, even though some of the sets were recycled from previous Universal pictures. Stock footage from 1932's The Mummy is used during the flashback sequence, along with some originally recorded footage. Overall, The Mummy's Hand is a nice suspense picture and while it may not have you screaming, it still keeps you entertained. "},{"Title":"First Of Four Kharis Films.","Date":"24 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Christy Cabanne directed this loose remake of the Karloff classic(also produced by Universal Studios) Here, Dick Foran and Wallace Ford play Steve Manning and Babe Jenson, two unemployed archaeologists who get a magician named Solvani(played by Cecil Kellaway) to fund an expedition to excavate the Egyptian tomb of princess Ananka. His daughter Marta(played by Peggy Moran) is furious and skeptical about this, but goes along since the money is all spent. They do unearth her tomb, but also her protector Kharis(played by Tom Tyler) a living mummy who goes on a murder spree to avenge the violation of her tomb, since that is his mission, enabled by a cult of priests, the last of whom is played by George Zucco. Though fun to a point, with a good cast, this is hurt by far too much comedy relief with Babe. Not enough atmosphere to compensate either; worked much better with Karloff. Still, this was a hit, and followed by three sequels. "},{"Title":"Half Terrific, Half-Terrible, All Excellent!","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm going to start this review by saying I hate remakes. Want proof? Just look at my review for Peter Jackson's King Kong. I'm actually torn between loving and hating this movie. I love it because it is a classic. I love classics. I hate it because it is a remake.If I had not known of this movie before I had bought, I would have guessed that by the title it had something to do with the ring on Im-Ho-Tep's hand from The Mummy. What I got instead was a refreshing re-imagining of the genre. It was really good. I'm not going to give away too much, but I will leave you with this. The mummy in this, Kharis is a far more tragic character than Im-Ho-Tep who is a far more sympathetic character than Kharis. With that said, I hope you enjoyed my short review and I hope you enjoy this movie.Kent Strange "}{"Title":"Entertaining enough","Date":"23 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A couple of archaeologists in Egypt discover an artifact they think will lead them to the tomb of Princess Ananka. After obtaining funding from a magician and his daughter to complete the dig, they seek this tomb. However, the current high priest of Karnak controls the mummy Kharis by means of tanna leaves and sets out to destroy those who would desecrate the tombs of the dead.Not really a true sequel to The Mummy, The Mummy's Hand is still an entertaining horror comedy, with ample amounts of humor and plenty of horror (in the scenes with the actual mummy). I pretty much like the performances of all the major players in this film and the interactions between them all are excellent. Tom Tyler is a good mummy, even though my preference is Boris Karloff (but I could be somewhat biased as Karloff is one of my favorite early horror actors). Wallace Ford is entertaining and funny as is Dick Foran.The movie moves along at a good pace and there is a feeling of adventure along with the horror and comedy that just makes this film work for me. "},{"Title":"the mummy strikes back","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first sequel to the 1932 the mummy is solid adventure and some horror.it has a totally different premise then the earlier film,this time the mummy is called kharis(this time played by cowboy star tom Tyler)and needs something called Tana leaves to give him power.there's two comical archaeologists(dick foran and Wallace ford)A woman(peggy Moran)her father a magician(Cecil kelliway)and a mad Egyptian(George zucco)who wants the mummy kharis to kill them all for defiling the sacred tomb.after this there was 3 more sequels all with Lon Chaney Jr playing the mummy.its a fun movie even if its not as good as the Boris Karloff original.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Obviously nothing great, but kind of fun by it's own merit.","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After the initial success of The Mummy in 1932, Universal made four sequels to it between 1940 and 1944. All five of these films are available on DVD in Universal's Mummy Legacy Collection set. The original film with Boris Karloff is pretty good. The Mummy's Hand (1940) isn't bad either, but it is the only sequel film with watching.Obviously, the film is not great by any stretch of the imagination, but it is kind of fun for old movie enthusiasts and classic movie buffs in particular. The atmosphere of the film is more easygoing and high-spirited than the excessively melodramatic later sequels. This is due in part to the fact that it progresses more like an adventure movie than a true horror film. A major factor that makes this film superior to the later ones is that it actually takes place in Egypt, giving the larger-than-life storyline necessary for such a film an appropriately foreign setting. In the later films, the mummy character wreaks havoc in the southern United States, which just makes those films weird and hokey. The movie doesn't take itself too seriously; some of the main characters include a stereotypical, quick-talking Brooklyn sidekick and a slightly eccentric stage magician.Obviously, this movie is not for everyone. If you don't like old movies or movies without a truly good plot, avoid this one. But as I said before, if you're into classic monsters and you're in the mood for a good old, fun, corny monster flick, this one is worth a try. Don't expect it to be more that it is, because it's not trying to be more than it is in the first place. Watch it, enjoy it for what it is, and don't bother with the later sequels. "},{"Title":"OOOOHH Spooky(kind of)","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Tom Tyler's Kharis is rather convincing.In the darkness,he seems to have beady eyes.That really freaked me!The characterized Babe brought some enjoyable(Bob Hope-Lou Costello mix)humor.The only major problem is they never find Anaka's tomb.Kharis doesn't say a word through the whole thing...not even a yell! "},{"Title":"Spoilers follow ...","Date":"4 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Eighth billed Tom Tyler plays The Mummy here (just above Sig Arno as The Beggar) partly due to his slight resemblance to Boris Karloff, who played the original in 1932.The mighty George Zucco disembarks from a train and moves silently though a crowd. We are then treated to his subsequent meeting with The High Priest (Eduardo Cianelli). Through the swirling mists, we see flashbacks from the original 'The Mummy (1932)', only with Tyler substituted for Karloff as Kharis, cursed and entombed for ever. What strikes me immediately about this is how the style is completely different from the original film &#x96; there is no slow build up, no particular infusion of atmosphere, just straight into the film and on with the story.3000 years has elapsed, and it seems it is time to resurrect Kharis with the aid of three tana leaves. Nine leaves will animate Kharis &#x96; 'but never must you brew more than nine leaves, or Kharis will become a soulless demon with a desire to kill.' Also unlike the original, there is a rich vein in humour in this, from Steve Banning (Dick Foran) and especially his friend Babe (Wallace Ford), who achieve financing for their archaeological trip from The Great Solvani (Cecil Kellaway) and his headstrong daughter Marta (Peggy Moran), who inevitably falls for Banning. The humour works because it stems from the likable characters and is scattered throughout, and provides a good contrast to the dark magic elsewhere.Kharis is an impressive Mummy. His painful gait, slow determined movements, post-production blacking out of eyes and swatches of bandages looking less like a suit than would be apparent in further sequels &#x96; all these things serve to give him a determined yet spectral appearance. Tom Tyler is in it only briefly (indeed, some of his scenes are repeated through the 80 minute running time), but makes such a good job of the role, it is a great shame he was not brought back for future films in this series.Some critics dismiss 'The Mummy's Hand' as the 'usual mumbo-jumbo', which is unfair. The formulaic inclusion of tana leaves, lost princesses and High Priests hadn't really become formulaic before this, and only took hold as subsequent Mummy films rolled on. This is possibly the most enjoyable of the series (and the most impressive looking, making good use of the huge ceremonial set from James Whale's 'Green Hell' earlier the same year), after the original, which retains a platform all of its own. "},{"Title":"Couldn't quite get into this mix of comedy and horror","Date":"27 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" To get one thing out of the way up front, this movie scored as well as it did because the cast is so likable. Yes, the characters they play are idiots, but the actors do a fine job of inhabiting their roles and all the good guys mean well and try to do well. And George Zucco gives one of his best performances as the evil priest who wants the secret of the Mummy kept secret. Alas, the movie's attempt to mix comic relief with horror didn't work for me. Half the time I felt as if I was watching Abbott and Costello instead of an actual horror film. If I wanted light hearted tributes to the old Universal horror icon's I would seek it out - here it is unwelcome, at least to me. Not a bad movie by any means - but not one I really want to watch again. "},{"Title":"The First of the Kharis Series","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mummy's Hand is not the sequel to Boris Karloff's The Mummy (1932) but rather a different film and the first of a series of Mummy films surrounding Kharis. The opening of the film however is a kind of throwback or reminder of Karloff's Mummy film but this film and the Kharis series has no direct relation to the original Universal film.The Mummy's Hand is not a comedy-horror but there is plenty of comedy in the film to have you giggling quite a bit.The story is fine, acting good, sets are great. Overall it's a fun and entertaining horror-adventure film. Although it's not overly scary the film is definitely a horror film.8/10 "},{"Title":"Seen on Pittsburgh's Chiller Theater in 1966","Date":"26 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 1940's The Mummy's Hand was not a sequel to Karloff's 1932 The Mummy, but a reworking of certain elements, creating the enduring image of the murderous mummy stalking victims on a bad leg, and strangling them with its one good hand. By far superior to its three followups, we begin with the introduction of George Zucco's Prof. Andoheb, secret High Priest of Karnak, whose duty is to protect the resting place of the Princess Ananka by maintaining the existence of the 3000 year old mummy Kharis, through a serum brewed with a specific amount of now extinct tana leaves. There are two basic reasons why none of the sequels measured up, first that this title was set in Egypt, utilizing stock footage from the 1932 original (which only reappears in the last, The Mummy's Curse), and second that Tom Tyler's mummy is actually scary, his eyes and mouth effectively blacked out in chilling closeups (poor Lon Chaney always wore a mask). George Zucco enjoys his most indelible role, repeated briefly in the following two entries, and veteran Charles Trowbridge endures the series' best remembered murder, unable to escape the grasp of the death dealing monster. With all the mayhem, the upbeat spirit never flags, with Dick Foran and Wallace Ford repeating their roles in the direct sequel The Mummy's Tomb, set 30 years later. Included in Universal's popular SHOCK! package of classic horror films issued to television in the late 50s, The Mummy's Hand made five appearances on Pittsburgh's Chiller Theater- Feb 12 1966 (following 1955's Bride of the Monster), Mar 1 1975 (last of a rare triple bill, following 1966's Cyborg 2087 and 1945's Captain Mephisto and the Transformation Machine), July 24 1976 (following 1969's Daughter of the Mind), July 29 1978 (following 1935's Bride of Frankenstein), and Jan 22 1983 (solo). "},{"Title":"The Mummy Rides Again!","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love reviewing B pictures. There's always plenty to talk about. This one is distinguished by the presence of George Zucco who, with his penetrating voice and staring eyes, always makes a great villain. Tom Tyler is rather scary too as the Mummy, while Cecil Kellaway has an interesting part &#x96; or rather a part which he makes interesting by various clever tricks of sleight-of-hand. Adorable B-picture star, Peggy Moran, makes a super-attractive heroine, though Dick Foran and especially Wally Ford as the hero's let's-go-back-to-Brooklyn buddy, are cast in more conventional mold. Eduardo Ciannelli contributes a riotous performance as an aged priest. In fact, the dialogue as a whole is a marvelous compendium of unintentionally hilarious clichés. My top favorite is spoken by Dick Foran There are a lot of strange things happening around here that need a lot of explaining &#x96; but there's nothing we can do about it tonight! Alas, Woody Bredell's photography is a bit below his usual high standard. The picture was obviously made in haste, though the sets are very impressive. However, the shot where the hunters first burst into the cave tomb, is such a great composition with its rim lighting, it makes up for the otherwise very ordinary lighting in most of the picture. The plot, of course, is an out-and-out steal from the first part of Karloff's The Mummy &#x96; and even utilizes some of that original footage in a flashback. Christy Cabanne's direction I'd rate as surprisingly competent, given the atrocious script. He manages to put across quite a few thrills and scares. And reverting to Cecil Kellaway, despite his presence way down the cast list and the misspelling of his name, Cecil gets quite a few close-ups. In fact the rest of the players are also often similarly indulged. The Mummy himself (played by Tom Tyler, soon to star in the Captain Marvel serial) is quite scary. And as for the music score, it's a wonderful compendium of Universal B horror themes. "},{"Title":"Pretty Much an Average B-Movie","Date":"27 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Two Americans stumble upon a vase in a bazaar in Egypt which has a map inscribed upon it leading to the tomb of Princess Ananka who was buried 3000 years ago. They eventually obtain financing and set out to excavate the treasures within it. What they don't realize is that the High Priest of Karnak has sworn not to allow the tomb to be desecrated and he has the mummy of Kharis to assist him. Now, all things considered this isn't a bad plot to build a horror film around. However, rather than adhering to a specific horror scenario, the director (Christy Cabanne) also decides to throw in some comedic relief as well. This was a big mistake in my opinion because as a horror film it had some serious potential. Instead, the movie ended up being more suitable for a matinée than anything else. Throw in some very basic acting and the end result is pretty much an average B-movie. And that's a shame because it could have been much better. "}{"Title":"A Worthy Addition in the Series","Date":"3 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An ancient mummy (Tom Tyler) is revived to destroy those that would invade the 3,000 year old tomb of an Egyptian princess.Pretty much the only notable name involved with this picture was Jack Pierce, whose mummy effects may even surpass the original film. Sadly, he went uncredited (as did many makeup people in the early days) so he did not get the recognition he deserved, and if he had a crew we will never know their names.This film is odd because we have the mummy story, but we also have comic relief from the New York guys. Not saying it is the best comic relief, but clearly these guys are the poor man's Abbott and Costello. "},{"Title":"Slow Deflation.","Date":"1 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's a kind of ragout of Hollywood genres -- murder mystery, spoof, romance, story of exotica. Dick Foran is an archaeologist who stumbles on an ancient vase with precious secrets encrypted in its hieroglyphics. Wallace Ford is his comic sidekick. George Zucco is the fez-capped, oleaginous villain. Cecil Kellaway is a good-natured stage magician who joins Foran and Ford in their search for the ancient MacGuffin. Peggy Moran is the female.By this time, Universal Studios must have just about reached pattern exhaustion in its monster series. Dracula and Frankenstein had appeared eight years earlier and -- well, how many times can you revive the good Count or the hand-crafted monster. What is there left for them to DO? The original mummy with Boris Karloff appeared in 1932 as well but hadn't been exploited so ruthlessly. Maybe they thought it was time to revive Kharis again. It was a mistake. An entirely new approach appeared in, I think, 1948, with Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein. Universal said, To Hell with it, and threw together Frankenstein's monster, Count Dracula, and the Wolfman in a farce. It worked pretty well. But then Universal ran THAT pattern into the ground. In the next few years Abbott and Costello met every monster in the Universal franchise and some that weren't.This is an inexpensive production. It seemed to me aimed more at kids than adults. It's hard to believe that Mary Shelly's original Frankenstein, Or The Modern Prometheus was a serious look at the directions in which the scientific revolution might take us. "},{"Title":"A Rather Good Universal Monster Film","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After seeing The Mummy (1932), I thought it was one of Universal's best horror films since Frankenstein (1931), I actually didn't even know this movie existed until I got the Legacy Collection. This is probably the best Mummy sequel out of the four sequels made. Even thought it's the best Mummy Sequel, the sequels were corny. The plot dramatically changes from the first film and I also wonder why they waited 8 years before they made this sequel. I prefer Lon Chaney's version of the mummy over Tom Tyler's, really because I think Lon Chaney's mummy looks scarier then Tom Tyler's, But if you didn't know that was Lon Chaney in the last 3 sequels, You wouldn't have known who played the mummy, I can't recognize Lon Chaney. The mummy sequels did scare me as a kid, these really were the only films I was frightened of. Jack Pierce does a beautiful make up job and music is OK, in the next three sequels they kept recycling music from previous mummy films. After this the sequels basically had the same plot that being in every film the high priest and Kharis find somehow another woman who looks like the reincarnated princess Anankha. These films are good to look back at and watch once in awhile, but I think Universal could have done a better job in the sequels to a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A Royal Flush?","Date":"3 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" **SPOILERS** It's when out of work and out of luck world renowned American archaeologist Steve Banning, Dick Foran, saw a cracked vase at the Cairo bizarre that his luck suddenly turned around. Buying it with his almost last dollar that his friend Brooklyn Dodger fan Babe Jenson, Wallace Ford, had hidden in his shoe Steve was certain that if deciphered it contained the secret burial place of ancient Egyptian Princess Ananka who was buried in the Egyptian desert outside Memphis or, what the city is now called, Cairo Egypt.It's when both Steve and Babe went to the Cairo Museum to check the cracked pot out that he smelled a rat in the museum's curator Proffesor Andoheb, George Zucco. Prof. Andoheb did everything including accidenntly dropping and smashing the vase in discouraging Steve from checking, the map engraved on it, the vase out! Knowing that he's on to something big Steve gets enough money from American magician The Great Solvani, Cecil Kallaway, to start up a desert expedition in order to find the princess's tomb. Only to have Prof. Andohed beat him to it together with the Mummy Kahris, Tom Tyler, whom the professor brought back to life, after being dead for some 3,000 years, with the help of the ancient and now extinct fluid of Tana leafs!Using the fluid of the Tana leaves Andohed has it planted on those he has Kharis knock off including Steve's partner in the expedition Dr. Petrie, Charles Trowbridge, and his Egyptian guide Ali, Leon Belasco. The elderly but horny Andohed soon gets sidetracked in his plans of bringing Kharis back to life when he lays his eyes on The Great Solvani's beautiful daughter Marta, Peggy Moran. It's then that dirty old Andohed decides to make Marta, who's young enough to be his granddaughter, immortal together with himself by drinking the Tana leave fluid that's meant for the Mummy Kharis! On not focusing on his main plan in keeping Kharis alive and protecting Princess Ananka's tomb the nutty old professor Andohed screws everything up. This ends up leading to his own demise by being shot, by Babe, and falling some 100 feet down the Mountain of the Seven Jackals, where princess Ananka is buried, to his death.***SPOILERS*** While all this is going on Kharis is desperately looking for his next fix of Tana leaf fluid to keep him alive and going strong. It's again Brooklyn Babe, who put an end to Professor Andohed dreams of being Mr. Big in Egypt and also put a stop to Kharis' reign of terror by shooting the dish of Tana leaf fluid from right under him! As a desperate Kharis starts to slurp up the Tana leaf fluid from off the floor, how disgusting, Steve clobbers him over the head with a flaming oil holder putting an end to him and his mad dreams of eternal life!P.S In the movie The Mummy's Hand the Mummy Kharis is played for the first and only time by silent movie cowboy star Tom Tyler who besides being an actor was also a top world weightlifter who once held the record, 760 pounds, for the dead-weight lift! "},{"Title":"Kharis Begins","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first in Universal's fun Kharis the mummy series. The plot is about a couple of archaeologists (Dick Foran and comic relief Wallace Ford) teaming with a magician and his daughter (Cecil Kellaway, Peggy Moran) to search for the tomb of the Egyptian princess Ananka. But George Zucco is entrusted to guard the tombs of Egypt and uses the living mummy Kharis (Tom Tyler) to try and stop the outsiders. Often referred to as a sequel to The Mummy, it's really not despite the use of stock footage from that film. The mummy character and his lost love are given different names in this one. Instead of Imhotep we now have Kharis and instead of Ankh-es-en-amon we have Ananka. Also, now instead of the mummy himself being in control of his actions, he's now controlled by George Zucco through use of tana leaves.The cast is great, with Foran and Ford surprisingly likable heroes. I say surprisingly because both men were hit or miss with me in some of their earlier work in the 1930s. Cecil Kellaway is always enjoyable. Peggy Moran is lovely and has a badass moment or two before becoming the damsel in distress. Tom Tyler is no Boris Karloff but the role really requires very little that a stuntman couldn't do. Tyler would go on to be in the Captain Marvel and Phantom serials, which are great fun. The real star of the film is horror legend George Zucco. He's one of those great old stars that made movies better just by his presence. He's awesome in this.While none of the Kharis series ever matched the original Mummy's quality, they do bring more action and humor to the table. Oh, and more mummy as well since Karloff's bandaged mummy only appears briefly in that film. In this series, the mummy is front and center throughout. This first film in the series is the best. It's a fantastic, old-fashioned horror-adventure film that young and old alike can enjoy. If you're a fan of Universal horror films like me, movies like this are a real treat and have immense rewatchability. "},{"Title":"The Mummy Loses a Death Match with Dignity","Date":"3 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" During the 1940's, Universal took their classic movie monsters and stuck them into lame formulaic sequels intended to make as quick a cheap buck as possible.This movie is unrelated to the classy, atmospheric Karlof film of 1933, but that didn't stop them from taking footage from the Karlof film and re-editing it with the new Mummy Tom Tyler (later replaced by Lon Chaney, Jr.) Still, this was the strongest of the four films, with interesting characters and concepts. George Zucco is a priest in charge of keeping folks away from this tomb, and he uses the Mummy of Kharis to do it. But the whole film is done on the cheap, barely above the action serials produced at the time.Dick FOran and Wallace Ford are a great pairing as the heroes (and are cheaply killed off in the sequel, for no good reason.) "},{"Title":"Unexpected Moment","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Near the conclusion of this film, the comic-relief sidekick finds himself facing down the unarmed villain (who is not really a villain, as normally, grave robbers are not thought of as good guys, except when Westerners are plundering the tombs of the ancients for their own gain). The High Priest scornfully assures the underling that he doesn't dare shoot, that only he, the High Priest, can control the mummy, etc. To my surprise, the flunky then proceeds to blast the High Priest down. The latter, facing his death, seeks only the forgiveness of his gods for failing in his task.Fortunately for the hero, he is still left with the task of defeating the mummy himself. "},{"Title":"Economical Film!","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Enjoyed this film even though it was very in expensive to create because it used the set from Green Hell. There is a great deal of foggy flashbacks of Karloff's previous endeavors in the Mummy, drawing in the Waters of Khar as Eduardo Cianelli, High Priest of Karnak and his sidekick, George Zucco. I'm-Ho-Tep has changed his name to Kharis. No longer a High Priest, he is a Prince in love with Princess Ananka. When she dies he steals not the Scroll of Thoth, but the forbidden tana leaves,the very juice which will revive the dead. He is caught, and buried alive as ever, but with one order given, 'they cut out his tongue so the ears of the gods would not be assailed by his unholy curses'. There is a great cast of veteran actors, Dick Foran,(Steve Banning),The Atomic Submarine,'59, Eduardo Crannelli(The High Priest),Monster from Green Hell,'58 and last but not least, George Zucco,(High Priest of Karnak), Doom of Dracula,'66. Don't forget, Dick Foran was also the Singing Cowboy in many great WESTERNS!  "},{"Title":"Better paced mummy movie but still the same storyline...","Date":"29 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 1st watched 5/25/2009 - 4 out of 10 (Dir- Christy Cabanne) Better paced mummy movie but still the same storyline as the original mummy movie made eight years earlier. Boris Karloff is also no longer the mummy in this follow-up. The movie follows a kind of cheap Hope-Crosby duo as they try and uncover a princess's tomb. The same story is told thru the magical cauldron of the initial incident that entombed the mummy but they replace Karloff with the new actor. This is very lame, but maybe people didn't haven't memory back then??(just kidding)Anyway, there is the death to whomever opens the tomb when they finally find it, and of course they open it and the mummy is revived this time with the juice of tanna leaves. He starts his onslaught of killing mainly because of the placement of the juice by his master near those he wants him to kill. This juice gives him strength to survive and grow stronger, so it's definitely his master's manipulative diabolical plan to make him kill. Then there is, of course, a girl who gets in the way and the master wants to make her immortal with him(this seems also to be a running theme). This version of the story is more Hollywood-like but it doesn't make it any better. The monster is still pretty lame compared to the other Universal monsters but they still make 3 more early movies!! Whoo Hoo !! Maybe one of them is actually bearable to watch, maybe. "},{"Title":"The Beginning of a Mildly Interesting Mummy Series","Date":"17 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While supposedly a sequel to the excellent 'The Mummy' (1932), it is really the start of a mildly interesting four film cycle about Kharis the mummy, his vengeance for the desecration of his and Princess Ananka's tomb, and finally, his search for the reincarnated Princess.While short on budget with a small cast, the principals are all interesting, and the story is a mix of humor and serious action. For these reasons, this is probably the best of the four, though the sequel 'The Mummy's Tomb' (1942) is more darkly photographed and has more deaths.A western star with over 153 credits, Dick Foran does a good job as the hero, Steve Banning; he can be seen 'straight' in 'My Little Chickadee' (1940). Wallace Ford (Babe Jenson) as the semi-comic relief is believable and tough enough to kill the evil Priest of Karnak (the evil sounding George Zucco). Ford was the male star of 'Freaks' (1932), and does a surprisingly good non-comic turn as the elderly 'Babe' in 'The Mummy's Tomb', where he is supposed to be thirty years older. George Zucco is best as Professor Moriarity in 'The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes' (1939) with Basil Rathbone.Where can we see more of Peggy Moran? She's in 'Rhythm of the Saddle' (1938) with Gene Autry, and the good Roy Rogers film 'King of the Cowboys' (1943). She also appears with Dick Foran again in 'Horror Island' (1941). The Mummy is played by Tom Tyler, easily identified under all that linen wrapping. He stars in the great serials 'The Adventures of Captain Marvel' (1941) and 'The Phantom' (1943) as well as 13 'Three Mesquiters' among his 181 credits, most of which were westerns. Tyler is not given major billing, though in the next three Lon Chaney as the mummy is. The veteran star Cecil Kelloway appears as a comic stage magician who finances the archaeological expedition to find Ananka's tomb, and adds more quality acting to the good cast.Since the mummy is a slow moving stiff, the mummy theme (and its potential for suspense) works best in a claustrophobic environment where escape is difficult. None of these four films is really suspenseful. Furthermore, without the ability to verbalize or mime any sense or realization of who he is, the mummy is not a very interesting character and is just a stumbling killing machine. Compare the mummy to Karloff's sensitive and touching portrayal of Frankenstein's monster! At least in this one we have the benefit of a good cast.I can only give it a five. "}{"Title":"Very amusing movie.","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie has basically very little to nothing to do with the 1932 movie The Mummy, starring Boris Karloff in the title role, to which this movie is an official sequel. The Mummy was a more dark, atmospheric, serious movie, while this one is mostly just simple and amusing, which makes this a very pleasant movie to watch.The movie is more comical and adventurous than horror-like. It isn't even until late in the movie that the mummy makes his first appearance. But once the horror kicks in, it's great! The horror in this movie is perhaps even better then in the first movie The Mummy, that never really was a great horror movie in terms of scares. This is a great monster movie!The extensive makeup effects for the mummy are good looking and great in a horror kind of way. As an extra touch, the eyes and mouth of the actor playing the movie were later blackened out frame-by-frame in post-production. It truly enhances the horror effect and impact of the character and makes him also more mysterious as well.Like most '40's movies, the movie isn't too impressive looking, with simple cheap looking sets and camera-work but it still all serves its purpose well enough. The same can be said about the acting. None of the actors in this movie were or became any real stars, though most had their moments throughout their careers.The story is kept incredible simple and is of course more silly than a credible one. I mean, isn't it crazy that they decide to hang around at camp and get some sleep after some people already had been killed and the mummy has disappeared from his tomb? But that's OK, since the movie more lies its emphasis on the more comical and adventurous aspects of the movie. This movie is one of the very first examples that mixes horror with adventurous and more light aspects. Horror movies before this in the '20's and '30's were still a very serious thing and made entirely with the purpose to scare its audience.It's surprising how good and enjoyable this movie is!8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Inferior sequel to Karloff classic","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An American archaeologist, Dick Foran, and his comic relief pal, Wallace Ford, try to find the tomb of Egyptian princess Ananka, which is protected by the high priests of Karnak and their living mummy Kharis. This sequel to the Universal's 1932 classic 'The Mummy' takes the series from the A-film to B-film realm. The film, which begins with extensive flashbacks to the original film, lacks the mood, atmosphere and sensibility of the original film. Dick Foran is passable as a lead, but offers little charisma, and Wallace Ford seems a little too Lou Costello-ish with his excessive comic relief. George Zucco does some nice work as the evil high priest, but his character suffers from unmotivated instant lust for Peggy Moran. The main problem with this film, and the Mummy films to follow, is their handling of the Mummy character itself. Needless to say, Tom Tyler is no Boris Karloff, but that isn't the main problem. The problem is that the Mummy is not a character with any true discernible motivations. We understood the motivations and sensed the underlying 'humanity' of Boris Karloff's Imhotep, Bela Lugosi's Dracula, the Frankenstein monster, as played by Karloff, and even King Kong and the Creature from the Black Lagoon. The Mummy is simply a prop trotted out periodically to terrorize the heroes. There is no character arc at all. By separating the motivation and desire, displayed by Zucco, from the terror and menace, display by Tyler, Universal has succeeded in creating a much less compelling monster. "},{"Title":"Holy Karnak, this series is moldy","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Even as a little kid, I could recognize from afar that the Mummy franchise was the cheapest of the Horror brands.  Never bothered to watch them until the original Karloff version a few years ago. And now.  Decided to brush up on my Egyptology and dusted off the mold-encrusted video I'd taped last October to view all of Universal's Kharis-model Mummy flix.The acting is plenty cheap.  And everyone who goes up against the Mummy desperately needs some fisticuff lessons... all of them rush him spastically with something in hand to bean him, but their timing is way off and they don't even begin to raise the bludgeon until his laconic hand is on their throat.  This tired choreography is repeated endlessly, victim after victim.But if you're in the mood for camp, these flicks can be quite fun. Especially if you want to play at Mystery Science Theater, and lob insults back at the screen... You're SUCH a slut, Ananka! and mock their delivery ... By the will of Aman Ra and the power of the Tiki-Tiki berry, you will rise and do my bidding.  You will go forth while the moon is high, and bring back to me a Domino's Pizza with all the toppings.  And KILL anyone who dares top it with anchovies.THE MUMMY'S HAND (1940) The most promising of the bunch, it featured Cecil Kellaway, George Zucco, Wallace Ford, and as our stout-hearted hero -- Dick Foran. And ex-cowboy Tom Tyler as the Mummy.  Even the Undead's slow gait was a challenge for the arthritic Tyler.THE MUMMY'S TOMB (1942) Lon Chaney Jr's first stint at the Stiff. What's intriguing here is that some of the main characters from the last installment are hauled out again... just to get KILLED this time!  Dick Foran, who is even listed at the top of the credits, is the FIRST to get bumped off!  (Maybe this was where Hitchcock got his Marion Crane inspiration.) These guys lost the Secret Formula to forumulaic shlock.  Even lovable Wallace Ford bites the big one.  THIS is just not done!  --They killed off the Comedy Relief, fer chrissakes!  (Okay, he was lame anyway as funny side-kicks go, so it was really satisfying to see him get stifled -- but they're not supposed to DO that!)THE MUMMY'S GHOST (1944) Again, any interest I have in posting this drivel is to point out that we have here another strange deviation from the standard classic Horror formula ... NO HAPPY ENDING!  The obligatory mob does NOT catch up to the fiend before he carries the heroine to a watery grave -- despite the fact that he's slow as molasses, dragging one crippled foot behind the other. No, it just ends abruptly with the would-be fiance nursing a chronic case of Blue Balls.  If 1940's sensibilities were what they are today, the theaters would have been filled with bewildered sneers from the peanut gallery, like That's just f^cked-up, man.THE MUMMY'S CURSE Perhaps the worst of the lot.  But the funniest, so don't miss it. Princess Ananka was played by Virginia Christine.  Just as I was about to forgive her wooden acting on the basis of her nice figure, I recognized her as the busy-body Mrs Olsen, the Folger's Coffe Lady -- and recoiled in true terror. Our hero this time is more dry than the mummy.  And he has the typical protagonist's congenital cranial growth -- the ubiquitous pith helmet.These movies are best enjoyed as drinking games.Still you have to give UNIVERSAL credit for conjuring legends out of thin air.  A silver bullet to kill a werewolf.  Keeping a mummy in limbo-life via an ancient formula of tanna leaves and a secret occultic priesthood.  If you didn't know better, you'd think these were bona fide beliefs from Dark Ages Europe and Ancient Egypt.  They created a universe of self-contained logic. As long as you buy into their goofy supernatural rules, you could kick back and watch the fiends go at it.But they abandoned the power of the original, which was a mummy empowered. All later iterations reduced the poor fellow into being a mere dupe for a long line of self-serving priests.  A junkie who needs his fix of Jujubes. The dreaded evil villain is now a strange hybrid of both the Monster and Fritz the hunchback and Renfield, all rolled into one.Karloff's Mummy was much more effective as a Super-Fiend.  He was like a Dracula, masterfully pulling supernatural strings on all levels.  And like Lon Chaney Sr's original version of the Phantom, totally in control.  So I guess I have to give some grudging respect to the new versions of THE MUMMY. Although these 2 new movies are way too CGI-fixated and have lost the feel for atmosphere, at least they have a mummy who's in charge of his minions, instead of vice versa.  "},{"Title":"The Best of Universal's Mummy Movies","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mummy's Hand (1940)*** (out of 4) Universal decided to reboot the 1932 film with entry, which started the series from scratch. This time out, Steve Banning (Dick Foran) and his buddy Babe Jenson (Wallace Ford) lead an expedition in search of the tomb to an Egyptian princess but instead they find the body of the mummy Kharis (Tom Tyler). Soon the mummy is brought back to life by a professor (George Zucco) who plans to use him for evil reasons.In my opinion THE MUMMY'S HAND is the best mummy film the studio ever made. Whereas the original with Boris Karloff might have been better made, it's was also rather boring in spots and there's no doubt that it left you wanting more of the mummy. That's certainly not the case here as we're given an excellent cast, some great locations and best of all is that the mummy is used quite often and to great effect. Tyler certainly has the right build for the part and he manages to make for a very effective mummy. The costume itself is extremely good but the highlight has to be his pitch black eyes.The film has some nice comedy running throughout but it also works well as an adventure tale and a horror film. The horror elements are extremely good with an effective music score, some great locations and the before mentioned mummy. It also doesn't hurt that we're given a terrific cast with both Foran and Ford doing fine work in their parts and Peggy Moran is good as well. Cecil Kellaway is also nice in his bit and there's no question that Zucco owned his role.THE MUMMY'S HAND kick-started the series and while future films were entertaining, there's no question that they dropped a bit into B movies. This one here was certainly the best the studio ever made and remains a solid picture. "},{"Title":"gangsta wrap","Date":"1 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mummy's Hand is more or less a remake of The Mummy, with a few different twists. As always, some ancient Egyptian priest tried to resurrect a princess, got caught, and got buried alive (minus his tongue) as punishment. They never learn! A few thousand years later, some archaeologists dig up the tomb and before you know it, there's a human-shaped pile of bandages killing anyone who stands in its way. Should've left the poor sucker buried.Yes, it's a really predictable movie, but very fun also. The part about the tana leaves added some extra neatness. After this, there were some sequels, and then the Hammer movie with Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee, and then the more recent, sillier movies with Brendan Fraser, and even a movie focusing specifically on Howard Carter. But like I said, this movie is really fun.I would like to see a movie told from the mummy's point of view. "},{"Title":"Hey Steve, can a dame go crazy from being sawed in half too many times?","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" We again return to Anaka and Kharis, and even have Zita Johann and Boris Karloff shown archive footage from their 1932 roles.But, they don't recreate the same story here. First, they bring in Dick Foran and Wallace Ford to ham it up. We'll likely find more comedy than horror.Secondly, without the CGI and stupendous special effects of the 1999 story, it was still enjoyable. Sometimes those things just get in the way.Lastly, there was a very good story here, and the acting was not bad. After all, you had a twice nominated Oscar actor here in the person of Cecil Kellaway.Worth the time. "},{"Title":"A bore of a mummy movie.","Date":"11 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have to admit, out of all the universal studios early 1900 horror films, the mummy series is the worst. I didn't like the first Mummy movie at all but decided for some strange reason to give the series a second chance. Although better then the first film, The Mummy's Hand had only one thing going for it. There was an actual mummy monster in it unlike the first film! The first 30 minutes of this sloppy film was filled with bad acting and bad dialogue. Finally when the mummy comes into play toward the end it only gets slightly better. Slightly though. Nothing more. Thank the heavens the film was only an hour long. Give me Frankenstein any day over this slow mess. "},{"Title":"A step back","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first wave of sequels to the great Universal monster films impressed me because, while they are sequels and recycle ideas, they usually brought something new to the table. Dracula's Daughter, Invisible Man Returns, and of course, the great Bride of Frankenstein all explored a new aspect of the characters and their respective curses. In all instances, the monsters had a side the audience could sympathize with, and even the original Mummy film gave us someone we can quietly root for even though he is the villain. They all resonate and channel the spirit of classical tragedy - they explore the love that can never be, the bloodline curse that can never be conquered, the villain with a passion, a cause, a purpose. A villain who is not really a villain.The Mummy's Hand has none of the above. Okay, well, maybe it wants to explore something new? Maybe it's more twentieth century, more non-traditional but still thought provoking. Nope! Mummy's hand brings nothing to the table. Nothing. Nada. Zip. Ziltch.Wait, wait, wait, I'm sorry, it brought a recipe for it and the next set of sequels to follow.You see, the creature in the Mummy's Hand is a mindless killing machine, which would not necessarily be criticism-worthy except a lumbering zombie is a significant downgrade from Boris Karlof's elegant and fully articulated monster in the original film. What if the Invisible Man became the Translucent Man for its sequel? What if Dracula's Daughter freed herself from his blood-thirsting curse and now just suffered insomnia? What if Frankenstein and his bride regenerated until they looked like supermodels with a handful of minor scars that add character? Suddenly the point of the film has disappeared. Enter the problem of the Mummy's Hand.Since we have a monster that can't speak for itself, the audience gets a new villain who speaks for the mummy (and technically we get a new mummy too), the guy can control our mummy, and behold we have a way to awaken the undead being and unleash his terror on those who would disturb his tomb! And at the beginning of the film the Arkan priests main conflict with the main characters deals with protecting the resting places of the dead; however, by the end of the film an evil and greedy motive along with a sinister plan spontaneously pops in there out of the blue so audiences do not have the inconvenience of thinking, Maybe the good guys should stop violating other people's graves and just leave things alone. (which would have been something worthwhile for a sequel to go after.) No. I don't think so.The characters, while not nearly as interesting as Ardeth-Bei and Imhotep, proved far more interesting than the relentless half-hearted recycles of its successors. The character of Babe surprisingly works in the movie despite the fact that he initially feels out of place with his comedic edge (an ever-so-slight hint of Abbott & Costello, barely enough to merit mentioning in a review) that didn't seem quite right . . . but oddly enough, in the end, I think he winds up being the one holds the entire cast together with his charm and charisma. The characters were unique enough to get attached to, Steve, the Great Solvani, Solvani's daughter, and of course, Babe . . . but they never feel as thought out as the characters in the previous film.Technically the Mummy's Hand did something different with the series (which none of the other films can truly claim with their insignificant variations on the same theme), the problem is that this film is asking us to go back to square wheels after we've been exposed to round ones. What's the point? "},{"Title":"Salvaging the Burning Bridges...","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well, the producers of the original obviously had no interest in a sequel to their masterpiece, as they rid the world of the magickal scroll, and disintegrated the Mummy himself. How selfish. Now the producers had to start all over again, this time, using tana leaves to resurrect the ancient evil (Tom Tyler), in place of the destroyed scroll.This is not a remake, but rather, a deserving sequel, even without Karloff's presence, though I missed him here immensely. Mr. Tyler's portrayal was ... well, not Karloff's, and it really shows. However, this was a good strong story which generates an eerie, creepy atmosphere with solid portrayals, a well-paced story and well-placed dialog. The soundtrack contributes to the atmospheric qualities in a way that heightens the suspenseful feel of the whole production.Wallace Ford lends to this work the comedic relief as the perfect balance to the dark, horrific atmosphere generated by the Mummy and those awesome sets. For 1940, these sets are highly detailed and truly awe-inspiring if one can but look beyond the black and white, and see the richness beneath.Very nicely done.It rates a 6.0/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Chilling and Thrilling","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I first saw this movie on the late show in about 1961, as a 9-year-old kid. It scared the living be-jeepers out of me. The trip through the dark house to my bed that night was the journey of the damned. I don't think I slept in a fully darkened room for the next 10 years. Seriously,though. The Mummy's Hand, while not without flaws, is wonderfully atmospheric and utterly chilling, thanks mostly to Tyler's overpowering and intimidating interpretation of Kharis. And Peggy Moran is achingly pretty -- too pretty to be a B-grade actress. If you're looking for just good, old-fashioned Universal horror, this movie is just the ticket. "}{"Title":"Great first sequel","Date":"7 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mummy's Hand is a better film than the original Mummy. I know this may be debatable to some but this film has action, adventure, romance and comedy. Dick Foran and Wallace Ford are terrific in their roles-they have great chemistry. Cecil Kelloway provides a touch of sophistication and comedy. The film moves at a nice pace and there are so many positives. I have viewed all the films in this series and this is my favorite. Two down on their luck Archeologists look for a mysterious tomb. They ask a Magician to assist them and his daughter comes along to make sure her father isn't in harm's way. They meet up with the Mummy and it defends it's turf. This lead to a sequel also starring Foran and Ford but is a weaker film. This is one not to miss! "},{"Title":"What a great Mummy movie! (How come Lipton doesn't market Tana Leaf Tea?)","Date":"28 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tana leaves were the Red Bull of ancient Egypt.Nine leaves brought our Man Bout Town, Mr. First Nighter, Karis the Mummy to life. More than than and he gets a tad unruly. In fact, he becomes an immortal uncontrollable monster.Universal's killer The Mummy's Hand (1940) is not a sequel to their 1932 Karloff classic. Not no how, no way.But that doesn't mean it's not great - it is! It's a 10 on the Fun Scale! A 10 on the Pure Entertainment Scale! Everybody's fave, the great George Zucco brought his A Game to this one as the head of the Cairo Museum who moonlights as The High Priest of Karnak. Personally, I'd rather be a game show host.Zucco is understated, underhanded, clever, slimy ... in other words, he's the Great George Zucco! Cowboy star Tom Tyler is terrific as Karis, especially with those hollow eyes! Wow! He is one bad mamma-jamma! Tyler acted in nearly 200 westerns going back to 1924, including playing Stony Brooke in Republic's fun Three Mesquiteers cowboy series about three heroic pals who lived, ranched & saved damsels & town folk alike along the Mesquite River. This was a role he inherited first from Bob Livingston & then from the Duke himself, John Wayne, who played Stoney eight times in 1938-39.The same year this film was produced, 1949, Tyler found popularity as Captain Marvel in the Republic cliffhanger serial of the same name. In 1943, he was another comic book hero in a Republic cliffhanger serial, The Phantom. As the hero, archaeologist Steve Banning, singing cowboy star Dick Foran has been given a raw deal here by some reviewers. He is just fine appropriately heroic and also fun, serious, knowledgeable and romantic at all the right times.No one seems to mention a man responsible for a lot of the film's fun, that wonderful character actor Cecil Kelloway (who, by the way, was eaten in 1953 by Ray Harryhausen's Beast From 20,000 Fathoms and who, as Mr. Wichwacker, accidentally killed the three astronauts who landed on his cemetery planet in a classic episode of The Twilight Zone.)No, the killjoy reviewers here could not have misinterpreted The Mummy's Hand in a more off-base fashion.The Mummy's Hand is a genuine Universal monster movie classic and is such marvelously fun entertainment! "},{"Title":"Lively little B thriller holds up as sheer fun","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I saw this movie for the first time in many years, after having seen it constantly on the late show when I was a kid, the thing that struck me was how it seems almost a prototype for the Indiana Jones movies. The handsome, rugged, genial archaeologist played by Dick Foran could be a great uncle to Harrison Ford's character. He packs a gun, gets in barroom brawls, battles sinister foreigners and has a love/hate romance with a beautiful, feisty woman, who will stand no guff from anyone. He investigates mysterious ancient tombs, rescues the spunky heroine, and has to deal with skeptical university/museum officials back in the States, who refuse to fund any more of his expeditions.George Zucco is in superb form as the elegant, sly, understated villain, almost purring his lecherous remarks to the lovely heroine, Peggy Moran. Cecil Kellaway is quite amusing as Moran's well-meaning but somewhat scatterbrained magician father, and Wallace Ford manages to be fairly funny most of the time, though probably some of the comic relief could have been lessened.It's an odd experience to see actor Tom Tyler in an old western movie predating The Mummy's Hand by eight years or so, and recognize the face of the ill fated Egyptian Prince in the flashback sequences as the same cowboy hero wearing a stetson hat in assorted B westerns. Rumor has it that Tyler got the part of Kharis the Mummy because the studio thought he resembled Boris Karloff enough to pass in the Ancient Egypt parts of the movie.This movie is a lot of fun for anyone who enjoys old movies and Forties humor, which it has in abundance. Not really a horror movie in the true sense, though the Mummy himself is pretty frightening, but an adventure mystery thriller, with a strong undertone of comedy. The tavern brawl is a rowdy highlight of the movie, as knife wielding villains attack our heroes, and Dick Foran clobbers several of the bad guys, while the nattily dressed Cecil Kellaway swats at them with his walking stick, as he attempts to escape by a window. "},{"Title":"In Search of Historic Kharis","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" THE MUMMY'S HAND (Universal, 1940), directed by Christy Cabanne, is not really sequel to the 1932 classic, THE MUMMY, starring Boris Karloff as Imhotep, but more or less a revival of another mummy whose life and death situation in being buried alive for the sake of his beloved princess, parallels that with the original, with a few alterations, in fact a creature in bandages instead of a living dead assuming another identity, stalking the living and attempting in bringing back to life his former love of centuries ago. This became Universal's third attempt in reincarnating the creatures that walk among us as introduced and popularized in the early 1930s, following the new cycle of horror with the return of the Monster (Boris Karloff) in SON OF FRANKENSTEIN (1939), and the introduction of a new Invisible Man (Vincent Price) for his 1940 return. Now enters the resurrected mummy, not Imhotep, but Kharis, the bandaged one.While Imhotep and Kharis come back to life once their tombs are dug up, only Kharis remains under wraps. Kharis is the mummy viewers remember most, basically because he's essentially a muted monster (whose tongue as cut off before burial) while Karloff's interpretation of the mummy comes out of his bandages, assumes another identity, searches for his reincarnated love, and hypnotizes his victims in the same manner as Count Dracula. The situation and fate between these two mummies parallel each other as foretold by the slowly dying High Priest (Eduardo Ciannelli) to his successor, Andoheb (George Zucco). The a flashback sequence, going back 3,000 years, Kharis, the prince of the Royal House, witnesses the burial of his beloved Princess Ananka. Her death prompts him to steal the forbidden tana leaves, the secret of eternal life, in his attempt in restoring Ananka back to life. Caught for this sacrilege by the guards, Kharis is arrested and sentenced to be buried alive as a mummy, kept from death with the tana leaves buried beside him, placed in remote location and to be cursed for all eternity. Following this 13 minute segment, the priest dies, leaving Andoheb to now carry out his mission. The story shifts to character development of Steve Banning (Dick Foran) and Babe Jensen (Wallace Ford) from Brooklyn, coupe of archaeologists stranded in Egypt wanting to locate the Sarcopiagus of an ancient Princess Ananka. Because Steve is denied financial assistance for the expedition from the head of the Cairo Museum, who turns out to be Professor Andoheb, he and his partner succeed in getting the support from Americans Tom Sullivan, a magician professionally known as The Great Solvani (Cecil Kellaway), who, along with his beautiful but skeptical daughter, Marta (Peggy Moran), and Doctor Petrie (Charles Trowbridge), to accompany them to the temple where they encounter the tomb of Kharis in the Hills of the Jackel. After the creature goes through the motions, he is soon taken under the guide of Andohep and offers him the helping hand by killing off the archaeologists, one by one, for their attempts to unearth the grave of Princess Ananka as well as digging up a well kept secret.Kharis, played by Tom Tyler, mostly associated in westerns, turns out to be an interesting yet unlikely choice for the role as the living mummy. In spite of his limitations on screen, and being no match for Boris Karloff, he does provide some scary moments, notably during those eerie close-ups of his face revealing black holes for its eye sockets giving the impression that underneath the bandage, there's no head. Aside from Tyler, the cast in general doesn't include actors associated with horror, with the exception of George Zucco making his debut in the genre. He's appropriately cast as the mummy's guide out to discourage the archaeologists from carrying out their mission, and through the use of his eyes alone, becomes both sinister and menacing. He at times is more creepier than the mummy himself.Unlike Universal's new horror cycle that initially started in 1939, THE MUMMY'S HAND is strictly B material, concentrating more on comedy than horror. At 67 minutes, THE MUMMY'S HAND provides handsome hero Dick Foran accompanied by chubby buffoon sidekick, Wallace Ford sidekick, practically predating the material of comedy team, Abbott and Costello, but minus the dual's now familiar gags. It would be another 15 years before Bud and Lou would get their chance meeting up with Kharis. Peggy Moran, a newcomer to Universal's roaster of stars, performs her task as a straight-laced young lady with her eye on the hero and a scream or two for the mummy as he, under orders of Andoheb, is to become the latest sacrifice for eternal life.THE MUMMY'S HAND is typical 1940s Universal horror nonsense, unlike the slowly paced, more serious monster shows from a decade ago. Aside from its overly familiar underscoring heard in countless other Universal fright fests, there's several noticeable goofs to categorize this as camp. However, once it reaches a fast-paced climax in the temple, the result is satisfactory, enough to spawn a few more Kharis sequels.Formerly on video cassette, THE MUMMY'S HAND began its cable TV history on the Sci-Fi Channel during the early 1990s (at one point part of its Mummies Day outing in honor of Hallowee), then on American Movie Classics where it premiered in 1989, and finally Turner Classic Movies (TCM premiere October 31, 2012). THE MUMMY'S HAND can be found and purchased in the DVD format as part of the Mummy collection. Sequel THE MUMMY'S TOMB (1942) (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Average Mummy flick WARNING!!!!!!!!! SPOILERS!!!!!","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Average Mummy flick that really does not offer anything new and is nothing special at all. The pace is decent and it has a good main villain in George Zucco but the Mummy is kinda weak this time and does not seem all that threatening and is defeated SPOILERS!! rather easily it's quite simple Tom Tyler is no Boris Karloff he does an okay but rather unspectacular job. Also i found some of the characters quite irritating and had no one to root for. this movie has quite a few dull spots but in between them it's paced decently enough and is at least watchable but as i said nothing special at all. The Acting is mediocre except for George Zucco who is EXCELLENT here as the main villain he was tense and gave an excellent show. Dick Foran is okay as the main lead but got on my nerves sometimes still he was bearable. Peggy Moran was mediocre here and isn't that great of an actress (in my opinion) Wallace Ford is the comic relief here and he got on my nerves constantly. Tom Tyler is so so as Kharis/The Mummy. Cecil Kellaway is okay here as the magician and Marta's father and managed to come out of this looking decent but he also got on my nerves somewhat as well. Overall nothing special what so ever only worth watching if ya have nothing better to do. i am only keeping this because i have the Mummy legacy set. ** out of 5 "},{"Title":"More a B then a Sequel","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is supposed to be the sequel to The Mummy, but comes off looking like a cheap B film.  The mummy is played by Tom Tyler, who later would go onto fame playing superheros in serials.  The Mummy does not come across as scary, in fact rather silly, especially when you see him dropping to the floor to drink his fluid of life.Dick Foran plays Steve Banning, and is good in the role, as are the rest of the cast, Wallace Ford as his bumbling assistant, Cecil Kellaway as a magician who is financing the expedition, and Peggy Moran as his daughter.  Of course there is always the scene where the Mummy kidnaps the beautiful girl, though in these scene there is a problem with the continuity.  One second she is tied down, the next not. "},{"Title":"The Created Vision","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I confess I have an unusual soft spot that some films find. Its because my notion of film is an alternative reality that is created for us by some magic. That magic may not be all that understood or controllable by the filmmakers. The best films in my mind, include some reference to this magic and how the filmmaker wrestles with it. It is why I really like `The Ring,' for instance.This silly film hit my sweet spot. The curse activates magic that produces the movie, and begins with the rerun of the first film! I'm always conscious that Hieroglyphics are pictograms, literally the first movies. Along the way, we have a magician, and a pretty woman target. This time, the girl is actually pretty and obviously incompetent as an actor, which to me is a plus because it underscores the staginess of the whole thing. naturally the girl wouldn't fit in her (our) world.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Mummy Movie","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Foran and Ford interact as kind of a more serious Abbott & Costello. Zucco is suitably oily and sinister. The plot is reasonably fast moving and once Tyler starts wandering about their is quite a bit of frisson. All in all a very fun way to spend an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"A Problem with PROnunCEEation","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Kinda mediocre.In the opening exposition scene, two people pronounce the Mummy's name as KAR-is, Kar-IS and Kar-EES. Can't make up their minds.Similarly, Professor Andoheb has the Mummy kill Dr. PET-ree and Babe rushes in with Steve to find that Dr. PEET-ree is dead. They really needed to get on the same page with this stuff.Takes a lonnnnnnnnnnnnnnnng time to get where it's going and isn't worth the journey when it gets there. For a Universal programmer, it's just OK. Nothing special. I can see why Lon Chaney (who took over for Tom Tyler after this film) preferred playing the Wolf Man. "}]