[{"Title":"Hepburn's Ferocious Comeback.","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"60 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A movie custom-made to fit the personality of an arrogant but headstrong movie star, a play with dialog that sizzles with so much ferocity that it threatens to leap out the confines of its own frame, performances that could not have and have not have been excelled ever since, THE PHILADELPHIA STORY is one of the best screwball comedies ever made and the third to pair her with Cary Grant with whom she worked so completely well. Hepburn had asked that Tracy and Gable be her leading men but looking at this film, for all the chemistry that Tracy and Hepburn ever had and all the talent Gable had for acting in comedic farce, I can't imagine either of them playing any of the two leading males that are after Tracy Lord's love. That Grant plays C. K. Dexter Dex Haven so perfectly well, and his opening scene with Hepburn is the stuff of movie history, only rectifies that. That Stewart embodies the essence of MaCauley Connors as if he were in fact the character just proves how strong an actor he was, and one who didn't have to resort to extreme emoting to make his point. That the three make for the most memorable romantic triangle in film history is probably an understatement.Of course the story is old. Of course the character motivations are dated. THE PHILADELPHIA STORY belongs perpetually in its own time, the late 1930s (when it was written and performed on stage), when sensibilities towards the rich were much different than they are today. The whole bit of the society princess being humbled to become a better person is really a thinly disguised fable that tells the story of how Hepburn, who had made such a powerful debut in film with her appearance in A BILL OF DIVORCEMENT, quickly established a personality so abrasive (she wouldn't do interviews or cheesecake, it is rare to find a Hepburn picture from the 30s where she is dolled up) that it translated into box-office bomb after bomb and by 1938 she was all but washed up. Tracy Lord's return to humankind is really the story of Hepburn's return to the world of acting even if she retained her abrasiveness to her last days. And of course, who better suited for this role than Hepburn herself, who had done the role on stage and by the time Hollywood came (reluctantly) calling -- they wanted Norma Shearer, who in my opinion could have carried it off but differently -- knew the part in and out (and owned the rights to the play in a shrewd move). We can't imagine anyone else playing this role, which is why when the inevitable musical remake was made in 1956 with Grace Kelly in the lead, it misfires, and no amount of Cole Porter could save it even if it was a commercial success.But regardless being dated, maybe too talky for some, what a movie. To see the utter craziness of the plot which backfires at least twice and creates a sense of really not knowing what will happen next (even when we know on a certain level Hepburn and Grant will wind up in each other's arms) is the stuff romantic comedy is made of. Oscar nominated in almost every major category, it won two -- Best Actor, Best Adapted Screenplay -- but over the years it's grown beyond statuettes and remains as one of the greatest films of the 20th Century. "},{"Title":"My favourite 1940s Comedy","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"66 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Katharine Hepburn, my favourite actress, gives the performance of her career as Tracy Lord, a spoilt Philadelphia socialite. The movie is a triple treat, with my other two most favourite actors, Cary Grant and Jimmy Stewart, in the other lead roles, Cary as Tracy's former husband C.K Dexter Haven, and Jimmy as the peeved reporter who Kate falls in love with. Although there has been much written about Jimmy Stewart not deserving the Oscar that year, if it was given for the Academy passing over his performance in Mr Smith Goes to Washington, then it was well deserved. Cary Grant deserved a nomination, and Kate definitely should have taken out the prize for the year. I could be going to extremes, but I think this was definitely the movie that deserved to take home the statuette for Best Picture of 1940. I have seen both Rebecca and The Grapes of Wrath, movies highly acclaimed that year, but neither has ever come close to The Philadelphia Story. The first time I watched it I missed not only most of the witty one-liners, but the whole point of the story. It was the first movie I watched with each of the three stars. Almost a year later after I viewed it again I couldn't believe how I could have passed over such a rare gem. As a fourteen year old, I can't be pretentious in definitely knowing the real themes of the movie. Maybe something in the way of humility and degrees of acceptance, I'm not so sure. I have thought about it a lot, but have only reached the conclusion that it is one of those 'feel good' movies that is re-watchable. There are things about it, even close to my tenth viewing, that I am still picking up on. Lead by Ruth Hussey and Virginia Weidler, the supporting cast of The Philadelphia Story is one of the finest I have seen. With Cole Porter songs, and yet another star cast, this movie was shockingly remade into the musical High Society in 1956. On all accounts, Bing Crosby, Grace Kelly, Frank Sinatra and Celeste Holm cannot match the sophistication and wit of the non-musical cast. It seemed too much like recycled humour, despite its attempts to modernize an immortal story.This movie is a slice of Old Hollywood that must not be sampled once to enjoy it. It should be taken in many times! Rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"Plays your heart strings in a masterful glissando.","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"60 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  That this brilliant story originated on stage is obvious.  The stage requires personas of epic and electric beauty.  Philadelphia Story boasts three of the brightest stars that ever burned to occupy these personas, which they do with miraculous luminance.  The play, of course, was written for Hepburn by Phillip Barry, and after over 400 performances on Broadway she cleverly bought the film rights right out from under the noses of Hollywood moguls who fancied themselves smarter than Dear Kate.  This came at a time when Hepburn was tops on the list of stars who had been labeled box office poison by producers.The dynamics between the stars are legendary.  Finer actors never lived, and these are the performances of a lifetime for each of them.  Stewart is funny, smoldering, passionate and moving and he has moments, many of them, of stunning brilliance in each of those emotions.  Grant is his typical stilted and elegant self, funny, gracious, urbane and, yes, beautiful.  And then there is Hepburn.  She is breathtaking to look at, and she plays your heart strings in a masterful glissando plucking at every emotion as she moves effortlessly across her entire unmatched range.The supporting cast is worthy of the surplus of talent that surrounds them, and offer a few unforgettable moments of their own.  And the presence of George Cukor, the greatest director of women in history, and the best director of Hepburn as well, coaxes every brilliant word of the script to its full potential.You must not miss this treasure simply because it is from another era.  It depicts that era with insight and irreverence that expose it, and the rarified world of old Philadelphia Money (yes, with a capital M) like few films of its time, or any time, could.  Every time I watch this movie, and the frequency would embarrass me if I were honest about it, I love it more.Watch it.  Study it.  Assimilate every second of it and your understanding and appreciation of cinema will be enriched for it.  And you'll have a great time doing it! "},{"Title":"The most sophisticated comedy ever!","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"53 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Firstly, let me say, that I love Kate Hepburn. She's my favourite actress, and in my opinion, she can do no wrong. For this reason, I'd probably give a good rating to every movie she made.But 'The Philadelphia Story' really does deserve wonderful praise. It's by far the most sophisticated, and in my opinion, the greatest comedy ever made, one of Kate's greatest roles.  She's absolutely hilarious as Tracy Lord, bringing perfection to the role she created on the stage a year before the film, mocking, insulting and making fun out of Jimmy Stewart and Cary Grant.Her drunken scene with Stewart is pure magic and her mockery of him ('dear professor') is wonderful.Grant and Stewart are fabulous, Stewart as the rough and tumble reporter infatuated with Tracy and Grant as the neglected ex- husband.Ruth Hussey and Virginia Weidler are fantastic in supporting roles, and really add to the hilarity of the whole picture.A funny, bouyant ride through the 1940's- I completely recommend it! "},{"Title":"Peerless cast, witty script gives this classic comedy of manners ageless appeal.","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"41 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  They say the idle rich is the devil's playground.  Well, never has the playground been more playful or fun than in The Philadelphia Story.  It's so gratifying to know that vintage movies like The Philadelphia Story will outlive us all.  Playwright Phillip Barry certainly had an ear for sophisticated chatter and, along with Bringing Up Baby and Holiday, he singlehandedly defined the term screwball comedy in the late 30s.  And so it is fortunate for all of us that the screen adaptations of each of these classic Broadway plays are classics in their own right.Katharine Hepburn, who starred with Cary Grant in all three of the aforementioned films, plays society prig Tracy Lord, a spoiled, temperamental rich girl who owns a will of iron and a heart to match. What she wants more than life itself is to experience true love like a down-to-earth REAL person, but is she capable of it?  A stormy first marriage to C.K. Dexter Haven (Grant) has not taken the wind out of her sails, so she decides to make a go of it again.  Announcing her forthcoming marriage to wealthy George Kittredge, a rather staid, uptight sort, it comes off more like a match made in gold than in heaven.  However, the stubborn Tracy is convinced she is in love this time.  Around to disrupt the wedding plans is Tracy's former husband, who still has feelings for her and her family, her estranged scandal-ridden father, her young, precocious sister, and a posterior-pinching uncle.  Also hovering around the Lord estate is tabloid reporter Liz Imbrie and her photographer Mike Connor, assigned to cover the impending nuptials and, of course, scout out any juicy gossip.With a deft ensemble and crisp, intuitive direction (George Cukor), the dialogue blisters with furious fun (courtesy of Oscar-winning scripter Donald Ogden Stewart), with every character having his or her chance to bask in the limelight.  Hepburn, who was considered box-office poison at the time, revitalized her Hollywood career with The Philadelphia Story, smartly buying the film rights to ensure her starring role.  Dripping with frilly-edged sarcasm, she makes full use of her clipped Bryn Mawr speech tones.  But her ultimate triumph is that her 'ice queen' demeanor never alienates the viewer.  We still root for Tracy to come down to earth, rejoin the human race and live out that fairy tale ending.  Cary Grant is as smooth as silk pajamas as Tracy's first husband, raring and ready to pull her off that mighty pedestal she's placed herself so high on.  Synonymous with elegance and style, I doubt there is another actor who can handle martini-dry banter the way he does.  He is flawless -- in a class by himself.The real revelation, however, is Jimmy Stewart as the smitten photographer who is only too willing to keep Tracy perched on that pedestal.  Stewart, who won the Oscar, breaks from his usual aw shucks mode to show a surprising comic range.  His midnight poolside soliloquy with Kate is wondrous and lingers long after the closing credits.  Completing the romantic quadrangle is the wonderful Ruth Hussey, who inherits the wisecracking Eve Arden role, the good-natured trooper who always seems to come in second man-wise.  Hussey takes the ball and runs with it, giving the ripest performance of the bunch.Additional praise must be given to Mary Nash, as Tracy's flowery, meticulous mother; young tomboy Virginia Weidler, an adroit little scenestealer, for keeping up with the big folks and offering a wickedly smart-assed rendition of Lydia, the Tattooed Lady; John Howard for his dour, stuffy groom-to-be and good sportsmanship as the butt of many a joke; John Halliday, who manages a couple of razor-sharp scenes as Hepburn's reproaching father, and Roland Young, who played Cosmo Topper in the delightful Topper film series, for adding his typical brand of bemused merriment as lecherous Uncle Willy.   From the opening classic bit with Hepburn and Grant squaring off to the church altar denouement, The Philadelphia Story provides a wealth of entertainment.  It's a rare, rich package even the Lord family can't buy! "},{"Title":"Dictating her own comeback","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"37 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After Katharine Hepburn was one of a group of stars dictated box office poison by the ruling moguls of Hollywood she went east and scored a complete triumph on stage with The Philadelphia Story. But our Kate was the shrewd one, she had the foresight to buy the film rights from author Philip Barry and peddle them to the studio that would guarantee her repeating her stage role and giving her creative control. On stage she had co-starred with Joseph Cotten, Van Heflin, and Shirley Booth all of whom became movie names later on, but meant nothing to Hollywood in 1940. She had the choice of leading men and cast in their places, Cary Grant, James Stewart and Ruth Hussey. This was Grant's fourth and final appearance on screen with Hepburn. It's a typical Cary Grant part, witty and urbane, with a touch of the rogue in him. He's Hepburn's ex-husband, still very much in love with his ex-wife, but she's marrying stuffed shirt John Howard.Reporter James Stewart and photographer Ruth Hussey are covering Hepburn's wedding for Spy Magazine, the National Enquirer of the day. Through a little judicious blackmail they're invited to this premier society wedding, but both feel out of place and used.After The Philadelphia Story, Katharine Hepburn was a movie name the rest of her long life. Even with an occasional clinker no one ever questioned her about being box office poison.James Stewart won the Best Actor Oscar in probably the most romantic he was ever on the screen. A lot felt it was a consolation Oscar for not winning it for Mr. Smith Goes to Washington in 1939. Stewart himself proclaimed to all who'd listen that he voted for good friend Henry Fonda in the Academy Sweepstakes for The Grapes of Wrath. I've always felt that when Stewart talked about those hearth fires banked down low to Hepburn, he was really talking about himself. He's a cynical fellow at first and his romantic side comes as a surprise to him more than even the audience.The Philadelphia Story has become such a classic that even the musical remake High Society doesn't try to copy it, it just presents a softer musical alternative. But I'd kind of liked to have seen Hepburn do this with her original cast as well. Oscars were in the future for Van Heflin and Shirley Booth and Joseph Cotten the following year made his debut in the biggest film of all. "},{"Title":"Three legends in their prime","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"35 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a delightful romantic comedy about the life and loves of a high society girl.  Tracy Lord (Katharine Hepburn) is about to be married to George Kittredge (John Howard), a self made man who elevated himself from the lower class.  The wedding is supposed to be a private affair, but Tracy's ex-husband C.K. Dexter Haven (Cary Grant) blackmails her into letting two reporters, Macaulay Conner and Elizabeth Imbrie (James Stewart and Ruth Hussey) cover the event.  What ensues is a screwball courtship for the heart of Tracy as everyone falls in love with her at once.Director David Cukor (`Little Women', `My Fair Lady') provides a fast paced comedy with rapid-fire repartee and fosters a bubbly chemistry between the cast members, which brims with laughs.  Cukor received one of his five Oscar nominations for this film and it was well deserved.Katharine Hepburn is marvelous as the blueblood bride to be.  She is a well-grounded girl who is not beyond putting on airs for show.  She is simultaneously sassy and dreamy and her comic timing is superb earning her one of twelve nominations for best actress.  Despite a star's billing, Cary Grant plays a supporting role as the sarcastic Dexter Haven.  With his deadpan delivery, he provides the perfect foil to Hepburn and Stewart.Even with the luminous cast, Jimmy Stewart steals the show with a comedic tour de force.  His inebriated scene with Cary Grant is uproariously funny and his puppy dog wooing of Katherine Hepburn is enchanting.  It is hard to believe that James Stewart only won one Oscar in his outstanding career.  Though nominated five times, the only role for which he won the statue is this one, a performance that is unquestionably among his best.This tremendous comedy brings together three screen legends at the peak of their careers.  It was nominated for six Academy Awards winning two, and it was rated #51 on AFI's top 100 of the century.  It is a timeless classic that is sure to please.  I rated it a 10/10.  See it and enjoy. "},{"Title":"One of the best Romantic Comedies","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Rating ***1/2 out of ****.The Philadelphia Story is one of the earlier Romantic Comedies. It is also one of the best. This film basically has what most romantic comedies today dont have. That would be a well-written script, Great Acting, and actually funny.The acting is a huge strength in the film. This is called Katharine Hepburn's best role by many, while I admit she is excellent in a number of scenes, I think she tends to overact at times. Cary Grant is great here. Everyone else is Great but I believe James Stewart to be the standout. He is perfect for this role, its a flawless performance, that he deservedly won the Best Actor Oscar for.The Script has wonderful dialogue thats delivered flawlessly by the actors. Even simple dialogue like Isn't that awful was delivered superbly by Katharine Hepburn. George Cukor made this project look like nothing, he made many films which were womens films but he does a damn good job here.If you think Romantic Comedies of today are good, look at The Philadelphia Story and they will pale in comparison. The Philadelphia Story is a very good film and worth remembering, unlike the mediocre to crappy romantic comedies of today. The Philadelphia Story is highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Main Line society wedding","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"33 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The excellent play by Phillip Barry, is the basis for the delightful transfer to the screen. The choice of George Cukor as its director seems to have been made in heaven. Indeed, Mr. Cukor clearly understood what was needed to make this film the classic it became. George Cukor's contribution, as well of the magnificent screenplay, by Donald Ogden Stewart, make this a timeless comedy that looks as fresh today as when it was originally released.It helps tremendously that Katherine Hepburn had played Tracy Lord on the stage and knew what made her tick. Ms. Hepburn, an actress of enormous talent, is the embodiment of this society woman. Katherine Hepburn clearly understood her character. Having come herself from a privileged family, she was able to get deep inside her character. Tracy Lord is going to be married to George Kitteredge, a man from her own social circle. Deep down inside, Tracy can't get her mind from the man she really loves, the rascal Dexler.The casting of Cary Grant as C.K. Dexler was a touch of genius. Mr. Grant had played opposite Ms. Hepburn before. He was an actor that always delivered and was always a welcome addition to any of the movies of the period. Mr. Grant, with his good looks, makes the perfect man to play the part. As Dexler, the man who broke Tracy's heart, he returns just before the wedding, perhaps to remind her he's still loves her and can't get her out of his mind.James Stewart was the other happy casting of The Philadelphia Story. He was relatively unknown to the movie going public, but he left his mark all over the picture. As McCauley (Mike) Conner, this actor was perfect. As the tabloid reporter infiltrating the society wedding he proved his impeccable sense of timing.Ruth Hussey, contributes to the film in unexpected ways. Virginia Weidler, as Dinah, is irresistible. The rest of the ensemble cast is a director's dream. Mary Nash, John Howard, Roland Young, John Halliday, Henry Daniel and the rest, are perfect.The Philadelphia Story will keep delighting audiences for many years to come. "},{"Title":"Great dialogue, great performances and a real fun, urgent pace to the material make this a delightfully fun film","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It is the wedding of the year with socialite Tracy Lord due to marry George Kittredge behind closed doors, with no press allowed. However the editor of Spy Magazine is set to run an exposé of Tracy's philandering father and a New York dancer and strikes a deal with her ex husband CK Dexter Haven if he can get a couple of journalists into the wedding and the reception. Keen to get back at Tracy, Dexter agrees to help and escorts writer Mike Conner and photographer Liz Imbrie into the Lord home in the days before the wedding. With tensions high between Dexter and Tracy, everyone playing games and relationships equally confused and confusing anything could happen and surprises are in store.Shot in about 8 weeks with a low number of takes and some impressive adlibbed and one-shot scenes this is a movie worth seeing even before you look at the cast list and the professional reviews. The plot is partly a comedy, partly a character drama and partly a romance (albeit a rather tidy one) and each aspect pretty much works in tandem with the others. The comic tension between the characters is really well written and, although it is a cliché, it does fizz and spark across the screen and is regularly hilarious and consistently a delight to the ears. With such superficial energy it would be easy to ignore the fact that it is interesting below this; specifically I liked the character of Tracy and the way that parts of the film show her character being stripped back as she in particular learns something about how she comes across, softening her character a little bit in later scenes. However to suggest that this has great depths is to give it more praise than it deserves, because it doesn't run deep and it isn't a great drama. Likewise the romance isn't a main part of it but it does still work because it is all delivered at such a fresh and funny pace that it draws you in, even to the point where I gratefully accepted the film's conclusion with a smile rather than a sneer.The cast are a delight, but then that pretty much goes without saying, and they work with the dialogue like a surgeon uses a scalpel. In fact that is a good example because the dialogue is normally almost as sharp as said instrument. Grant may have got top billing and the big money (which he then donated away) but it is very much a shared effort between the three stars, with Grant in fact having the least showy character. If anything the film belongs to Hepburn who is a delight whether spitting back at her father with tears in her eyes or a barbed comment sliding in like a greased knife. Stewart is just as good and is reaction shots show a real comic timing, but he also gives good dialogue and he is fun. Like Stewart, Grant has a great chemistry with Hepburn, which means that he can deliver convincing tension and trade insults without undermining the ending which otherwise would have maybe been an ask too far. Hussey is good and it is easy to forget that she must have felt a bit out of her depth but it never shows in her performance. Support is roundly strong from Young, Nash, Halliday and even Weildler.Overall this is a delightful film that is such fun and has such a good pace and spark that it is easy to buy into the weaker elements of the narrative and not only forgive them but get into them. The dialogue is sparky and funny while the delivery of same is just what the material deserved. The cast have chemistry and help inject urgency to the story that keeps it all moving forward. A wonderfully delightful film that is fun to watch and surprisingly engaging. "}{"Title":"The Great Romantic Comedy","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Definitely the greatest romantic comedy of all time The Philadelpha Story raises the bar in Hollywood movies. The film is set around the wedding of one of Philadelpha's highest society women (Katherine Hepburn). Her ex-husband who is expertly played by Cary Grant hears of this and decides to crash the party. He does this by bringing along two reporters (James Stewart & Ruth Hussey). They come undercover to get some behind the scene snapshots of the wedding. Of course the results of all this is hilarious.Stewart and Hussey give ground breaking performances as the reporters. Besides this winning best picture Jimmy Stewart won a well deserved Oscar for best actor in his role. Of course a great comedy would not be complete without the beautiful, charming, hilarious, Katherine Hepburn who never fails to impress. Gave yet another fantastic and unforgettable performance.Films like this aren't made nearly as well or even made anymore. All the more reason to treasure these wonderful works of art and history. Gerg Cukor does a fine and memorable job in directing but it's the acting and one of films finest screenplays that blows this film way ahead of most romantic comedies. It was originally a play by Philip Barry, and turned into one of the greatest screenplays heard on the silver screen. The screenplay was done by the masterful Donald Stewart. As you can see this is film at its very best and is probably never going to be forgotten. "},{"Title":"You know there's something wrong when a film makes you root for the 'bad guy' ...","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" George Cukor's The Philadelphia Story was released in 1940 and starred the ultimate Hollywood trinity Katharine Hepburn, James Stewart and Cary Grant. Being a romantic comedy, we suspect she will end up with one of these two. And since she's about to marry a boring guy named George, we quickly understand that she will not marry him, and that the whole story will consist on leading us to that conclusion in two hours, two endlessly and unstoppably long hours.I hate to use the word 'overrated' and 'overacted' so I guess the wrong mindset would be an inevitable obstacle between this movie and me. Being the average schmuck I am, I couldn't relate to Katharine Hepburn as Tracy Lord, a young and wealthy socialite praised, adored, worshiped by the other schmucks of her community. For my biggest displeasure, I couldn't even relate to James Stewart because as much as I loved his roles in Capra films, I didn't find any invitation for empathy in his character as Macaulay Connor, the wannabe writer and tabloid journalist for a magazine fittingly named 'Spy. I could care about Cary Grant as C.K. (as in 'CocKy) Dexter Morgan, the ex-husband, if only for the hilarious way he palms Tracy's face and pushes her down to the floor. But isn't it a bad omen when the film's most memorable instant happens within the first minute. But despite the brilliance of the gesture and the male charisma he naturally exuded, in that particular film, he seemed rather lifeless to me, bored by the whole gossipy environment (I can't blame him) and only there to recite his lines, to create a false impression of chemistry with Tracy. I couldn't stand his constant grin, but not as much as Hepburn's trademark 'Bryn Mawr accent (thanks IMDb) that got quickly on my nerves, this 'yawr', 'dahling' or this expression as if she wanted us to check if she had salad stuck in her teeth. But don't take my iconoclasm very seriously, I'm an unexceptional reviewer. In fact, I'm so mediocre, compared to these icons I dare to criticize that I even rooted for John Howard's character as George Kettridge, the target of a whole conspiracy from the director, the writer and the actors. They spared no efforts to mock and belittle George, he was a hypocrite, an ambitious man, but I have to see it to believe it, after all, neither Grant or Connor had better intentions and George seemed a rather decent man. Anyway, they were all so mean-spirited than my immediate reaction was to take his side. At least, in usual screwball comedies, it's one rival against another; here the guy has no chance standing against the two men and his own fiancé plotting against him. And watching the beautiful Tracy Lord swinging back and forth from Connor to Morgan like a tennis ball was embarrassing, not to mention the ludicrous ending. Marry me, Tracy, she's reluctant because it wouldn't please his girlfriend photographer Liz (Ruth Hussey). Naturally, Liz doesn't mind being used as a Plan B, nor does Tracy to get back to her precedent husband. Damn, I'm almost glad Georgie got himself out of this mess. The film had its moments though, I liked the part where Stewart pretended to be drunk and you could see at one moment that both him and Grant were trying not to laugh, that was my favorite moment of the film it was genuine, charming and innocent and it allowed us to forget about the intricacy of the plot.Speaking of that 'drunk' scene, I'm not sure either that Stewart deserved the Oscar, I know it was a compensation for his loss in 1939, but seriously was he better than Henry Fonda in Grapes of Wrath, or even as a comedic performance, was he better than Charlie Chaplin in The Great Dictator? I could concede anything to the movie, maybe if I watched it a third or fourth time, I will end up believing it's a masterpiece, but I don't think I would praise Stewart's performance, I didn't even think it was worthy of a nomination. The writing also won an Oscar, but then again, it's adapted from a play, it has the kind of prefabricated wit that was overexploited in screwball classics, but for some reason, I don't think these kinds of artificial exchange fit the silver screen.Maybe it's the whole vaudeville thing, but I grew rapidly tired of these dialogs where you get the feeling that each character is trying to outsmart the other, and naturally, George is the biggest target, he receives them and seems incapable to say one word or two to Grant or Stewart. From funny, it gets incredibly redundant and ruins the poignancy or the intelligent lucidity some scenes genuinely provides. Granted it's not meant to be realistic, and people have to be entertained, but at one point, it's just words, words, words, or like would say Hepburn wohds, wohds, wohds. And I guess I've seen enough classics not to feel guilty about this one.And please, don't get me started on the so-called feminist undertones just because Hepburn plays a very strong and outspoken character. If one thing, the film proves (and quite realistically) that a woman can be as strong, as bossy, as a bully as a man IF she's rich. It attacks the core of feminism, which is the perpetual antagonism between men and women by showing that it's only a matter of rich vs. poor. It's funny how the film works better as a social commentary, and it's only by realizing that she wouldn't live with a man who'd prevent her from freedom by letting her drink and loosen up, that Tracy goes with the rich guy, of course, only rich can afford to be decadent. There goes George, sings Grant to ridicule him, just ignore them, George, you're the unsung hero of The Philadelphia Story "},{"Title":"Grant, Hepburn, Stewart - What more could you ask for?","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film was a pure delight to watch. Usually if you want to see a film with great chemistry between the two leads, you are  hard-pressed to find one. This film takes care of that and even goes one step farther by having great chemistry between its three main characters. Just the sight of these great actors on screen at the same time is something else.Cary Grant, Katherine Hepburn and Jimmy Stewart each give grand performances to this film (Stewart won for Best Supporting Actor) each showcasing their talent. Grant as the rich, charming bachelor trying to get his ex-wife back, Hepburn as the upper-class debutant who plays all of the men in her life as if she has no soul and Stewart as the everyman who holds everyone together while having a few interesting adventures of his own.Not only is this a very funny film, it has an interesting story line and even a few minor plot twists during the end. Perhaps the fact that the whole film takes place over two days and is mostly shot at Hepburn's home adds to the feel of urgency throughout the entire film. Will she go back to her ex-husband? Will she marry the new man in her life? Will she fall in love and run away with Jimmy Stewart? All of these questions are answered in the end and tied up quite well.If you want to see one of first genuine romantic comedies with some of the greatest stars to grace the silver screen, then this film is for you! A full recommendation to all.8/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Sophisticated and classic comedy!!!","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A truly spectacular film that moves gracefully throughout the lives of several people of differing social class to create a smart and insightful comedy.  The dialogue always brings me to the edge of my seat as I listen attentively to the fast-paced, cutting banter of Grant, Hepburn and Stewart. Tracy (Hepburn) is a young woman of old money about to marry a man who is nouveau riche.  Two working class stiffs (Stewart and Hussey) are reporters out to scoop this scandalous poor boy/rich girl story for a tabloid newspaper.  When Tracy's first husband, C.K. Dexter Haven (Grant), returns to win back his bride.....the fun begins.The chemistry between Hepburn and her two leading co-stars (Grant and Stewart) is palpable.  Hepburn gives the performance of her career in a once in a lifetime role.  The character of Tracy is vibrant and smart, with a unique sarcastic flair.  C.K. Dexter Haven is dashing, witty and touchingly vulnerable.  Grant is brilliant.  Hussey and Stewart are equally great in their roles as the every day man and woman who have somehow managed to work their way to center stage to the social event of the year.Through it all, you will laugh at this delightful mix of people and recognize yourself in a little of each one of them.  A delightful social commentary!Fun, fun, fun.  If you enjoy great dialogue......you'll love this movie.  "},{"Title":"Best Movie -- But Not Politically Correct!","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Philadelphia Story is my all-time favorite movie. Like Imbrie and champagne, I've never had enough of it! The casting is probably what makes this movie great -- who could resist Cary Grant, Katherine Hepburn and James Stewart all in one movie? Most of the supporting actors are superb, as well. Most of my kudos go to Virginia Weidler as Dinah, easily the most complex of all the characters in the film.Equally important and equally impressive, the dialog in this movie rivals The Princess Bride and others for wit and clarity.The story itself is light-hearted and fun, if you can leave your politics in your back pocket for a couple of hours. Remember, this film debuted in 1940 -- only a year after the publication of Alcoholics Anonymous. So perhaps we can forgive Dexter for blaming his drinking problem on Tracy, and forgive Tracy for accepting the blame.I have a harder time forgiving Seth Lord for blaming his infidelity on Tracy's lack of warmth. What a load of crap! Even if he was influenced by her coldness, what's wrong with Dinah's love? In the end, a spouse cheats because he/she wants to.I've watched this movie enough times to tell you everything that's wrong with it -- politically, morally, in terms of continuity, and so on. And I'll keep watching it because the great dialog and awesome performances make it worth it every time! "},{"Title":"Where's the Beef?","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In film school, I had to watch this movie once in every class I took in the film program. For four years, not a single class went by without watching this movie for a particular scene or a style of direction or acting. After watching this movie over a dozen times, I am yet to find anything that makes this movie so great. Sure, the cast includes a top list of Hollywood actors, but so what? There is some nice acting but nothing that can be considered great. The opening of the movie with Cary Grant tossing Hepburn to the ground like a rag doll opens the movie up to some great possibilities, especially for 1940. Here, we gather up our hopes that this movie is going to be filled with one giant laugh after another. In the end, we are left with a movie filled with talk, very little action, and hardly any real comedy that can add up to anything being made today. From where I am standing, this is a nice movie, but far from anything terrific. Am I wrong? "},{"Title":"The story nearly gave me a headache,but Grant,Hepburn,and Stewart made it fun to watch.","Date":"17 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I really wasn't so much wowed by The Philadelphia Story's story,as it were,as I was mesmerized by three of the big screen's strongest ever screen presences' interaction with one another.Katherine Hepburn,Cary Grant,and James Stewart were great (if that is even a strong enough word) individually,but together here in this film,they were absolutely out of this world.The story,quite frankly,gave me a headache overall,but I did find the ever famous hiccup improvisation between Stewart and Grant hysterical as it was obvious both men could barely compose themselves,but being the professionals that they were,they got it together and moved on,and that's what made the scene so entertaining.I had a great time watching. "},{"Title":"Rusalka's sixteenth film review James Stewart's only Academy Award-winning performance!","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  George Cukor hit the jackpot with this lovely story of three different people torn apart and brought together by love.  This was the film that brought Katherine Hepburn back into the limelight after being labeled as box-office poison.  Although the story is easy to follow, the plot at times gets a bit contrived and we find ourselves wondering if normal people would actually do such things as these people in this film do.  But of course, by the end of the film the conflict is resolved and all ends happily...or does it?The Philadelphia Story was nominated for six Academy Awards (Best Picture, Best Actor, Best Actress, Best Supporting Actress, Best Direction and Best Screenplay) winning two Best Actor and Best Screenplay.  James Stewart won the only Academy Award of his distinguished career for this film.  Katherine Hepburn lost to Ginger Rogers in Kitty Foyle, George Cukor lost to John Ford for his inspired direction of Steinbeck's Grapes of Wrath and the film itself lost to Alfred Hitchcock's American directorial debut, Rebecca.My rating 2 and a half stars "},{"Title":"The time to make up your mind about someone is never!","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite movie of all time. The chemistry between Hepburn and Grant, in my opinion has never been matched. It shows that class really has nothing to do with the amount of money you have whether you wear a blue or white collar in life. The banter between Stewart and Hussey is also outstanding. I only wish I had been invited to the wedding! "},{"Title":"Delightful Classic Romantic Comedy","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In Philadelphia, the divorced socialite Tracy Samantha Lord (Katharine Hepburn) is close to her second marriage with George Kittredge (John Howard), the successful manager of Tracy's father mines. Her former husband is the playboy Dexter Haven (Cary Grant), a friend of the family Lord since Tracy's childhood. Dexter is working in Buenos Aires in the Spy' magazine, and he decides to use the tabloid to revenge Tracy. On the nuptial eve, Dexter arrives at the Lord's mansion with the tabloid reporter and writer Macauley 'Mike' Connor (James Stewart) and the photographer and painter Elizabeth 'Liz' Imbrie (Ruth Hussey), pretending they were friends of Tracy's brother. Tracy does not buy the lie, but Dexter blackmails Tracy with reportage about her father and her lover, and she accepts to host Mike and Liz. Along the two days, many delightful situations happen in the Lord's house. 'The Philadelphia Story' is a magnificent romantic comedy, being very theatrical in many parts, but with great dialogs, including about fight of classes, and never boring. The cast is splendid and the black and white photography is wonderful. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) 'Núpcias de Escândalo' ('Nuptials of Scandals') "}{"Title":"Fun, But Flawed","Date":"12 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is the film that put Hepburn's career back on the map after being labeled box office poison. It really is a nice film, with strong performances throughout, especially Hepburn as the aristocratic but uptight Tracy Lord. And she has seldom looked more beautiful than she does here; dressed to the nines in elegant dresses by Adrian and her famous red hair coiffed by Sydney Guilaroff. I did think that Ruth Hussey's character has too many smart-alecky lines; it makes her come across as if she is trying too hard. And I also take issue with the premise that Tracy Lord's father blames his daughter's attitude and disrespect toward him as reason for his infidelities to his wife &#x96; even when I saw this as a child, I didn't understand why an independent- minded (if a little uptight and controlling) woman would have to account for her dad's cheating. Such a load of BS. I know that we are supposed to take delight in these types of Hepburn films, where her high and mighty characters get humbled by those closest to them, and suddenly she becomes a female. It makes for some good laughs, but it can also be really condescending and more than a bit sexist. I got the same impression in Woman of the Year as well. And finally, I still shake my head in disbelief that Jimmy Stewart was awarded a Best Actor Oscar for what essentially is a supporting role, and not really of Oscar caliber. I'll always believe that the Best Actor statue should have gone to Henry Fonda. Flaws aside, The Philadelphia Story has some great moments "},{"Title":"A model of urbanity and good sense. (spoilers)","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Despite the cast, this film cannot be conveniently filed under the screwball comedy category. It is more of a superior drawing room comedy, with some dramatic gravitas. It is positively emblematic of the genial, metropolitan elite that had such an influence in America, with Roosevelt the President.The three stars are obviously the Story here, but minor characters also play an effective part. The extent to which the older adult members of Hepburn's family have no clue as to what is going on, while the child does, is most amusing at times. It ought to be said that the film is far from all that funny. The humour is more of the clever and fleeting variety. Most of it arises either from Grant's splendid persona, with his wry tones, or Hepburn's flighty, beguiling mannerisms. I would perhaps say that Grant is to a degree under used, as there are very large stretches of the picture where he is not on screen. Stewart is however very impressive, playing a sensitive, artistic type who understandably is somewhat taken by Hepburn. All three stars are much in their element, with accents as remembered by all, and a fitting social setting.As has been said by some other film scribe, a strong case is being made as to the sheer irresistibility of the film's female star. Katharine Hepburn is shown at her most statuesque and unconventionally beautiful. Her character has an impressive array of fine lines to deliver, and is treated with dignity and understanding by the script. It is in some ways a voyage of self discovery for Hepburn's Miss Lord; from a rejection of her anointed goddess status, a rejection of marriage for mere hierarchical gain and a deeper understanding of love.The film's about-face ending is quite charming really, mixing the conservative with the progressive. Conservative in that marriage is seen to have to take place, and in the characters returning to earlier relationships. It could indeed be argued that not enough had been made of Stewart's relations with Ruth Hussey's character. Progressive it could be said, in that events have been very quickly turned upside down, and love over society is championed. Also, perhaps most tellingly, the drunken indiscretion of Hepburn is not just forgiven, but seen as part of her self-discovery. This film in its treatment of a liberated woman such as Hepburn, must be praised for its sensitivity and liberal understanding. All too often, Hollywood allowed the reactionary and the puritanically conservative to lazily dominate its films. As manifested in the Hays Code, numerous scaremongering Anti-Communist propagandist films, blind faith in rigid family values and the stifling of its main comedic talents like Preston Sturges and the old silent comedians. The trend of there being many mainstream, liberal films was to wane gradually during the 1940s, partly symbolised by Roosevelt's passing and much of the 1930s ethos, as the Cold War began in earnest.This metropolitan elite, of the Woollcotts, Kaufmans, Welles, Marx Brothers, Chaplins etc. (so lovingly evoked in 1942's The Man Who Came To Dinner) is not exactly manifested in the actual characters on show here. We are presented with an upper-middle class milieu, with contrasts provided by Grant's hard-bitten aristocratic dandy and John Howard's dullard man of the people politician. There is nothing staggering about the film's assertion that the upper classes can be perfectly charming and noble, whilst those of the lower classes, like Howard, can be charmless and materialistic. It seems merely to be making a point of its very balance, and is almost a fig leaf to those who would have expected a simplistic socialist line would have be taken.Need it be mentioned that Cukor's direction is excellent? Making an art form of the unobtrusive, he lets the camera just take in the performances and the script, without distraction. He captures Hepburn in a radiant and sensitive light that I suppose slightly overshadows the male leads. There are artistic shots at times, that evoke occasional counterpoint to the usual images of the starts. One lingering shot of the precocious child watching from out of her window the night's events, is a good example of this working to great effect. An effect of establishing a wider, but still near-motionless canvass to the story.I very much enjoyed this film; it was a very good evening's company. I suggest one should take it in over a fine meal and copious wine, as it is an urbane, thoughtful brew of a film, and a perfect showcase for the unique Kate Hepburn.Rating- ****/***** "},{"Title":"Move over, Spencer Tracy","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Katharine Hepburn's true movie match was Cary Grant. Here, the usual conventions of moviemaking are upended Grant, the hero, plays a wealthy ex-alcoholic, while John Howard plays a working-class stiff, on the verge of marrying into Hepburn's blue-blooded family, who turns out to be a bore and a prig. The writing dazzles--this is a movie for people who love words, and the pacing leaves us feeling, after two hours, like we've lived through two very full and enjoyable days--including staying up all night in between. Quite possibly Hepburn's best.  "},{"Title":"Yes, Professor...","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In my quick skim of other comments about this movie, I saw nothing negative. I'd like to add my praise to the long list.I am not anywhere near the generation of people who would have originally seen this movie or been Katherine Hepburn/Cary Grant/Jimmy Stewart fans.  I rented this with a friend who had seen it and loved it and I have never been so entertained.The story is timeless.  My friends and I see a little of ourselves in each character.  Unfortunately youth of today might have a bit of trouble sitting still and listening to all the dialogue and there is no action sequences to keep the eyes entertained.  But you'll never hear such witty and creative dialogue in the theatre today.If nothing else the drunken after-the-party scene and repercussions the next morning is something we can all relate to... whether you're 80 or 20 (I'm 23) and the year is 1940 or 2000. "},{"Title":"With the high and mighty always a little patience.","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of the greatest romantic comedies of all time.  Tracy Lord (Hepburn) is Philadelphia aristocrat who is to be wed in the privacy of her parents' home to the man of the people, George Kittredge.  Former husband C.K. Dexter Haven (Grant) is blackmailed into bringing two reporters for Spy Magazine, Mike Connor (Stewart) and Liz Imbrie (Hussey).  The clash between rich and Not so rich (both financial and in character) begins.  Classic fast-paced, brilliantly written dialogue almost unheard of in film today is abundant (pay attention or you might miss some of the greatest banter ever spoken on screen).Oscars for J. Stewart (Actor), D. O. Stewart (Writing), nominations for Hepburn (Actress), Cukor (Director), Hussey (Supporting Actress) and MGM (Outstanding Production, losing to Rebecca).  Re-made as a musical with Bing Crosby, Grace Kelly and Frank Sinatra titled High Society (1956), based upon the Broadway play of the same name by Phillip Barry starring Hepburn who bought the rights.  Controlling the rights she forced the studio to use her even though she was considered box-office poison at the time, this film resurrected her career. "},{"Title":"Sophistication par of excellence","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a witty and hilarious comedy, starring Cary Grant, Katherine Hepburn, and James Stewart.  With that cast, along with a great script and inspired direction, make this movie a treat to watch.James Stewart gives a great performance, in one of his four personas. There is his naive persona (Frank Capra movies), his pessimist (Anthony Mann's westerns), his truly kinky side (Alfred Hitchcock), and then there is his peevish humour (this one).  While I wouldn't give him the oscar over Henry Fonda, it is a great performance.  Grant and Hepburn shine.  My favourite performance was the Hepburn's sister in the movie.If there is a flaw, it's the way the father is annoying, placing the blame of his philandering on Hepburn.  But this is a classic in every way.  Rent it if you haven't seen it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant (if, yes, imperfect) comedy","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Philadelphia Story is often cited as the apex of Hollywood sophistication, and with good reason. The script (mostly Philip Barry's Broadway original, with some reshaping and a couple of extra scenes by Donald Ogden Stewart) is wonderfully fast and literate, and the three stars exemplify what what has largely been lost amazingly attractive actors whose eyes shine with wit and whose voices are more than up to the challenge of speaking brilliant, challenging words. Everything about this film -- the acting, the direction, the costumes, the production design -- has an otherworldly, almost radioactive glow.But -- and I'm afraid there is a 'but' -- something has always bothered me about this story. The basic premise is that Tracy Lord (Hepburn), débutante extraordinaire, possesses all things bright and beautiful but a warm and forgiving heart. This is demonstrated by her intolerance of her first husband, C.K. Dexter Haven (Grant), and even more by her inability to accept the transgressions of her 'womanizing' father. Will the goddess be brought down to earth, and how? If you've never seen the film, I don't want to give away the final resolution, but I suggest that you listen closely to the 'big' scene wherein Father upbraids Daughter, and try to imagine Bill Clinton having the same conversation with Chelsea. Fathers have a right to demand only so much of their children.Otherwise, 'Philadelphia Story' is a great film, and if you've never seen it, don't bother apologizing. Just get thee to a video store. "},{"Title":"Three great pros for the price of one","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Oh, the joy of these oldies - the great Katharine Hepburn alongside the two oddest voiced greats in the business (Cary Grant and James Stewart).  The play was written with Hepburn in mind and when MGM got the film rights, they got her too.  This wasn't seen as good as, 'Bringing Up Baby' notwithstanding, RKO had regarded her as 'box office poison' after a run of flops.However, the movie struck gold and became one of the all-time classics.  Hepburn plays Tracy Lord, a brittle society miss between marriages - Grant plays her ex, and dull John Howard her intended.  Stewart plays a cynical reporter who is hovering around to cover her new wedding.  Also in the cast is that little moppet Virginia Weidler, who slightly predated Margaret O'Brien as a little sister and wasn't quite so goody-goody.A lot of the best bits in 'The Philadelphia Story' were later reused in the musical remake 'High Society'(with Crosby, Sinatra, and Grace Kelly) but there are some really classic scenes here.  I especially like the scene where Hepburn and Stewart get tipsy and he goes really overboard in his appreciation of her; there's also an amusing scene between Grant and Stewart involving more consumption of alcohol.Highly recommended for the discerning cinema comedy fan, 'The Philadelphia Story' lives up to all your expectations. "},{"Title":"I love it","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Please please please watch this film.  I read a review which said that because the acting and script were so wonderful, you didn't realise that it wasn't actually a very good film.  Maybe that's true, but from a layman's point of view, it is superb.  Funny, moving, and three of the greatest film actors of all time using an unbelievably brilliant script.  It is perfect. And it is also THE perfect film to watch on a rainy afternoon in when you have an enormous hangover.  Trust me, I've done it! "},{"Title":"Perhaps the best dialogue from any movie I've seen","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie has some of the best actors of the time. This, coupled with the truly first rate writing make this movie tremendously quotable. I find myself quoting lines from this movie time and again. Some of my favourites are, She has a horror of men who wear their hats in the house. and You were a little the worse, or better for wine, and their are rules about that.After seeing it it always makes me feel like I have just been to a Shakespearian comedy. Certainly the plot, subplots and dialogue come across that way.Even though great actors like Kathryn Hepburn and Jimmy Stewart are at their best it is Virginia Weidler that I find the most fun to watch. Seeing her sing Lydia the tattooed Lady still makes me laugh.Notes when you are watching the movie pay close attention to the dialogue the first time you watch it. The second time look at the detail like Jimmy Stewart's hands and Kathryn Hepburn's body language.Truly a movie that doesn't get boring after the third and fourth screening. "}{"Title":"Comedy magic","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Absolutely brilliant romantic comedy starring three of the best classic movie actors--Hepburn, Grant and Stewart. Hepburn is glorious in her reprisal of the role she played before 455 New York audiences--she flirts, she storms, she babbles in French and gets drunk, all in a wonderfully charming manner. Watching her performance in this film, it's hard to believe that Hepburn ever had a 'box-office poison' period. Still, in giving Tracy Lord life, Tracy Lord not only gave Hepburn back her career, but also allowed movie audiences for generations to come to enjoy the undeniable magic and charisma of Katharine Hepburn.While this film is undeniably Hepburn's, Cary Grant and Jimmy Stewart also turn in brilliant performances. Grant chose the more low-key role, oddly enough, while insisting on top billing. This left the field open for Stewart to sneak in and try his darned best to steal the movie from Hepburn's capable hands, and he almost succeeded. The chemistry between Hepburn and Stewart is a delight to watch, and I do wonder what Grant could have done with this role if he'd chosen it. Could he have improved on it? Highly doubtful.Peerless romantic comedy; wonderfully, tightly scripted. Eons above its musical remake, 'High Society'. "},{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was expecting a good movie with Jimmy Stewart, Cary Grant andKatherine Hepburn as part of the cast, but I was amazed andsurprised by The Philadelphia Story.The Philadelphia Story is quite simply an ingenious comedy aswell as a delightfully engaging drama. Certainly not for audiencesraised on today's cinemas, however. Not one scene of action isfilmed. The movie is carried completely on its screenplay, forwhich it deservedly won an Oscar. Also deservedly garnering Academy Award recognition was JimmyStewart for his role as Mike Connor. His scene as a drunk iscelebrated for one reason, Shakespeare Bond Because it isGOOD! Stewart and Hepburn showed a chemistry that was  equaled by Grant and Hepburn's. The unusual love triangle herewas done to perfection.Likewise this movie is adored by thousands and millions becauseit is a very good movie, showcasing the early talents of three ofblack and white cinema's best actors. The dialogue is quick andwitty, the acting is perfect and not overdone, like was a tendency todo at the time. The Philadelphia Story is beloved because it is awell-made movie. 10/10  "},{"Title":"Just Not My Cup of Tea","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When a rich woman's ex-husband and a tabloid-type reporter turn up just before her planned remarriage, she begins to learn the truth about herself. Or, at least, that's the way the plot is often summarized.Of all the romantic comedies I've seen lately, particularly of the first half of the 20th century, The Philadelphia Story was my least favorite. Maybe I was in the wrong frame of mind and need to see it again, but I just didn't find it very funny and more often than not just thought it boring and dragging on too long.Cary Grant is alright, but this is not his best role. Katherine Hepburn is a hideously ugly beast, an annoying leading woman and her mouth belches out lines with a voice that would kill anything within earshot. How she is considered one of Hollywood's biggest star in this or any era is beyond me. Jimmy Stewart plays the redeeming character in this one, and it helps that at times he comes across as a rambling drunk. His drunkness is not as great as Doc Boone's from Stagecoach, but still notable.The actress who plays Dinah Lord, Virginia Weidler, is the hidden gem here. She appeared in 44 films over the course of her lifetime, but probably none you've ever seen (besides this one). I'm not sure how she managed to be in so many films, but almost never in any successful ones. Whether that's her fault or that the casting director never picked her for the right roles, I don't know.Until I see this one again, which i don't plan on being soon, I'll have to say it didn't thrill me and the only really lasting legacy of this movie is that Tracy Lord became the namesake of one of the world's most notorious porn stars. For whatever that's worth. "},{"Title":"Did not age well","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film might have been better to watch 40 or 50 years ago. Now the screwball plot seems silly and corny, with twists and turns that are predictable. The dialogue is creaky and repetitious, rather than witty. On the plus side, Hepburn almost emoted and her few lines in French were spoken well. Seeing her in this role makes me wish it had been Bacall, who would have carried it off more convincingly and lent some tension and heat. Cary Grant was not yet a parody of himself, and was a bright spot. Jimmy Stewart showed some of his typical charm, but this was far from his best role. The supporting cast were basically cardboard cutouts. That's 2 hours I'll never get back. "},{"Title":"a movie like this really shows hoe movie making has changed over the years","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The first thing that must be said about this movie is what everyone says about this movie and that the cast is absolutely stunning. In nearly every scene one can see true artists at work. I say High Society first and as good as Frank Sinatra and Bing Crosby are they do not hold a flame to Cary Grant or James Stewart. Some of the best dialog I have heard. I probably can say that about quite a few of the older films from with the same actors, but it is just so amazing how quick and sharp dialog can be. The scene with Cary Grant scolding Katherine's character in front of changing rooms was an absolutely staggering show of talent for both Grant and Hepburn. One gets to really see some vulnerability in Hepburn and I feel as if it is not all acting (or she is just that good). One cannot say enough about Stewart and the more of him I see the more and more I love him. He is one of those actors who are different from each other in some very fundamental ways but are all distinctly his. Very powerful writing that drew me in even if I have no ability to relate to the characters on any level besides the fact that they contain the flaw of being of human. I think it was kind of funny how one of my criticisms for High Society was actually done to more of my vision and that is with the little sister. The actually story was much more interesting this time around also. Overall a great movie and really shows why the greats are indeed the greats. "},{"Title":"How the mighty are fallen.","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Philadelphia Story is about a woman, Tracy Lord (Katherine Hepburn), who has an ex-husband, C. K. Dexter Haven (Cary Grant), and a tabloid reporter Macaulay Connor (James Stewart) complicate her upcoming marriage. The film is set in high society at the home of the aptly named Lords.Katherine Hepburn, Cary Grant and James Stewart are all excellent in the lead roles. Ruth Hussey is also notable as often sardonic Elizabeth Imbrie and as is Virginia Weidler as the savvy youngster with sharp lines, Dinah Lord.The film's story is clever, charming and amusing though not often laugh-out-loud funny. It seemed apparent what the ultimate result of the story would be, but none the less there were a number of interesting turns and the story was never boring. The ending was a fitting way to top off this upper-class comedy. "},{"Title":"* * out of 4","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Philadelphia heiress Tracy Lord throws out her playboy husband C.K. Dexter Haven shortly after their marriage. Two years later, Tracy is about to marry respectable George Kittredge whilst Dexter has been working for Spy magazine. Dexter arrives at the Lord's mansion the day before the wedding with writer Mike Connor and photographer Liz Imbrie, determined to spoil things.With Cole Porter songs, and yet another star cast, this movie was shockingly remade into the musical High Society in 1956. On all accounts, Bing Crosby, Grace Kelly, Frank Sinatra and Celeste Holm cannot match the sophistication and wit of the non-musical cast. Although there has been much written about Jimmy Stewart not deserving the Oscar that year, if it was given for the Academy passing over his performance in Mr Smith Goes to Washington, then it was well deserved. Cary Grant deserved a nomination, and Kate definitely should have taken out the prize for the year. "},{"Title":"The prettiest sight in this fine, pretty world is the privileged class enjoying its privileges.","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As I've remarked on various previous occasions, I've found it difficult to love screwball comedies. Many of them have undoubtedly been well-written, well-acted and highly entertaining, but I simply can't bring myself to adore them as I do many films from other genres. 'The Philadelphia Story' proved an ideal example of what I'm trying to articulate. The film has everything going for it Katharine Hepburn as a snappish socialite, James Stewart as a quick-witted reporter and Cary Grant's roguish boyish charm. The story is a bit more complex than you might expect from a screwball comedy, with three different men vying for the attention of Hepburn's wealthy and independent Tracy Lord, though only one, of course, will successfully take her hand in marriage. Each of the memorable performances are spot-on, and the screenplay is very sharp, but it's not a film I can see myself watching again in the near future; or, if I did, it would only be because I love Jimmy Stewart so much.'The Philadelphia Story' was directed by George Cukor, and adapted by Donald Ogden Stewart and Waldo Salt from Philip Barry's Broadway play of the same name. After a string of disappointing flops for Hepburn, the film proved phenomenally successful, nominated for a total of six Academy Awards and winning two (Best Screenplay and Best Actor for Stewart). Though each of the actors brings their characteristic quirks and personalities into this film, it is certainly Stewart who steals the show, and he is particularly hilarious after consuming a substantial amount of alcohol. Cary Grant does what he does best of all, playing the mischievous ex-husband (a similar role to his Walter Burns in 'His Girl Friday (1940)'), whose constant interference is really just his way of showing how much he wants Tracy back. Aside from the three main stars, other performers of note include John Howard as Tracy's undeserving husband-to-be, Ruth Hussey as Stewart's tabloid photographer, and the delightful Virginia Weidler as Tracy's nosy younger sister.The film is often described as a comedy of remarriage, a sub-genre of American comedy which was most popular during the 1930s and 1940s. The Production Code (also known as the Hays Code) explicitly forbade the cinematic depiction of infidelity, and so many writers avoided this by having the main protagonists divorced at the beginning of the story. Cary Grant was seemingly an expert in such situations, and other notable examples of this phenomenon can be found in 'The Awful Truth (1937)' and 'His Girl Friday (1940).' Another notable characteristic of 'The Philadelphia Story' is that, unlike every other screwball comedy I've seen, the conclusion was not completely predictable; I actually had no idea who was going to end up with Tracy. Now that's something! "},{"Title":"The unprivate lives of the rich and mighty","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The wealthy Tracy Lord (Katharine Hepburn) is getting married to a man named George Kittredge (John Howard).Suddenly her ex-husband C.K.Dexter Haven (Cary Grant) shows up with two reporters of the Spy magazine.These people are Macaulay Connor (James Stewart) and Elizabeth Imbrie (Ruth Vassey).These three are there to make a real mess.George Cukor's The Philadelphia Story (1940) is a fantastic comedy.Katharine Hepburn, Cary Grant and James Stewart is a trio to remember.Roland Young gives a fine performance as Uncle Willie.Virginia Weidler is marvelous as Dinah Lord.When she sings Lydia The Tattooed Lady...Enchanting! This movie is known for its witty dialogue.No wonder Donald Ogden Stewart won an Oscar for writing alongside James Stewart.They certainly don't make movies like this anymore.The Philadelphia Story has got classic written all over it! "},{"Title":"Three Movie Legends at the top of their game....","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" THE PHILADELPHIA STORY is a glittering 1940 comedy, based on a play by Phillip Barry that starred the legendary Katharine Hepburn on Broadway and re-established a career that was floundering at the time. Hepburn purchased the movie rights herself to make sure no one else got to do the movie and I'm so glad she did. Hepburn gives, arguably, the greatest performance of her career, as Tracy Lord, a spoiled, self-absorbed heiress and grande dame of Philadelphia society who is busy planning her upcoming marriage to a stuffed shirt named George Kittredge when her ex-husband, C.K, Dexter Haven (Cary Grant) re-enters her life. Also thrown into the mix is a reporter (James Stewart) who has been sent to the Lord mansion to do a story on the wedding and ends up succumbing to Tracy's charms. This delicious comedy-drama is a delight from start to finish. The opening scene is a classic where the relationship between Tracy and her ex is firmly established in a brief and classically funny scene. Stewart won the Oscar for Best Actor for what was, in reality, the third best performance in the film. Hepburn is brilliant and was nominated for Best Actress (losing to Ginger Rogers for KITTY FOYLE) and Grant has never been better, in a performance that didn't even merit a nomination. Donald Ogden Stewart also won an Oscar for his adapted screenplay. There is a school of thought that Stewart's Oscar for this film was more a consolation prize for losing the previous year for his far superior work in MR. SMITH GOES TO WASHINGTON, but I digress. The film was an instant classic upon release and is one of the few chances you'll get to see three acting legends working so beautifully together to provide the meat of this rich and stylish comedy. Don't miss this one. Remade as a musical in 1956 called HIGH SOCIETY with Bing Crosby, Grace Kelly, and Frank Sinatra taking the roles originated by Grant, Hepburn, and Stewart, respectively. "}{"Title":"The Philadelphia Story","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Here we have one of the classic romantic comedies, directed by George Cukor. It has a clichéd starting point with the story starting shortly before the scheduled marriage of main character Tracy Lord, played by Katherine Hepburn. But that's just on the surface, underneath you see a story unfold which is funny and quite biting at times. Therefore the upper class is the perfect setting. The most important thing however is, that the film never forgets that the characters are what makes a great movie. It doesn't sell their character's development for a few cheap laughs, but lets the dialogue and the actors take care for amusement. Outstanding in this movie is Katherine Hepburn. She plays Tracy Lord with elegance and gives her character a sarcastic touch that makes her the more lovable. Nevertheless, also James Stewart and Cary Grant have their moments of shining, and the happy end concludes this feel-good movie with a smile in your face. "},{"Title":"Apparently rather misunderstood, delightful romantic comedy","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you've read the other user comments, you know that Tracey (Hepburn) is a rich society girl, beautiful, smart, and dedicated to being perfect. In this case, being perfect includes marrying a successful self-made man, since she is NOT a snob about old money despite her background, and her first marriage, to Dex (Cary Grant), a man of her own class, was in her view so unsuccessful. But the man she has chosen is one who neither knows nor understands her - views her as a trophy to be won and displayed to others, and a goddess to be worshiped in private. He is also stuffy, pompous, self-righteous, and dull - it would appear that Tracey is unconsciously doing penance for her privilege and the failure of her first marriage.It takes the forced introduction of the poet/tabloid writer Mike (Jimmy Stuart) and his photographer Liz (Ruth Hussey) into the household (Dex, another employee of the tabloid, agrees to introduce them because the editor otherwise threatens to expose the scandals of Tracey's philandering father, and because it somewhat amuses him as well) to force Tracey to come to terms with what she herself is and what she wants and needs in herself and in her mate. Mike, involved at a fairly tepid level with Liz, comes in with an almost visible chip on his shoulder, resenting the old money that, in his view, makes life so easy for people like Tracey and her family, while he toils away writing trash to support his true calling as a poet. He discovers, to his shock, that the Lords are, despite their wealth and some serious eccentricities, real people and that Tracey is not just the product of money and privilege - there's a beautiful and substantial girl there who utterly intrigues him, even if she is a bit spoiled and occasionally arrogant. His sort-of girlfriend Liz watches this with dignity and humor, realizing that there's nothing she can do except wait it out and hope for the best - she loves Mike (and understands him), but she can't compete with Tracey's sheer glamor and she knows it.On the night before the wedding, Mike and Tracey both get drunk, and alone by the pool they take a swim and talk. Mike ends up confessing his feelings for her, making her realize that the pedestal she sits on for her fiancé is not the place she wants to be - she WANTS to be a flesh and blood woman, not a perfect statue or goddess. She's hammered enough that she is very turned on by Mike's confession and the general romance of the situation, and perfectly willing to be swept off her feet and into his bed, but Mike, although drunk and thoroughly infatuated, is a gent and simply carries her to her own bed to sleep it off. Dex observes some of this, and is able to fill in the blanks correctly, fully aware that while he loves her, Tracey is not perfect.The fiancé is not. He immediately assumes the worst, and that is more than enough for him - he wants his perfect statue, his goddess, and he resents the possibility that Tracey might in fact be human. Tracey, awake the next morning with a hell of a hangover and unsure of the events of the previous night, also fears that she gave in to impulse, yet resents it when her fiancé shows up and reproaches her, especially since by then, she has been assured that she did not in fact do the deed. Even though she doubted herself, she resents the idea that he immediately assumes the worst and realizes that she doesn't want to be the object of any man's adoration; she wants to be the object of his LOVE. So the fiancé is out of the picture.But we're still left with a wedding just a few minutes away, and two possible bridegrooms (or none at all). Tracey has a choice - Mike, a man who recognizes her humanity, but in a different way still worships her, or Dex, the man who all along has known her for what she is - flawed and human, yet beautiful, smart, talented, lovable, warm, and giving, and he has also straightened out his own problems with booze. She makes the right choice.This is a trivially simplistic plot? Not in my book!Apparently Hepburn wanted Gable and Tracy to play the Grant and Stuart roles. Despite my respect for her intelligence and insight, I think it is fortunate that she wasn't able to get them. Gable was a good actor, but never managed the apparently effortless high-society sophistication of Grant (odd, given that Grant was born and raised lower middle-class Archie Leach, and never went to school beyond the age of 14!), and while Tracy was a brilliant actor, I wonder if he could have managed the innocence and lack of experience that underlay the sarcasm and bitterness in Stuart's character, and that made it so possible for him to become infatuated with Tracey as he did. Tracy's characters always seemed to be rather worldly wise or street smart, while in this role, Mike thinks he's wise, but really isn't. Liz, his girlfriend, is the one who understands the world (and accepts it). She is the female equivalent of Dex here; the observer waiting to pick up the pieces, making sardonic comments along the way.This movie is cleverly and entertainingly written, and delightfully well acted by all involved. It's hard to imagine anyone finding it dull or beneath them, but apparently some folks can find anything beneath them. Their loss. If you haven't seen this movie, do. If you haven't seen it in a while, watch it again. You won't be sorry. Its mores and assumptions are a bit dated, but the humor, wit, and heart are not. "},{"Title":"One of the greats starring the great Kate, Cary, and Jimmie Stewart! What more can you ask for in a film?","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" To tell you the truth, they don't make films like The Philadelphia Story anymore. Maybe it's because the talent, class and grace of the great Katharine Hepburn, Cary Grant, and Jimmie Stewart don't exist anymore in the film industry. This film brought back Kate Hepburn, America's most honored actress of all time. I bought the 2000 VHS edition which featured a documentary of her life after the movie from 1992. Kate was by all accounts very much like the character of Tracey Samantha Lord in the movie. Cary Grant plays her loving ex-husband who comes back into her life for her second marriage. It's a society marriage of course. There are no jokes about the Main Line society and it was not filmed at all in Philadelphia but a Hollywood set. Anyway, the acting was superb with Jimmie Stewart who got his only Oscar for playing the reporter who is smitten with Tracy but his real love is his work and his partner LIz played by the wonderful Ruth HUssey. I didn't forget Ruth because she does her job well playing among 3 huge stars. I also can't forget British actor, John Howard in the role. When Kate got the role, she asked for Clark Gable and Spencer Tracy. She got Jimmy Stewart and Cary Grant instead but we wouldn't have it any other way, would we? "},{"Title":"Oldie But Goodie","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" You can't get any better than Grant and Hepburn. The basic plot goes like this Tracy Lord (Hepburn) is a frosty, unforgiving Philadelphia socialite about to be married. Her ex-husband, C.K. Dexter Haven (Grant) works for Spy magazine, a gossipy tabloid rag. With his help, budding writer Macaulay Connor (Jimmy Stewart) and photographer Liz Embry (Ruth Hussey) gain entrance to the Lord home and pre-wedding festivities. There the antics begin and continue right up until the end of the movie. This is a classic picture straight out of Hollywood's glory days. The stars are stars and the supporting roles played by Stewart, Hussey, and young Virginia Weidler, who plays Tracy's younger sister Dinah, are stellar. This movie never drags, and has you rooting for true love all the way through. I hope you'll put it on your list of must see movies. "},{"Title":"Best comedy play so far!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Classic comedy play with great production and cast.The film is more a showcase for Hepburn who truly delivers here and takes her career to the next level (Crawford,Bergman,Bette Davis level).Grant does his usual CONSISTENT quality performance but Stewart here also delivered a performance that almost stole the film from Hepburn.This led to his recieving the Oscar.He may not have deserved to recieve the Oscar that year though but still,the performance he gave here was strong enough for the award.If one is sophisticated,mature minded and loves romance comedy films,this one will truly deliver.If it had quality color cinematography,it would be a masterpiece.But that's just nitpicking though.One of the top 100 best films of all time..... "},{"Title":"I'm in love with Virginia Weidler.","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Philadelphia Story has so much going for it--Hepburn, Grant, Stewart--but the actor that makes the picture really work is Virginia Weidler, who plays Tracy's young sister Dinah. Her cynical love for her sister, her superior understanding of who is the better man mix so well with her childlike curiosity and naturalness makes her scenes so much fun.The only child actor who could possibly compare is Margaret O'Brian--so eerie in 'Meet Me in St. Louis'--but she could never have pulled off such a wise and knowing role as Dinah.Child actors generally make me want to throttle them within minutes. I could watch Weidler for hours. What an actor! And what a movie! "},{"Title":"Sometimes what we don't see can make a movie. . . .","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hepburn, Grant and Stewart are three of the best actors of all time. Hepburn is radiant as the snooty but changing socialite. Stewart is endearing as the wannabe writer turned reluctant tabloid journalist.  Grant is marvelous as the reformed ex and a recovering alcoholic.Although the Oscar went to Stewart, who did a fabulous job delivering witty lines with bite, it seems to me that Grant (oh Cary, we will miss you!) steals the show.  Throughout the scenes, one is never sure quite what he, as Dexter, is thinking. Dexter is smooth and also ever ready with a ripping rejoinder, but there are moments in which, without speech, startling revelations are made through the medium of the screen.  It is difficult to describe, but most Grant fans will understand.  All I can say is, watch this legendary film if at all possible.  "},{"Title":"Overrated, Despite the Big Names","Date":"2 March 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If this is sophisticated comedy, I'll take the gaucheries of Airplane (1980) any day. Despite the celebrated cast, director, and screenwriter, the movie's not very amusing, unless you think drunks are automatically amusing. In fact, at times the antics are downright annoying, especially the shrill Hepburn character and Stewart's going way over the top as an inebriate reporter. At best, actress Hepburn is a matter of taste. Here director Cukor gives full reign to her most troublesome habit&#x97;sheer staginess. For Tracy (Hepburn), there's no such thing as a simple movement; instead, every inflection is an exaggeration of some sort. Just as bad for the movie, Grant is not allowed his usual superb comedic skills; instead, he gets to look on in a rather wooden manner, a not unreasonable reaction. Unfortunately, this is another example of MGM's Louis Mayer's infatuation with the idle rich and well-housed. One of the film's few positive notes are the many subtle innuendoes. In fact, the strategic use of such innuendoes as 'intact' made me wonder if the Grant-Hepburn marriage had ever been consummated. Then again, why any man would warm up to such a bitchy goddess remains perhaps the movie's biggest conundrum. On the other hand, the supporting cast, particularly Hussey and Weidler, furnish what there is of the movie's meager amusement. Too bad it's only in support.To me, the movie's exalted reputation is likely the result of Hollywood's promotional arm working overtime. After all, if the production's got this many illustrious names, it's got to be a classic. For a revealing contrast, catch the Grant-Hepburn-Hawks genuinely funny Bringing Up Baby, made only two years earlier. At least, Hawks knew how to edit a scene without letting it drone on and on. Here, Stewart's adaptation of the Barry play may have looked good on paper, but on screen it's quite a different matter, despite all the hoopla. "},{"Title":"the best movie ever made","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Philadelphia Story begins with a fight. Tracy Lord has thrown her husband, C.K. Dexter Haven (Dexter) out of the house. In the opening scene, the fight between husband and wife is portrayed similar to silent films. There is no dialogue but the action and the music say everything. A year later they are divorced and Tracy has plans to get remarried. Tracy is a very strong, moral character who imposes her belief on others. She sets extremely high standards for herself and others aren't always apt to live up to them, says her mother. Dexter's alcohol addiction was disgusting to Tracy; instead of helping him deal with it, she wanted nothing to do with him. In addition to Tracy's idealism, she considers pride, privacy, and independence to be crucial. Katherine Hepburn's performance as Tracy Lord is the best of her performances. It is not surprising that this role was responsible for her comeback, as she had previously been labeled box office poison. Tracy Lord is adamant but undergoes a change of heart, beautifully portrayed by Hepburn. James Stewart (Mike) and Cary Grant (Dexter) play opposite Hepburn. Stewart is captivating in his academy award winning performance. Cary Grant has tremendous silent strength when he appears on the screen. Dexter has been affected by Tracy's standards, however he has come back to keep her from making a grave mistake.The dialogue of the film is very quick, intelligent, witty, and entertaining. The film addresses the division of classes and the prejudices between them, destructive pride, midlife crisis, selfishness, selflessness, and the importance of an understanding heart. Director George Cukor's deliberate placement of the actors allows for beautiful interaction. The Philadelphia Story is the perfect example of everything a film should be well written, ingeniously performed, and beautifully executed. Although this film was made a little more than a few years ago, it is still completely original and remains a truly significant film. "},{"Title":"Simply excellent","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's funny and deep with great actors simply excellent. A sophisticated comedy, yes. But not that it is high-brow, it's not a light comedy where characters are just clowns. It's quite something else you'll love it more for the story itself and those alert characters you get to know than for their deep sense of humor.I dare not say more about it for I rank it among my ten favorites. The kind of movie I would definitely procrastinate before watching it again so that I can hope to discover it a second time. "}{"Title":"Cary Grant and James Stewart","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The only time that the two actors got to act together, James Stewart was probably an American version of Grant. Stewart was four years Grant's junior, and they both appeared in four Hitchcock films. Their most memorable performances are in Hitchcock films, and between them, they both shared leading ladies (Grace Kelly, Doris Day, Jean Arthur, Marlene Dietrich, etc). Perhaps the only difference between the two men was that Stewart went on to perform in a Cecil B. DeMille film which Grant did not. Another difference between these two men was that Stewart received an academy award for 'Best Supporting Actor' in this film whereas Grant did not receive an academy award at all throughout his life. In this sense, Stewart was probably the superior actor because he had a depth of emotion in his post war films that Grant was not able to successfully achieve. Katherine Hepburn is the object of their affection in this film, but it is not a Hepburn film, nor is a quintessential alliance film between Grant and Hepburn (although it was probably the best). For this reason, the film stands out in spite of Hepburn's alliance with Grant simply because it was about Grant as the leading man and Stewart as the supporting actor. "},{"Title":"Hepburn shines while two other stars are along for the ride.","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In one of the best character roles Katharine Hepburn shines in The Philadelphia Story, a nice blend of comedy and drama with  most interesting character studies to boot. If there was ever an unworthy Oscar win for Best Actor, this is probably it. Not that Jimmy Stewart is a bad actor, sometimes he's just marvellous, but this is not the film that shows his real talent off. Hepburn, however, is so enthralling and captivating that you wonder if there is a book in which you can discover that identical depth of character. Grant, of course, shows off his somewhat irresistible wit, and a winning trio is created. A great script, great comedy and drama, a great film! "},{"Title":"Comedy that fizzles.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Unlike everyone else who has raved over The Philadelphia Story, I found myself disappointed by the end of the film.  It's funniest moments were in the first half of the movie when the plot is unfolds. As the movie continued I found myself less amused and getting a bit bored.  The acting is excellent but the story line started to wane.  Hepburn, Grant and Virginia Wielder are the films highlights.  James Stewart winning the Best Actor Oscar for this film and Cary Grant not being nominated at all is very questionable.Rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"Reinventing the Public Image","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I'm walking through a list of best films and most popular films. This is often on both lists, so I re-viewed it.  I saw `Woman of the Year' right before. It is based on the same general theme, providing opportunity for tearful, closeup apology and conversion to `normal' human.This film is marginally better that that disaster. The dialog at least has had the advantage of some polishing. The backdrop is populated with mere stereotypes. In the foreground, Stewart really does have grace -- good thing he was able to do solid work elsewhere because his hiccoughing happy drunk here is wholly unoriginal. Grant has one classical Grant moment when he rings the candles near the end. This has some Mankiewicz touches he knows how to overlay celebrity on the role, and that's all we have here folks -- the very type of Spy magazine celebrity that the film makes fun of. How ironic that Mankiewicz was utterly destroyed by what this system wrought (`Cleopatra').But this is Kate's picture, no doubt about that. She was in fact a prideful, arrogant prig who had suffered several boxoffice failures. Like her successes, these had little to do with the merits of the films or her acting. The public just didn't like her.So, she started a campaign to rejuvenate her image. The play was written for her specifically to satisfy this need to show she could discover a heart. She worked it out on stage, then managed this comeback.The film has only two interesting features for me. The first is how Hepburn's face was made up and photographed. I understand this was a matter of much experimentation, and became the standard for all her black and white work (the color work would never be as good) as well as for many who followed. The lighting requirements (few front lights to accentuate the sunken cheeks) sometimes meant that the men standing next to her looked odd and malevolent-- something about which they complained.The other interesting thing concerns the subtext of the story. The frontmost matter is the tripe about a perfect woman in all regards except lacking a heart. (And the bit about that being the cause of her father's womanizing!)But the backmatter is about stooping to the reality of the fan magazines' celebrity machine. And that's what this is, pure and simple, with a nod that the writers behind the machine are often talent men with a higher calling. I'm sure the writers added that on their own. "},{"Title":"Story Still Worth Telling.","Date":"20 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Philadelphia Story (1940) Dir George Cukor / Cast Katherine Hepburn, Cary Grant, James Stewart, Ruth Hussey, John Howard Hilarious romantic comedy about modern romance within the high class. Katherine Hepburn plays a high society woman who is engaged but her ex-husband appears thus making everyone uneasy. James Stewart plays a reporter whom Hepburn becomes smitten with. While very funny with a variety of personalities director George Cukor expertly presents elements of class and lifestyles. Cukor previously made a version of Romeo and Juliet as well as Camille and The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. This is one of his best films. Hepburn is wonderful as a woman seeking real romance and perhaps feels that her engagement to the strict and traditional John Howard isn't what she was seeking after all. She indulges in her free spirit guilt of romance thus placing her in the glaring eyes of sophistication. Cary Grant is hilarious as meddling ex-husband. James Stewart steals scenes as the reporter who spends a drunken evening with Hepburn. Ruth Hussey is superb as his photographer. John Howard plays the potential groom whose love life is about to unravel with two other suitors. It regards marriage and romance but also positioning one's economic status. One could easily observe that in the end, that is what makes news, isn't it? Score 10 / 10 "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Surprise","Date":"21 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When I finished watching this flick, the first question on my mind was, Why didn't I see this sooner? This is one of the all-time great romance films. It's smart, funny, profound, deep, free-spirited, and electrifying. I had high expectations going into this film, saying that it stars three of the era's greatest stars Jimmy Stewart, Katherine Hepburn, and Cary Grant. It is safe to say that it surpassed them in every regard possible.Many people groan when they see black-and-white films. They associate them with long, unenjoyable slogs comparable to history assignments. This film is as far away from that as the moon is from Earth. I can safely say I will be watching this film many times in the future, not just because it is a brilliant film, but it is a film I enjoy watching. The writing some of the cleverest I've seen, and the chemistry all these old-school greats share is enjoyable at worst.There are some films that seek to make the viewer feel like they're not watching a movie, that there's no distance between them and the events on-screen. This film is different. This film has no desire to deceive the viewer. It is proud to be a film, and not in the postmodernist, nod-and-wink way. It embraces what it is. It wants to entertain its viewers for two hours and leave them with pep in their step. And that's exactly what it does.The story centers around a divorced, wealthy Philadelphian woman, Tracy Lord, played by Hepburn, who is set to marry again. As this is a big event, a gossip newspaper wants the inside skinny, so its leader sends a reporter and a photographer, Mike and Liz- played by Stewart and Ruth Hussey, respectively, and who have a fair bit of unresolved sexual tension- to get into the manor. But they cannot do this on their own, as the family does not want anyone but immediate family on the grounds during the wedding. Thankfully, they have someone to help them out Lord's first husband, played by Cary Grant.Though the film takes place over a relatively small amount of physical area, it is grand and epic and fulfilling in every regard. There are a lot films that make me wish they were longer and more ambitious. This film is those dreams being fulfilled. There are so many layers, nuances, and complexities, but nothing feels forced of unnecessary. It doesn't play down to the audience, but it doesn't leave them hanging either. It is a perfect balance in every regard.But a perfect balance means naught if it not accompanied by a number of moments that capture the audience's attention, that the audience is sure to remember after they move on with their lives. Thankfully, this movie has plenty of those as well. One immediately springs to mind.It is when Tracy introduces herself to Mike and Liz. She found out they were there from her ex-husband, who informed her that if she gets rid of them and doesn't allow them to report on her wedding, he will give them an even juicer story that of her suspiciously Tywin Lannister-looking father being caught with a young dancer. Reluctantly, she backs off and allows them into her house. But she does not show them who she really is, at least not at first. She is cold, calculating, and fiercely independent, but she acts like a naïve old-fashioned lady. In a lesser movie, this bit could have come off as contrived and lame. But in this movie, thanks both to great writing and a great actress, it comes off as equal parts enjoyably awkward and deeply disturbing.The part immediately before this, where Tracy's younger sister acts like some precocious princess, is pretty great too.And this moment, along with many others, are meaningful because unlike other romance films, this one keeps the audience guessing. It is not clear what is going to happen, so the audience has to grip tight to every moment. It's masterful.And a large part of that has to do with what I can only describe as a 'love square'.'Love triangle' has become a word of death among many intellectual and pseudo-intellectual circles. This is not without reason. Most love triangles are in fact, awful. They are worthless, meaningless, and cancerous. They invade good stories (looking at you, Hunger Games) and drag bad ones down even further. They are cheap cash grabs that serve no narrative purpose whatsoever. But they do not have to be. A good love triangle- or love square- can add intrigue and depth, and that's exactly what this one does. It does not drag the film down, but rather make it even better. All the good parts of these types of situation are here, and all the bad parts are mercifully absent. That's equal parts commendable and outstanding.And it makes me hate bad love triangles even more.All in all, this film is one of the greatest of all time. If I ever re-do my top 100 films of all time, this one is going to be there. The music, the editing, and the directing are first-class. The acting and the writing are unbelievably good. Anyone who has grown tired of terrible romance films should check this one out. "},{"Title":"A Strong Cast Drives This Convoluted Romantic Comedy","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Released in 1940, The Philadelphia Story is about a Main Line Philadelphia woman, Tracy Lord (Katharine Hepburn), whose marriage is imminent. At the last moment, there are certain unexpected attendees who challenge her view of life. Listed as a comedy and a romance by IMDb, it certainly is that, but the film does contain dialogue that is biting, somber and outright mean.The cast is stellar and it is difficult to imagine how any film starring Hepburn, Jimmy Stewart, and Cary Grant could not be worth watching. This film certainly is worth watching, but I disagree with those who assert that all three actors turn in their best work here. Hepburn's performances in many other films surpasses her portrayal of Tracy, e.g. On Golden Pond or Stage Door. The same can be said of Jimmy Stewart in Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, Rear Window or It's a Wonderful Life. For Cary Grant, see North by Northwest, Notorious, or His Girl Friday which was also released in 1940.As a love story, it has a rather complex plot--not just the usual triangle. Tracy's fiancé, George Kittredge (John Howard), is excited to wed the desirable Miss Lord, but he might be somewhat out of the loop as he keeps his distance from the bride-to-be on the last day before the nuptials. Her ex-husband, C. K. Dexter Haven (Cary Grant), is about as welcome as an unreachable itch, irritating Tracy at every turn and constantly inserting his verbal barbs. Another complication is the writer/reporter Macauley Connor (Jimmy Stewart), who arrives to do an inside story on the ceremonies for a tabloid.A broader view of the film reveals that its subject is Tracy's relationships with five men--the three just mentioned and her father and her Uncle Willie, who are personae non gratae due to their vices. Tracy discovers through these five that she has much to learn, despite her cool, confident countenance.Hepburn starred in the Broadway play not long after leaving Hollywood in response to the theater owners placing her on a Box Office Poison list. She purchased the film rights to the play, then sold them to MGM with the stipulation she could choose the producer, director and the starring actors. The success of the film must have been sweet revenge.The film has many admirers, including me. Stepping slightly off track, I will disagree with many of those admirers who assert that the musical remake named High Society is not in the same league. I do not think a remake should be judged solely in relation to the original, especially when genre lines are crossed. I find the musical to be equally engaging, but for different reasons (the music, the different stars, etc.). Both should be appreciated for their particular, fine attributes. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Rom Com's of all time","Date":"4 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Philadelphia Story is perhaps the greatest Romantic Comedy of all time. Katherine Hepburn is wonderful I might even go as far as to say its one of Katherine's greatest ever roles. She plays a very very funny Tracy Lord, she previously played this role on stage just about 1 year previously and in the film she was just as amazing. She spends the whole movie taking the mickey out of Carry Grant and Jimmy Stewart. Carry Grant plays a reporter who is in love with Tracy, and Jimmy plays Tracy's ex husband. Excellent support from Virgina Weidler and Ruth Hussey.A Hilarious film with some wonderful scenes. I can't recommend it enough. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Can hardly go wrong with these three lookers","Date":"18 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Philadelphia Story, about an upper class woman about to get married and the two men - one her ex and the other a writer who may get a 'scoop' on a scandal unfolding - gets better as it goes along, even as its still a 'light' Rom-com. Stewart probably didn't deserve his Oscar for his role as Mike Connor, but he is so much fun here it makes the movie. I also liked and appreciated, which I don't get to see in Rom com's today, how other people call out Hepburns character for being a prig upper class socialite type. actually compared to the sociopaths who made Rom com's so insufferable in the past 25 years, she's almost positively delightful and human.Grant is funny too, though kind of more of the 'straight' guy in comedic moments. Its a frothy Hollywood romance with skill and grace and drunken shenanigans, and even kids get eloquent quips. I may personally prefer when these actors are in screwball mode in other films (Hawks jumps to mind), but it's respectable, quality stuff, and it takes its characters seriously - Hepburn especially deepens and has a sophistication with the character that's surprising when it starts off seeming like it could dip into pre sitcom territory (and some may argue it's what that is).But Mankiewicz and Cukor have fun with them in what is not great but very good, and that's enough. "},{"Title":"Times Certainly Have Changed","Date":"23 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you could have only one piece of information about a movie before watching it, it should be the year it was made in part, for the historical context; and in part, for the moral context. It is the latter that is essential for this movie, for it presumes much of a moral nature that we no longer accept and may even find repulsive. At the beginning of the movie, Dexter and Tracy are a married couple who are fed up with each other and in the act of separating. After Tracy breaks one of Dexter's golf clubs, he pushes her in the face so hard that she falls to the ground. If a man did that to a woman in a modern movie, we would dislike him, but this movie wants us to like Dexter and approve of what he did to Tracy. We are able to get past this scene without too much difficulty, because Tracy is obviously not hurt, and because it is played for laughs.Later, it turns out that the reason she divorced him was that he was an alcoholic, which was all her fault, and that she was wrong to divorce him for that. This point is made seriously, and so it is harder to get past than the push in the face. Can you imagine someone getting up in front of an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting and saying, I am an alcoholic, and it is my wife's fault? Today, we might blame the alcoholic for drinking too much, or we might say his alcoholism is a disease and thus is no one's fault, but blaming the wife is outrageous. Furthermore, we might praise a woman who stays with an alcoholic husband and tries to help cure him, but we do not blame her if she divorces him.When Tracy decides to remarry, Dexter decides that her fiancé George is not the right man for her to marry. Dexter not only crashes the wedding, but he also arranges for a reporter and a photographer, who work for a tabloid, to cover the wedding, in hopes of causing trouble. Many of us have had the experience of disapproving of the person someone is going to marry, but we know it is none of our business, especially if that someone is an ex-wife. Can you imagine being a woman whose ex-husband crashes her wedding trying to break things up? Today, we would regard a man who would do that as odious, and we would advise the woman to get a restraining order on him.Tracy's mother has separated from her father Seth because he was cheating on her, and thus Tracy does not invite him to the wedding. But he shows up anyway. He tells Tracy and his wife that a man's philandering is not his wife's concern. Furthermore, he goes on to say that his adultery is all Tracy's fault (here we go again). He explains that when a man starts getting old, having a sweet, devoted daughter is the mainstay that he needs. But when his daughter does not live up to those expectations, the man just naturally has to go out and get a sweet, devoted young woman to have an affair with. That argument is not only bizarre, it is downright creepy as well. It is hard to believe that even in 1940, when this movie was made, the audience would have bought that line.Although the reporter, Macaulay (Mike), and the photographer, Elizabeth, seem to be romantically involved, he nevertheless begins to fancy Tracy. The night before the wedding, they start smooching and go for a swim. It is all supposed to be innocent, and we are supposed to disapprove of George when he refuses to go through with the wedding. The idea is that since Mike and Tracy did not actually have sex, he is making a big fuss over nothing. But I cannot say that I blame him.Of course, the fact that Tracy is drunk is supposed to excuse her indiscretion. At least her intoxication is an important plot point. But there is way too much drinking in this movie in general. Two-thirds of the movie involves people getting drunk, having a hangover, and then drinking some more as a cure for the hangover. This may be another difference between 1940 and now we do not think drunk-humor is all that funny anymore.After George leaves, Mike asks Tracy to marry him. When she says No, he goes back to Elizabeth, who does not seem to be disturbed by this at all. Except for George, the men in this movie sure get a lot understanding. Tracy, on the other hand, is depicted as being wrong- headed, and is pretty much told so by Dexter, Mike, and Seth, each in his own way. But Tracy is fine just the way she is, and it is the men who are wrong-headed. She would be better off without the lot of them. Instead, she remarries Dexter. I disapprove of that marriage, but as I noted above, if that is the man she wants to marry, it is none of my business. "}{"Title":"Contrived and unconvincing","Date":"24 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I know some people consider this a classic, and in a way I can see why&#x97; sprightly (if often smart-alecky) dialogue, a well-constructed plot, and, above all, legendary actors with overpowering presence. Yet, I fail to see greatness. In spite of the film's polished exterior, I couldn't help feeling that someone was pulling my leg. Several viewings have only expanded the list of problems I have with this film. These are only some of them. 1. Katherine Hepburn's acting, not her character. I thought Tracy was a very interesting character, complex and engaging. The fact that she was at the center of this film is what really redeems it in my opinion. In fact, it is such a vivid character that it finally manages to emerge through Hepburn's affected mannerisms, fake accent, and annoying high- pitched voice. It didn't make it better that everyone kept calling her pretty, something that I totally fail to comprehend. But that's just me of course. People have different tastes. (In all fairness to Hepburn, this theatrical, measured mode of delivery was apparently standard in that period; but she does take it to the extreme). 2. Cary Grant's character, not his acting. Grant radiates likability, and here he manages to give the best spin to what is practically an intolerable character a spoiled overgrown brat, whose only talents seem to be his looks and juvenile wisecracks. 3. Silly attitudes, nonsensical exchanges, and plain non sequiturs. Just some samples -Tracy's father blaming her for his own extramarital affairs. She was too distant, he says, so he had to find the filial affection he craves with women her age. I understand a man blaming his wife (which doesn't make it right of course), but his daughter! I mean, what could a man expect from his daughter that he can only find with some floozy in New York? -Dexter blaming Tracy for his drinking problems. His rationale she took that problem with him when she married him. -Speaking of which, how everybody kept reminding Tracy of her high and mighty attitude, and how she has no sympathy for human imperfection (without showing any real examples of this). I do not necessarily disagree. But they just kept hammering the message until you could see a mile away that Tracy will surely get her comeuppance&#x97;discovering her own weakness and learning something valuable in the process. -Tracy's reaction when Macaulay tells her that nothing serious happened between them last night Why? Was I so unattractive, and this is in the presence of her fiancé, the man to whom she's trying to prove her innocence. It doesn't get sillier than that. -Tracy blaming Kittredge for, I don't know exactly, maybe not trusting her enough. The man saw his bride-to-be drunk in the arms of another man, who then proceeded to take her to the bedroom upstairs. Even she was surprised to know they hadn't slept together. And he didn't judge her as she claims. He wrote her a note asking for an explanation. Sounds quite reasonable to me. 4. On the last point, how Kittredge was made out to be the villain/laughing stock of the piece. After he left, even Macaulay and Liz were practically celebrating. This is one of the cases where the author is trying to pull the viewer in one direction, but the viewer (at least my humble self) does not quite see eye to eye. Kittredge struck me generally as a decent guy. He obviously loved Tracy and was willing to put up with her whims. His only fault, it seems, was that he was a self- made man, unlike the vacuous rich boy Dexter. I couldn't help feeling that Philip Barry, the author of the play on which the film is based, was overcome by his aristocratic sensibilities in dividing good guys and bad buys along class lines. Whatever the case may be, well-crafted plot and sleek dialogue do little to reduce the inescapable sense of artificiality and forced character development. One could say, of course, that such devices were typical of the time period. Especially in the early talkies, movie makers were so eager to capitalize on the new medium that dialogue (as witty and polished as possible) became the foundation of the film. Philadelphia Story, then, is a product of its time, and you can't blame it for that. But this means also that is dated in a way that truly great films are not. Overall a likable innocent farce, but, in my opinion, not the timeless masterpiece it is made out to be. "},{"Title":"What a threesome","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Philadelphia socialites Tracy Lord (Katharine Hepburn) and C.K. Dexter Haven (Cary Grant) impulsively married and quickly divorced. They have a fiery relationship and she's very critical. Two years later, Tracy is remarrying politically ambitious goof George Kittredge (John Howard). Her little sister Dinah prefers Dexter. She doesn't even invite her father who is a constant disappointment. Writer Mike Connor (James Stewart) is forced to drop in on the high society wedding with photographer Liz Imbrie (Ruth Hussey) for Spy magazine. It's the day before the wedding. Dexter helps them to infiltrate the wedding pretending they're friends of the often absent brother Junior. However Tracy is too smart and Dexter tells her the whole truth about the threat to write a scandalous story about Tracy's father and showgirl Tina Marra. Tracy decides to play some deceptive misdirections. She and Mike don't get along at first but then she finds his writing fascinating.With so much star power, it's hard to lock down who the final pairing is going to be. It's a fun problem to have and the movie is more compelling because of it. The movie could go either way and it would work just as well. Cary Grant is having loads of fun bantering with Katharine Hepburn. There are lots of drunk acting and some pretty funny ones at that. Ruth Hussey has some great sarcastic one liners. Although James Stewart probably didn't deserve the Oscar win. This isn't just a simple formulaic rom-com cliché and it's good watch. "},{"Title":"Stewart is best actor, Grant has top billing, and Hepburn's star rises","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This very witty film has a superb plot that allows a huge cast to shine in all their roles. The Philadelphia Story is about spoiled wealth, pride, judgment and condemnation, mistakes, forgiveness and love. All aspects of the film are superb. Others discuss the story and performers in detail. So, I'll mention a couple less discussed aspects and give some background on the movie.This film is an early jab at the sensationalism of the press. In the early 20th century, newspapers often touted sensationalism as they competed with one another. Over time, the mainline press became more reasonable, responsible and less flashy. But the hunger for gossip and gullibility of some people, especially idol worshipers of Hollywood and the rich and famous, led to the rise of what today is called the tabloid press. The Philadelphia Story seems pointedly to belittle the tabloids.Another unusual thing in this film is the subject of alcoholism and recovery from it. Cary Grant plays C. Dexter Haven, an alcoholic. His drinking was the main thing that led to the breakup of his marriage two years ago to Tracy Lord, played by Katherine Hepburn. Now it's the eve of Tracy's wedding to George Kittredge (played by John Howard), and Dexter shows up sober as a church mouse. The film says only that he had been working in South America and hasn't touched a drink in nearly two years. He doesn't drink at any time in the film, and he shows the cool-headedness of sobriety when others around him are well oiled. Cinema before this time mostly treated drunkenness with humor. Booze often was a main prop in W.C. Fields movies. In many films, the audience got laughs from the pratfalls of the drunks. In The Philadelphia Story, much of the humor comes from Tracy and Macaulay Mike Connor, played by James Stewart, when they are in their cups. But on the edge of that humor amidst the intoxicated, is the only serious thread in this film. Dexter's recovery proves to be true and earnest.While all the roles in the film are played very well, one in particular stands out. James Stewart's role is one of the best acting jobs of all time on the silver screen. Connor changes his persona a number of times. It never seems forced or overdone, but real and natural. He was a cynic at the start. He was comical then serious. He was happy and in love. Then he was back down to earth. Stewart played in many fine films after this, over a wide spectrum of movie genres. He never had a role more diverse than that in this film. It is a tremendous show of his acting talent. He was most deserving of his best actor Oscar for 1940. Finally, some tidbits about the film background. These come from the 2003 biography, Kate Remembered, by Hepburn's 20-year friend, A. Scott Berg; and from the 1993 TV film that Hepburn narrated, Katherine Hepburn All About Me. In her early career, Hepburn was often difficult to work with. She demanded huge salaries. She was dubbed Katherine of Arrogance. But she established herself as a movie star very quickly. Then, in the late 1930s, she had several movie flops. She was labeled by an independent theater group as box office poison in 1938. So, in 1939, she returned to Broadway and a play that Philip Barry had written specifically for her. Hepburn starred in The Philadelphia Story, which became a huge success. She had been in an affair with Howard Hughes for a few years. Hughes wanted to marry her. But, she had her eyes set on stardom and saw marriage as blocking that. So, Hughes bought the movie rights to the play as a gift for Hepburn. She gave it to MGM and Louis B. Mayer on the condition that she got to star in the film. She said she wanted Spencer Tracy and Clark Gable for the male leads. But she got Cary Grant and James Stewart. And, one thing really stands out about this movie. Katherine Hepburn's role is the major role and focus of the film. And, she owns the film. But she has second billing &#x96; after Cary Grant. She and Grant were in four films together, and this is the only time that Grant had top billing over Hepburn. Film historian Jeanine Basinger tells how this came about. She does the commentary in the voice-over version of the film that I have on DVD. Cary Grant was the top box office draw at the time. No doubt, MGM could see him as a boost for the film. But, Basinger said for Grant to do the film, he wanted three things. MGM agreed, and Hepburn agreed. The first was that he wanted top billing. The second was a salary of $100,000 &#x96; a huge sum for a film actor in those years. And third, he wanted MGM to give his salary to the British War Relief. So, that's how Cary Grant, with a lesser role, came to be billed above Katherine Hepburn &#x96; but for a great cause. Here are a few funny favorite lines. Sidney Kidd, You hate me, I trust, Miss Imbrie? Elizabeth, No, I can't afford to hate anybody. I'm just a photographer.Mrs. Lord, One of the servants has been at the sherry again. I'd better go see.Tracy, You haven't switched from liquor to dope by any chance, have you Dexter?Dinah Lord, Maybe he's going to sock her again. Mrs. Lord, Don't say sock, darling. Strike is quite an ugly enough word.Liz, I've come for the body of Macaulay Connor. Dexter, So glad you came. Can you use a typewriter? Liz, No thanks. I have one at home "},{"Title":"Good, but feels a bit dated","Date":"26 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Good 1940s comedy-drama with some big name stars. Starts off very well. Good one-liners and the movie is very funny. The comedy was an unexpected and pleasant surprise - I was expecting more of a relationship-drama. This gives the movie great momentum, initially.After a while, however, the jokes become fewer and fewer and it does become a relationship-drama, and then it becomes more stuffy, more dour and more predictable. It essentially becomes a standard who will end up with who movie. Not terrible, but not the stand-out great movie it was in the first half.This second half also makes the movie feel a bit dated, due to the social stuffiness and play-like dialogue.Three of the great performers of the 40s are on show - Katharine Hepburn, Cary Grant and Jimmy Stewart. Of the three Stewart's is the better, mostly because of the character he was playing. Hepburn's character was irritating and Grant's was a tad stuffy.Stand-out performance, however, goes to 13-year old Virginia Weidler. She gets the best and funniest lines and scenes and she delivers them to perfection. The scene where she sings Lydia, The Tattooed Lady is sublime.Another performance of note was that of Ruth Hussey as Elizabeth Imbrie. I enjoyed the performances of Weidler and Hussey much more than that of the three big-name stars. "},{"Title":"The time to make up your mind about people is never","Date":"20 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Socialite Tracy Lord (Katharine Hepburn) has her upcoming wedding disrupted by the arrival of her ex-husband Dexter (Cary Grant) and two reporters (James Stewart, Ruth Hussey). How much you will enjoy this really depends on how much you enjoy Hepburn as this is very much a Katharine Hepburn movie. The main plot revolves around three men loving her. Not being the biggest fan of hers, I'm not as enamored with this movie as others are. I do like it and recognize its quality. It's just not one of the classics I like to rewatch. It also very much has the feel of a filmed stage play, which George Cukor was prone to do. Characters bouncing in and out of rooms with great flourish and lots of long conversations that are full of speeches. It's a very talky movie. Still, excellent cast helps a lot. Really, I like the movie. I just don't love it. I feel like I should be apologizing for that as it's a widely revered film. But it's how I feel. It just doesn't grab me as much as it does others. "},{"Title":"just  great","Date":"11 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" rare gem. for script and cast. for nuances and joy. for spirit and smart solutions. for music and performance. for subtle references and for each scene. it is difficult to say something about it because it represents total show. a show who seduce and amuse and define reality with few drops of wise and humor, pink romance and cold precise. and the great virtue is the science to show and use the gift, the art and the delicate manner to create force, soul and shadow of character by Hepburn, Grant and Steward. it can be a surprise. or a delight. it is not important the final verdict because it is only a state of sensibility. a movie. testimony of another time and flavor of admirable work. "},{"Title":"An ancient relative of modern romantic comedies","Date":"21 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Philadelphia Story is a film staring three of my favorite actors of all times. Katherine Hepburn is a Philadelphia socialite who had recently recovered form a very traumatic divorce. She was married with Cary Grant, but their relationship had come to an end since she could not cope with his drinking problems and unwillingness to embrace perfection. Mrs. Hepburn's character is a member of the local high society, who sets high standards of behavior for herself and others around her. Therefore she would not tolerate even the slightest scandals within her close circle &#x96; a position that typically pushes someone into judging other people for each and every sin.Two years after she claims to have successfully overcome her previous marriage, Mrs. Hepburn announces she is going to re-marry an aspiring member of the jet set, in order to washout the stains from the past and restore balance and harmony to her life. That is when her ex-husband closes a deal with an important tabloid that is keen to have exclusive pictures of the wedding, pry into her personal life and luckily fill out headlines with intimate scandals. The scheme is to be carried out by a reporter and a photographer (James Stewart and Ruth Hussey), pretending to be close friends of the bride's absent brother. The plot is soon unveiled to the bride, but the others are not aware of what is taking place. The bride then starts to play a game of cat-and-mouse with the reporter. They eventually get terribly drunk and the truth literally comes out.It is a wonderful film, highly entertaining and incredibly avant garde. It deals with themes rarely seen in films of the time, such as female emancipation &#x96; divorce and re-marriage. It also exposes the industry of gossip, something that has grown to unfathomed levels since the film was released. The acting is also flawless. One of the highlights is the sequence where James Stewart's character, stinking of booze, is talking nonsense. It even deserved a compliment from Mr. Grant in 1985, when Mr. Stewart was awarded with an honorary Oscar. He stated that Mr. Stewart was asked to the scene a couple of times and it always came out impeccable. The man has truly mastered the art.The screenplay is about a journey into self-knowledge. Of course the underlying message is that only love makes us lower our guard and truly discover who we are. It is interesting to notice that this adage is still deemed the main thrust behind romantic comedies. That is not to say that there is just one way of transmitting this idea to the audience. On the contrary, rom-com is a never-extinguishing source for screen-writing and entertainment precisely because there are various forms of telling basically the same story. However, Philadelphia Story stands like a beacon over other rom-coms, providing an excellent example of how the genre can be thoughtful about human relations and simultaneously deliver excellent one-liners. "},{"Title":"The Philadelphia Story","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Philadelphia Story is a classic, romantic comedy that features a dash of wit and a strong cast of actors. The concept of three men vying for a women's attention has been a bit overplayed in recent years (think This Means War, Twilight, 10 Things I Hate about You) but The Philadelphia Story did it right first. Tracy Lord, played by actress Katherine Hepburn, set the bar high as she plays the role with elegance, smarts and humor. Tracy is a fiercely independent woman with her own opinion and Hepburn embodies her from the length of her perfect posture to the confident stride of her walk. The other stand-out character whose charm radiates from the screen via his overprotective persona (even though he violently pushes Hepburn to the ground in the very first scene) is Cary Grant, who plays Tracy's ex-husband. Later on in the film, Grant follows up with more violence as he punches a suitor of Tracy to prove a point to her fiancée. When he can't find the words to handle a situation, Grant turns to violence. Growing up, I was taught that violence never solves problems, but apparently Grant had a more interesting home life as a kid. Wealth, class, and exploitation are common motifs that circulate the plot. In a pivotal scene, that shows of Tracy's swift, logical thinking skills, the family learns that the journalists are from Spy Magazine, a tabloid. Due to the family's wealth, the tabloid violates the family's privacy just as the ex violates Tracy's privacy by trying to manipulate he. The celebrity concepts of tabloids and live-in journalists reminded me of the reality shows popular in today's culture. Just as most reality shows progress, the family attempted to be on their best behavior at first, but eventually their true personalities came out. I didn't realize that the concepts of tabloids and paparazzi were prevalent in society this early on. Alcohol is also a reoccurring problem. Alcohol was the reason behind Tracy and her ex-husbands divorce and later on serves as a factor that pushes her new relationship off the edge. At least with my exposure to film, Tracy's alcohol usage is a symptom of a good-girl-gone-bad trend, like in Mean Girls. In most young adult rebellion films, alcohol contributes to the downfall of innocence. Therefore, in The Philadelphia Story, alcohol is behind Tracy's mistakes and enlightenment. While I thoroughly enjoyed the acting and the clothing styles of the film, I was a bit put off by the Sexism. I know that women were not treated equally to men in this time era but Tracy was put down by her own father when she shared her opinions and regarded as a Goddess by her male suitors. I don't think she had any radical ideas so I am not sure what all the fuss was about.I also don't understand why it was Tracy's responsibility to make up a story just so her dad wouldn't get in trouble. I guess the wealthy went to great lengths to protect their public perceptions back in the day too. A great portion of this film was dedicated to watching Tracy grow into her own person. I almost find that I am internalizing a backwards message because messages in today's society are tend to relate to women finding their own way through independence and Tracy goes from being independent and outspoken to being almost pressured to marry her ex at the last minute. Nonetheless, Tracy has been plucked from the wilderness and planted in a pot. Through the usage of alcohol and an invasion of privacy, Tracy is no longer the free-spirited, wild blossom she was at the start of the film. She now knows the dangers of outside forces and has decided to settle down with a husband instead of facing the world on her own. "},{"Title":"Except on Occasion","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"     The Philadelphia Story is one of filmdom's most sophisticated romantic comedies. It involves wealthy socialite Tracy Lord (Katharine Hepburn)who is soon to be married for the second time; C.K. Dexter Haven (Cary Grant), her first husband; and Mac Connor (James Stewart), the down-to-earth reporter who becomes smitten with Tracy....Tracy, C.K. and Mac all face a dilemma. In addition to learning about life and love and themselves, they must decide whom they really love. So be ready for a number of surprises before the film is over....That Grant's C.K. is affable, stylish, and a bit conniving is proved during an interesting exchange between him and the two reporters, Mac and Liz Imrie (Ruth Hussey). Liz was one of the reporters who, after C.K. and Tracy were married, dogged them on their honeymoon. She tells Mac that C.K. didn't smash her camera but instead threw it in the ocean, and later  paid for it. I got a nice letter of apology, too, she says. Mac says, somewhat sarcastically, Always the gentlemen, huh? C.K. replies, Except on occasion....Interesting,too, is that Hepburn originally wanted Clark Gable to play C.K.  and Spencer Tracy for the reporter. After both actors declined, Director George Cukor suggested Grant for the C.K. part and MGM boss Louis B. Mayer suggested Stewart portray Mac....The film was a commercial and critical success. Stewart won 1940's Best Actor and the other Stewart, Donald Ogden, took home an Oscar for Best Screenplay. The film was also nominated for Best Picture of the year. "},{"Title":"The best romantic comedy I've ever seen!","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hepburn, Stewart, and Grant...three of my favorite actors in history.  They are all excellent in this romantic comedy.  Hepburn makes her huge comeback (why she ever was deemed box-office poison in the first place is a mystery to me).  Stewart won an Oscar for his great performance.  I believe he shouldn't have, and he should have won for another film, Mr. Smith Goes To Washington.  Grant is very good as well.  Though he shouldn't have recieved top billing.  Oh well, I suggest just sit back and enjoy the greatness that is The Philadelphia Story. "}{"Title":"Amazing Movie and Still Relevant Today","Date":"10 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Few romantic comedies are really about relationships. They are instead about people falling in love, they tend to end with the couple confessing their love or getting married. The Philadelphia Story is one of those few Romantic Comedies actually about relationships and in my opinion it is the best of the group. The main themes in my opinion are 1. What makes relationships work or fail?/Why do people who are right for each other separate? 2. The changing modern world (the ease of divorce, woman's independence) and it's effect on relationships and family. 3. How people need to understand weakness if they are to relate to others. 4. Not judging a book by it's cover &#x96; or a person by their job or social standing.It's a clever movie and has a lot to say but what is so surprising is how relevant and apt it still is today. Honestly, you could change a few things about the setting and the superficial character quirks and remake it set it in the present day. Not so much has changed. And of course it is very, very funny. It has a very witty script, you can tell it was based on a play, and the cast is amazing. Three of my favourite actors; Katherine Hepburn (my absolute favourite actress), Cary Grant and James Stewart (probably my favourite actor), all in one place, and they all sparkle in this. I also really like the characters of wise and quietly sarcastic photographer Liz, played by Ruth Hussie and Tracey's wonderful, precocious, scene-stealing little sister Dinah played by Virginia Weidler. It's really very much an ensemble film. A warning - The film relies heavily on dialogue, subtle characterisation and good acting. The plot is relatively minimal and there is not very much in the way of visual humour or action. If you can enjoy a film like that you'll love the film, if you don't you won't.If you like this film check out High Society, it's musical remake. It's also an amazing film and also has a great cast! "},{"Title":"Witty and romantic with a great cast, great writing and great direction","Date":"19 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What a treat! There are inevitable comparisons to the all-dancing, all-singing musical remake High Society. I enjoyed both, but I think this classic is the superior of the two. The only problem I have with The Philadelphia Story was the rather phony ending. However, with the high quality of everything else, I almost find it easy to ignore that. The production values are top-class, and Franz Waxman's score is wonderfully complimentary. The writing is deliciously witty and acerbic, and George Cukor's direction is nigh-on perfect. The film bounces along at a cracking pace, and the more romantic parts are enough to warm the heart. The acting is superb too, Katherine Hepburn is deliciously shrewd, Cary Grant is charming and urbane and James Stewart while cynical is the epitome of the Mr Nice Guy persona we have come to know and love him by. Overall, a real treat, if the ending wasn't as tacky we would have had perfection of a romantic comedy. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A great blend of Comedy and Romance!","Date":"29 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A teenager, like me, hates the genre Romance because it's all the same crap of a guy loving a girl but girl doesn't like him and that gets so repetitive that after a while you wish the genre was never created in the first place. What I mean is that Romance is full of crap and clichés. Sorry romance lovers. But if you mix Romance with Comedy then you get something worth much, much, more. So can I have the pleasure of introducing a film starring Katherine Hepburn as Tracy Lord, James Stewart as Macaulay Connor, and Cary Grant as C.K. Dexter Haven, and, Ladies and Gentlemen, that film is The Philadelphia Story. The plot is so sophisticated but also lovable as you see Macaulay Connor and Dexter Haven fighting for the same girl not so vividly. James Stewart was fantastic in this film but I can't say if this is the best film he has ever starred in because, to be honest, I have never seen him act in any other film except the film which I am reviewing today. I dunno why he said that he didn't deserve an Oscar for the film. He was MAGNIFICENT! Cary Grant was not far behind but he had less of a acting impact on me but he does deserve an honorable mention. Now since those two are out of the way, it is time for......Katherine Hepburn. Katherine Hepburn had some sort of a mysterious aura toward her that couldn't let you choose between If she is was great or bad! The film does have it's flaws and that is that there are some boring scenes in the film which Is slept through. Of course, I can't say what those scenes were because I was sleeping through them. Anyone who is reluctant toward this film should leave that as soon as they insert their peni.... oh sorry... let me rephrase that. Anyone who is reluctant towards watching this film should leave that as soon as they insert the..... disk(!) into their DVD player. Philadelphia heiress Tracy Lord throws out her playboy husband C.K. Dexter Haven shortly after their marriage. Two years later, Tracy is about to marry respectable George Kittredge whilst Dexter has been working for Spy magazine. Dexter arrives at the Lord's mansion the day before the wedding with writer Mike Connor and photographer Liz Imbrie, determined to spoil things.The classical scene between a drunk Macaulay Connor and Tracy Lord was indeed classical because that scene portrayed what great acting (and kissing) is. I doubt Tom Cruise can do better than that, or Brad Pitt for the matter of fact. A final message from me Oldies will have a real ball at watching this movie and a couple of the younger kids will not while others will. No matter what you think of this, it is a classic! "},{"Title":"Full of inundo","Date":"25 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It seems unthinkable given her almost instant rise to stardom in the early 30s, and the almost universal acclaim she enjoyed in the later part of her career, that for a short period in the late 30s Katherine Hepburn bore the disparaging label of box-office poison and was regarded as a liability to the studio. She was dropped by RKO, made a picture with poverty row studio Columbia, and didn't appear on screen at all in 1939. And then all of a sudden, with The Philadelphia Story, she bounced right back as if she'd never been away.So what was the secret? Well, it certainly doesn't hurt that The Philadelphia Story is very good indeed. Playwright Philip Barry had written it especially for Hepburn, and it had had a successful run on Broadway before MGM snapped up the rights. It was the ideal role for the persona she had been crafting over the last seven years &#x96; a headstrong society woman, independent and confident, but still prone to the errors of confidence. It is a sparkling and intelligent comedy with situations and dialogue that seem natural yet are funny in an almost by-the-way manner. This is the sort of comedy Hepburn was a mistress of. In short, the part was tailor-made for her. What's more, the play had been such a hit that Hepburn found herself in a strong bargaining position with the studio.First, she secured the directorial services of her friend George Cukor, with whom she had already worked a few times. There really is no-one who could have done a better job. Cukor's speciality was in taking stage plays and making them not seem stagy. You see, a stage play can't just skip from one location to the next like a film or a novel. For reasons of practicality narrative has to be blocked into lengthy scenes. This can be very boring if it is adapted directly onto the screen. Cukor's trick is to subtly move the action along or quite literally change the angle on it. For example, there is an early scene where James Stewart and Ruth Hussey are in a sitting room, and are visited in turn by Cary Grant, Virginia Weidler, Hepburn and Mary Nash. Each time a new character comes in and the dynamic changes, Cukor begins again with a new establishing shot and new camera set ups, giving a sudden feel of freshness. We are effectively fooled into thinking we have just seen lots of little scenes, instead of one ten-minute one all set in the same room.Cukor also keeps the tone of the story &#x96; as well as the solution to the tangled love-polygon &#x96; implicit in his technique. In the earliest scenes the camera is almost continuously centred on Virginia Weidler (Dinah) following her is she bounds from room to room, matching her relentless energy. There's also a nice moment in the scene at the stable where we first meet the characters played by Roland Young and John Howard. When Hepburn and Howard speak to each other, the camera doesn't get too close, and a horse is pottering about behind them. This isn't some pretentious bit of symbolism, it merely means that no matter what the characters say or how they say it, the scene could never be misinterpreted as a deeply romantic one.But enough of Mr Cukor. Hepburn also managed to gather a fabulous cast. Her original choices of Clark Gable and Spencer Tracy were not available, although it's hard to imagine even those two heavyweights doing as well as her runners-up, Cary Grant and Jimmy Stewart. These well-mannered comedy roles were bread-and-butter to Grant, but Stewart was more the newcomer. Still, his performance is a virtuoso act of comedic interpretation. What he actually achieves is to make that witty dialogue sound completely fluent, as if it was an improvisation rather than a memorised script. Ruth Hussey is the perfect sidekick for him, and does something similar but a little more dry, yet with deep emotion underpinning it. Then there are the absolutely divine appearances by Roland Young, Mary Nash and the wickedly funny Virginia Weidler, between them ensuring there is not a single trough in the whole picture.And what about Ms Hepburn herself? She is magnificent of course, playing the role with such naturalism and yet such wit, teasing out the humour in the ordinariness of the words. The thing is, this isn't really anything different to what she was doing in Holiday and Bringing Up Baby, so why the sudden swing in popular and critical opinion? Well, perhaps audiences just hadn't been ready for the strength of character and audacity of the grown-up Hepburn. And maybe after they had fallen for the bitchy determination of Bette Davis in Jezebel and Vivien Leigh in Gone with the Wind, the good-natured feistiness of Hepburn seemed like a warm-blooded counterpart. Whatever the case was back then, The Philadelphia Story and its stars are just as watchable today is they were seventy years ago. "},{"Title":"Hepburn leads an knockout trio in this classy romantic comedy","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Three of the brightest stars in the golden years of cinema converge in The Philadelphia Story, a romantic comedy of great wit and sophistication. Although it would be unfair to say that the talent makes this film, Cary Grant, Katherine Hepburn and James Stewart are far and away its best feature.Philadelphia Story was adapted from the stage production of the same name by Philip Barry. The play was written with the intention of reviving Hepburn's stage career. It was brought to the screen with the help of Hepburn's boyfriend Howard Hughes who purchased the rights for her as a gift.Full of fast-talking highbrow humor, the material is unquestionably aimed at an upper-class audience, but not only in terms of taste, but also thematically. Created during the latter half of the Great Depression, Philadelphia Story makes the statement that class is insignificant, that it's a non-existent social framework that purports itself as an indication of character. We obsess over class, something that couldn't have been more true during the depression, and it's a theme all the more impressive considering the film's popularity and story of celebrity gossip and intrigue.Hepburn stars as rich socialite Tracy Lord, who is about to marry working-class hero George Kittredge (John Howard), only her wealthy ex-husband, the wealthy and fantastically-named C.K. Dexter Haven (Grant) plans on spoiling the big day by sneaking in a tabloid writer (Stewart) and photographer (Ruth Hussey). The jig is up pretty quickly, but not without making things dreadfully difficult on Tracy.Stewart might have won the Oscar, but this is Hepburn's film. I'd agree with what Stewart once said that the statuette was deferred payment for losing out in Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, an undeniably superior role. Hepburn should have seen the glory for this film for her magnetizing and moving performance. Whether its her distinct and powerful voice or her variety of facial expressions, she's got us tied on a string and she just plays with us throughout the ups and downs of her character. Tracy is not unlike Hepburn herself as a major public figure that feels worshipped more than truly loved or appreciated.Stewart and Grant, however, deserve their due. Stewart pilots the best scene of the film when he pays a drunken visit to C.K.'s place late at night. Grant works his charms in a more subdued way as C.K. is more the subtle mastermind than the flashy performer of his schemes. Also worthy of mention is the dry and snide humor of Hussey's character. She adds a really nice touch to the cast and keeps it balanced.Although a bit sharper, more sophisticated and dialogue-heavy than most romantic comedies, Philadelphia Story is still a classic and it makes its class argument through those weaknesses in ways, making it a terrific film. ~Steven C Visit my site at http//moviemusereviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Fine Story","Date":"22 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Hepburn, Stewart, and Grant are in top form in this comedy about high society. Hepburn is in her element as a woman looking for true love. Grant is smooth as her ex-husband and Stewart is amusing as a reporter who falls for Hepburn. The highlights are the funny scenes where Stewart and Hepburn get drunk. A bit too talky, but the dialog is often witty, with Hussey delivering some of the best lines. The script tries to send a message about class and therein lies the problem. The film tends to drag somewhat during these dramatic exchanges as the characters deliver their sermons. Cukor was known for eliciting fine performances but was bland when it came to other aspects of film-making. "},{"Title":"The Philadelphia Story &#150; a scintillating comedic romp about a wealthy socialite meeting her match &#150; again &#150; on her wedding day.","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As I've said before, comedy is a difficult topic to put on film; one person's hilarity could just as easily be banality for another. I'm not qualified to suggest why that is so, but I do know this most people respond to witty words and double entendre. And this film has both, in spades (and was awarded the Oscar for Best Screenplay).Add to that the very capable and radiant Katherine Hepburn &#150; one of Hollywood's true greats &#150; Cary Grant, James Stewart and Ruth Hussy, you can then be assured of a slick production, fine acting (Jimmy Stewart got Best Actor Award) and a very pleasurable 112 minutes. And, the re-mastered DVD that I watched was perfect.The film was adapted from a stage play and that is obvious many of the set scenes look just as though you're sitting in a live theatre, and I think that has a very positive effect for the viewer. For example, the musical version (High Society 1956) doesn't quite have that same look about it, as a stage production; moreover, the screenplay of that movie just doesn't match this 1940 release. I laughed much more during the latter.So, what's the story all about? Rich people, snobs, the excesses of wealth, marriage, divorce, love, honour, honesty, and... what it means to know yourself. The last item refers mostly to Tracey 'Red' Lord (Katherine Hepburn), the flighty, gay and free-spirited (seemingly) daughter of a filthy rich banker. On her wedding day, she's furious that her ex-husband, Dexter Haven (Cary Grant) has turned up, with a couple of (maybe) low-life reporters from Spy magazine, to spoil her marriage to her very safe, very dull and very dreary new husband-to-be, George Kittredge (John Howard).How that plays out, and how Tracey find herself and true love by the end of the movie, is a sheer delight the dialog is fast, witty, loud and complex &#150; so you have to listen carefully all the time. Although, watch for some of the sight gags by Jimmy Stewart and his facial expressions; no wonder he received the Oscar (and for a comedy too!). But, the concentration is worth it and, fortunately, there are quieter moments whereby you, and the actors, can catch their thoughts and breath. At times, the whole production has a sense of a British farce, the type that those Brits are so good at. But, it's all American (by this time, Cary Grant was an American citizen) and just as good, if not better.If you liked High Society, you'll love this one. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Love this movie!","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Just re-watched this movie this weekend. My grandmother recommended it to me a few years ago and I loved it then. Still love it now. Cary Grant and James Stewart are both damn sexy in this movie and I so get Kate Hepburn's Tracy Lord. This movie truly made me laugh out loud, even more than any of today's gross out comedies ever could. The chemistry between the stars is amazing. Some people may stay away from this movie just because it is over sixty years old and in black and white. But,don't do that!! This is a terrific movie, with some real wit and intelligence and some real star quality. This movie proved Kate was a star, even when she was labeled box office poison. "},{"Title":"Classy Romantic Comedy","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What a wonderful movie. First of all the directing, by George Cukor, is excellent. Particularly good is the opening scene, which coincidently arouses way too much controversy on this site, that is filmed in the classic style of the silent era. However throughout the whole movie George Cukor proves what a master he is behind the camera. The camera never seems obtrusive and that's the trick. He doesn't practice any kind of showy direction. You barely realize the camera is there and for this type of film that is exactly as it should be.The screenplay is brilliant. Donald Ogden Stewart deserved the Oscar he won for it. The movie is driven by a kind of effortless comic dialouge. It occasionally slips into slapstick comedy however most of it is just very clever lines. Consider this (paraphrased) one by Cary Grant, (talking to writer James Stewart) I thought all writers drank to excess and beat their wives, you know, I always wanted to be a writer. Of course without a good cast their really is no movie and this cast is one of the best. The trio of Cary Grant, Katherine Hepburn and James Stewart carry this romantic comedy. Cary Grant provides the comedy with many of the funniest lines in the film. James Stewart provides the romance with a seemingly effortless charm, with which he managed to charm the Oscar voters. Meanwhile Katherine Hepburn has the best of both worlds clashing swords with Grant while becoming interested in Stewart. The supporting cast was also very good. Ruth Hussey, John Howard and the hilarious Virginia Weidler are all nearly pitch perfect. Deserving special mention among the supporting cast is Roland Young as Uncle Willie. He takes the limited space he has in the script and steals a few scenes from the rest of the cast with some of the funniest moments of the film.Despite the fact that the love triangle had been done before this film, and very well too, it somehow rises above the stereotypical story and creates something special. It is without a doubt one of the best romantic comedies to ever come out of Hollywood. "},{"Title":"The Philadelphia Story vs High Society","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In the role that affirmed her as possibly the greatest actress of her generation, Katharine Hepburn plays heiress Tracy Lord, about to get married yet again. When her ex (Cary Grant) reenters her life, it throws everything into flux, but when a reporter (Jimmy Stewart) enters, all bets are off.Above all, I wish to assert that The Philadelphia Story is more interesting than the musical remake High Society (which I just saw two days ago and reviewed on IMDb.com yesterday!). The latter is good as a reminder of how hot Grace Kelly was, but this one is all about the craziness factor. A real classic. "}{"Title":"Three Stars For The Price Of One!","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Katharine Hepburn, Cary Grant and Jimmy Stewart all give wonderful performances in a truly special film.This is the movie that breathed new life into Kate Hepburn's career. She was labelled as box-office poison in the 30's, after a string of film failures. Here, she bounced back in rip-roaring style as fussy society-girl Tracey Lord. Cary Grant is on the verge of absolute stardom as C.K Dexter Haven. James Stewart won an Academy Award for his performance as Mike Connor, proving his range and place along America's finest actors.Tracey Lord is contemplating marriage for the second-time round. Her first trip down the aisle to C.K Dexter Haven ended in divorce. Two years have passed since that fiasco, and Tracey is about to marry the respectable, yet fuddy-duddy George Kitteridge. Dexter has moved on from the marriage too, and is now working for 'Spy' magazine. However, his arrival at Tracey's mansion the day before the wedding with writer Mike Connor and patient photographer Liz Imbrie (Ruth Hussey, in a fine supporting performance)certainly shakes up Tracey's plans and makes her wonder whether or not she is doing the right thing after all.Hepburn is luminous as the fault-finding bride-to-be socialite. She much resembles Katherina from Shakespeare's 'The Taming Of The Shrew'- too bold, outspoken and brash for most men. Cary Grant is doing his usual suit role with a suave manner, yet he excels at it so he is a delight to watch. Perhaps James Stewart shouldn't have got the Academy Award in 1940 though. It is a great performance, yet pales in comparison to Fonda in 'Grapes Of Wrath', the man who should have won Best Actor that year. Fonda was mixed up in whispers of Communist party meetings, so politics prevailed in 1940 and Stewart won. It was also compensation for his loss the year before for his role in 'Mr Smith Goes To Washington'. Let's not worry too much about Oscars though. This film doesn't need awards to prove that it is great.This is not screwball comedy, it's more of an romantic comedy than anything else. There are numerous classic scenes- catch a drunk Hepburn and Stewart. Priceless! Also, the opening scene is justifiably one of the greats. The dialogue and comic banter is brilliant, and Mary Nash and Virginia Wielder are superb in smaller roles as Tracey's mother and little sister.It is a joy to watch Stewart and Hepburn together; one of the delights of cinema. He's bumbling, she's bold and they have surprisingly terrific chemistry! This would be the last outing for together for Grant and Hepburn, after a prolific four films together. She would soon discover a man named Spencer Tracy.One wonders about the treatment of Tracey and women in general in this piece. Before she can find happiness, she, like Katherina, must be put in her place and embarrassed. Yes, she is a bossy, dominant woman full of unnecessary sass, but why should she cop so much heckling for it? The attitudes towards women are slightly off-putting here, but ultimately Tracey finds happiness and that's what we care most about.The idea for this comic romp is said to have come from the writer's own experience with Kate Hepburn's wacky family clan. Wherever the idea came from, thank god it made it to the screen. "},{"Title":"Royal Wedding--Just Not the One You Expect","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The stars were aligned during the shooting of this film, and the results gave us one of the most perfect films in screen history.Katharine Hepburn gives the best performance of her career as Tracy Lord, uppity society heiress who's about to be married to a stuffed shirt. James Stewart and Ruth Hussey play an acerbic journalist and photographer, respectively, sent to the Lord estate to cover the wedding for a trashy gossip magazine. And Cary Grant, Tracy's ex-husband, saunters in to stir things up just to give his ex-wife a hard time.Everyone performs at peak level here, and there's not a misstep in the movie. Stewart is laid back and winning. It's refreshing to see him play a rather cocky and sexy love interest as opposed to the everyman he usually played. Cary Grant is as charming as can be trading sarcastic barbs with Hepburn. And Hussey drops one droll throw-away line after another like a pro.Of course, the movie all comes down to Hepburn, and it's a case of absolutely perfect casting. At the nadir of her career, Hepburn made the brilliant decision to bring this stage play to the screen with herself in the lead role, cast as an untouchable snob who just wants to be loved. Movie audiences got to see her brought down a peg, and their appreciation was instantly apparent Hepburn catapulted to the top of Hollywood royalty and never came down.Screen comedies don't get more sophisticated than this.Grade A+ "},{"Title":"Great ensemble cast makes this one POP","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Like a lot of other people, The Philadelphia Story is one of my favorite films. It possessed one of the strongest ensemble casts ever assembled Katharine Hepburn, Cary Grant, James Stewart, Ruth Hussey, Virginia Wiedler, Mary Nash, Roland Young, and Henry Daniell. The film is based on the hit Broadway play, starring Hepburn. One of the many things that distinguishes Hepburn from other major actresses is that she was never an insecure woman about her talent. She surrounded herself with the best people available without fear of being overshadowed. As a result, The Philadelphia Story is brilliant.It's an insane, zany story full of blackmail, mistaken identity, changing bridegrooms, and class separation that belongs right where it is, in 1940. Seen today as a play, it doesn't come off, partly because the acting isn't as adroit and charming as seen here, but also because of societal changes. These are old money idle rich, not new money or celebrities who are fodder for the tabloids and clash with the working class. Tracy's anger at her philandering father is interpreted in the film as coming from a cold, unforgiving daughter rather than someone who's justifiably upset that her mother is going to be hurt again.The comedy is wonderful, handled by masters, with perhaps the most out of the box performance being given by Jimmy Stewart. Gangly, boyish, and funny, he's also quite sexy as he romances Tracy, and his scenes with Grant are priceless.Everyone in The Philadelphia Story has a fixed opinion about who they are and who everybody else is, and everyone's values are shaken up as the story unfolds. The film bears repeated watchings and will keep you laughing and on your toes at every viewing.With the rich and mighty - always a little patience. "},{"Title":"Philly When It's Silly","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw this earlier today in a double bill with Bringing Up Baby, made two years earlier (1938) with the same two stars Grant and Hepburn. In both cases the prints were bad, full of sparkle, bad sound and missing frames so that occasionally a word was lost but despite this both films oozed the style and class that informed them from day one. 'Baby' was totally screwball but 'Story' is a comedy of manners, a term that arguably has no meaning today. Watching with hindsight and a knowledge of High Society it's often easy to see how the 'spots' suggested themselves as song opportunities. Above all it is a well-made play, author Philip Barry was himself a member of an elevated social class and Grant and Hepburn had already appeared in an adaptation of one of his plays, 'Holiday' which was equally adept. The play - and by definition the screenplay also - is so well constructed as to be actor-proof though that isn't necessary with actors of this calibre, not just the three leads but also Ruth Hussey, Virginia Weidler Roland Young et al. In short, a joy. "},{"Title":"Mighty yar film-making....","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" You're slipping, Red. I used to be afraid of that look - the withering glance of the goddess.Since Katharine Hepburn is my favorite actress, it's about time I paid homage to one of her films.The movie begins with one of the most classic scenes in film history. The audience does not know who the characters are in the first scene, and no dialogue is used. We see Cary Grant angrily slam the front door of a mansion and stalk towards a car parked out front. A moment later, Katharine Hepburn, dressed in a nightgown, follows him out, carrying a bag of golf clubs. After removing one club, she contemptuously throws the bag filled with the rest at him, haughtily breaks the one club over her knee, throws the halves at him, and stomps back towards the open doorway. Grant follows her, taps her on the shoulder...and when she wheels around, he pulls his fist back as if to punch her, but instead mashes her face in the palm of his hand, shoving her backward through the open doorway, where we next see her rubbing her neck as she sits up. The scene ends. Cut to Two Years Later as the title informs the audience; the day before Philadelphian blue-blood Tracy Lord's (Katharine Hepburn) second wedding. The audience also realize that the mashee in the opening scene and the masher were formally husband and wife Tracy Lord (Katharine Hepburn) and C.K. Dexter Haven (Cary Grant). Soon Dexter has makes a surprise visit to the Lord household on the eve of the wedding. Tracy is about to marry George Kittredge (John Howard), her stuffy and rather chauvinistic well-to-do fiancé. What Tracy doesn't know at first is that Dexter, perhaps seeking revenge on Tracy, has arranged for Mike Connor (James Stewart), a writer for a tabloid-like magazine named Spy, and Liz Imbrie (Ruth Hussey), a Spy photographer, to do a story on the wedding under the guise of being friends of a friend of the family. Once Tracy is informed by Dexter that she must either allow the story to be written or her father's ongoing illicit affair with a dancer will be the big story instead she consents, but Connor and Imbrie do not know that she knows who their real identities and purpose...and she plots to really give them something to write about...we'll set them on their ears!The first scene where Tracy meets Mike Connor and Liz Imbrie, and practically interviews them sets the tone for the rest of the film.To reveal more of the story would spoil it for anyone who hasn't seen the film. But in the next twenty-four hours Tracy and the others find their lives turned upside-down in an alternately hilarious and touching series of events. Katharine Hepburn made the extremely wise move on the advise of Howard Hughes, whom she was dating at the time, of buying the film rights to Philip Barry's play - she had been a hit onstage in the role, which was written for her. Recently having been labeled box-office poison, even being offered a role in a film tentatively entitled Mother Carey's Chickens, it was the only way to guarantee her the role in any filming of the play. She had spent a year on Broadway in the film version, and interrupted the tour of the play to film it for MGM. For the film, she had wanted Clark Gable and Spencer Tracy for the roles of Haven and Connor. She got Grant and Stewart - hardly shabby! And better choices anyway, IMHO. Donald Ogdent Stewart took over for the screenplay adaptation, as Barry had apparently requested too much money. The dialogue is some of the best of any film of its time, and Hepburn, at her most radiant, is beautifully costumed by designer Adrian. She is at times lit from within, as Stewart's character Mike tells her, and at other times made of bronze (as her father, played by John Halliday) asserts. Dinah, Tracy's young sister, is portrayed to hilarious effect by child actress Virginia Weidler, who makes her appearance to the reporter duo in ballet toe shoes, spewing French and finishing her introduction to them by manically playing and singing a lusty dance-hall song on the piano. Pinch-prone Uncle Willie (Roland Young) adds great spice and fun with his smaller part. Side note In the scene where Mike arrives drunk at Dexter's house late one evening, Stewart purposely hiccups to try to crack Grant's straight-faced resolve - and it works. The Philadelphia Story won six Academy Award nominations Best Picture, Best Actor (Stewart), Best Actress (Hepburn), Best Supporting Actress (Hussey), Best Screenplay (Donald Ogden Stewart), and Best Director (George Cukor). James Stewart and Donald Ogden Stewart won their nominations (Stewart's sole Oscar win), and although Katharine Hepburn did not win for this role (she lost to Ginger Rogers for her performance in Kitty Foyle), she received the New York Film Critics' Award. The film revived her professional reputation, was a huge success, is of course considered to be one of the all-time classics of romantic comedy, and my personal favorite of Hepburn's films of this genre. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly written madcap romance.","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Katherine Hepburn is perfectly cast, and the actress comes off to the audience exactly as her character does to the other characters brassy at first, but eventually charming and irresistible. James Stewart has fun playing slightly naive and hopelessly romantic, and nobody has ever played drunk better than him. But Cary Grant has the most fun and the best lines as the ex-husband, who hangs around every scene waiting to get in the last word despite the fact that his character is just a little unwelcome. These three actors have a great time together, turning an otherwise lightweight plot into a very rewarding little comedy, with more memorable lines than any other screwball romance of the era. "},{"Title":"somewhere over the rainbow","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What i remember most from the movie is definitely the song Somewhere over the rainbow (or Over the rainbow &#150;i don't know for sure which name is correct). Recently, I have been listening to it over and over again. The song is wonderfully performed by Genius Ray Charles. Of course, Jimmy Steward's voice is not as good as Ray Charles' but i still found the song by Macauley Connor (played by J.Steward) enjoyable. I like the scene Mike crooning for Tracy in the moonlight, which is so lovely.The story has such a good ending, which to me, is quite agreeable. But what seems less perfect is when Mike proposed to Tracy without thinking. I still think that the director should have worked on that scene more carefully.It should be a huge mistake if i don't mention Mr. C.K.Dexter Heaven (What heaven!) Cary Grant looks greater than ever before. And the character is such a gentlemen. The way he won back Tracy's love is lovely and romantic.What astonishes me is Tracy's french. She spoke french pretty well.And the little girl Dinah, despite some kind of over-acting scene, she is charming. And i think Dinah makes the movies more relaxing.The Philadelphia is rated 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A True Classic!","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Philadelphia Story revived Katharine Hepburn's career..Hepburn had performed the play on Broadway for over a year and bought the film rights with the help of her ex boyfriend, Howard Hughes and enlisted her favorite director, George Cukor and her favorite co-star Cary Grant to work on the film with her. With Jimmy Stewart as the reporter and many fine supporting actors...especially Virginia Weidler playing her sister the film was ready to roll..I have seen this film many times and have just recently acquired it on DVD and I must say that I really find this film a treat! One of my favorite scenes in the film is the scene with Hepburn and Stewart near the end of the film..Jimmy's speech about hearthfires and holocausts pretty much secured his well deserved academy award..I'm just a classic film buff at heart..I love TCM and whenever I rent or purchase DVDs I always seem to gravitate toward older films...Katharine Hepburn is absolutely lovely and pure class in this movie and Cary Grant and Jimmy Stewart never looked better!! "},{"Title":"Praise for a film classic","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of the GREAT film comedies! As such it can be used to point up the futility of trying to remake a film classic. The Hepburn/Grant/Stewart/Hussey original is so much better than any of its remakes. Even High Society with such formidable stars as Crosby and Sinatra shows why we should accept no substitutes. Revivals of Broadway plays work okay. Remakes of great films invariably pale in comparison to the original. This is, no doubt due to the fact that Broadway productions are so transitory. On the other hand, a production on film is permanent, so long as the film exists. Thank goodness the film of The Philadelphia Story still exists. It allows us to see the story done as it should have been done. There is no need to improve upon such a perfect performance. "},{"Title":"terrific ensemble comedy/drama(possible spoilers)","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Tracy(Hepburn) is getting married to George Kittredge(John Howard). She is the ex-wife of CK Dexter Haven(Grant),a prominent and wealthy man who is also an alcoholic. Tracy's father has committed adultry with a young woman and this was enough to be blackmailed by an owner of a newspaper named Kidd. Kidd is talked to by Dexter to get a writer and photographer to do a piece on the up and coming marriage of Tracy. The film is almost a stage play born to life by the cast. Hepburn ultimately has her moment in the sun as Tracy, nicknamed Red by Dexter who is still madly in love with her. What ruined the marriage was Dexter's inability to give up booze which was a strain. Dexter says that Tracy looked down on him...that she showed signs of incapability to reason with the fact that he had a problem. In essence, Tracy couldn't understand his shortcomings for she was too mightier than thou..too perfect. James Stewart is great as the writer, a man who just can not understand the wealthy people of this world he was forced to write about(he was strongly against having to do the piece,but as his photographer girlfriend pointed out..he needed the money). His partner and photographer girlfriend, Liz(Ruth Hussey)is full of great wit and dry humor. Hussey steals every scene she's in and, next to Hepburn, has the best dialogue and one liners. I love the scenes Hussey and Stewart are in when they first encounter the residence of Tracy Lord. They have quite a few funny lines regarding the ridiculousness of wealth and what it purchases. Grant plays the vital part in the film. Grant gets everything right. His character has the most to add to the film. The character is full of pain, jealousy, and sadness. Dexter is still painfully in love with Tracy. There is a good heartbreaking scene where Dexter encounters a sleeping drunken Tracy in Liz's car. Dexter lays his head next to Tracy and saysRed. He looks upon her with such heaping longing. Stewart's character is complicated, too. He is Liz's man. Liz will fight for him. I believe Conner is enamoured by Tracy..not necessarily in love with her. He looks upon her and finds what we see in Tracy. Hepburn is magnificent in the lead role. She is glamorous, flamboyant, forcefull, funny, and intelligent. But she is also high minded, yet hurts real easy. She recieves hurtful words throughout..words from her father and Dexter that sting. She is too strong to cry and fights away tears. Unfortunately, she feels like a bullseye with hurtful words darting at her. She is flawed and has a hard time dealing with them. This makes Hepburn a joy to watch. It is very stage like, but astounding to behold. She has a shining radiance. Maybe that is why everyone falls in love with her. This film is a comedy, but also a very adult drama full of emotion. *****/***** "}{"Title":"Smart, sassy and timeless comedy","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie for the first time just a few days ago and found myself enthralled with the snappy pace and the witty banter throughout the movie. It was a total delight. Not only with the brilliant performances expected of Hepburn, Grant and Stewart, but also with the seemingly overlooked and excellent supporting work by Ruth Hussey and Virginia Weidler. If you have never seen this movie, it is a MUST! I can only imagine how enjoyable this film must have been in 1940.Also, if you happen upon the recent edition that I did, do not miss the Katherine Hepburn hosted autobiographical bonus feature after the film. This too was a real gem!  "},{"Title":"I love this movie it's great.","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is great.It contains some of the most delightful dialect ever.The characters are great.C.K Dexter Haven is wonderful.Mike Conner is very cool and James Stewart was never as appealing.Hepburn was at her best.The young actress who plays Dinah was great.She should have been annoying but came across as a great character.The film was based on a play which I think allowed dialect in the movie to be great.I think if you wish to be a true movie buff you should see this film. The Great Kate was so good in this.If you enjoyed this film I think you would like Annie Hall.Both films our perfect nines.They are truly great.The thing that makes The Philadelphia Story better is Katherine Hepburn's performance.It is much better than Diane Keaton's.Although Keaton still shined as Annie,Hepburn sizzles as the pristine Tracy Lords.    "},{"Title":"If it ain't broke...","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, you know the rest...Here's a film that no matter the times, you'll absolutely love! There's a reason why Jimmy Stewart, Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn are among the greatest acting legends. If you've forgotten, then pick up this movie. It's cute, it's sweet, it's a riot and it reminds us of a time when you didn't need millions of dollars to make a hit! For all of you black and white poo-pooers if you liked My Best Friend's Wedding, 28 Days or any one of those sappy I-realize-now after-all-this-time-that-you're-better-than-him/her-and-I'll-tell-you-at-the-end-of-this-cheesy-film type ummm movies, then relax. You're gonna love The Philadelphia Story! "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't usually like romantic comedies, but this one is always immensely enjoyable.  Perhaps the three best actors ever, delivering perhaps their best comic performances.  Timelessly entertaining, this film deserves the praise it's received. "},{"Title":"Great cast - great film","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If I was to make a list of my ten favorite movie actors ever, Hepburn, Stewart and Grant would all be on it.  Watching them together in this movie was a treat. The plot of The Philadelphia Story is predictable - if you do not have a pretty good idea where it's going by, say, the 20 minute mark you need to go see more movies.  But love is always a cliche and so are love stories - it's how you get to the end that matters.  This movie gets to the end with great dialogue, great acting, memorable side characters, and a lot of fun - and the pretty sight of the privileged class enjoying its privileges.I would single out Stewart's performance in particular.  Jimmy Stewart was as likeable an actor as we have ever had on film, even here, where the character is a bit hard-edged and cynical.  Maybe he never could really act in a Michael Moriarity method sort of way, but he could project characters like no one else. "},{"Title":"A Clever Classic The Title Does Not Reveal!!!","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I would never thought by the title that this FINE CLASSIC, is truly a romantic  comedy of its time. What surprised me most, was in this well scripted lovetriangle film, the dialog thats between the Great Katharine Hepburn's role as  (Tracy) and two classy actors in their own right, Cary Grant's role as (C.KDexter) and Jimmy Stewart's role as (Mike), where Grant takes a backseatapproach to let  Stewart SHINE, giving a fine performance despite living in a  doggy-dog world. Found it odd in choosing Jimmy Stewart in a love triangle film. Guess I'm used to   his westerner type roles. To many this one may be unknown who like films as of  this genre. Truly a  romantic COMEDY'S treasure delight. 10/10 least for 1940. A  Must See! "},{"Title":"Better than almost everything else","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Cary Grant, Katherine Hepburn and Jimmy Stewart. How do you improve on that unless Spencer Tracy would have played Kittridge. This movie is spectacular....outstanding performances not only by the big three but the supporting cast was terrific, and the writing just magnificent. Some of Cary Grant's lines are just brilliantly timeless, and when said by Cary Grant, well that can not be topped. "},{"Title":"Here it is....","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie with the greatest group of three stars ever. Cary Grant, James Stewart and Katherine Hepburn in the same movie sharing scene after scene.....the best trio ever assembled, and they were not wasted. This was outstanding all the way around. "},{"Title":"Pre-High Society","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film accidentally on 18/2/03 as I messed up a vcr recording about Richard III.At the end, a professional British actor regarded it as in the top 10 of films ever made.Kathryn Hepburn owned the film rights to the story and originally wanted her close friend, the Catholic Spencer Tracy (whom she could not marry) and Clarke Gable in the principal male roles.Both however were unavailable and Messrs Grant and Stewart were cast instead.In one scene just played by Grant and a very drunk Stewart sitting down, he remarked how Grant generously gave the scene to Stewart, a technique not often understood by those who do not practice the acting craft.I found myself looking at the scenes where the songs in the later musical version, High Society, were later interspersed, picking up on clues in the dialogue such as being a millionaire, and True Love, the name given by C.K. Dexter Haven to the sailing boat he designed and sailed in with Tracy Lord when they were first married over two years before the action takes place in this film.Certainly the basic trio exhibit very polished, witty performances and although most people know the ending or can guess by the way the plot moves (no spoiler here), it all ends very satisfactorily - but this is a comedy!Observant film fans who have seen The Man in the White Flannel Suit(1956) starring Gregory Peck/Jennifer Jones, may spot the actor who played an executive at the media firm to whom Greg Peck newly reports), and who in the subject film (16 years ealier) plays the Publisher of Spy magazine.Also one can tell this was a stage play originally by the paucity of location filming.No matter, this has rightly become a classic.   "},{"Title":"An enduring joy of a film.","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" People don't talk the way they do in Philip Barry's The Philadelphia Story anymore. Maybe they never really did. But if romantic films exist to show us the world as we wish it could be, then very few films have ever done better than this one. Katharine Hepburn, the greatest film actress we've ever had, turns in another in her seemingly endless string of great performances as Tracy Samantha Lord, the ice-queen socialite who gets lessons in humility and humanity from two of the best co-stars you could possibly want, Jimmy Stewart(who won an Oscar for this performance, largely because he'd lost the year before for Mr. Smith Goes to Washington) and Cary Grant(who probably should have gotten the Oscar that went to Stewart, but no matter). The banter is priceless, the acting flawless. As classy a comedy as has ever been made. "}{"Title":" A marvel that it holds up so well after 60 years.","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Seeing this movie 60+ years after it was made, one has to marvel that it holds up so well. It is both charming and funny.  One of Katherine Hepburn's greatest roles.  Cary Grant and James Stewart--before they became stereotyped-- are excellent.  Ruth Hussey and Virginia Weidner are excellent in supporting roles.  Hard to believe that No two of the three principals--Hepburn, Grant, Stewart--ever appeared on film together again!  "},{"Title":"Outstanding Comedy.","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The very wealthy Katharine Hepburn (Oscar-nominated) has thrown husband Cary Grant out of the house. Fast-forward a couple of years and Hepburn is about to be remarried, but Grant is planning his revenge with the help of Spy Magazine employees James Stewart (in his lone Oscar-winning performance) and Ruth Hussey. What follows is a smart, innovative and creative comedy that few will be able to find any problems with. George Cukor's Oscar-nominated direction has rarely been better. This is perhaps his greatest film. 4.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"The Best Romantic-comedy","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  That states it as simple as I know how. It's a dream cast; James Stewart, Cary Grant, & Katharine Hepburn, in a great and funny movie. And you know what I like most? It's unpredictable. At the beginning of the movie, I could not guess or know how it was going to end, Being able to guess how a movie will end is a major flaw in many movies of this genre. A must see. "},{"Title":"Everything a romantic comedy ought to be.","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is fabulous.  The characters are fabulous, the acting is fabulous, the costumes, (you guessed it!) fabulous, and it stars three of the greatest actors of all time. It's funny and sweet and sarcastic and thoroughly lovable.  I really don't know quite how to express the reasons for my deep love of this movie in detail.  It's just sweet, I suppose, but not too sweet. There's a sarcastic, dry edge there that makes this movie deliciously funny.   If you like older movies, watch this.  If you like romantic comedies, don't be frightened because it's older. Watch it. It's just so...Fabulous! "},{"Title":"excellent cast, brilliant script","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is pure gold. I love it more than words can say.  Tough choice for Kate.. Cary Grant or Jimmy Stewart.  How did she manage?  All that aside, this movie dealt well with the fragility of human life, and the flaws which we all must realize about our true selves. I particularly enjoyed Hepburn's portrayal of a woman who is able to release herself from pretension and vanity and become an entirely new person, partly due to Cary Grant's tender yet suave assistance. His ability to stand her on her feet again  leave her infused with what she later realizes is his constant and true love of her.  Jimmy Stewart, and especially Ruth Hussey both turn in excellent portrayals of a reporter and photographer.  Hussey's wit and steadiness provide the perfect contrast to Stewart's jangling existence.  I can't help but watch this movie again, just to pick up on the excellent scraps of dialogue which are so frequently missing in today's films. "},{"Title":"Rather dated but still classy romantic comedy","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's pretty hard to go wrong with two classic romcom stars, Cary Grant and Jimmy Stewart, in the same movie, and Katherine Hepburn isn't too bad either in this funny, twisty-turny she's-marrying-the-wrong-guy comedy. There are plenty of moments of hilarity that still work for modern audiences, but perhaps the most interesting aspect of this film is the insight it gives into the attitudes of American society at the time. Examining issues of class and privilege, through the triangular romance between Hepburn's haughty aristo, Grant's rich playboy and Stewart's low-born but poetic magazine hack, the story twists and turns between Hepburn's realisation of her own failings and the other stars' growing awareness of her qualities. The class divide in US society influences just about every scene. With all the lead actors playing to familiar types (Grant the wide boy, Stewart the stammering romantic, Hepburn the dignified snob), the story itself is fairly predictable, until the last moment when the tables are turned in a manner which would probably be very surprising in a modern romcom; the characters' motivations do not seem to be pointing the way they end up at all, although perhaps contemporary audiences would have had more sympathy for some characters than for others, and it's all great fun. On the whole it's a funny, sophisticated comedy of interest to more than romance fans alone. Class "},{"Title":"Great Cinema","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Watching the Philadelphia Story is a joy.  The script is so literate, so witty, so sharp that comparing it to a current film is almost laughable.  So much happens in so short a time without it ever seeming contrived.  Characters go through changes and are allowed the space and time to react to each other.  Hepburn reconsiders her entire life in a fairly serious way, and the other characters go through changes too.  Of course, the acting is great, especially from Hepburn, who is one of our great actresses.  The performances given by the little girl and the photographer are also superlative.I suppose that the only complaints one can have about the film are content rather than form.  Hepburn is supposed to forgive her father for his philandering?  She is cold and aloof and thus must return to her first husband, who comes this close to beating her?  As with many classic Hollywood films, the independent, smart woman is pathologized and must be cured.  Marriage is the only real option.  At least here, the options are appealing.  Still, a film like this, while unquestionable great, makes one wonder what people are talking about when they speak of a return to the good old days.  They look like slavery to me.    "},{"Title":"Overrated but still entertaining romantic comedy from Hollywood's golden age","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Maybe its because I'm really not the right audience for it, but The Philadelphia Story is rather overrated. Its more of a romantic comedy than an actual screwball comedy, and romantic comedy is a genre of film I typically despise. However, by those standards, its actually pretty good and admittedly very well written. The dialog constantly sparkles, and even if the lack of likable characters is a considerable drawback, its always an involving story (the quick pace helps). The film never really seems condescending or manipulative towards the audiences intelligence either, and presents credible situations and realistic characters and manages to make them quite funny. Its a lot more low key than most of the screwball comedies of the era, and the humor is often dry despite being delivered in a snappy style that was popular at the time.The cast and crew are all very accomplished. Labeled box office poison prior, is it any wonder Katherine Hepburn became a huge star after this? She has a consistently commanding screen presence. James Stewart is similarly very good (if not exactly deserving of the best actor Oscar). Cary Grant is in it as well, but he seems rather underused (so much more could've been done with his character). George Cukor always directed these films well, and this is certainly no exception. The screenplay by Donald Ogden Stewart is very witty. The Philadelphia Story isn't exactly up my alley, so I'm rather surprised I ended up liking the thing, if not to the degree many others do. (7/10) "},{"Title":"One Of The Greatest Comedies Of All Time!","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" *The Philadelphia SPOILERS* Tracy Samantha Lord (Katherine Hepburn), a cold, arrogant divorced heiress, is about to get married again to George Kittredge (John Howard), a former miner who is now trying to get into politics.And obviously, the renown tabloid SPY Magazine, helmed by the slimy Sydney Kidd (Henry Daniell) wants to do a story about it, sending reporter Macaulay 'Mike' Connor (James Stewart) and photographer Elizabeth 'Liz' Imbrie (Ruth Hussey) on site, and blackmailing C.K. Dexter Haven (Cary Grant), Tracy's former husband, and Tracy's family with an article about an affair Seth Lord (John Halliday), Tracy, her brother Junius (who never appears) and her younger sister Dinah (Virginia Weidler)'s father and Margareth (Mary Nash), the kids' mother's husband, has had in NY with dancer Tina Mara.However, this stay will be important for everyone involved, including Uncle Willie (Roland Youmg)...Classic romantic comedies just can't get better than this, especially with a script tailored for Katherine Hepburn (one of the reasons why 'High Society', the '50s remake, just doesn't work), great performances, lavish sets and the moral tone which is set just right.Absolutely not to miss! The Philadelphia Story 9/10. "},{"Title":"A brilliant movie classic.","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Tracy Lord is one of the Philadelphia elite, the cool queen of high society, recently devorced to playboy C. K. Dexter Haven, and soon to marry the rich industrialist George Kittredge.  It's the day before the wedding and the everything is running smoothly.  That is, untill Dexter shows up with two reporters from a gossip magazine, one being attractive Macaulay Connor.  As plots begin to twist, snobbery and elitism are challenged, and romance leaves everyone beguiled.  The wedding hour approaches - who will Tracy marry, and is she really such a cold hearted queen after all?Cary Grant, Katharine Hepburn, and James Stewart are a charming and witty menage a trois giving first class performances.  The script is based on the play HIGH SOCIETY, Donald Ogden Stewart.  It is a seemless and intelligent story, similar to Shakespeare's THE TAMING OF THE SHREW.  A brilliant movie classic. "}{"Title":"Just brilliant!","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Where to begin? Grant? Hepburn? Stewart? Dialogue? Ambiance? Wit? Everything in this movie is just what you would expect, and more so. Oscar Wilde-ish but tinted with American freshness -buy it, rent it, steal it, and keep it in your collection for ever! It is the perfect  example of the phrase They don't make them as they used to.  "},{"Title":"Not overrated at all","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm a bit surprised to find I never got around to reviewing this one, as it's one of my all-time favorite movies. But I often find it harder to write positive reviews than negative; when you don't like a movie, there are specific things you don't like that you can talk about, but when every aspect of a film is great, what is there to say? This is such a film every aspect is great.Still, I happened to read some of the negative reviews here (not that there are many) and felt motivated to put my own two cents in on the positive side. Overrated? Not by a long shot. Everything receiving effusive praise deserves it the sparkling, witty dialogue, the wonderful performances, the chemistry between the stars, the significant contributions from the supporting cast, it's all there. Dated? If you're complaining that the movie is dated, that's more a comment about *you* than the film. Some of us can appreciate a great film from any era; if you can't, well, Blockbuster is overflowing with today's latest hits, just for you. I suppose one could argue that Beethoven and Shakespeare are dated too.I'm usually the curmudgeon. I'm usually the guy who gets on here to write negative reviews of highly rated films which I found overrated (in fact, I'm getting ready to write one for The Bicycle Thief, which I just saw). But The Philadelphia Story doesn't merit such treatment. It's delightful and fun and funny and a deserved classic. The point was driven home to me forcefully some years ago when I got around to seeing High Society, the musical remake of The Philadelphia Story. Having loved Philadelphia Story, I had high expectations for High Society, yet I found it limp, tepid, and very disappointing, a pale imitation indeed. At the film's conclusion, I found myself wondering if I was misremembering how good the original was, so, even though it was late, I decided to pop The Philadelphia Story into the VCR and just watch a little of it, just to compare.I ended up watching the whole thing, late into the night, unable to turn it off. It was every bit as good as I remembered it, and then some. "},{"Title":"Somewhat overrated","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Being a big fan of all three stars and being aware of the reputation of this film I expected great things. I was somewhat let down. While I appreciated the performances (though it's hard to believe Stewart got his only Oscar for this role) and the urbane wit of the dialogue, I found the film entirely predictable and not that amusing. There was no suspense whatsoever as to how things would turn out. The couplings were pre-ordained and those in need of a life lesson got it. A far more moving and humorous film in the same vein, that is too overlooked, is Libeled Lady (1936). Still despite my criticisms, I recommend this film; it is a great vehicle for the stars, it is marginally entertaining, and most importantly it is an indelible part of film history, 7/10. "},{"Title":"A great film perhaps but ------","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" At the risk of seeming antagonistic--and I am here, but that is not a bad thing---my nod for most overrated film goes to THE PHILADELPHIA STORY. The reason is simply that it seems like such a conspicuous showcase for the star. I like Ms.Hepburn very much and was marveling at her beauty in ALICE ADAMS only a few weeks ago, while BRINGING UP BABY is one of my top-ten favorite films (does my guilt show??) but she bought the property for herself (admittedly a wise thing to do, fiscally and career-wise) and for me, the self-aggrandizing screenplay renders the movie a net loss. I just can't buy into all the fuss over what to me is not a real agreeable or affable character until we're eight or ten reels into the story and by then she's lost me. "},{"Title":"Same old, same old.","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The twists and turns in the plot of THE PHILADELPHIA STORY will keep you guessing until the very end...unless you've seen a movie before.If you have, you'll find that everything you expect to happen happens in exactly the way you expect. Grant, Hepburn, and Stewart do exactly their normal shtick; the people you expect to end up together end up together; the people you expect to learn a lesson learn exactly the lesson you expect them to learn; and the people you expect to get their comeuppance, get it.It's all very charming and clever, of course (though with the cast and crew involved, that's the least that should be expected), but it isn't very funny, and its moral outlook is bizarre and appalling--no, it is never a daughter's fault that her father is an adulterer, and anyone who says otherwise should be taken out and horsewhipped.And surely it counts for something that we've seen it all before, about eight hundred times. "},{"Title":"Ghastly","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An unmitigated disaster - and I speak as someone with great affection for vintage film, comedy in general and these actors specifically. I'm not entirely surprised that THE PHILADELPHIA STORY garners the absurd high praise that it does, though. Every aspect of the play and film is utterly phony, but in that high-minded, self-congratulatory manner that appeals to middlebrow audiences who point to films like this as emblems of their own good taste. I can't think of another 'classic' that's routinely considered an actor's dream in which the actors have been so ill-served by their roles and dialogue. They're all embalmed up there on the screen - not just stagebound but hidebound. The well-known plot revolves around the imminent society wedding of ice princess Tracy Lord to a self-made prig; in attendance are her archly witty family, her archly witty ex-husband (who pines for her still) and a pair of archly witty tabloid-style reporters (who resent her spoiled ways and vast wealth). The proceedings begin in a reasonably lively fashion, but it's not long before the forced mechanics of Philip Barry's conception begin audibly creaking, by which point the high-toned literary bon mots begin to land with little thuds; the ghastly speechifying, the would-be ironic wisdom and poetic drunk-scenes begin to take over the movie and THE PHILADELPHIA STORY becomes an endurance test for anyone who has ever truly enjoyed watching Hepburn, Grant, Stewart et al in anything worthy of their talents. Grant does what he can with his role, which mostly calls for worldly-wise detached bemusement, but Jimmy Stewart is trapped with scenes and dialogue that seem like a deliberate attempt to sabotage his naturalism and tremendous rapport with movie audiences. His famous 'drunk scene' with Hepburn is so horridly bogus and actorish that you wonder if the Academy gave him that Oscar as a form of combat-pay - you can't not wince hearing him swoon, There's a magnificence in you, Tracy, bathed in Metro's most gossamer lighting. Ruth Hussey is wasted in a completely thankless role, John Howard's stuffy bridegroom is similarly a stock character/cipher, and Roland Young's old roue, meant to be irresistably irascible, sets your teeth on edge throughout the film. Yet all of these performers get off easy compared to what Barry, and Metro, have done to poor Katherine Hepburn here. The Tracy Lord role is written as a harsh and demeaning caricature of Hepburn's own public persona; she garnered raves, and a return ticket to the Hollywood firmament, for sending up her perceived hyper-neurotic brittleness with great good cheer. She must indeed have been desperate to redeem her image by playing a role this insulting the 'Hepburn' being spoofed never once alludes to her fierce intelligence or dramatic intensity or even her basic decency or humanity. 'Tracy Lord' is a spoiled, smug, self-centered and utterly insufferable stick-figure whose entire dramatic purpose is to be told by every other character how cold and fraudulent and incapable of human emotion she is, over and over, until the audience is fairly salivating for the cleansing humiliation and comeuppance that will render her, at last, a 'real' woman. She gives her lines more feeling and intuition than they deserve (when she's not forced to read dialogue expressly designed to make her look foolish or hateful). The real irony here is, though THE PHILADELPHIA STORY did renew Hepburn's Hollywood career, it reinforced the audience's distrustful perceptions of her, so that generations of moviegoers have come to think of Tracy Lord and Katherine Hepburn as one and the same. But there's a reason THE PHILADELPHIA STORY is rarely, if ever, revived as a stage property it's horribly false and condescending, and one could single out the phonies in the audience with ease - they'd be the only ones laughing, while the majority of the attendants punctuate their long silences with nervous coughing between impatient glances at their watches. Thank the Lord at least for Virginia Weidler in this movie, as the kid gives the only unaffected performance in the whole show. Lucky for her that Philip Barry didn't think enough of the character to devote the same 'care' he took with the lead roles. "},{"Title":"Vastly Overrated Movie With Unlikeable Characters","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"28 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What a major disappointment! When I began to collect movies in earnest, and read everything I could about films, this one always got ultra-rave reviews....by everyone. It also had three huge stars Cary Grant, James Stewart and Katharine Hepburn. Man, I was anxious to see this.Well, this movie was terrible. I hated it. The only redeeming quality - and that was worth only two stars out of 10, was seeing a young and pretty Hepburn. Otherwise, the dialog was just plain stupid and the main characters - played by those three above - were all irritating to watch. This was the first movie I had seen in which I didn't like Stewart's role. He had always been likable. Maybe it's just me, but I don't find obnoxious drunks humorous nor do I find stuck-up high-society dames a turn-on, either. That's what you have in this vastly overrated movie. It was so bad, I shut it off with 30 minutes to go and got rid of the tape. "},{"Title":"Social Set Comedy","Date":"4 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" George Cukor directed this high society comedy that stars Katharine Hepburn as rich socialite Tracy Lord, who is about to marry businessman George Kittredge, though her ex-husband C.K. Dexter Haven(played by Cary Grant) has other ideas. Jimmy Stewart also stars as Macauly Connor, a reporter determined to get the inside story on the wedding, who brings along his friend Elizabeth (played by Ruth Hussey) who gets to witness first-hand the craziness on display. Overrated film isn't particularly funny, with strangely unappealing characters that you care nothing about. Tracy doesn't seem worth all the fuss, and film has a disturbing morality, since Tracy's fiancée is unfairly portrayed as a bore, while her father smugly justifies his martial infidelities, supported by his wife! Why in the world should the viewer care about these people? Still, Jimmy Stewart did win an Academy Award for best actor, and it is a polished production, though much ado about nothing... "},{"Title":"Sublime, Golden age Cinema","Date":"14 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Firstly, I watched this as a Korean import DVD, which is quite a bit cheaper but possibly, of inferior quality. There's only one disc, for starters and once subtitles have been switched off, plays like any other, though reviewers have mentioned the excellent transfer of the version advertised. This one is very good, thankfully without the dreaded juddery panning shots that I so often suffer with Korean ones, but it's not as crisp as I know other films of this period can be.Philadelphia Story is undoubtedly an evergreen classic. The getting drunk scenes with Katherine Hepburn and Jimmy Stewart and the romantic results are sent from heaven, the chemistry, Jimmy's famous drawl, the shimmering lighting - beautiful and touching. Magic.This film can be seen countless times; its mixture of satire, romance, comedy and sheer story have probably never been bettered on screen. That it features three of the biggest acting stars on the planet at the time, who actually DO get on with each other, no off-set personality clashes (that I'm aware of) that might spill over into the scenes, creates a real sense of ease and naturalness.Philly Story is essential viewing to all true lovers of film - even if it's not your usual fare, it's an example of how to make a film. For fans of either Grant, Hepburn or Stewart, you've been missing a great deal and seeing them together WILL change your life, well, at least your enjoyment of it! "},{"Title":"Star power","Date":"9 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" IMDb Top 250 248The Philadelphia Story is a nice film, a classic comedy with lots of good jokes and heavy star power. Not much commitment is needed to enjoy it, and it can make for a fun afternoon. It's a light rom-com with a few serious scenes. It falls squarely into the category of see if it it's there, but not worth going out of your way to see.The scene is set with a 'reporter' team going to cover a socialite's wedding with the bride-to-be's ex as a guide humour, romance and innundo ensure. The pace is relaxed throughout, with a slump around the 45 minute mark, but it is made up for by a strong last 45, and an ending that tosses a few twists right until the very end.'Philadelphia' is worth your time because of its characters and their excellent dialogue. Tracy Lord (Katherine Hepburn) is a socialite, a Kim Kardashian of her day, apparently famous for no reason. She's an unsure woman, stemming from her parents' uncertainties, with a wry sense of humour. Macaulay (James Stewart) is one bitter writer, appearing angry until he turns into the kind Jimmy Stewart we love- and gets some great lines. Best Actor worthy though? Nah. Lastly Carey Grant plays the ex, put in a funny position. He's likable and well- handled.The Philadelphia Story has an unfortunate sticker attached to it it came out in the same year as The Great Dictator. If you check out my review for that, you can see I like it just a little bit, just my favourite comedy of all time. If you asked which of these two films was better, I would choose The Great Dictator every time.While 'Philadelphia' is mostly concerned with telling a story, I found a recurring theme of 'invasion'. The media invades the home's privacy. The ex invades Tracy's privacy. The films shows alcohol influence over the body, and is important to the plot. Lastly, the uncle and the camera women. Maybe this is a coincidence, but it's a good one.Again, the focus of the film is telling a story and making you snicker, where it succeeds. If you like classics or the three major stars attached to this film, you'll like this well made film. 8.0/10 "}{"Title":"Classic Film In The 40's About Marriage","Date":"2 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Philadelphia Story is a romantic comedy that features Cary Grant, Katharine Hepburn, and James Stewart. It was based on the Broadway play of the same name by Philip Barry.The movie is about a socialite whose wedding plans are complicated by the simultaneous arrival of her ex- husband and a tabloid magazine journalist. It was written for the screen by Donald Ogden Stewart and an uncredited Waldo Salt.The movie is considered one of the best examples of a comedy of remarriage, a genre popular in the 1930s and 1940s, in which a couple divorce, flirt with outsiders and then remarry.It was directed by George Cukor.The movie opens on Philadelphia socialite C.K. Dexter Haven as he's being tossed out of his palatial home by his wife, Tracy Lord. Adding insult to injury, Tracy breaks one of C.K.'s precious golf clubs. He gallantly responds by knocking her down on her million-dollar keester. A couple of years after the breakup, Tracy is about to marry George Kittridge, a wealthy stuffed shirt whose principal recommendation is that he's not a Philadelphia mainliner, as C.K. was. Still holding a torch for Tracy, C.K. is galvanized into action when he learns that Sidney Kidd (Henry Daniell), the publisher of Spy Magazine, plans to publish an exposé concerning Tracy's philandering father. To keep Kidd from spilling the beans, C.K. agrees to smuggle Spy reporter Macauley Connor and photographer Elizabeth Imbrie into the exclusive Lord- Kittridge wedding ceremony. How could C.K. have foreseen that Connor would fall in love with Tracy, thereby nearly lousing up the nuptials? As it turns out, of course, it is C.K. himself who pulls the louse-up, reclaiming Tracy as his bride.The Philadelphia Story is obviously a classic cinema masterpiece.Every time Katharine Hepburn, Cary Grant, and Jimmy Stewart appear on a scene and connect with one another,we sense that there is magic on screen and that we are seeing an extraordinary movie.That is also true with the supporting cast as well.The screenplay is also excellent and outstanding as it was witty and intelligent.Of course,the direction by Cukor was simply amazing.It has all the elements not only of a great comedy but of an excellent film as well.And most of all,it has stood the test of time that this 1940 film would still be appreciated more than six decades after it was shown by viewers today.Arguably,it can be considered one of the greatest not only comedy film but films ever made. "},{"Title":"Perfect Romantic Comedy","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of the greatest movies ever made! This movie needs no introduction. It needs no description. It's a classic. Starring three incredible actors of all time. The sexy and handsome Cary Grant and James Stewart, and the beautiful, hilarious Katherine Hepburn. From the very first laugh out loud scene, this movie moves at a nice pace, very funny, and great acting. Everything about it is perfect.Everyone seems to be at their best. The story is about a rich young Philadelphia woman *played by Katherine* who has divorced Cary grant's character and is now getting ready to marry someone new. Cary Grant shows up on the Eve of her wedding with two news reporters *one of whom is James Stewart* hilarity ensues. "},{"Title":"A finely crafted romantic comedy from Hepburn & company","Date":"22 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Philadelphia Story is widely considered one of the best romantic comedies of all time. In it, a socialite's ex-husband shows up days before her wedding with a couple of tabloid journalists in tow. Naturally, she's none too pleased with this development but she must co-operate in order to protect the reputation of her philandering father. As a result of this unwelcome intrusion, her wedding plans are thrown into disarray, particularly since she soon has three men vying for her affection.The Oscar-winning script has a depth atypical of romantic comedies and relies more upon its sharp, witty tone than in creating farcical situations. I'll admit that the plot seemed a bit unfocused to me the first time I watched the movie but on a second viewing I was able to appreciate some of the film's nuances that I'd missed the first time around, such as Cary Grant's telling body language.The performances of Grant and others bring the script to vivid life. Considering that the part of Tracy Lord was written specifically for Katherine Hepburn it's unsurprising that she excelled in the role. She landed a well-deserved Oscar nomination for her efforts while James Stewart outdid her by actually bringing home an Oscar (his only Oscar, as it turned out). Meanwhile, Cary Grant lent his considerable charm to the character of C.K. Dexter Haven, a suave scoundrel getting a kick out of pushing his ex-wife's buttons. The supporting cast also deserves praise, especially Ruth Hussey (another Oscar nominee) & Roland Young.Direction, scoring and other technical aspects were all capably handled but are otherwise not worth commenting on.Overall, I'd say that this is a film that deserves its reputation as one of the best romantic comedies of all time. While the presentation isn't particularly distinguished, the sharp script and charismatic performances make the film well worth watching. "},{"Title":"One of the best ever","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This review only needs to be two words long. Those words are&#x85;absolutely delightful. If that's not enough, here are three more&#x85;Hepburn, Grant, Stewart. Do you seriously need to read anything more about this movie? Go out and rent it right now.Still with me? Okay, here's the plot. Tracy Lord (Katherine Hepburn) and GK Dexter Haven (Cary Grant) are a couple of old money, high society types who got married in a moment and divorced in a fury. Two years after that, Tracy is ready to marry the nouveau riche George Kittredge (John Howard). Dexter offers to sneak a couple of reporters into the wedding, supposedly as revenge on Tracy but actually because if he doesn't, the magazine will run a damaging story about Tracy's father. The writer and photographer, Macaulay Connor (James Stewart) and Liz Imbrie (Ruth Hussey), are a couple of working class stiffs who have the talent to be artists, but being an artist doesn't bring in enough cash to pay the bills. As the three interlopers arrive at the Lord family estate a day before the wedding, Dexter, Connor and George find themselves caught in Tracy's gravitational pull. Their orbits around this beautiful, brilliant and fiery star intersect and crash into each other until we find out who Tracy loves, who loves her and whether any of that has anything to do with getting married.This is a great movie. Go out and rent it right now.Still reading? Yeesh, what more do you want to know? This film has some of the greatest, sharpest, most electric dialog you'll ever hear, delivered by some of the greatest actors there will ever be. And it's not all about Hepburn, Grant and Stewart. Ruth Hussey is just a wonderful as they are, even with a much smaller role. The filmmaking isn't very complex by today's standards and many older movies like this end up feeling a bit slow and labored when compared to the wild camera work and insanely fast editing of modern films. But The Philadelphia Story flies like a rocket across the sky. The energy of the story never lets up and even the scenes meant to be quiet and calm, crackle and spark like an electrified road runner.Go out and rent this movie right now.Still reading? Well, in addition to being a marvelous work of entertainment, The Philadelphia Story is also an interesting examination of American attitudes toward class in its era. This film paints a picture of three distinct classes in society. Tracy and Dexter are the sort of wealthy elite whose families have been rich as long as anyone can remember. They are spirited and eccentric and indulgent. Connor and Liz are the rest of the people that have to work jobs they don't particularly like just to meet their basic needs. They are pragmatic and sarcastic and have a snobby sense of superiority over the idle rich. George, in most other stories, would be the hero. He's a guy who started out working in the coal mine and has risen to be a top executive in the company. George is the self-made man, though perhaps with a little help from his prospective father-in-law. But in The Philadelphia Story, George is the schmuck. He doesn't have the breeding or style or mischief of the genuine elite. But he's got enough money to have pretensions and bull-headed ideas that working class folks can't afford to bother with. In many ways, George represented the future that was coming to American when this movie was made, but these filmmakers didn't think much of that future. The ending, with its Old World sense of class propriety, also isn't something you'd find in many American stories of any kind told after this.The Philadelphia Story is a great movie. Go out and rent it right now. Don't make me tell you again. "},{"Title":"wonderfully written, and perfect direction","Date":"26 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After she gets a divorce from C.K. Dexter Haven (Cary Grant), Tracy Lord (Katharine Hepburn) prepares to marry again to a man named George Kittredge. But when her ex-husband shows up at her mansion door, along with the reporter, Macaulay Connor (James Stewart) things begin to change for Tracy, and she cannot decide which of the three men are right for her.I loved nearly everything about The Philadelphia Story. A while back when I read that this was the only movie James Stewart ever won an Oscar for, I knew I needed to see this film. I was not quite expecting a romantic comedy, and I am not usually a fan of them, but this one I absolutely loved. Especially the script, and the direction from George Cukor, which were both perfect. This is one of his best films, and with a director like him that means a lot.The acting was brilliant. I now see why James Stewart won an Oscar, though I do think his performance in It's a Wonderful Life is his best, but either way he did fantastic in this film. Katharine Hepburn did very good as well, this was the first film I saw with her in it, and I certainly was not disappointed. Cary Grant delivered his usual good performance, it was not his best, but it was still very good.Overall, The Philadelphia Story is a fantastic classic with great performances, a terrific screenplay, and great direction. Which makes this film still enjoyable long after it was made. "},{"Title":"The film is a quick-witted translation of the play, essentially a parlor drama with witty, Oscar Wilde-like banter and glib repartee from nearly every actor.","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A stuffy heiress (Katharine Hepburn), about to be married for the second time, turns human and considers returning gratefully to husband number one (Cary Grant).The Philadelphia Story is Hollywood's most wise and sparkling comedy, with a script which is even an improvement on the original play. George Cukor's direction is so discreet you can hardly sense it, and all the performances are just perfect. Grant donated his salary from this film to war relief. In 1995, The Philadelphia Story was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry. It was adapted in 1956 as the musical High Society, starring Bing Crosby, Grace Kelly, Frank Sinatra and Louis Armstrong. "},{"Title":"An absolute treat","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Romantic comedies are one of the most loved and popular genres in cinema. There are very few romantic comedies that stand the test of time and remain fresh after decades. 'The Philadelphia Story' is one such rom-com. Beginning from the star cast, the movie shoots up the expectations of the viewer. I mean which other movie can boost of having screen legends Cary Grant, Katharine Hepburn and James Stewart in one frame. The movie also does not disappoint. Based on the coming of age of a rich, eccentric woman who realizes what true love is, along with her maturity as a woman, this movie also shows her confused state of mind when she has to make a choice between her past, present and future love. The rich woman is played by Hepburn and her past, present and future love played by Grant, Howard and Stewart respectively. This movie has got all the ingredients necessary for a rom-com. Great witty dialogues (This movie has got perhaps the best dialogues I have witnessed in a rom-com), Romantic singing, Kissing and a very happy ending. The movie is certainly ahead of it's times and is still fresh even today. There is also a certain amount of suspense maintained until the end upon whom will Hepburn choose as her true love.Romantic Comedies are not usually credited for good acting. But this movie certainly would change the mindset. For example, James Stewart in his illustrious, legendary career won just one Oscar for acting, that in this movie. Katharine Hepburn is like a livewire on screen - According to me, she is the star of the movie, the one that holds the movie together. Cary Grant underplays well, nothing much to talk about his acting. Overall, a great one time experience.Rating  8/10 "},{"Title":"Agelessly funny&#x85;","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've just recently commented one of my favorite classic romance, comedy and drama movies. This one has to be one. When it comes to old comedy films I always recall people who talk fast without even rupturing a bit of exaggerated expression on their visage (which were nowadays). I'm surprised Katharine Hepburn is really so talented she pulled this kind of flair effortlessly. James Stewart was incredibly funny too and admittedly this is the first time I saw him. The supporting casts were also delightfully witty. Ruth Hussey's simplistic wittiness blends well. I laugh hard when she prattled sarcastically to C.K. Dexter Haven (Cary Grant) about their previous acquaintance ending up disposing her camera off the ocean. I find the character of Seth Lord (John Halliday) funny also. His wit is sharp, straightforward and dangerously funny (this I believe he demonstrated towards Tracy Lord&#x97;Katharine Hepburn's character). And there's the girl Dinah Lord (Virginia Weidler) who's age and exuberance reflects well a healthy and fun youth. I find the film very uncomplicated and well scripted, so as well the characters were played very well. I just need to watch it once more again because of the details. Not that the details were inconceivable, but I would put it that way because the characters talks evidently fast. Take for example Katharine Hepburn. Well I got the problem. Nevertheless I catch few of the details with how they progressed to the wits and conversation of the film and I would love to give it another try sitting on my couch and watch their parade once more. It is agelessly funny, even at my age. "},{"Title":"a timeless classic","Date":"3 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" after watching this on TMC i was totally amazed at how good this was. Jimmy Stewart i thought stole the show for me. Carey Grant was wonderful in this too, Katherine Hepburn, well what can you say that hasn't been said before, she is just simply amazing in this movie. this classic is a story of a man and wife having difficulties.. the wife throws the husband out,, and fast forward 3 months later, the husband decides to get even by showing up the day she is supposed to get remarried to another man. trouble is there are two society reporters who are sent in to get pictures of the society event of the year,, two socialites getting married,, well the husband just won't stand for it. enter the reporters,, the male played by jimmy stewart falls for tracy..Katherine's character , so here you got the husband,, the husband to be,, and a reporter all going after tracy's affection,, jimmy's parnter reporter also likes jimmy but he just doesn't seem to get it with her.. this i feel is a timeless classic that is very funny and should not be missed. "},{"Title":"With the rich and mighty, always a little patience.","Date":"4 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In 1940, The Philadelphia Story was released and Katharine Hepburn's fate was sealed. She was now always and forever a movie star, eventually to be named the greatest of all actresses by the American Film Institute. Unfortunately, prior to this she had been dubbed box-office poison by a number of producers given her previous track record. Among those movies were Bringing Up Baby and Holiday, both also with Cary Grant. However, those were more silly and less serious roles as she was attempting to win over Grant in a screwball and romantic comedy.The Philadelphia Story hardly seems like a romantic comedy at all, although it is just that. It is a wicked battle of wits taken from Phillip Barry's play, which was written for Hepburn especially. From this material, she creates one of her greatest screen characters in Tracy Lord, daughter of the rich and high-powered Lord family who has such high standards for herself and others, refusing to tolerate any little bit of uncouth or humane behavior. She gets a jolt from her first husband, the suave but somewhat childish CK Dexter Haven. Grant uses this role to wear some dashingly handsome suits as well as counter Tracy's serious talk with her fiancé (John Howard) with funny yet poignant statements. It is clear he still loves her, but it will take more than poking fun at her to make her come around.Uninvited but allowed via blackmail, James Stewart and Ruth Hussey turn up as a reporter and photographer for a celebrity magazine getting all the scoop prior to the big day as well as unintentionally getting mixed up amongst these high-class human beings. All plot points aside, this film reigns supreme as one of the best romantic comedies ever made perhaps because there is very little forced humor. Many of the jokes and gags are quite subtle, sarcastic jabs at each other delivered with a touch of love and affection. This speaks highly of the cast, a director's dream which consists of the supreme Hepburn, the suave Grant and the cynical but romantic Stewart. Hussey is beautiful and sardonic, which always mix well in my opinion.George Cukor was a director of lavish taste, which is obvious from nearly all of his films which have immaculate art direction and crisp, clean cinematography. He also was famous for being able to get the best from his actors, women in particular. He and Hepburn worked together many times and it was a relationship built on understanding and trust one another to do what each was capable of. Here, the culmination of Hepburn's screen presence and Cukor's watchful eye come together and create a tale of love and passion as well as a take on those of high society and the differences a few dollars in the account can make. It could be argued that Hepburn and Cukor never made a better film together, and I would hold to that argument as this is pure acting and directing melded together to create harmony on screen. "}{"Title":"Philadelphia Freedom for Katharine Hepburn with George Cukor","Date":"15 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Philadelphia Story is one of the best of its era - the period of time lasting from (roughly) the end of the silent era to the beginning of World War II. It's also the perfect Katharine Hepburn vehicle, and certified her position as one of the greatest actresses of her generation. The entire cast and crew are simply spectacular, with Ms. Hepburn and director George Cukor likely most responsible (and deserving of Best Actress and Best Director attention). If you want to see one of Hollywood's most finely tuned old classics, this one goes to the top of the class. ********** The Philadelphia Story (12/23/40) George Cukor ~ Katharine Hepburn, James Stewart, Cary Grant, Ruth Hussey "},{"Title":"Delightful movie","Date":"17 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think that The Philadelphia Story is one of the best romantic comedies of all times. I can't imagine a better cast or script.Katharine Hepburn is amazing as well as James Stewart (I like the part of the movie when C.K. Dexter Haven and Macaulay Connor have the conversation about Tracy in Dexter's house). I have to say that my favorite character is the one played by Cary Grant (Dexter). His total loyalty to Tracy is moving. I think that Cary Grant is the perfect choice for the role (it's a pity that he wasn't given an Oscar for his performance). It is a really recommended movie. "},{"Title":"One of the best romantic comedies ever made","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Directed by George Cukor The Philadelphia Story tells the story of upper class heiress Tracy Lord(Katherine Hepburn)who was married to Dexter Haven(Cary Grant)who remains on good terms with the family just not Tracy. Tracy is getting married to George Kittredge(John Howard)when Dexter returns for the wedding and tries to relight his and Tracy's passion for each other.Covering the society wedding of the year are reporters Macaulay Connor(James Stewart)and Elizabeth Imbrie(Ruth Hussey).Connor is the one who eventually gets Tracy to see where her heart truly lies.This is a funny,touching and uplifting love story with a great cast.Remade in the 50's as High Society with Bing Crosby, Grace Kelly and Frank Sinatra. "},{"Title":"A Great Cast In A Very Good Movie","Date":"5 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There's absolutely no doubt that The Philadelphia Story is a good movie that leaps to the heights of a very good movie thanks to the great performances all round by a high powered cast. Having said that, I have difficulty giving it the status of the classic that so many praise it as. It's a good romantic comedy which I found to be a little slow for the first half hour or so (with the possible exception of the opening scene) that picks up the pace nicely as it moves along. Katharine Hepburn was excellent as the somewhat tormented Tracy, who's come out of a bad first marriage to Dexter (Cary Grant), is now engaged to be married to George (John Howard) while Dexter is still hanging around, and who ultimately becomes smitten with Mike (James Stewart), a society columnist assigned to get a story about the wedding. The real question in the movie is who - if anybody - Tracy is going to end up marrying. Hepburn showed her range of talent - sometimes icy cold, at times falling down drunk and from time to time just hopelessly confused about her feelings. Stewart - who won an Oscar as Best Actor for his role - played an equally tormented character equally well. Mike (or Macauley) is a writer of short stories who accepts a job with Spy magazine (a tabloid sort of paper dealing in gossip about the rich and famous) to make ends meet. He hates his job but has to put a roof over his head. Tracy's wedding is another assignment he hates until he falls for her. Grant's role was a bit more limited, but there was absolutely nothing to fault in it. One cannot review this movie without mentioning the standout performance by Virginia Weidler as Dinah, Tracy's nosy little sister. Her performance was so good that I find it surprising she never really went very far after this. It's a very good movie, mildly funny (even a wee bit risqué at times, at least defined by 1940's standards.) I didn't think it reached the heights that some have assigned to it, but it's pleasant viewing, featuring a great cast working with a good story. 7/10 "},{"Title":"They knew how to make bedroom comedies then.","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This 1940 film still works in 2008! It is a flawless example of the romantic comedy genre. The pace is quick, the acting great, snappy dialog,and quips galore, things that seem to have gone out of fashion in current romantic comedies. The cast includes three all-time super stars - James Stewart, Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn, all in the prime of the early parts of their lengthy careers. But the supporting cast were no slouches! Ill fated child star Virginia Weidler is perfection as the young sister of Hepburn's character. She virtually steals the scenes she is in. Good old Roland Young, perhaps best known for playing Cosmo Topper in Topper, is the lovable Uncle Willy, the dirty old man character. "},{"Title":"A movie made great by its performances.","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This, in my book, is not a classic but it still is a delightful to watch movie, with great performances and some wonderful dialog.This is a typical 'based on a stage-play' movie, with some obvious stage-play story situations, characters, dialog and way of storytelling. I have never been the greatest fan of these sort of movies, although there are some exceptions. I guess this movie is a sort of exception, since I still enjoyed and liked watching it.The movie doesn't have the most accessible story and is multiple layered and filled with some deeper meanings. This certainly is no formulaic movie. It makes the movie unique (perhaps the main reason why it's regarded as a classic) but not always easy to follow. The movie however always remains interesting, mainly because of the reason that it's no formulaic one and therefor also mostly unpredictable.But really the thing that makes the story and its characters work are its actors. The movie has a great all-star cast, with Katharine Hepburn, James Stewart, Cary Grant and Ruth Hussey. Some great Oscar winning and multiple nominated actors in this movie. They all give a fine performance and lift the movie to an amazingly high level.The Oscar winning story is well constructed and features some great dialog. It makes the movie movie original and unpredictable as well as fun and entertaining, although this movie is not really my idea of a great romantic comedy. The movie is professionally directed by George Cukor, who leaves it up mostly to the actors to tell the movie its story.A delightful unique movie with some great sequences, that provides more than enough reasons why this movie is a perfectly watchable one to all.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Great, but not within my tastes","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As I've said before, I'm getting into the classics and my mom highly recommended The Philadelphia Story. It's one of the very first original romantic comedies. Also that James Stuart won an Oscar for his performance. The story is so well thought out and acted well by three legendary performers. I loved the garden scene between Stuart and Hepburn and the fact that the ending wasn't your typical romantic comedy unbelievable type of story. But for some reason I really could not get into the movie. It's a great movie, but I think it is something you should see for yourself. It's stylish and like I said the performances and story is just terrific, so don't think I don't know great film making when I see it. But grab the popcorn and enjoy this 1940 classic and see what you think of it.8/10 "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Philadelphia story is one of the funniest movies ever. It is down right hilarious. James Stewart gives the best performance of his carrier as the poetry writer who has to write newspaper collems to have enough money to eat. Katherine Hepburn is also very, very good and completely hilarious in her scenes as a spoiled rich woman who tries to pretend she is not so. Cary Grant is also flawless, even more so than Hepburn. He may not get as many laughs as James Stewart, or give quite the performance that Stewart does but he is none the less wonderful as Katherine Hepburns ex-husband who is blackmailed into bringing two people who are going to write about Katherine Hepburns marriage. The screenplay is wonderfully written with some of the best dialogue ever filmed or written and some wonderful characters. The direction is also memorable but is not really great. You could have had a better director doing a better job, but this guy did fine. The visual effects are pretty good, but not great. All in all a hilarious oldy film, and one of Hollywoods best comedies. "},{"Title":"All about love","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Self-willed Tracy was going to marry again. That was big news in Philadelphia. The spy magazine sent reporter Mike Connor and photographer Liz to Tracy's home to get more news about her incoming marriage. Due to help of Tracy's ex-husband Dexter, they could live with Tracy's family for a few days. Unthinkable thing happened. Tracy appreciated the book written by Mike very much. After several talking, unconsciously their hearts were becoming closer. Tracy faced with choices.The unexpected ending was really a big surprise for me. Marriage, divorce and remarriage are significant thing for a person. It is wise to think twice before act.Cary Grant, Katharine Hepburn and James Stewart brought us wonderful and unforgettable performance. James Stewart deserved his Oscar award (the best actor).A comedian classic. 8/10 "},{"Title":"This Movie is so Yah!","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Philadelphia Story is very much in the news at the moment, with Kevin Spacey reviving it on stage at The Old Vic Theatre in London and it finally being made available on DVD in the UK. I had never seen it - although I remember of the Cole Porter musical version, High Society from childhood. The casting of Cary Grant, Katherine Hepburn and James Stewart was certainly an intriguing proposition. From the opening scene with Tracy (Hepburn) breaking Dexter's (Grant) clubs on her knee and him pushing her to the ground in one of the weirdest pieces of domestic violence on celluloid, I was hooked. Despite her 'goddessness' and reserve, the relationship between Tracy and Dexter crackles with a vital force. Moments later, when Tracy pushes her new fiancé to the floor in a bit of horseplay, you can see her trying to invoke the same spiritedness into her new relationship and failing badly. The arrival of chippy writer Macaulay 'Mike' Connor (Stewart) and hardheaded photographer Liz Imbrie (superbly played by Ruth Hussey) at the Lord's mansion for the wedding is excellently realised. As they sit in the 'South Parlour' awaiting their hosts and notice another door, Connor dryly describes it as The -south-by-southwest parlour by dining room. The sniping between the ex-husband, the unwanted journalists and the refined but flawed Lord family is superbly written. Films of this era have such zinging dialogue - it is after all the golden era of Hollywood writers, with greats like Raymond Chandler and F. Scott Fitzgerald working for the studios - but the quality of dialogue in black and white never fails to surprise me. The booziness of the party the night before the wedding changes pretty much everyone's ideas about everyone else, except for the level-headed Liz and the sober Dexter. The acting at the party, after it back at the Lords mansion and the hangovers the following day are both excellent and hilarious (Stewart's hiccups were unscripted and you can clearly see Grant trying to control himself). The fact that the film comes to the conclusion that the audience have been rooting for from the outset courtesy of A certain Miss Pommery 1926 is probably a message that's seen as unmarketable by modern PC Hollywood.The only reservation I have about this film is Hepburn herself. The play was actually written about her &#150; she was unpopular in Hollywood at the time and came from a privileged background &#150; and her billionaire boyfriend, Howard Hughes bought the rights as a present for her. Yet she fails to convince as a prig and a goddess, she seems too worldly to be able to convince herself that marriage to Kitteridge could be a good idea. The spontaneity and recklessness she shows the following morning, would seem to indicate she was still drunk, rather than had undergone an epiphany of self-realisation.A great film though with a cracking cast, a cracking script and a belief that certain people deserve one another. "}{"Title":"Wonderful movie with great casting","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Philadelphia Story is one of the great Hollywood classics. Directed by George Cukor, it has an outstanding cast. Cary Grant, James Stewart and Katherine Hepburn, among the greatest movie stars of all-time, all together in one movie!! Those 3 are wonderful in this film. Hepburn and Grant were magical in Bringing Up Baby and both shine here. Stewart is great as the drunk newspaper writer. He won his only Oscar for this role, although I felt his good friend Henry Fonda should have won for playing Tom Joad in Grapes of Wrath.The Philadelphia Story is funny and entertaining with a terrific cast and certainly ranks as one of the very best films ever made.  "},{"Title":"One of the best films ever made.","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is fantastic - definitely withstands the test of time. Foremost is the acting - everyone is fabulous, although personally I think Cary Grant shines - he is never better.  James Stewart is wonderful as is Katharine Hepburn.  They are very funny - this movie is filled with brilliantly witty dialogue.The script is fantastic and progressive for its time.  It can still make a few good points about todays society.I can't say enough good things about this film - I will watch it again and again.  It never seems to disappoint no matter how many times I have seen it. "},{"Title":"Witty and well performed romantic comedy","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favourite films of all time.  It is cleverly written and very well performed.  No fancy special effects, no unnecessary coarse language, no violence, just good timing and delivery.   Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"One of the greats!","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought that the Philadelphia Story was one of the best movies I have ever seen. It was very funny. Grant, Hepburn and Stewart were great in the film. They don't seem to have actors like that anymore. Grant should have been at least nominated for this role because he did a great performance.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorites!","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful film. Once again we get to see how wonderful Hepburn and Grant are together. I personally think that Grant should have been up for an oscar but Jimmy deserved it as well. All three were great in the film. One of my favorite parts is when Jimmy is carrying Kate.. great great film! "},{"Title":"Three great stars make a film to remember","Date":"20 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Philadelphia Story is pretty much exactly what you would expect it to be. The film features three of old-time Hollywood's most famous stars, each of whom falls comfortably into the type of role you would expect of them. Katharine Hepburn has the central role, that of upper-class Philadelphia socialite Tracy Lord who is about to be married. But this is not Tracy's first go at marriage. Cary Grant plays her first husband C. K. Dexter Haven whom Tracy divorced maybe because he had a drinking problem, maybe because she felt he just wasn't good enough for her. Is any man good enough for this ice queen? Certainly a tabloid reporter would never measure up to her high standards. But when reporter Mike Connor is, much to his dismay, assigned to cover Tracy's wedding he ends up getting himself rather more involved in the proceedings than he could have imagined. James Stewart plays Connor, completing our triumvirate of movie star royalty. A few other performers have their moments, most notably Ruth Hussey who plays a photographer who also happens to be Connor's love interest. But for pretty much the entirety of the film's running time the focus is on the characters portrayed by Hepburn, Grant and Stewart. It is up to this trio to carry the picture and they are of course more than capable of doing just that.When first husband C.K. Dexter Haven shows up at the Lord home just before Tracy is about to be married again you know complications will inevitably ensue. The fact that he has brought along a reporter and photographer who he has smuggled into the home under false pretense certainly won't help matters. Tracy sees through that ruse almost immediately and this very private woman certainly is not keen on the idea of having her wedding splashed across the pages of some tabloid. But circumstances dictate that she has no choice but to allow it in order to protect the reputation of her family. Reputation is everything in her world. However as events play out she may begin to look at life, and at herself, a little differently. This queen of high society may be in for a good bit of humbling.The film is fairly predictable, rather formulaic. But, thanks largely to the performances of the three stars, the film is always engaging and ultimately rather charming. There is plenty of snappy, witty dialogue. There are moments of great humor and some very serious, heartfelt moments as well. Grant is just as suave and debonair as you would always expect Cary Grant to be. Stewart is more of an everyman and he infuses Mike Connor with a lighter touch that works perfectly. And Hepburn is essentially flawless as her character evolves, tearing down the walls she has placed up around herself and, maybe for the first time in her life, following her heart. It's hard to imagine anyone but Hepburn in the role. She can play cold and detached, she can play warm and loving. As this film plays out she gets to do both. There may not be much inherent drama in the plot as it's rather obvious all along where all this is headed. And as presented there's nothing very cinematic about the film. The story was originally a stage play and that's pretty much the look of the picture, a stage play that someone happened to film. Some of the material may seem dated, perhaps the film as a whole doesn't play quite as well all these years later. But all in all it's still an enjoyable film, undeniably elevated by the performances of its three great stars. It may not be right at the top of the list of all-time classic films but it is certainly worth seeing and worthy of being remembered as fondly as it seems to be. "},{"Title":"Father blaming his floundering on his daughter","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a fun film on the surface with great actors but also one of the most misogynist films I have ever seen. Father blaming his floundering on his daughter, Katrine Hepburn's character is mind boggling say the least! Has anyone ever listen to the words! Everyone is writing how great the film is and apparently the screenplay won an Oscar but I can only cringe when father goes in to his moral lecture about daughters lack of warmth is what causes him to turn to other young women for love and affection, and yes sex. I find this film to be anti strong women. Like Shakespeare's Taming of the Shrew, strong women who speak their mind have to be tamed so they yield to men. I don't find that funny in the least. "},{"Title":"The best movie ever","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Another one of the best performances (and her tastiest film) was Katharine Hepburn's part as Tracy Lord. She was really devoted to that part, because of her previous slumps. I believe the part of Tracy Lord was personally relevant to the varying states of her career. Her marriage to C.K.Dexter Haven can be seen as an allegory to career 1. a wonderful beginning looked back upon with nostalgia (see scene with Tracy in the pool with the model boat, My she was yar; compare to early roles like 'Morning Glory') 2. The Box-Office Poison phase (with Dex's snuff of Tracy at the doorstep as rather potent symbolism, that is, Kate herself being 'snuffed' by the movie-going public) 3. Her use of the Broadway version of 'The Philadelphia Story' as a stepping-stone to a new, more powerful career shown quite well in the movie as Mike lifting her up, dazed from drinking, (or is that her dazed from many failures in the public's eye) and essentially delivering her to Dex's side 4. Her return to glory , ironically with this movie (her 'remarriage' to Dex, did she plan this all out!!!!) Not to mention that Tracy's relationship with Dexter seems to follow Katharine's professional relationship with Cary Grant, some flops followed by an amazing bounce-back performance, leading to never-ending bliss. Her best movie, hands-down!!! "},{"Title":"Supreme Entertainment","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Philadelphia Story (1940) Directed by George Cukor Staring Cary Grant, Katherine Hepburn, Jimmy StewartThe Philadelphia Story is a screwball comedy about a headstrong Philadelphian socialite (Hepburn) whose seemingly perfect world is suddenly disturbed by her charming ex-husband (Grant) and a tabloids reporter (Stewart) just days before her upcoming wedding. The hilarious premise is set up quickly and skillfully by Cukor, and I was immediately thrust into nearly 2 hours of nonstop entertainment. The script is clearly one of the best ever written in Hollywood. There are so many wonderful exchanges of dialogue between the characters that it's hard to catch everything with just one viewing. Every actor in the movie gives a superb performance. Hepburn as Tracy Lord gives her character great strength and individuality, remaining deeply flawed and fragile. While Jimmy Stewart won an Oscar for his performance as the reluctant and cynical tabloids reporter who is really an intelligent and talented writer. The famous drunk scene is hilarious, and really showcases Stewart's wonderful comedy skills. Virginia Weidler as the kid sister also steals a number of scenes throughout the movie with her wonderful acting. There is nothing especially deep or groundbreaking about the movie, it is simply supreme entertainment, carried by great dialogue and great acting by the era's biggest stars. Classic Hollywood, they simply don't make movies like these anymore.10/10 "},{"Title":"one of the best ever","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I simply adore this movie. -) But then how could any movie with Jimmy Stewart, Cary Grant and Kathryn Hepburn starring in it be bad? The supporting cast is absolutely marvelous; I adore Uncle Willie and little sis Dinah pitched the Marx brothers song, Lydia the Tattooed Lady better than Groucho ever could. The librarian cracked me up in that while the title says its the Philidelphia story so we know it is obviously set in Pennsylvania, I simply did not think about a librarian being a Friend or Amish. The story line is quite possibly one of the best of all times. Imagine, 5 different love stories in one movie! (Hepburn and all 3 men, her Mother and Fathers story, the photographer and the reporter, the photographer and Uncle Willie) Aside from Hepburns being quilty of a bit of overacting, it is an excellent movie and should withstand any and all tests that time could bring. The director is one of the best, and my personal all time favorite, no wonder Frances Howard (Mrs. Samuel Goldwyn) was so hopelessly in love with George Cukor, I am too regardless of the fact that he is dead and was gay! I very rarely buy movies but I have this one on VHS and DVD. "}{"Title":"A classic in every sense of the word","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What can be said about a movie like this? Our parents were spoiled brats when it came to the art of film. With all of the drivel and repeats in film today, it's nice to go back in time and watch a classic that never lets down, and just keeps going. The cast is brilliant, the dialog more witty than I've heard in years, and an all around feeling of silliness is what you have emanating from this movie. There is never a point of let down, or silly mundane word-play. All of it is discreet, and a little bit on the dorky side. It kind of reminds me of a light comedy, with a twist of love, instead of the other way around. Such a delight to watch. "},{"Title":"Where's my wandering parakeet?","Date":"9 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" George Cukor directs The Philadelphia Story. Now regarded as a classic, the films stars Katherine Hepburn as a wealthy socialite who clashes with tabloid reporters, ex lovers and her soon-to-be husband. The film was marketed as a satire, but isn't really. Despite Cukor's attempts at an anti-classist message, the film class condescends and paints Hepburn's working-class fiancé &#x96; a self-made man - as a bit of a buffoon.Still, this is a witty and sparkling film. Based on a Broadway play by Philip Barry, The Philadelphia Story overflows with one-liners and snappy dialogue. Characters trade barbs and ripostes like cannon volleys and Cukor's dapper cast do nothing but dazzle and sparkle and crackle with electricity.Iconic actors of the era are sprinkled about &#x96; Jimmy Stewart, Cary Grant etc &#x96; but its Katharine Hepburn's performance that's typically the most celebrated (the NY Film Critics Circle gave her a best actress award for her role). Hepburn was a bit of an oddity in real life. A tomboy, the child of activist parents, very intelligent and rumoured to be gay or bisexual, the roles she played typically mirrored her own life. They're well educated characters, aloof, intelligent, confident, modern, sophisticated, share her preference for trousers over skirts (radical at the time), and of course are always distrustful of men. Able to cut men down to size with their brains, shrill voice and razor-sharp wit, Hepburn's characters quickly led to her becoming a feminist icon (and much later, a gay and lesbian icon). Her characters didn't need men, didn't even seem to need sex (indeed they were often sexually frigid) and were almost always fully independent and autonomous. That is, of course, until the final acts of her films. Almost all her characters are eventually beaten down, tamed and subjugated by lowbrow, carnal, earthly men. The most overt examples are perhaps The African Queen and The Rainmaker, but we see this in The Philadelphia Story as well, in which Hepburn reigns for three acts before being domesticated and restored to a safe position. Incidentally, Cukor was himself homosexual. He'd work with Hepburn on a number of pictures, as well as Spencer Tracy and Cary Grant, all of whom faced allegations of homosexuality and/or bisexuality. Cukor's work, like that of Douglas Sirk (also rumoured to be gay), was frequently disparaged in the past. He was deemed a director of mere women's pictures. Today both have been rehabilitated by film historians, who celebrate the duo for capturing various social undercurrents, psychological or gender complexities. Indeed, most of Cukor's films feature female protagonists, have a feminine sensibility and are told from a woman's point-of-view. Even when he'd drift into traditionally masculine genres, like his western, Heller in Pink Tights, the style employed would be bizarrely vibrant, almost camp, with lavish colours, opulent sets and women in chief roles. And of course Cukor was responsible for one of the earliest gender bending films. Released in 1936, Sylvia Scarlett starred Hepburn again as a rule breaker who masquerades as a boy and attracts sexual attention from both women and men. Filled with sexual misunderstandings and coming outs, the film, like Cukor's best films, had a hint of autobiography. 7.9/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Great play.  Mediocre movie.","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Philadelphia Story has a good many things going for it. It features three all-time greats (Hepburn, Grant, Stewart) and classic dialogue, it was the movie that re-established Katharine Hepburn to the movie industry and won James Stewart an Oscar in compensation for his role in Mr Smith Goes To Washington. But overall it, unfortunately, isn't a good, fun-to-watch movie, and it took me three sessions to get through it. Its most obvious drawback is that it wasn't so much adopted from the stage play, but that it is merely a stage play that was filmed, and with as few takes as possible, on real locations. Consequently there are long talking heads scenes, and we are forced to witness James Stewart hammily play a funny drunk for about half of the movie. The movie also deals with dated issues such as marriage across class lines (which it advises against), and the importance of women behaving demurely to their husbands and fathers, so as to not force the latter into accosting young dancers.In a nutshell, an interesting movie that will appeal to the boffin and the completist, but not really a must-watch classic. "},{"Title":"A screwball comedy side-splitter on all fronts","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Arguably one of the greatest comedies in film, assembling a fine comic cast and the perfect director for the project, The Phildelphia Story is a bona fide side-splitter.With of several screwball comedies under her belt - and the early success of Oscar - Hepburn asserts her star-power from the MGM execs to request both James Stewart and Cart Grant in a dream slapstick comedy.She reprises her stage role as Tracy Lord in this translation of the wacky musical by John Barry. She requests from MGM that she be cast in the starring role only if Clark Gable and Jimmy Stewart can play alongside her. A slick move as the ensemble all warrant howling performances.Hepburn plays the swooning socialite who has a case of cold feet on the eve of her marriage when both her ex-husband and a charming tabloid reporter plonk themselves on her front door. Tracy, - adamant that her marriage should go without a hitch - decides to teach these boys a lesson and and all chaos breaks loose!Hepburn never looked so alluring and bewitching in film. Dressed in an array of wedding gowns, dashing blouses and trousers, she assumes power and shrewdness in what mirrors her role in Hollywood as a feminist and a player among the boys. She has the hilarious grandstanding role in the film that fully showcases the slapstick and rapid-fire banter of the film. If Hepburn only ever acted in comedy she would still remain one of the greatest actresses of all time.Grant, oozing charm with Hepburn in comedies and later to star as the edgy, so suave gentleman in Hitchcock thrillers, snappily spits out the comic lines and helped by Cuckor, is a fine rapscallion leading man in a superb supporting role. Stewart, also looking fine and youthful brings a charm and snappiness to his role and plays straight to the audience with his wisecracks and observations on high society.The script adapted by Ogden Stewart from the play by Barry is a holler of lightning-fast one-liners and screwy tit-for-tats as the characters all clamber to fool and dupe one another. The principles all run with the dialogue and rap the snappy banter that is only all so uproarious. It represents a sparkling era of comedy that boasts the best comic talents in acting, writing and directing. Comedy of this standard and nutty style will probably not be seen again as society standards have moved on.While some moments remain ludicrous and admittedly plain silly the film is well supported by the peripheral characters including the fine Ruth Hussey. Each of the players jump in the farcical slapstick with vigor and delight. This is a rare chance when ALL the elements of comedy fire on all fronts and the players just hold on tight and run with the laughs. This was a hoot until the madcap finale. "},{"Title":"Awful!  Just awful!","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Lots of spoilers in this review!  Spoilers as far as the eye can see.How could a movie with such a spectacular cast turn out so bad!  Cary Grant, Jimmy Stewart, and Katharine Hepburn have all done such great work, been part of such great movies, that I must wonder what temporary insanity put them in this film.Things start out well.  There's witty banter, reminding one of such great screwball classics as His Girl Friday (starring Grant).  The setup is good, the characters are the stuff of great screwball.  Then the witty banter stops.  Katharine Hepburn's character is given a lecture about how she's an ice princess by every one (including her philandering father, who has NO BUSINESS lecturing her about anything).  There's an awful drunk scene between Hepburn and Stewart.  I can't believe that scene is celebrated.The sexism of this movie, admittedly a product of its times, is still off-putting.  The scene of the father blaming his daughter for his affairs is the worst.  The movie seems to actually believe he's right!Finally, the ending is totally arbitrary.  Whether Hepburn ends up with Grant or Stewart seems to have been changed at the last moment.  The whole movie seems to point in one direction, but in the end it goes the other way.  This was the nail in the coffin of a lousy, over-praised movie.Don't get me wrong.  I'm not someone who hates these old comedies.  But if you want to see enjoyable, intelligent screwball comedies, see Bringing Up Baby or His Girl Friday or Some Like It Hot.  Not this tripe! "},{"Title":"Spoiled, arrogant Tracy Lord fits Hepburn like a glove...","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Apparently when Philip Barry decided to write a comedy for KATHARINE HEPBURN, he merely took her personality (arrogant, spoiled rich girl) and turned it into a romantic comedy among the rich set with a love triangle thrown in. That way Hepburn gets to play opposite two male stars to bolster box-office biz--and here she gets CARY GRANT and JAMES STEWART. Not bad.But frankly, I've had enough of all the worship for this silly bit of tripe. First of all, Hepburn is so convincing as an arrogant, cocky society girl forever putting down others and showing her contemptuous snobbery, that I find it annoying to even listen to her speak.Then too, I had to wonder why on earth JAMES STEWART got an Oscar for what amounts to a nondescript role as a bumbling reporter. Even the great CARY GRANT had much better material to work with in his other comedy romances.All of the other rich characters are purely stereotypes--everyone, from VIRGINIA WEIDLER playing a bratty kid sister, ROLAND YOUNG, JOHN HOWARD and MARY NASH--they're all cardboard cutouts. Only RUTH HUSSEY makes something of her role as Stewart's photographer friend.No, can't say much good about this unless you're a die-hard Hepburn fan and love her in anything she does. Physically, she's in her prime here but who cares when her snobbish character is about as annoying as you can get among the idle rich. "},{"Title":"The Philadelphia Story","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Oscar nominated director George Cukor (A Star Is Born, My Fair Lady) brings us what was essentially the original and non-musical High Society, and I knew about it purely because of the Academy Award won by one of my favourite stars, I'm glad I watched it again to judge it properly. Basically C.K. Dexter Haven (Cary Grant) is finally kicked out by now divorced ex-wife, who he married too hastily, Tracy Lord (Katharine Hepburn), who dumped him when his drinking habit got out of hand. Two years later, Tracy is engaged to be married to aspiring politician and pretty ordinary George Kittredge (John Howard) at the Lord mansion, and three unexpected guests have arrived to see the wedding. Reporter Macaulay 'Mike' Connor (Oscar winning James Stewart) and photographer Elizabeth 'Liz' Imbrie (Oscar nominated Ruth Hussey) are assigned to cover the wedding story, i.e. The Philadelphia Story, and the third guest who has helped them get close the action is Dexter. The deal between Dexter and Spy Magazine editor Sidney Kidd (Henry Daniell) is that the reporter and photographer cover the wedding of the year, and Dexter's story (he doesn't want getting out) isn't published. After arrival, it is clear that Mike, Liz and Dexter are a bit out of place, and the complicated relationships between all the characters are just as bad, but they stick around. The day before the wedding however, after a party and loads of alcohol, Mike and Tracy seem to get very close to each other, and end up kissing and having a late night swim in the pool. Feeling very guilty, Tracy confesses to George, but says that the kissing and swimming is all that happened, I can't remember how George was swayed away from the marriage, but Mike offers to marry Tracy instead, but she declines knowing that Liz is his real other-half, and she agrees to marry Dexter once again. Also starring John Halliday as Seth Lord, Roland Young as Uncle Willie, Mary Nash as Margaret Lord, Virginia Weidler as Dinah Lord, Lionel Pape as Edward and Rex Evans as Thomas. Grant is charming and likable as always, Hepburn is sassy and lovable, and Stewart deserved his Oscar for being the likable American everyman, I may have only laughed a few times, but I can see why it is a really good classic romantic comedy. It won the Oscar for Best Writing, Screenplay, and it was nominated for Best Picture. Katharine Hepburn was number 38, James Stewart number 12, and Cary Grant number 10 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, Stewart number 3, and Grant number 2 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men, Hepburn was number 1 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Women, and Grant was number 23, Stewart number 13, and Hepburn number 9 on The World's Greatest Actor, the film was number 44 on 100 Years, 100 Passions, it was number 15 on 100 Years, 100 Laughs, and it number 51 on 100 Years, 100 Movies. Very good! "},{"Title":"Why not a playgirl?","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What a wonderful film this is that I happened to catch by accident on AMC; I now own it. How true to modern life this movie is as well paparazzi, the wealthy being married and EVERYONE wanting to see, intricate love interests, and clearly so much more. The combination of humor (including improv parts like Stewart belching, and Grant excusing him) is wonderful as well as the underlying love story. Who can't love a film whose cast includes James Stewart, Cary Grant, Katherine Hepburn, and more! Katherine Hepburn is certainly the best of the best in this film as well playing her new beau just as well as she played Grant. This film is definitely a humorous must-see. "},{"Title":"Simply best of the 30's comedies","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The screenplay from Donald Stewart is perfect. It's also impossible to say which of the three principal stars (Hepburn, Grant, & Stewart) is the most charming and irrepressible.If you've never seen this film and you are a fan of* American culture of the 1930's* Hepburn, Grant, or Stewart* Good, witty comedy then DO NOT HESITATE--rent or buy this film immediately...you WILL NOT BE disappointed.Why are there NO modern comedies that come even close to the depth and wit and style and class of this (or Bringing Up Baby, or You Can't Take it With You, or It Happened One Night...or...well, you get the picture).5***** "},{"Title":"Expressions and chemistry makes this a gem to watch!","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wonderful movie. I had never seen a 'Katharine Hepburn' movie, but have heard so many fasinating things about her, and her career, I had to watch it. I was laughing hard! James Stewart as Conner was astounding. The dialouge was bouncy and playful. One scene, Hepburn's screen mother comes in and says to Cary Grant, Dexter, can't you remove yourself? and preceeds to duck down under some tables. It is now a favorite. 8/10 "}{"Title":"The only thing...","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is great. However there is one biff that I have about it. Where is Sandy? In the original play, by Philip Barry, Sandy is Tracy's brother. He is the one who gets the whole mix up started, not Dexter as in the movie. The only reason I can see for the makers of the movie to change it was because they wanted more Cary Grant. That's just fine. I'm glad they changed it and still made it believable. A CLASSIC! "},{"Title":"Good love triange comedy","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Witty, grown-up love story has Hepburn and Grant as a divorced couple -- Hepburn plans to remarry, and Stewart draws the unlucky duty of covering the event for his newspaper.  Much to our credit, the film doesn't try to ingratiate its heroine to us; instead, we see her pretentious, even spiteful nature long before her better attributes begin to come through.  For a hot minute, it begins to look like Stewart and Hepburn might even tie the knot themselves, but the film's zany triangle/quadrangle has settled down sufficiently for monogomy by film's end.  Good, spare direction.  Funny, but somewhat stagey. "},{"Title":"A Witty, Distinctive Classic","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This witty, distinctive classic is very entertaining and has substance, too.  The scenario is quite interesting, and the script makes excellent use of all the possibilities, but most of all it is the terrific cast that makes it such a fine and memorable film.  You could not ask for better performers (or better casting) than to have Katherine Hepburn, Cary Grant, and Jimmy Stewart as the three lead characters.  Not only are they all ideal in their own roles, but they also make a wonderful combination in their scenes together.  Plenty of credit also goes to the supporting cast, which is very good in its own right, and their characters get some good moments, too.The story takes the familiar situation of a woman pursued by suitors both past and present, and adds in some creative details, plus the background of an eccentric family, to make it rise far above the banal level where so many movies of this kind stay.  It moves at a pleasant pace, with many good scenes.  While there are no big surprises, it features enough quirky developments to keep from becoming predictable, and it's quite satisfying once everything is resolved.  It's an enjoyable movie both for its story and for its great cast.  "},{"Title":"A charming comedy!","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Philadelphia Story is a great romantic comedy about the wrong people falling in love on one enchanted evening.  Tracy Lord, a lovely socialite, is about to marry the stuffy George Kittredge, when her ex-husband, Dexter, comes into her life again.  Plus, Tracy gets more trouble, because two reporters from a spy magazine are there to cover her wedding.  I won't give away the details, but I guarantee some laughs and romance! Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant once again make silver screen magic as Tracy and Dexter.  And James Stewart won a much deserved Best Actor Academy Award for his portrayal of Mike Connor, one of the reporters.  A good time will be had by all when you see The Philadelphia Story. Rating 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Philadelphia Freedom","Date":"2 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Can't believe it's taken me so long to sit down and watch this classic, but it sure was a pleasure worth the long wait.As stylish and sophisticated as Hollywood comedy ever got, ironically the musical re-make's title High Society, better captures the mood here. With a triple A-star cast (Hepburn, Grant and Stewart), sure direction from Kate's favourite George Cukor, some terrific set decoration, pithy and occasionally daring dialogue and some fine supporting turns too, none better than Ruth Hussey as Stewart's sardonic side-kick come girl-friend, it could hardly fail.Basically a love quadrangle amidst a comedy of manners amongst the upper classes (reflecting Hepburn's own privileged but free-thinking upbringing) with just a little anti-proletarian-ism (in the form of the slightly unfairly kicked around Kitteridge as Hepburn's jilted and much maligned fiancé - he can't even ride a horse properly for goodness sake!) and anti-paparazzi-before-its-time journalistic sentiment thrown in, the film gets off to its famous and hilarious start as Grant socks Hepburn when she signifies the end of their brief and obviously turbulent marriage by breaking his cherished golf clubs and rolls along merrily until the equally well-known ending with the surprise frozen snap-shot of the hastily arranged re-marriage between Grant and Hepburn.I could quibble about a number of things, for instance Hepburn, while she was never lovelier, does occasionally grate with that voice and those mannerisms (plus you get tired of everyone telling her how wonderful she is), you could argue that Grant and Stewart might have successfully swapped parts - although Stewart makes for a surprisingly convincing drunk and as hinted earlier the socialist in me does take a little exception to the glorification of the high and mighty of Hepburn and her hardly spotless family (aptly named the Lords) above the persevering up-from-below Kitteridge. And yes, the film does often betray its stage roots with a little too much dialogue and sometimes static viewpoint. But in the end, I'm glad to say I was as easily won over as Hepburn was by Grant - no contest really. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully scripted comedy","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Donald Ogden Stewart took home the Oscar for his adaptation of Phillip Barry's stage hit about a spoiled heiress about to marry on the rebound. Cary Grant is perfectly cast as the sly, slightly roguish ex who comes around on the eve of the wedding to stir up trouble and Jimmy Stewart gave one of his best performances as a serious writer temporarily employed by a gossip magazine. The role of Tracy was written for Katherine Hepburn and fits her perfectly. Verbal sparks fly between all of the principals and scene after scene unrolls flawlessly as oh-so-clever characters spar and jab with one another, ultimately to confront themselves and are forced to shed the armor of their acidic words. This is that rare movie which is so well written and played that it is still funny and moving the tenth time you see it. And the sly depression-era digs at the wealthy class are there too Hepburn lounges about in what would have been $500 gowns, and the wedding presents look like museum pieces! "},{"Title":"The queen will have bread and honey at the usual time.","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Directed by George Cukor, The Philadelphia Story is quite an upper-class comedy featuring three heavyweight stars Katharine Hepburn, Cary Grant, and James Stewart. Based on a stage play by Philip Barry (who created the role of Tracy Samantha Lord with Hepburn in mind), this film is essentially Hepburn's vehicle, but Grant wouldn't do the picture unless his name appeared first in the credits. Stewart, conversely, did not care where his name appeared; the most important thing to him was that he was working with two movie star giants like Hepburn and Grant. Actually, Hepburn had recently been given the worst of all Hollywood labels - box-office poison; she credited her role of Tracy Lord as having revived her movie career. But for all of its glamour, sophistication, wit, and the presence of three major stars, I personally find The Philadelphia Story to be a rather boring picture. (Of course, this is only my opinion; I'm not asking anybody to agree with me.) Stewart, in fact, won his only Oscar for his performance in this film, yet he claimed he never thought much of it; it is believed that he actually won the Oscar as compensation for having NOT won it for his superlative performance in Mr. Smith Goes to Washington (1939).In spite of my negative feelings about The Philadelphia Story as a whole, it does manage to have its share of memorable sequences. At the Spy Magazine headquarters, the overly-cynical reporter Macaulay Mike Connor (Stewart) and the annoyingly sharp-tongued photographer Elizabeth Liz Imbrie (Ruth Hussey) voice their displeasure at editor Sidney Kidd (Henry Daniell) for his assigning them to cover Tracy's upcoming swanky wedding. Tracy's much younger sister Dinah (Virginia Weidler), who is one of the most irritating characters in the piece, nevertheless manages to shine with her rendition of a song attributed to Groucho Marx Lydia the Tattooed Lady. Mike croons Over the Rainbow as he carries the inebriated Tracy from her pool. The very first scene in the picture shows Tracy's former husband C.K. Dexter Haven (Grant) leaving her mansion in disgust; Tracy dramatically strolls out carrying Dexter's golf clubs and breaks one of them, and the music score of Franz Waxman greatly accentuates these proceedings. Jimmy Stewart's best scenes in this picture, aside from Mike Connor's aforementioned scene at the Spy Magazine headquarters, include his drunk scene while seated at a table with a sober Dexter, as well as his highly romantic hearth fires and holocausts speech to Tracy. Cary Grant best displays his usual smooth charm in this film when his Dexter character chats with Tracy beside her pool, and earlier, when he makes his first return to the Lord mansion, much to Dinah's pleasant surprise and Tracy's increasing fury.Boring or not, The Philadelphia Story turned out to be one of the most successful comedies ever to come out of Hollywood. Mike Connor and Liz Imbrie ultimately learn not to thumb their noses at high society, and Tracy Lord ultimately learns to curb her sense of inner divinity and to have more of a sympathetic heart for other people's failings. In closing, I would like to repeat what film historian Robert Osborne once remarked about Tracy's wedding Formal attire is, of course, optional. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Five Star Entertainment from Cukor and Hepburn","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Katharine Hepburn possessed two qualities which made her a star; the first was her unique New England borough and mannerisms that simply wreak of hauty excellence; the other quality is guts. After winning an Oscar for Morning Glory Kate the great was branded box office poison - a moniker that destroyed many a starlet's chances from hitting the big time again. But not Kate. Undaunted by Hollywood's snub, she commissioned long time friend and play Philip Barry to pen the Broadway smash The Philadelphia Story for her to star in, and then, purchased the film rights herself. Hence, when MGM decided that it wanted to make a film of the play, they had no choice but to consider Ms. Hepburn's terms first. These were, in fact, quite simple. Cast Ms. Hepburn in the lead; as spoiled socialite, Tracy Lord, and give her casting approval. The idea of relinquishing control to a then has-been actress must have really burned L.B. Mayer. However, he must have had nothing but smiles and praise for Kate when the film version of The Philadelphia Story(1940) became one of MGM's biggest money makers.The plot concerns Tracy's pending rebound marriage to George Kittredge (John Howard) a weak man who cannot hope to match Tracy's fiery temperament. That's perhaps the reason why Tracy has taken to him so. You see, Tracy's previous marriage to C.K Dexter Haven (Cary Grant), a man her equal in every way, ended badly. He actually knocked her to the ground with his fist. But times have changed. Dexter's changed. And he's realized that he's still carrying a torch for his ex. Fast forward to the weekend before the wedding; a family scandal involving Tracy's estranged father, Seth (John Halliday), and the wiley machinations of her uncle, Willie (Roland Young) lead to Tracy's acceptance of a couple of tabloid journalists, Mike Connor (James Stewart) and Liz Embrie (Ruth Hussey) to cover her pending nuptuals. But the plot is about to thicken in an unexpected way when Tracy decides to go after Mike on a drunken binge and midnight swim. So how does it all end...brilliantly and with much fanfare, pomp and hilarity. The Philadelphia Story was so enormously successful that MGM decided to make it into a musical a decade later - and to exceptionally good effect - with Bing Crosby, Grace Kelly and Frank Sinatra. As High Society it once again became the biggest and brightest money maker of the year.Warner's 2-disc special edition of this vintage comedy is a welcomed treat. The black and white image has been impeccably mastered from very clean film elements. Contrast levels are superb. There's a hint of edge enhancement and some fine detail shimmering, but nothing that will distract. Fine details are fully realized throughout. Film grain is kept to a bare minimum. Aside from the commentary track by Jeannine Basinger, disc 2 of this DVD contains two feature length documentaries; one on George Cukor, the other on Katharine Hepburn. There's also a couple of vintage short subjects and a gallery of trailers from other Cukor films and an audio only radio broadcast. Very nice. Bottom line The Philadelphia Story is a rare cinematic delight and this new DVD sparkles as only a few films of this vintage have. The good people at Warner Brothers deserve another pat on the back for their formidable efforts. "},{"Title":"Glossy, arch society comedy...","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Society divorcée, planning her next wedding, becomes involved with her ne'er-do-well ex-husband, who's in cahoots with a magazine writer doing a piece on the rich and pampered. Philip Barry's play comes to the screen starched and pressed. The classy cast is more than adept at this type of smart-talking fluff, yet too much of Katharine Hepburn and James Stewart unfortunately turns Cary Grant into the proverbial third wheel. The film's second-act tails off from the first in energy and wit, with far fewer laughs and more boring chatter. The material (cast with these actors) seems awfully staid and familiar, like a rerun, perhaps because Hepburn played her role on Broadway and doesn't approach the script fresh. James Stewart won an Oscar, as did Donald Ogden Stewart for his adapted screenplay (which must've caused Philip Barry discomfort). The picture isn't a cinematic experience at all--it's a filmed stage-play. Later transformed into the 1956 musical High Society. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Nothing redeeming about this film","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There is nothing I can say positive about this film. It certainly has not stood the test of time.Who can emphasize with any of the characters in this film? Kate Hepburn is not convincing as the spoiled rich girl who miraculously becomes human with imperfections. Why would a bitch goddess all of a sudden become human after a drunken stupor, after years of being a spoiled brat?And Cary Grant should have passed on his role as Dexter. He appears wooden and superfluous. Jimmy Stewart should not have received an Oscar for his role either. Why would an intelligent writer suddenly fall in love with such a bitch if he is oh, so bright as a writer?Nah, this film may have appealed to the rich and those enamored with the American aristocracy, but today it leaves one with the feeling of wanting to vomit.The only scene that comes off real is when Grant pushes Kate down on the ground. After that scene, change channels because the rest is trite and trash.My only question is who are the morons who rated this film highly? "}{"Title":"THE PHILADELPHIA STORY (1940 MGM) Was A Great Movie With A Stupid Ending....Too Bad","Date":"5 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" THE PHILADELPHIA STORY (1940 MGM) starring Katherine Hepburn, Cary Grant, and James Stewart starring Katherine Hepburn, Cary Grant, and James Stewart was a successful 1940 movie based on a Broadway stage play hit also starring Hepburn, Joseph Cotton, and Van Hefflin. Hepburn owned the show, and commissioned writer Philip Barry to write it for her to star in. She met Barry when he wrote Holiday (1938) for her, which also starred Cary Grant.Howard Hughes (a distant celebrity relative of mine, according to Ancestry.Com), Hepburn's sometime boyfriend during the 1930's and also millionaire dilettante player on the Hollywood scene then, advised Hepburn to get legal control of the movie rights to the Philadelphia Story stage play, and she did.The movie was directed by legendary director George Cuckor, one of MGM's most gifted movie directors who worked on both The Wizard Of Oz and Gone With The Wind movies in 1939, the year before The Philadelphia Story, but got screen credit for neither.The settings, costuming, camera work, lighting and technical presentation of The Philadelphia Story (1940 MGM) were lavish and wonderful. It was an important movie of those times (the high point in the Golden Age Of Big Studio Hollywood), and it looks it.I am a Screen Actors Guild movie actor currently (2010) who acted in a Baltimore Maryland USA regional play version of that show in 2003 put on by Baltimore's Paragon Theatre. The Baltimore MD production of it ran two months in Fall of 2003 and was an important theater event at the time. Quite memorable, and I got to know the play well...I played Seth Lord, father of Tracy Lord, the main female character played by Katherine Hepburn.Wonderful aspects of the movie were enjoyable, and the actor work was breathtaking....I have never seen Cary Grant better or more different...a serious, non-comedy, non-romance role for him...quite a change. James Stewart was also very good...he got a Best Supporting Actor Academy Award for his work in the movie. Hepburn herself was very good, so were others in the movie.The ending was very, very phony, and not a little stupid and ridiculous......girl from hell ends up getting a new husband and marrying him with everybody's blessing....real soap opera stuff.But...nothing is perfect...one has to enjoy the good parts of movies like that, accept the bad parts.The show was written for Katherine Hepburn who paid the author, Phillip Barry, to write a stage play script just for her, and using her particular talents and stage persona....show was about a liberated, independent, arrogant woman of those times (1930's) and she turns into the rewarded hero of the show at the end....because she paid for the show, and the writer was on HER payroll!Hepburn (also a distant, collateral celebrity relative of mine, according to Ancestry.Com) went on to more roles and movies about independent women of the type she seemed to specialize in, but never again ventured into play or movie ownership and production, or commissioning writing especially intended for her.She stuck to actor work, went on to become famous for Tracy/ Hepburn team movies, got 3 more Academy Awards (got her first for Morning Glory in 1932), and became famous as the only actor, male or female, to earn 4 Best Actor Academy Awards, the first in 1932, the last in 1981 (Morning Glory 1932, Guess Who's Coming To Dinner1968, The Lion In Winter 1969, and On Golden Pond 1981).Died in 2003 at the ripe old age of 96....had the longest life of any Academy Award Actor Winner in history. Impressive lady.---------------Written by Tex Allen, SAG Actor. Visit WWW.IMDb.Com and choose Tex Allen resume for contact information, movie credits, and biographical information about Tex Allen. Tex Allen has reviewed more than 35 movies posted on the website WWW.IMDb.Com (the world's largest movie information database, owned by Amazon.Com) as of January 2011. These include 1. Alfie (1966) 29 July 2009 2. Alien (1979) 24 July 2009 3. All the President's Men (1976) 16 November 2010 4. American Graffiti (1973) 22 November 2010 5. Animal House (1978) 16 August 2009 6. Bullitt (1968) 23 July 2009 7. Captain Kidd (1945) 28 July 2009 8. Child Bride (1938) 24 September 2009 9. Creature from the Black Lagoon (1954) 22 September 2010 10. Detour (1945) 19 November 2010 11. Die Hard 2 (1990) 23 December 2010 12. The Wonderful, Horrible Life of Leni Riefenstahl (1993) 19 November 2010 13. Jack and the Beanstalk (1952) 26 July 2009 14. King Solomon's Mines (1950) 1 December 2010 15. Knute Rockne All American (1940) 2 November 2010 16. Claire's Knee (1970) 15 August 2009 17. Melody Ranch (1940) 10 November 2010 18. Morning Glory (1933) 19 November 2010 19. New Moon (1940) 3 November 2010 20. Pinocchio (1940) 6 November 2010 21. R2PC Road to Park City (2000) 19 November 2010 22. Salt (2010) 24 August 2010 23. Sunset Blvd. (1950) 1 December 2010 A full list of Tex Allen's movie reviews appearing on WWW.IMDb.Com with links to full texts of reviews is accessible via http//imdb.com/user/ur15279309/comments Written by Tex Allen, SAG-AFTRA movie actor. Visit WWW.IMDb.Me/TexAllen for more information about Tex Allen. Tex Allen's email address is TexAllen@Rocketmail.Com.See Tes Allen Movie Credits, Biography, and 2012 photos at WWW.IMDb.Me/TexAllen. See other Tex Allen written movie reviews....almost 100 titles.... at http//imdb.com/user/ur15279309/comments (paste this address into your URL Browser) "},{"Title":"Simply perfection.","Date":"26 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Philadelphia Story is, quite simply, perfection. From the cast to the set to the script, I can't think of anything that could be improved on this movie.For me, the magic of this movie is the performances of the three leads. Katharine Hepburn takes the line Good golly, why didn't you sell tickets? and layers it with so much emotion and meaning. Jimmy Stewart's drunken scene with Cary Grant is one of the funniest moments ever put on film. When Stewart warbles CK Dexter Haaaaaaven! I just have to laugh (mostly because I know what's coming after that line). Cary Grant's facial expressions are at times very subtle, but they convey most of the emotion of his character.The supporting performances in this film are just as outstanding as the lead performances. Ruth Hussey, in particular, is brilliant. Her timing and delivery of her lines is one of the funniest parts of The Philadelphia Story. The first couple of times that I saw this movie I was so focused on the leads that I missed a lot of the meaning behind what Hussey said. Once I picked up on each word of her dialogue, the movie was taken to a whole new level.The first time I saw The Philadelphia Story I didn't know how it was going to end (I can usually see the ending of a movie coming from a mile away). If I think too hard about it, I would have a quibble with how it did end (Tracy goes from being engaged to Kittridge to making out with Mike to marrying CK Dexter in a matter of hours), but I don't waste time doing that. I just sit back and enjoy watching three of the biggest Hollywood legends in history work their magic. "},{"Title":"This was a great movie","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've just started enjoying watching black and white movies and right now I can't understand why I haven't liked black and white movies before. This movie was great and it was really funny. I loved Cary Grant's expressions during the movie and all the acting in this movie was great. It does seem though that the winning Oscar performances were not as good as today's such as La Vie en Rose and Philadelphia. I really like James Stewart and I had never seen a Katharine Hepburn movie before but I know she is a fantastic actress.I have seen Cate Blanchett's performance as Katharine Hepburn in The Aviator but I don't think that that counts.Anyway, this movie was very good. I don't enjoy the beginning of this movie as much as I enjoy the end. The events happening in the end are so ridiculous and funny that it just totally makes the movie worth it. This was a quite simple movie and basically had one setting. Tracy Lord's house. I believe Cary Grant deserved to have had an Oscar nomination for this movie. I am glad that this movie was part of the IMDb top 250, but it deserved to be a little higher than 224.It was also amusing to re-watch the movie and look for the goofs such as Cary Grant calling Katharine Hepbur, Katharine instead of Tracy, in the beginning of the movie.Great movie. Recommend watching it if you're into those sort of movies. "},{"Title":"Very good and very polished...but an Oscar for Best Actor for Stewart?!","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The studio pulled out the stops for this film, casting Katherine Hepburn, Cary Grand AND Jimmy Stewart in the leading roles. While Hepburn's star had tarnished a bit in recent years, Stewart just came off his classic performance in MR. SMITH GOES TO WASHINGTON (for which some were disappointed that he didn't get the Oscar) and Grant had just come off a long string of successes. In addition, the MGM production just looked beautiful--with grand sets and excellent work all around. As a result, it's not very surprising that's it's a very entertaining film, though for me, I never LOVED this film as many have. Plus, I always felt bad for gold old Cary Grant. As usual, he didn't win an Oscar for his performance (he never won a regular Oscar--just an honorary one years later despite MANY great performances--particularly in light comedies) BUT, oddly, Stewart did get the Oscar for Best Actor--even though his role was clearly a supporting one! I guess they were trying to make up for his loss the year before, though this is NOT one of Stewart's best performances. Still, the movie is fun and light and enjoyable--thanks mostly, in my opinion, to Grant--with help from Hepburn and Stewart! "},{"Title":"One of the best romantic-comedies of all time","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of my very favorite romantic comedies. It's kind of the height of the genre, all others graded against it. Hepburn and Grant are great together, and James Stewart is great comedic relief. (As if the other two weren't enough.) Many people here have said it's a sophisticated comedy, and that's true. It's for older audiences. It's not slapstick, it's more mature and adult than many other films of the genre. And it makes the sticky-sweet stuff like this year's Must Like Dogs look like complete garbage.If you like the actors you'll really like this film. If not, you may be a bit bored. I personally have always loved Grant and Stewart and Hepburn is one of my favorite actresses, so obviously I'm in good territory.This was one of the first films I ever saw, and it still makes me laugh. You can't say that about many other movies. "},{"Title":"incredibly modern","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Amazing how a 1940 movie can be so absolutely new. The story is not so much on getting back at snoopy newsppl or the classical love story. It's simply the great performance of three great actors wonderfully directed. "},{"Title":"So I'm to be examined, undressed and generally humiliated at fifteen cents a copy, and you, you're loving it.","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's easy to accept Hepburn as the goddess queen socialite Tracy Lord since the part was written as a Broadway play with her in mind. Wisely investing in the story rights with playwright Philip Barry granted her virtual certainty to be cast in the film version when MGM purchased the rights. The film was shot with almost no retakes under director and friend George Cukor, and produced Jimmy Stewart's only Best Actor Oscar.Casting Cary Grant in a romantic comedy just about assures a film with snappy dialog and precision comic timing. The surprise here might be Stewart's ability to keep the same pace going, along with his newspaper partner Ruth Hussey. Together they set out to capture the wedding of the year for their tabloid rag, 'Dime and Spy' magazine.The opening scene seems to come a little out of left field if you're watching it for the first time. Seeing Hepburn take a shove in the face from Grant's character was a bit like Jimmy Cagney's grapefruit smackeroo on Mae Clark in Public Enemy. Here it was done in the interest of a dissolving marriage, to live on in infamy as kid sister Dinah's (Virginia Weidler) 'sock in the face' memoir.The thing is, Tracy Lord (Hepburn) deserved it, and the film goes on to show how those closest to her help her understand it, deal with it, and eventually learn and grow from it. It was interesting to me how closely in tune both C.K. Dexter Haven (Grant) and Tracy's father Seth (John Halliday) were in describing her character. Dex admonished her for not understanding human frailty; Dad in turn recognized that she didn't have an understanding heart. Oddly, Tracy's fiancée Kittredge (John Howard) seems to love her for those very reasons, and it's when he spells it out for her that she finally seems to get it. It takes all kinds.You have to keep your eye on Jimmy Stewart when he goes into that drunken jag at Grant's home, it's really brilliantly done. Up till then his comic repartee and timing was competent, but that scene probably insured the Oscar. It's also why one might be left scratching their head over the eventual outcome of the story, as it goes full circle to become sister Dinah's little victory after all. The question for me though would be why Dexter Haven would proceed with 'Love Affair II' after all that had gone before. I guess that's why they call it a story. "},{"Title":"clever writing, well acted, slightly presumptuous","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This play/movie is similar to others of the era (and operas as well) which operate as memorials for the fading aristocracy. The rich are portrayed as deserving and mentally fit - educated to handle so great a challenge, while the obsequious lower class is forced to view the gala from a newspaper cameraman's lens.As such, the movie was a perfect vehicle for the actress what's-her-name, who has never struck me as attractive. Her drive is the most impressive thing about her, and the criticisms her character takes in the movie are well deserved and auto biographical. She is a stone princess.The men, her suitors, numerous, are the lifeblood of the movie, and principally the delightful Jimmy Stewart. The lines are quick and well thought out, clever enough for a play like this, but never sublime.With the tall, lean, handsome, well mannered men - particularly Stewart - and the exclusive air of Hepburn, I somehow felt like I was watching a Princeton school play. Cary Grant is a little too coy and self-created to have emerged from the upper classes. He's got a chip on his shoulder, as if he's afraid to show something in polite company.Well, I give it an 8 because although it's a great show, I somehow felt the worse for wear having seen it. "},{"Title":"The Philadelphia Yawn!","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a time dated example of how entertainment has changed since 1940. It is as boring as the high class society it is about and would never make it to the box office today. The only redemption it has is the suspense involving who gets Katherine Hepburn. Cary Grant lost. Jimmy Stewart almost got her after one or two drunken days and John Howard who was suppose to marry her, ran like the wind. Lucky guy. I am also amazed how the audience was suppose to believe a wedding could be performed at the last minute without a marriage license. Maybe in Hollywood in 1940, but never in Pennsylvania. Rent it if you need something to put you to sleep.  "},{"Title":"The game of love in high society.","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The famed George Cukor directs this romantic comedy about a society girl(Katherine Hepburn)seeking a lasting romantic relationship. Cary Grant is her ex-husband and James Stewart is a tabloid reporter who falls in love with her. This dialogue laden classic tries to help the upper crust laugh at itself. Stewart garnered an Academy Award for his efforts. Also featured in the star-studded cast Ruth Hussey, Roland Young, Virgina Weidler, John Howard and Mary Nash. "}]