[{"Title":"Never pauses for breath...","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"56 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  What a movie!I literally could not believe how great this movie was once I'd seen it for the first time. After a short intro we are thrust directly into the action and from there on in, it's one thrilling set-piece after another.We go from kidnapping to assassination, to car chase, to discovery of plot, to escape from a hotel, to a twist regarding the leader of the enemy, to a wonderful sequence with a hired bodyguard who is in fact an assassin, to a fake kidnapping set up by the heroes, to torture scene, to rescue, to plane crash at sea...It's dizzying that this was all intended for one film and when the end credits rolled you really felt like you'd got your money's worth. If I'd have watched this movie when it came out in the forties, I would have praised Hitchcock all night for giving me ten superb movies in one for my dollar.In short (although you can hardly call these ramblings short) check this movie out. If you're a fan of escapist, thrilling adventures populated by superb characters (see George Sanders as ffolliot, and Robert Benchley as Stebbins) you will be delighted. This is one of Hitch's lesser seen gems and deserves to be rediscovered without delay  "},{"Title":"Forgotten but excellent!","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"60 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Alfred Hitchcock was always pushing the envelope, and 1940's Foreign Correspondent is no different. With America still in the midst of trading with both sides of the European war, Hitchcock made a spy thriller that quite clearly cast the Germans as the bad guys (minus the word Nazi, which only appears once at the beginning of the film) while being shamelessly patriotic (the last scene is both inspiring and laughable).But Hitchcock could afford to go out on a limb. He started making FC a week after the release of Rebecca, a movie that garnered large amounts of critical acclaim and won Best Picture. But with all the praise heaped on Hitchcock's first American movie, his second has often gone unnoticed, although it is certainly up to par with - if not better than - Rebecca.Foreign Correspondent tells the story of Johnny Jones, an American newspaper writer chosen to go to England to report on the war as Huntley Haverstock for the New York Globe. While in England, he attempts to interview a Dutch statesman, Van Mier, but instead witnesses the man's assassination. The resulting pursuit throws Jones/Haverstock into a Nazi spy ring that intends to use a secret clause to create German victory in the impending war. Along the way, Jones/Haverstock meets an English reporter who assists him and the daughter of a renowned pacifist.The acting is excellent all around, with special kudos given to Robert Sanders as the English reporter, Scott ffoliot, and to Edmund Gwenn in a minor but important roll as Rowly, the friendly hit man. Laraine Day and Joel McCray have that special chemistry that adds to the romance part of the movie, while McCray and Sanders' straight-faced humor is enjoyable.Hitchcock's directing is magnificent, like usual. As always, there are certain scenes that are signature Hitchcock The assassination chase through the sea of umbrellas, and later in the Dutch countryside. The tower murder scene. And the plane crash scene has inspired cinematic plane crashes for decades. All in all, Foreign Correspondent shows Hitchcock at his best, in the midst of a string of movies that saw him reach the top of the British filmmaking world and rapidly ascend to the same position in America. And it once again proves that Hitchcock was indeed the father of the spy-thriller genre. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, Exciting, and Masterfully Constructed","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"50 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  While not as well-known today as some of his later films, Alfred Hitchcock's spy thriller Foreign Correspondent is entertaining, exciting, and masterfully constructed.  Though lacking the star power of some of the great director's more famous movies, the cast is very good, the settings are wonderfully conceived, and the story and writing keep the viewer's attention at all times.  It has everything we hope for from Hitchcock action, suspense, and a good dose of humor.The plot is a complicated one, beginning when American reporter Johnny Jones (Joel McCrea) is sent to Europe just before the outbreak of World War II.  Expected to send back news about the possibility of war, Jones stumbles across an espionage ring that is using kidnapping and murder in an attempt to get important government secrets for use in the coming war.  The action goes from England to Holland and back to England, with Jones constantly escaping from danger as he tries to get the details of the spy plot for his newspaper.  It does take some effort to follow everything that is happening, but there are many action sequences and a lot of good writing - with many fine touches of humor - that make it easy to pay attention.In the lead role, McCrea performs with the easy-going understatement that typifies the heroes of Hitchcock's earlier films.  Laraine Day is pleasant if unspectacular as McCrea's romantic interest, whose father (played nicely by Herbert Marshall) is also one of the key figures on the international scene.  The supporting cast also has some fine actors.  George Sanders for once gets to play a good guy, Robert Benchley is very funny as McCrea's fellow foreign correspondent, and Albert Basserman is touching as an old diplomat who has seen too much of the world's troubles.But it is the action sequences and the settings that really make the film.  Hitchcock's expert hand can be seen in almost every setting, and he displays a wealth of creative ideas here equal to any of his films.  Particularly good are the memorable windmill scenes and the exciting climactic sequence in mid-ocean.  This final sequence is not only thrilling, it also perfectly completes all of the film's action and themes.Foreign Correspondent contains plenty of excitement, humor, and suspense, along with some of Hitchcock's best set pieces.  It is highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Thrill Ride On A Mission","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"43 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock directed many great movies, but few testify to his ability at marrying suspense, action, and comedy as does Foreign Correspondent, a film which coincidentally carries Hitchcock's boldest political statement That neutrality doesn't work when others are bent on war.Joel McCrea stars as American newspaperman Johnny Jones, sent to Europe on the eve of World War II by the newspaper's publisher precisely because he's a man of action unschooled in politics and economics, someone who doesn't know the difference between an 'ism' and a kangaroo, the old publisher declares. Jones goes along with the idea, even with changing his byline to the pompous Huntley Haverstock, because as he puts it, give me an expense account, and I'll cover anything. Fate intervenes when a photographer apparently murders Europe's last hope for peace right in front of Jones, spurring the reporter to react in a way that leads to a series of outrageously precarious and double-crossing incidents culminating in a plane crash-landing into the Atlantic Ocean.Hitchcock arrived in the U.S. with a flourish, his first Hollywood movie being the Oscar-winning Rebecca, and this his second that same year, 1940. Some back in Great Britain complained Hitchcock's leaving his native country as it faced Hitler all alone was desertion, but Hitchcock was doing all he could for King and Country, as Foreign Correspondent pulls all the stops to shake American viewers from their neutrality.That sort of desperation would ruin most films, but here it only prods Hitchcock to singular and repeated acts of inventiveness as he shakes the tree. We see Jones climb out the window of the Hotel Europe, knock out the letters EL to underscore the film's message, and find his way into the hotel room of the girl he has been trying unsuccessfully to woo. There's an assassination in the rain and shot from above so we see little more than wet hats and umbrellas, and a long sequence inside a creaking windmill that has you thinking our hero's about to be discovered by the bad guys every 20 seconds. The film feels more vital for sequences like this You can't imagine anyone trying to get away with this, yet Hitchcock keeps pulling it off.Then there's the other revolutionary element of the film, its humor, ever-present throughout the picture in a way that doesn't cut against the grain of the suspense so much as amplify it, by keeping you off-guard and invested in the action. This is best exemplified by Edmund Gwenn's plummy turn as an evil assassin (no spoiler, he's introduced to us that way) bent on killing Jones, but so affable and borderline-snarky in his menace you can't root against him as much as you'd like to. As Gwenn's Rowley leads Jones up a church steeple to set up an accident, you wonder how Jones will get out of it but still chuckle at how Rowley tries to keep Jones from going back down You must see the 'orse guards! Gwenn is one of two fantastic examples of reverse casting, the other being George Sanders as a good guy named ffolliett.Hitchcock is very careful in presenting the bad guys. He never says they're Germans, though the implication is obvious. The chief baddie is ruthless but not without decent impulses, in a way that mirrors but goes beyond Willy in his later Lifeboat. Hitchcock knew when the film was released, he would be attacked by those who wanted to keep appeasing Germany. For Foreign Correspondent to be successful, it needed to bring the audience along without noticing the ride, laughing with and pulling for Jones right up until the moment he does a radio broadcast in London while bombs burst around him, an eerie foreshadowing of what Edward R. Morrow would be doing for real only days after Foreign Correspondent opened in theaters.You can't help but admire a film that was on the right side of history, but Foreign Correspondent may play better now than it ever did because of the way its pure cinema techniques work today, a style Tarantino and Leone admirers will no doubt recognize and appreciate, but that anyone can enjoy. "},{"Title":"early Hitchcock masterpiece","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"45 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  When one dotes on Hitchcock's overall work, this film isn't probably the first one mentioned. However, the film is just a fun work of a true legend. The film is something that must be seen. Once it is, you learn that Hitch was a true genius. Look at several escapes from true death by our New York Globe correspondent Jones(a terrific McCrea). The first,being a windmill sequence, is a highly visual wonder. First the way it is captured and done by Hitch is fun to see. Jones has to be slippery because he knows there are spies all over in the windmill. Jones has to slither around constant turning spools and dodge many men. The reason he is here in the first place is to catch a man who supposedly shot a major player in stopping a war about to begin. This man is shot dead near a rainy building where a summit is going to be held. There is a sequence where the shooter runs through a maze of people holding umbrellas which is masterly shot. Jones chases the shooter into a windmill. That sequence doesn't even come close to the ending. I'll get to that in a minute. The second escape from death occurs when Jones is in his hotel room. These two men plan to kill Jones. Jones looks through a key hole to his bathroom and see the two pull guns. Jones escapes through the bathroom window. There is a shot where Jones is going across a ledge to get to a room across the way where he passes the lights to the hotel(HOTEL EUROPE). During this Jones knocks out one of the lights. This is well shot and brilliant. The ending is a knockout considering it was done in 1940. This sequence occurs on a plane. The plane is shot down. This sequence is mezmerising to behold. It is so well shot that I was stunned by it's complete perfection. Hitch nails every detail. From how the passengers escape to how they survive on the ocean. The film should be seen for just this sequence alone. It is a showstopper. The film has a very complex story. It is about a man who must find out the facts..the truth about whether Europe is going to war. Obviously, it is the nazis, but we aren't given specifics. We do know Germany has a lot to do with it. The story is shot with precision. Hitch guides the story perfectly with tense pacing and delicately handles situations. How our hero makes it through the film without being killed is well done. The film isn't stupid and understands that our hero's survival must be realistic, yet well managed to hold suspense. In a way, Hitch needs to keep you spellbound in wondering how he could survive. The love story between a major politician in London's daughter and Jones is not just a sub plot. It serves the film in every way. The plot is centered on the relationship. The way it ends depends on the romance. The film should be seen by those who are Hitchcock fans. It is a well directed film with visual flair and good story. *****/***** "},{"Title":"Hitch was firing on all cylinders","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"36 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This film is a true gem, that had all of the touches we have come to associate with films of the master. While Rebecca (from the same year) may have garnered more recognition, it was an extremely brooding film that lacked the trademark Hitchcock sense of humor.Foreign Correspondent however, had it all. The suspense is unrelenting, building to a spectacular climax. It had many of those dazzling Hitchcock sequences the assassination in Amsterdam, the scene in the cathedral tower and, especially, the sequence in the windmill, which is pure magic!Of course, it also had that classic sense of humor and a slew of terrific character roles, including Edmund Gwenn as the most cherubic and cheerful hit man you've ever seen! The final scene was strictly American propaganda, but that can probably be forgiven considering the subject matter of the film and the time of it's release.All in all, a wonderful example of the master at his best, that deserves to be dusted off and enjoyed alongside some of it's more celebrated cousins! "},{"Title":"Hang onto your lights, America","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Admittedly, partly due to the presence of Joel McCrea, this is one of my favorite Hitchcock films. As with Saboteur, Hitchcock wanted Gary Cooper (and in this case, Joan Fontaine - he wanted Barbara Stanwyck for Saboteur) but couldn't get them. Cooper turned down the role of Johnny Jones and lived to regret it.Today, Foreign Correspondent can be seen as a fierce call to bring America into the war. It's amazing today how long America stayed out. In the film, Johnny Jones, writing under the pen name of Huntley Haverstock, is given the assignment of going to Europe and digging around for information about the impending war - and particularly to have a conversation with Professor Van Meer, who may be one of the men who can help keep the peace. Johnny witnesses Van Meer being killed right in front of him, and chasing the perpetrators, he winds up searching a windmill, in one of the many remarkable scenes in the film. While on assignment, he falls in love with Carol Fisher, whose father is the head of a peace-making movement.The film is striking for its underlying humor and lightness despite the seriousness and shock value of the events. It's also remarkable for some against type casting, i.e., George Sanders is a newsman and a good guy for a change, and Edmund Gwenn - Santa Claus! - is a killer. That's another remarkable scene.There are several spectacular moments. The rainy scene on the steps when Van Meer is killed is one; when Jones looks for the perpetrator, all he can see is a sea of same-colored umbrellas. The windmills are another - claustrophobic inside, a peaceful picture outside. There is a marvelous shot of Johnny escaping from killers by slipping out of his hotel bathroom window and walking along the ledge. The lit-up sign HOTEL EUROPE can plainly be seen, and Jones breaks one of the lights as he goes by. Best of all is the airplane crash into the ocean which is fantastic and looks both agonizing and real. The final scene of the film, a radio broadcast, was added some time later - five days before the Germans started bombing, in fact.Shot in black and white, Foreign Correspondent is loaded with atmosphere and the tension of the coming war. Joel McCrea, a very likable, easygoing actor in the same vein as Cooper, though maybe a bit livelier, is excellent in his role here as a gentle but adventurous man caught up in bizarre circumstances. Laraine Day, never used much by her own studio (MGM) and often loaned out, is great as the pretty, intelligent, and principled Carol. As Scott ffolliott, Sanders is charming and plays beautifully with Day and McCrea. Herbert Marshall has a slightly different role for him and is very effective.Though many may not agree, I consider this one of Hitchock's best films and totally underrated. Why did Gary Cooper turn it down? It was a thriller, which in those days was considered a B-class genre. After Foreign Correspondent, this was no longer true. "},{"Title":"Another Hitchcock crowd-pleaser","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"       The first half hour of Hitchcock's Foreign Correspondent looks like it can either be a light romantic comedy or a oddly fashioned drama about current events.  But then, there's this scene in the rain, where our hero, played with energy by Joel McCrea, attends a crowded political meeting.  McCrea notices his new friend, an elderly ambassador acts vacant and glassy eyed.  Then, this mysterious photographer steps in.  The photographer has next to his camera, a gun....      At this point Foreign Correspondent becomes an inventive chase thriller, darting across the audiences' eyes at a berserk chase.   This was the first time that Hitchcock had all of Hollywood's tools at his disposal, and what a spellbinding, constantly fun classic came of it.      I look forward to this film making it's DVD debut!   "},{"Title":"In many ways, the master's most accessible film","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Hitchcock may not have wanted him, but Joel Mac Crea's everyman performance as Huntley Haverstock is the most purely likeable and accessible protagonist Hitchcock has ever had.  And, that works perfectly for the movies which gets plenty of the dark and mysterious and perverted from the magnificent supporting cast (including Marshall, Gwenn, Sanders, and many others...).  But McCrea's feckless honesty and stubborn determination (rather than the more usual-for-Hitchcock obsession) work refreshingly in contrast with the others.All the other typical master touches, impeccable camera work, a great score, intricate interwoven plotlines, and many dualities are all on hand for a truly great and unforgettable cinematic experience.Watch this film! "},{"Title":"Gripping and Perfect","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  For what it's worth, I think this is one of Hitchcock's top films.  **SPOILERS AHEAD**  Some people have commented on the over-the-top dialogue.  I must admit that I found the characters rather whimsical, but I think that is the point.  From Edmund Gwenn's (great casting) larking cutthroat to George Sanders' wry snobbery to Eddie Conrads's eyebrow-rustling Latvian, Hitchcock puts together a very light-hearted setting.  Into this brush of sparkling romance, hack journalism, and amateur politics comes a nest of Axis spies.  The McGuffin is a particular clause of a peace treaty, and our cast is whirled around this center.  Many of the set-pieces-- the assassination, the windmill, the crash landing-- are virtuosi in themselves but are not meant to distract from a weak script, unlike many of today's films.  The main plot, the secret kidnapping of a diplomat, keeps its steam.  Subplot #1, the romance between lovely Laraine Day and McCrea, is charming and believable.  Subplot #2, the intrigue, is masterfully handled by Hitch, and it is his forte.  When first viewing this, you will be glued to the screen, attempting to figure things out before Hitchcock, in typical fashion, releases the pressure by revealing some secret thing.  The patriotism is perfectly suited to 1940, and we in America would do well to heed the warnings against isolationism even today.  I give it a 10. "}{"Title":"Highly Entertaining Adventure","Date":"24 December 2009","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" In 1939, the editor of the New York Globe invites the tough reporter John Jones (Joel McCrea) to be the substitute for the inefficient Stebbins (Robert Benchley) as foreign correspondent in London. His first assignment is to interview the Dutch leader Mr. Van Meer (Albert Basseman) in his lecture for peace in London to know about the possibility of a declaration of war against Germany. Johnny meets Stephen Fisher (Herbert Marshall), the leader of the organization Universal Peace Party that promotes peace, and his beautiful daughter Carol Fisher (Laraine Day), and he has a crush on Carol. When Van Meer is apparently murdered in Amsterdam, Johnny follows the assassin with Carol and the journalist Scott ffolliett (George Sanders) through the countryside and discovers that Van Meer has been abducted indeed. However, nobody believes on the truth and he tangle with an international conspiracy. Foreign Correspondent is a highly entertaining adventure, with a suspenseful story of espionage and an enjoyable romance, with Joel McCrea and Laraine Day showing a perfect chemistry. But the greatest attraction is the plot based on the beginning of the World War II in 1939 practically in real time. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Correspondente Estrangeiro (Foreign Correspondent) "},{"Title":"Everything you could possibly ask for","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Action, romance, comedy, political intrigue...Alfred Hitchcock's Foreign Correspondent(1940) has got it all. The film deals with very serious subject matter, the run up to the disastrous World War II in Europe, but Hitchcock's comedic treatment of the life and death circumstances make the film infinitely more watchable. Joel McRae is an outstanding leading man and the rest of the great international ensemble cast doesn't miss a dramatic or comedic note at any point in the film. The characteristic hitchcockian suspense is present throughout but it's the comedic moments that really make the film shine. In only his second Hollywood film, Hitchcock was in top form in showing the unique style of storytelling that would change the medium and influence film makers for 70 years and counting. "},{"Title":"Prelude to Themes of some Hitchcock's Classics","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Story of a crime reporter (Joel McCrea) suddenly thrust into the international arena as a foreign correspondent for a major New York paper, assigned to Europe in the weeks leading up to the outbreak of the Second World War. While trying to cover the efforts being made to avert war our protagonist manages both to fall in love and also to uncover a plot to subvert the peace process.The film includes some really great set pieces, featuring wonderful sets, special weather effects and large crowds all used to great effect. For those familiar with Hitchcock's work there are also some obvious early versions of motif's that would be used again in later films (Notorious, North by Northwest, Vertigo and The Man Who Knew to Much to name a few).The two leads Joel McCrea and Larraine Day are fine in their roles and largely effective but don't have the transcendence of the later actors Hitchcock's films would feature so effectively. The supporting cast though is extremely effective and includes; Herbert Marshall, George Sanders, Albert Basserman (nominated for an Oscar), Robert Benchley, Edmund Gwenn (the future Kris Kringle from Miracle on 34th Street plays a hired killer) and Eduardo Cianelli.The cinematography is as to be expected quite good and includes some wonderful images. The score is effective though perhaps not up to the later Hitchcock scores from Bernard Herrmann.The comedic elements of the film which was apparently largely added by Robert Benchley are good but seem somewhat out of place. The story has strong elements as well but I think the script needed to be tighter, perhaps another rewrite could have made this film truly great, although it already had a great many writer &#x96; perhaps too many Foreign Correspondent would be nominated for 6 Oscars including Best Picture, although it would win none. Another Hitchcock film the far superior Rebecca would win Best Picture that year. "},{"Title":"Light-hearted, thoroughly Hitchcockian Thriller.","Date":"31 December 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Sometimes Alfred Hitchcock would get hold of a Big Idea and run with it and the results were usually disappointing -- Rope, Spellbound, The Wrong Man. But there's nothing pretentious about Foreign Correspondent. There's a secret clause to one of those secret treaties, and there's a murder or two, the kidnapping and torture of an old man, and an impending war, but these are ground instead of figure -- pegs on which to hang an adventure story blended with some comedy and romance.Joel McRae is an ordinary reporter sent to Europe to root out the real dope behind the winds of war. A Hollander, Mr. Van Meer (Albert Basserman) is the tender-minded architect of a plan to keep the peace, and Steven Fisher (Herbert Marshall) is his chief functionary. Other important characters include Herbert Marshall's naive and trusting daughter (Laraine Day) and a flippant but right-thinking British reporter (George Sanders). McRae and Day fall for one another. Sanders plays a rather important role in the story. And mention must be made of Robert Benchley too, as Stebbins, McRae's careless and self-indulgent colleague in London. Edmund Gwenn is a thug hired by the bad guys (that is, the Germans) to see to it that McRae ceases his meddling, permanently. Eduardo Cianelli appears as a Nazi thug.It's not exactly a who-dunnit because we discover half-way through the movie that Herbert Marshall is a spy working for the other side to discover the contents of the secret clause in the secret treaty. Instead, it's a salubrious mixture of Hitchcock set pieces that promote suspense and generate laughs.The plot moves from New York to Amsterdam to London and is full of surprises. Here are some striking incidents. (1) A double for Van Meer is assassinated on the steps -- shot in the face, in fact, like the citizen in Battleship Potyemkin -- and the killer gets away by bustling through a crowd of umbrellas. The scene was shot on a California stage. And why did Hitchcock set it up as he did? Well, he stated, it's Holland, and what does Holland have but rain, tulips, and windmills? (2) McRae, Day, and Sanders chase the murderer's car and it suddenly disappears next to a windmill. McRae pokes around in the windmill with unexpected results. If you've ever wondered what the inside of a windmill looks like, this will give you some idea of what the inside of a windmill looks like inside the head of the art director, Alexander Golitzen. (3) The Trans-Oceanic clipper crashes into the sea near the end and you have never seen such panic and such wild and wind-blown seas.There isn't space to detail the plot but it isn't, as I say, all that important anyway, serving mostly as a link between episodes and sometimes even a little confusing. But everything else is outstandingly entertaining. Robert Benchley contributed to the dialog. He was a humorist for the New Yorker for some time and was readily recognizable to the audience because he had his own series of short subjects that, I must say, weren't very funny. He made up for it by having the face of a resigned Humphrey C. Earwicker and a keen ear for absurdist dialog that was honed at Harvard. During an earnest conversation he's interrupted by the phone ringing. He picks it up, shouts, No, and slams it back down. A few minutes later, there is another ring, and Benchley says, No -- tell him it's ridiculous!, and hangs up immediately. No explanation is ever offered. (It must have appealed to Hitchcock because it ran parallel to his own sense of whimsy.) Benchley wrote all his own dialog and most likely contributed some other bon mots. When Laraine Day rises to give a presentation at a boring meeting, a luncheon guest leans towards McRae and remarks that the female of the speeches is deadlier than the male, but it's almost lost in the background clatter.The casting is notable in many ways. Herbert Marshall was familiar to the audience of the time -- but as a humane, avuncular, sophisticated, presence in films, not a heavy. Edmund Gwenn, a heartless killer, is so short and harmless that he was to play Santa Claus in Miracle on 34th Street. Martin Kosleck, a Jew who managed to escape from Europe, is introduced as the Nazi goon he was to play for the rest of his movie career. George Sanders, always reliable, is at the top of his form here. Albert Basserman, the elderly do-gooder, was nominated for an Academy Award.Not to be missed if you're looking for an exciting and delightfully engaging film. "},{"Title":"Cliveden Set","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" In a recent viewing of my VHS copy of Foreign Correspondent, I hadn't realized how dated it was and also how silly the plot was. Not worthy of the master of suspense.Foreign Correspondent was the second film that Alfred Hitchcock made in America and it was a one shot deal for independent producer Walter Wanger. That other well known independent producer David O. Selznick got some big bucks for Hitch's services. Or maybe he saw how ridiculous the story line was for Foreign Correspondent. Hitchcock's all purpose McGuffin in this story is a person, the Dutch Foreign Minister played by Albert Basserman.The devilishly clever Nazis hatch a scheme in which they kidnap Basserman, substitute a double and assassinate the double. So after getting Basserman, what do they do? They don't spirit him away to Germany, they take him to England instead. Supposedly so that collaborator Herbert Marshall can get the text of a secret clause in a treaty the Dutch have signed with some other country not named. A little sodium pentathol in Germany would have done the trick.I think the idea was totally ridiculous and I can't believe Alfred Hitchcock didn't find it so.The purpose of this film was an attack on those in Great Britain dubbed the Cliveden set who hung out at Lady Nancy Astor's estate named Cliveden. These folks wanted peace at any price with Hitler and it's still a subject today for debate whether they were just fools or out and out traitors. Hitchcock opts for the latter. Still the film has its Hitchcockian touches his fans love so well. The chase scene through the windmill country, the climax when the Atlantic clipper with Joel McCrea, Laraine Day, George Sanders, and Herbert Marshall is shot down after war is formally declared. Even at that, I can't believe that a submarine possessed sufficient fire power to down an airliner, why didn't the airliner just raise altitude?Joel McCrea was Hitchcock's second choice after Gary Cooper turned him down. Hitchcock and McCrea got along well, he wanted to use him for later films like Saboteur, but they never worked together again.And that's a pity because Foreign Correspondent isn't Hitchcock at his best. "},{"Title":"A High-Speed Espionage Thriller","Date":"17 March 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Excitement, suspense and humour are just a few of the hallmarks of this high-speed espionage thriller that does such a great job of entertaining from start to finish. With numerous plot twists and dialogue that's sharp and witty, the interest level never drops and no doubt, this contributed to making Foreign Correspondent the great commercial and critical success that it eventually became. Over the years, it's become one of Alfred Hitchcock's most under-appreciated films, probably for the simple reason that it's been overshadowed by his numerous great achievements in the years that followed. The fact remains however that, especially for a movie released in 1940, it's technically impressive, full of interesting characters and contains a number of very memorable set pieces.In 1939, Mr Powers (Harry Davenport), the aptly-named editor of the New York Globe is utterly exasperated by the lack of hard news that he's getting from his European correspondents about the growing threat of war and so decides to send a crime reporter to find out exactly what's happening. The reporter he chooses for the job is Johnny Jones (Joel McCrea), a young brash and politically naïve character who says give me an expense account and I'll cover anything. Powers renames his new foreign correspondent, Huntley Haverstock and immediately instructs him to leave for London to attend a conference being held by the Universal Peace Party at which the eminent Dutch diplomat, Van Meer (Albert Bassermann) is due to speak.On his way to the event, Haverstock has the good fortune to meet Van Meer and shares a taxi with him but the old man is totally uninterested in talking about political matters and so doesn't provide Haverstock with any useful information. At the conference, the young American meets Carol Fisher (Laraine Day), the daughter of Stephen Fisher (Herbert Marshall) who's the peace organisation's leader and is shocked when Van Meer doesn't turn up to speak to the audience, apparently because he'd been called to attend another conference in Amsterdam. The determined reporter decides to go to Amsterdam to follow Van Meer's activities and is then drawn into a frantic sequence of events when he witnesses a shocking assassination, gets involved is a car chase and in a windmill in the Dutch countryside, discovers that Van Meer has been kidnapped and drugged by a suspicious-looking group of men.After Van Meer and his captors suddenly disappear, Haverstock returns to London with Carol who he'd met with her friend Scott ffolliott (George Sanders) during the car chase. Haverstock and Carol fall in love and plan to marry but when they return to Carol's home and Haverstock sees one of the men from the windmill with her father, he strongly suspects that Stephen Fisher is a Nazi agent and with the help of ffolliott attempts to rescue Van Meer and expose Fisher as a traitor. The events that follow then put Haverstock in some life-threatening situations before he's eventually in a position to try to get his story back to his newspaper in New York.The way in which the assassination is carried out in this movie is truly shocking and the suspense generated during Haverstock's time in the windmill where he's trying to avoid being seen by Van Meer's captors is tremendous. There's also a brilliantly filmed plane crash which is remarkably realistic as is another tense scene involving a high-level escape from a hotel room.Joel McCrea does well as an ordinary guy who's totally out of his depth in his new job and George Sanders, Laraine Day and Albert Bassermann are all excellent in their supporting roles.Foreign Correspondent which is overtly anti-Nazi and made a strong appeal for the United States to end its policy of neutrality, made its point so effectively that it even drew great praise from Joseph Goebbels who was the German Minister of Propaganda at the time! Whilst the propaganda content of the film is clearly a reflection of the time in which it was made, its terrific combination of adventure, comedy and romance is so enjoyable that its enduring appeal is guaranteed. "},{"Title":"Best Direction Ever","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I don't know if I have ever heard the phrase epic thriller before, but this comes to mind. Although there are longer Hitchcocks, this has the highest thrills to length ratio aside from North by Northwest. Although this movie is relatively unknown, the windmill scene is a fairly well known bit. No small wonder, as it has moments that are iconic of Hitchcock's suspense, and shifting lighting patterns that add an ominous effect. A much used technique, as repetitive motions or sounds in film punctuate the scene with a sense that something is watching, or nature is playing a part. There are many other great scenes, but I will spare those who haven't seen it of losing part of the incredible suspense.However, with a thriller this excellent, there must be more than thrills and direction to complete the film. For one matter, there is acting. Although the leading roles require more than is always present, you never feel like there is any bad acting. To bring acting of absolute perfection into play, there is Albert Bassermann, as Van Meer. As he changes topic in mid sentence, rambling with a scratchy voice, coughing, and retching. Although he learned his lines phonetically, he somehow knows exactly when to change tone, or when to put a gleam of defiance into his eyes. As another matter, there is cinematography and lighting that corresponds perfectly with the suspense. The shots will contrast each other, but without being too obvious, and the shot patterns of certain scenes are very similar to North by Northwest. Finally, it has a compelling story backed by a fine screenplay, with dramatic lines that still avoid being clunky. This is the rare treasure of a film that is enjoyable, and also great. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock does it with style","Date":"12 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Johnny Jones, a reporter of the New York Globe becomes a foreign correspondent under the pen name Huntley Haverstock.His life is in danger in European cities, in London and Amsterdam.He gets to know a diplomat called Van Meer who's shot in front of his eyes later.But he soon finds out the old man is still alive held as a prisoner by some men who want some information from him.Stephen Fisher, head of the Universal Peace Party may have something to do with his kidnapping.Johnny happens to be pretty close with his daughter, Carol.Alfred Hitchcock's Foreign Correspondent (1940) is a movie with plenty of showy action scenes.The casting is perfect.Hitchcock himself is seen as Man with newspaper on street.In a bigger role we see Joel McCrea who is brilliant as John Jones.He makes a terrific couple with Laraine Day, who plays Carol Fisher.Stephen Fisher is played by Herbert Marshall.George Sanders is fantastic as a man named Scott ffolliot.There is a funny and rather long conversation about his last name.Albert Bassermann plays Van Meer and he's magnificent.In a bit part we see James Finlayson as Dutch Peasant.Joan Leslie plays Jones' sister.There are many breathtaking scenes in this picture.There's that where we are in a car and then inside a windmill.In the end we are in an airplane and that plane starts going down after the Germans shoot at it and the passengers find themselves in the sea.What a great ride with Hitchcock this is! "},{"Title":"I could get more news out of Europe looking in a crystal ball.","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" If you're going to sit through a piece of WWII propaganda, you might as well ensure that it's directed by Alfred Hitchcock. 'Foreign Correspondent (1940)' was the director's second film in Hollywood; David O. Selznick had hired him out to independent producer Walter Wanger, and the resultant production was released shortly after the Best Picture-winning 'Rebecca (1940).' The film feels very close to several of Hitchcock's British spy pictures &#150; particularly 'The 39 Steps (1935)' and 'Secret Agent (1936)' &#150; and is a marked improvement on both of these, a greater production budget allowing the Master of Suspense to well-and-truly spread his creative wings. The film was a minor success at the 1941 Academy Awards, not winning any Oscars, but receiving nominations for Best Actor in a Supporting Role (Albert Bassermann), Best Art Direction, Best Cinematography, Best Special Effects, Best Original Screenplay and Best Picture. However, it's safe to say that the film was definitively overshadowed on the night by the director's other entry, and 'Foreign Correspondent' has remained a low-key Hitchcock ever since.The year is 1939, and Europe is on the brink of a second World War. Johnny Jones (Joel McCrea), a hard-edged American journalist, is sent across the Atlantic under the sophisticated new title of Huntley Haverstock to unearth exclusive details of the impending cloud of doom, and he falls into more trouble than he would have dared to imagine. The Germans are desperately and ruthlessly attempting to infiltrate British Intelligence, and one much be wary of all those with which he makes acquaintance. Jones falls in with Stephen Fisher (Herbert Marshall), president of a peace-campaigning organisation, and very quickly falls in love with his pretty daughter, Carol (Laraine Day). Meanwhile, enemy spies have plans to kidnap important Dutch diplomat Mr. Van Meer (Albert Bassermann, who learned his lines phonetically), and it will take every ounce of Jones' courage and dedication if he is to save the day for Britain &#150; even though he's really only doing it for the exclusive story!'Foreign Correspondent' is most fondly-remembered for its various incredible set-pieces was there ever anybody more adept at producing incredible set-pieces than Alfred Hitchcock?, and the dramatic/romantic subplots that link them are almost immaterial. Your heart will pound during the assassination in the rainswept street; your heart will stop as Jones creeps silently and perilously through the enemy-occupied windmill; your heart will explode as the trans-Atlantic clipper dives terminally into frigid depths of the ocean, cascades of seawater charging through the cockpit of the aircraft. The resultant sequence on the floating aircraft wreckage would no doubt influence Hitchcock when he directed 'Lifeboat (1944);' one of many moments in which Paul Eagler's visual effects left me speechless. McCrea brings just the right amount of classic American cynicism to the character of Jones, and his chemistry with Day is just good enough for me to overlook the fact that he proposed to her after about two meetings - as he himself said, that cuts down our love scene quite a bit, doesn't it? "},{"Title":"The Road To War - Hitchcock Style","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" If one would look at the late British films that Hitchcock made, such as THE THIRTY NINE STEPS, THE LADY VANISHES, and SABOTAGE, one can see that Hitchcock was aware of foreign elements that were anti-British and that his nation had to confront and fight. Foreign spies attack England from within in THE THIRTY NINE STEPS and SABOTAGE, and Miss Froy (Dame May Witty) is spying on a country that is very much like Germany in THE LADY VANISHES. To these films one can add Hitch's second American film, FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT. Although the Second World War was one year old when FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT came out, it is set in the year 1938-39, and ends after September 1939.Joel McCrae is Huntly Haverstock (actually Johnny Jones), the new foreign correspondent sent by an American news service to Europe to cover the collapsing international situation. He meets Van Meer (Albert Basserman), who is the strong man of Holland, and who is the key to maintaining European peace. Van Meer promises him an interview, but when they next meet the statesman acts like he does not remember him. This does not appear to matter, until a few minutes later an assassin shoots Van Meer with a gun concealed in a camera. The scene where the assassin escapes in a sea of umbrellas is justifiably famous among Hitch's fans, but many people don't recall that the assassin shoots at McCrae who is chasing him, killing at least one other person on a bicycle. Actually this whole sequence suggests Hitch's interest in real crime in 1934 the King of Yugoslavia and the Foreign Minister of France were killed by an assassin in Marseilles when headed for a conference. The assassination was filmed very graphically, including the killing of the assassin (after he shot several other people). Hitch probably saw it, and filed away the incident for future reference.McCrae tries to get the authorities to hear his views about the actuality of the assassinated man being the real Van Meer. A few people believe him. One is Stephen Fisher (Herbert Marshall) a leading peace advocate, and his daughter (Laraine Day). Also is Mr. ffoliot (George Sanders - this time a nice guy), who has attached himself to Day as a friend. Gradually McCrae finds that if the authorities do not fully believe him, others do - the foreign agents who were responsible for the assassination. Hitch did nicely in this, his first spy film in American. He has the famous backward windmill sequence. He also concluded the film with a memorable plane crash. But most interesting was his use of (SPOILER COMING UP) Marshall as the head of the foreign agents.Hitch had come from England in the heyday of Lady Astor's suspect Cliveden Set which strongly urged neutrality or even alliance with Nazi Germany. Many of the members were socially prominent types. Marshall's Fisher is very plausible as a lover of peace, and gradually is revealed as an enemy of the British. But the screenplay gives Marshall real dignity. He sees himself as a patriot for his native land (presumably Germany). To her credit, Day understands his behavior and does not desert him when he is revealed at the end. And then comes the air disaster, and Marshall finds a way to make a dignified and brave exit from his disgrace.There is more to the film than I have suggested here. There are touches of humor by McCrae's bureau chief in Europe, Robert Benchley. There is also the black comic business involving Edmund Gwenn on Westminster Abbey's roof, trying to get rid of McCrae.All told, it was a good follow-up to REBECCA, and it showed that Hitchcock was not just a one-shot director. "}{"Title":"Hello America, Hang On To Your Lights - They're The Only Lights Left In The World !","Date":"15 November 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Johnny Jones is a straight-talking New York newspaperman hired by his rag to cover the impending war in Europe. He witnesses the assassination of a prominent Dutch leader but then discovers this was a doppelganger, falls in love with Carol Fisher, a peace envoy, and traces the conspiracy back to Carol's father ! What's a poor guy to report ?This was Hitchcock's second Hollywood picture (after Rebecca) and he clearly relished in his newfound resources, turning in a film filled with action, humour, romance, suspense, intrigue and even some potent social commentary. The movie globetrots from New York to London and Holland, and we get a car chase through windmill country, a flight across a hotel rooftop, a love scene on a storm-tossed ocean liner, a failed assassination atop Westminster Cathedral and an astonishingly realistic plane crash in the ocean. These are all sequences which would be tough enough to shoot with today's technology never mind seventy years ago, but Hitchcock's camera is everywhere, documenting the action and generating whatever emotion the scene requires; there's one left-to-right tracking shot through the fuselage of the crashing plane which I think is one of the most staggering in all of Hitch's work. The cast are sensational, with the prolific McCrea at the top of his game, Day a fine romantic foil, Marshall (the star of Hitch's earlier Murder!) great in the quisling turncoat role and Sanders for once playing a good guy action hero. The film is almost stolen however by two supporting players - Gwenn as the cheerful elderly killer Rowley, and Benchley as Stebbins, the hack columnist with a tendency towards various vices. Benchley (father of children's author Nathanial and grandfather of Jaws novelist Peter) was a great writer/performer and member of the noted Algonquin Round Table, and he contributed much of the amusing dialogue to the movie; when McCrea confesses his undying love to Day on the voyage back from Holland and she instantly reciprocates, he quips, Hmm &#x85; that cuts down our love scene down quite a bit, doesn't it ?. Hitch also had some powerful collaborators on this picture, notably independent producer Walter Wanger (Stagecoach, Invasion Of The Body Snatchers), cameraman/director Rudolph Maté (Vampyr, D.O.A.) and designer/director William Cameron Menzies (Gone With The Wind, Invaders From Mars), and the look of it is just sensational. Extremely well scripted by Charles Bennett and Joan Harrison, with almost every scene packing a punch - a great early Hitchcock thriller. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's  excellent classic  story of espionage with a lot  of suspense and tension.","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" During the WWII , an American journalist (Joel McCrea) is sent to London by his chief (Harry Davenport) to report a pacifist convention when he becomes romantically involved with the daughter (Laraine Day) of the organizing (Herbert Marshall) . Meanwhile , he befriends an elderly diplomat (Albert Bassermann) but he's abducted by a Nazi spy-ring . The reporter accompanied by a cynic adventurer (George Sanders) travel towards Holland to uncover the clues ; later on , they head to London . As tells Hitchcock in the famous dialog with Francois Truffaut , this is a B-film (though in big budget) , a thriller plenty of adventures and action . Gary Cooper rejected the starring role (although he regretted later) and is hired a second-class actor , Joel McCrea , of whom Hitch says to be pretty soft ; besides , a beautiful Laraine Day . The film has similar premise than ¨Lady vanishes¨ but with a male character , an elderly diplomat with a secret clause . It also appears the Hitchcock's usual themes as the innocent hero involved in continuous adventures .The film highlights are the umbrellas and windmill scenes , Hitch tells how it was shot in Holland and he felt really appealed the filming a killing among tulips . The spectacular plane crashing is shot in transparency and a water tank and the passengers-wreck in a big pond . In the interview with the famed French director, Truffaut , regarding this film , Hitch talks about the ¨McGuffin¨ , here is ¨the 27 clause of a peace treatise¨ only known by the kidnapped diplomatic . For Hitchcock , the McGuffin is a gimmick , and isn't important in the plot . The origin is a Scottish name . Hitch explains as two men come into a train . The first asks  what is this packet ? ; the second answers  Oh,it's a McGuffin! ; the first again asks  What's a McGuffin? ; and he subsequently answers  It's a devise to hunt lions in the Adirondaks mountains ; the another answers  But if there aren't lions in the Adirondaks!; and ultimately says  Then , it isn't a McGuffin! . "},{"Title":"Time passer with eerie end sequence","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Ignorant American reporter Joel McCrea (John Jones) is given the pseudonym Huntley Haverstock and sent on a mission to Amsterdam to get a story about politician Albert Bassermann (Van Meer) and obtain some news about the impending war in Europe. Well, he certainly gets involved. Can he live to tell what he knows? The film is a little too long, and the first half an hour is pretty boring. We then get some tense scenes, starting with a shooting. At last, some suspense. Unfortunately, the realism of the film is sloppy at this point. For example the victim's killer would have been caught about 20 times over. Also, the killer's getaway car would not just have disappeared like that on a large empty road, given that the pursuers had the car in sight. Another instance of stupidity occurs at this point in that the bad guys don't seem to be looking out for the car that has been chasing them. These villains are cretinously stupid not to have someone pick up that McCrea is snooping around the windmill. He stands out like a sore thumb.Another memorable section sees hit-man Edmund Gwenn (Rowley) bide his time and attempt his murderous instructions on McCrea. He has a couple of goes. And while these are suspenseful, Gwenn plays for comedy so it's never quite effective. And that's a problem with this film, there is far too much light-heartedness (eg, the Latvian bloke) which takes away any real danger.George Sanders (ffolliott) turns up after the first boring half an hour that wasn't necessary and immediately becomes the best of the cast. In fact, the lead man McCrea completely disappears from the proceedings after about two thirds of the film and we follow Sanders as he unravels and solves the whole mystery. By himself. McCrea wasn't needed &#x96; Sanders even already knew about wealthy aristocratic Herbert Marshall (Fisher).The film does have two other memorable sequences. The first is the sea of umbrellas as the assassin makes his getaway &#x96; very creative. The other is what elevates this film to the score I have given it &#x96; namely, the whole plane crash episode. I found this particularly eerie given the current explanation of what happened to that Air Malaysia plane recently. The one that just disappeared. There is real footage of the view that the pilots would have had as the plane dives towards the sea. We then get the water pouring in and a frightening aftermath. Maybe the passengers were already dead come the impact in the real life situation. Still, it made me think and go all sombre about it.Unfortunately, this film lacks something. Oh yeah, Hitchcock is easy to spot in this one, so keep an eye out near the beginning. "},{"Title":"Underrated in the Hitchcock Canon","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Though a bit preachy (WWII was about to start) and overlong (2-hours), the movie's still a gripping Hitchcock, only his second in the US. That windmill sequence has stayed with me for sixty years. How clever the entire set-up is, not quite like anything else I've seen. Notice especially the excellence of the exterior set&#x97;the sky, the windmills&#x97; these visuals are exceptional for a sound stage creation. Then too, I love the way Hitch builds suspense in the tower scene with all the untimely intrusions. Still it's difficult to see Santa from Miracle on 34th Street (1947) as a heartless killer. Then too, there's that pure Hichcockian assassination scene with the umbrellas and the unflinching camera as the bullet strikes Van Meer's face. And finally, the cockpit crash scene that's still jarring. Thanks IMDb for explaining how it was done. For its time, the unswerving camera as the plane strikes water was both daring and imaginative.To me, these are exceptional dramatic highlights. On the whole the narrative is engaging as we follow efforts to locate the real Van Meer, while the romantic angle is woven cleverly into the plot without being obtrusive. And for a political movie of the time, note that the term Nazi is not used even once. The narrative manages to keep the sinister nationality of the plotters anonymous, but we know who is meant. Note too how animated the usually reserved George Sanders is in his scenes. It's almost a problem since he overshadows the quieter hero, Joel McCrea. True McCrea is a little palid in his role as a reporter, still he comes across as appropriately likable and assertive when necessary, as in the hidden phone sequence.Nonetheless, the movie's a worthy entry in the Master of Suspense's film catalog and if it's not as well known as many of his other 40's movies, it should be. "},{"Title":"This is a big story, and you're part of it.","Date":"16 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Foreign Correspondent is a fast paced, gripping spy thriller that kept me glued to the screen, afraid I might miss something. The movie is set in London and Holland, just before the outbreak of WWII. The setting itself provides a sense of impending doom as Europe is about to erupt in war. John Jones, an American newspaper reporter (played by Joel McCrea) has been assigned by his NYC paper to go to London to get the real story on the geo-political situation there. Things quickly get out of hand for him as he finds himself running for his life as he becomes caught up in political assassination and non-stop intrigue. The plot is filled with twists and turns and constant high suspense. Adding to this is the excellent camera work under Hitchcock's expert direction, with scenes shot from angles that increase the suspense. Some of the best examples include the scene inside the windmill, the scene where Jones escapes through his hotel room window, the climactic plane crash, and the final scene when the war begins. The acting was also good, especially Joel McCrea as John Jones, George Sanders as his coolly suave English counterpart Ffolliott, and Edmund Gwenn as Rowley, the English hit man hired to kill Jones. Another element that makes this film so enjoyable is the humor that Hitchcock included. We see this in the dialogue of Jones and even more so Ffolliott with their frequent quips, in Jones' reaction to Carol Fisher (Loraine Day), his love interest, and in Rowley, who tries repeatedly to kill Jones. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, serious plea to Americans to get into the war--great, brilliant fun.","Date":"12 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Foreign Correspondent (1940)When Foreign Correspondent was filmed, the war was raging in Europe, and England was feeling very alone fighting the German machine. America was a year away from jumping in to help. Alfred Hitchcock was a thoroughly British director but in 1939 he had moved to the U.S. and from here saw the war through our detached perspective.This movie is his plea to Americans--get involved, join the war, help your friends in Great Britain. And it couldn't have been more effective. By the last scene, as the American National Anthem plays and bombs are dropping in London, you ought to be in tears. The times themselves were a kind of high drama Hollywood can only be a pale imitation of. But getting to that famous last scene is a totally fun ride. In fact, it's fair to say Foreign Correspondent is a comedy. There are so many funny lines, and so many comic moments that could easily instead have been filmed for suspense, you just bumble along with the lead male, Joel McCray. Even choosing this benign, likable, and slightly dull actor was a way of dampening down the high stakes intrigue suggested by the plot. Better actors are secondary--George Sanders and Herbert Marshall--but they, too, play into the lighthearted tone of friends, one and all, even as the world crumbles.Of course, not all is as it seems in a Hitchcock film, and he plays against this humor with some tense moments. The famous windmill scene, and later the scene from the high tower, are filmed spatial vertigo. But even here things have a witty edge. The chase scene to the windmill, as our leading threesome is being shot at, ends up being a cheerful conversation about how to spell the one fellows name (ffolliott, small f) and it should make you laugh out loud. It's all brilliant stuff, handled with the deft hand of a director justing beginning his twenty years of masterpieces (with Rebecca, shot earlier in 1940). As much as it is about World War II, there is no mention of Germans themselves (there is a reference to Hitler), a Hollywood restriction in place while the U.S. was officially neutral. But there is no question who the enemy is, and what should be done about it. "},{"Title":"... don't tune me out, hang on a while, this is a big story...","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" What's interesting for me in watching Foreign Correspondent is trying to imagine how American audiences of the time might have felt while on the doorstep of World War II with Europe about to blow up. In this country for only a short time, director Hitchcock's set pieces recreate the cities of London and Amsterdam in a tale of spies and traitors operating under the guise of a Universal Peace Party. It's chairman Fisher (Herbert Marshall) orchestrates the kidnapping of Dutch partner Van Meer (Albert Bassermann), who has committed the details of a secret peace agreement to memory. Clause 27 turns out to be a classic Hitchcock maguffin, a device planted in the story to rouse the interest of the viewer, though it's details are never revealed. In fact, it's not necessary to do so, because the film's sleight of hand diverts us to assassination attempts, a Dutch windmill hideout for the villains and a harrowing plane crash into the ocean before it's all over.The intrigue moves along nicely with Joel McCrae as Morning Globe reporter Johnny Jones, who finds himself in the thick of things in more ways than one. He gets lured into the espionage drama after he witnesses what looks like the assassination of ambassador Van Meer, though by this time he's also becoming romantically involved with Carol Fisher (Laraine Day). She's the daughter of the mastermind behind the spy ring, but having grown up British, her loyalty is staunchly pro Brit and anti war.Hitch builds suspense in the film on any number of levels, and each time it works, even when he goes for an 'in your face' moment like Rowley's (Edmund Gwenn) attempt to push Johnny from the top of the cathedral. You know instinctively that Jones/Haverstock can't be dead, yet you maintain ever the slightest doubt until you see him again in the very next scene. But for sheer terror, the scenes of the ocean plane crash survivors scrambling onto the wreckage is about the most surreal and insane piece of film making ever, made all the more terrifying if you think of yourself being there. Personally, I can't even imagine confronting a horror like that, much less hanging on long enough to survive.Though not remembered as one of Hitchcock's better known films, the movie was nominated for six Oscars in it's day, ironically pitted against Hitch's first American film Rebecca which won Best Picture in 1941. Though it may seem somewhat dated today, one can still have a good time with the movie by glossing over the less believable elements and riding it out for the mystery and adventure. "},{"Title":"Hidden but not forgotten, Foreign Correspondent is a Hitchcock masterpiece","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Everyone knows who Alfred Hitchcock is. He is a man of mainstream and yet he has made a lot of films, which nobody knows about, which I consider greatly independent. Foreign Correspondent is a great movie. It's sets, locations, and characters are truly amazing. This film is like that unexpected delicious taste of chocolate that we are so lucky to get once and while. I'll start with the sets. The first one that comes to mind is in Amsterdam. We start on a wide shot and move through the busy street to a gathering in front of building. There are streetcars and hundreds of people around. Then someone gets shot in the face (pretty intense for 1940), and we go on a car chase out of town. A comical moment occurs during the chase scene when we as well as the Joel McCrea character (Johnny Jones/ Huntley Haverstock) are introduced by Carol Fisher to the George Sanders character whose name is Scott ffolliott. The dialogue is brilliant.Carol Fisher Mr. Haverstock, Mr ffolliotScott ffolliott With a double fHuntley Haverstock I don't get the double fScott ffolliott There all at the beginning both small F'sHuntley Haverstock They can't be at the beginningScott ffolliott One of my ancestors had his head chopped off by Henry VIII and his wife dropped the capital letter to commemorate the occasionHuntley Haverstock How do you say it, like a stutterScott ffolliott No, No, just straight fuhRight after this conversation there is another small comical moment here in which a man tries to cross the street but his chances to cross keep being interrupted by all the cars in the chase. He finally gives up and walks back into his house. It is also sped up like a silent film. This could be homage to a Chaplin film. The chase ends up in a field full of windmills. We go inside of one of the windmills where the assassin is hiding. The set here is an eye opener. Steep staircases, and the guts of the windmill. A perfect set for the villains to hide out. The characters in this film are great. The people who play them are perfect. The George Sanders character I think is the most exciting. He usually plays a good villains in a lot of films. In this film he is an exciting supporting hero. The villains of this film are great too. You have Herbert Marshall who plays Stephen Fisher, the leading ladies father. We don't find out he is the villain until the end. It's nice having the main villain being someone who is a gentleman and later on finding out his dark secrets. Then we have his henchman, Mr. Krug. You won't notice it until the second viewing of the film. Krug is always wearing a turtleneck shirt. Why find out why near the end in a struggle. The shirt is pulled down and we see a line of stitches across his neck showing that at one time he had his throat slit. Details like this really add depth to a simple character. The main characters played by Joel McCrea and Laraine Day at this age do not seem to be household names like Cary Grant and Kathrine Hepburn. I think the movie would still be good with big names like Grant and Hepburn, however the film wouldn't remain it's hidden treasure that it is. The fact that the movie is made up of supporting characters is another reason why it is greatly independent. This is a great surprise of a movie. Hitchcock even throws in a little sexual innuendo. Joel McCrea is passing Laraine Day some little notes to try and get her attention. On one of them we quickly see a picture of supposedly him and her as stick figures with along line of stick children. The note reads, Do you believe in large families. The love story in this film is great as well. The movie is so fast that it never really slows down for a love story. . Joel McCrea and Laraine Day are on a boat back to England, the dialogue is as follows.Johnny Jones I'm in love with you, and I want to marry you. Carol Fisher I'm in love with you, and I want to marry you. Johnny Jones Hmm... that cuts down our love scene quite a bit, doesn't it?Perfect. The movie doesn't play to the contemporary themes of a love story, which would be a disaster for this movie. Moving along toward the end of this film. We are on a plan and it crashes into the ocean. This is a very exciting sequence. This could be one of the first sequences in film where we are actually inside of a plan when it crashes. Hitchcock does this very masterfully using backdrop projection.When you stop and think about it, this film really is amazing. It accomplished so much in its time. The effects are good, the story is exciting, the dialogue is genius, and the characters are not the typical mainstream characters but are perfect. This is Hitchcock magic once again. "},{"Title":"Great thriller.","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of Hitchcock's lesser known movies, probably because his Rebecca, released the same year received so much attention.  Nonetheless, it is a well-crafted movie.The script is very witty, not surprising considering that one of its writers was Robert Benchley, who has a humorous supporting role himself.  Another great supporting role is George Sanders' 'ffoliot'.  After seeing All About Eve, and Rebecca, I thought of Sanders as Hollywood's conniving imp.  This movie turned my views 180 degrees.  Where would Joel McCrea and Laraine Day be without Sanders' heroics?  His performance is terrific.This paragraph contains a spoiler! (You may want to skip this paragraph if you haven't seen the film.)  Terrific as ever, is Hitchcock's direction.  The murder and subsequent umbrella and windmill scenes are marvelously photographed.  The suspense carries through to the end.  The climax on an airplane is astonishing.  As soon as the ship opens fire, the suspense will be thick enough to cut with a knife.  When the plane hit the water, I could not believe how much I was anticipating the outcome.  The ending was very patriotic but it seemed very appropriate. Some of the film's special effects may seem dated - some exteriors look like models, and in one scene, there is obviously a dummy in use, but by the end, these are forgotten.  The climax is breathtaking.  It was filmed in a way that only Hitchcock could film.A very well-made movie by the master of the cinema.  A must-see! "},{"Title":"Very good WWII era propaganda film","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This film is in some ways very conventional for an Alfred Hitchcock film because it is essentially a WWII propaganda film. While the US was not yet officially in the war, it sure appeared as if this would soon change and public opinion was turning against the Nazis. Having Joel McCrea in the role of a typical American who learns just how menacing and evil the Nazis really are was an excellent casting decision, as he was very likable and effective in the role.In many ways, the film is very, very reminiscent of a later Hitchcock film, NORTH BY NORTHWEST. Both feature a main character that stumbles into a conspiracy but no one believes them. They also hook up with a pretty young lady who helps them. And throughout the film, attempt after attempt is made on their lives but they somehow are able to rise above all this and become true heroes.While the plot is interesting and very watchable, what really stands out in my mind is the spectacular ending where McCrea and his friends are aboard an airplane that is shot down by a German ship. Up until then, the war all seemed rather vague and distant--as the movie concerned spies, not actual combat. However, when they are hit, the sequence is handled masterfully--being one of the more terrifying sequences in history. Not only do you see the ship very slowly heading into the sea, but you see it from the viewpoint of those inside the plane. And, once it hits, you see as the plane fills up with water and people begin to drown before your very eyes! It's very chilling and I really noticed how tense I was watching it. The camera-work and composition of the scene was incredible.Overall, this is not one of Hitchcock's more famous films, but I liked it more than most. In fact, other than NORTH BY NORTHWEST and perhaps THE REAR WINDOW, it's probably the most watchable and exciting film he made. Excellent and exciting from start to finish. "}{"Title":"The windmill scene is a classic","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Mr Fischer's performance is the heart of this gem.  Actually the chum is well played too, by the guy who showed up in Rebecca as well.But the enduring image from this one is the windmills.  Hitch knows how to create moments of suspense better than anyone in film, ever.  He knows how to take an event commonplace or unusual, and put us on the edge of our seats.  In this case, the suspense occurs in the windmill, as we are mezmorized by the gears spinning sinisterly and the spies milling about.  Back then in a nationalist era, spies had a darker connotation than now, imo.  There is something horrifying about spies in those early Hitch films. "},{"Title":"Cloying","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is my 2nd viewing of Foreign Correspondent. I'm watching it 2 days after seeing Citizen Kane again, and 2 weeks after watching Band of Brothers. The comparisons are not favorable. Either of those are illustrative of what's wrong with this. I returned to F.C. out of the fondness I felt for it the first time I watched, but after viewing it again, that good will is played out. This is half-hearted, boilerplate Hitchcock. It's really disappointing to watch him go through the motions with his motifs and these circumlocutious plots, while simultaneously refusing to forego entertainment in favor of ideas, or at least find a happy medium. I resent him squandering his technique on material that's not even worth his interest. One of the joys of watching Kane is that Welles rarely lets his ideas become subservient to sentiment of the period. The opposite is true here. The script quickly exhausts coincidence and a recurring single-degree-of-separation idea that Dickens favored Johnny just happens to pass his contact on the street so the story can have him share a cab ride. The random car Johnny jumps into in Amsterdam just happens to contain his love interest. A random room Johnny breaks into just happens to be that of his love interest. The villain just happens to be the gal's dad. Hitchcock has a higher tolerance for these silly narrative cop-outs than I do. Foreign Correspondent makes me extremely appreciative of Citizen Kane and film-makers who take the art-form seriously.Joel Macrae plays an excruciating meathead that we're all supposed to get behind because he's snarky and light-hearted. And the plot likewise works overtime to provide him with occasions to be so. It's all very cloying. I wanted to strangle him. He's an absolute dunce. While many viewers resent the tacked on ending in which Johnny finally gets serious and commits to a cause, I find it to be the only legitimate minute or two in the movie. The rest treats WW2 as a meaningless event to be manipulated to suit the emotional needs of the protagonists. The Crawford/MacMurray vehicle 'Above Suspicion' is similarly facile in its treatment of the war.Foreign Correspondent is a feeble reason to string together setpieces that never engage your mind. In place of any real ideas we have an old codger (van Meer) delivering pure-hearted sentimental drivel, to excuse the dumbest members of the audience for not being mentally alive.Hitch will take this asinine picaresque mode (featuring an endless string of meaningless developments) to its absurd, foregone conclusion in North by Northwest. These narative objectives are corny and low. "},{"Title":"...the only lights left in the world.","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Reporter Johnny Jones (Joel McCrea), used to working the streets of New York, is sent overseas as a foreign correspondent. His first assignment is to get an interview with a diplomat negotiating peace to prevent war. When the diplomat is assassinated right in front of him, Jones sets off after the killer and finds himself embroiled in an international conspiracy plot.Exciting thriller from the master of suspense, Alfred Hitchcock. One of his best films from the '40s. McCrea is wonderful and the cast backing him up is first-rate. George Sanders, Herbert Marshall, Robert Benchley, Albert Bassermann, Edmund Gwenn, and so on. High quality actors all who never give bad turns. Also female lead Laraine Day in her biggest and best role outside of the Dr. Kildare series. She's great in this and it makes you wonder if she couldn't have been a bigger star had MGM used her for more than Kildare's love interest.The plot may be a bit complicated for some but you get lost in it and don't quibble with the particulars until after it's over. If you're like me, by then you won't care since you enjoyed the film so much. There's some good action and memorable set pieces, like many of the best Hitchock thrillers have. The script keeps things light despite the dark tone of the plot. It's a classic in every way, thoroughly enjoyable from beginning to end. One of the best WW2 films made before America had entered the war and Hollywood started churning them out one after another. "},{"Title":"Ahead Of Its Time.","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock directed this exciting espionage tale that stars Joel McCrea as New York newspaper reporter Johnny Jones, who, on the eve of WWII, is sent on a mission to get the inside story on a British diplomat named Van Meer(Albert Bassermann) who is supposed to sign a secret treaty between European nations. He is abruptly assassinated, and Johnny seeks the help of a woman he met at the conference named Carol Fisher(played by Larraine Day) and her father Stephen Fisher(played by Herbert Marshall) Johnny later learns that Van Meer is still alive, and being held captive by enemy agents for their own purposes. George Sanders plays a friend trying to help, and get to the bottom of the plot, which involves treachery in unexpected places...Highly entertaining thriller creates a good balance between humor and suspense, with many fine action sequences and memorable characters, especially in the windmill and climatic plane crash. Would have been most stirring in those Pre-U.S. WWII involvement days. "},{"Title":"A Hitchcock gem, deserves to be better known","Date":"12 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" It wasn't until very recently when I watched Foreign Correspondent for the first time, only two days in fact. And even now I am kicking myself for not having seen it before. Foreign Correspondent is a real gem, and as of now in my top 10 Hitchcock films, it is also one of his most overlooked. It is a splendidly made and directed film, the plane crash was superbly shot and one of my favourite Hitchcock set pieces in this regard. The music is both jaunty and haunting, and the script is one of the wittiest and most playful of any of Hitchcock's films in my view. The story has never a dull moment and is always clever, suspenseful and compelling, I didn't see anything that leapt out as dated or propaganda at all. There are some terrifically tense set pieces too, especially the ones with the Dutch windmill, Westminster Cathedral and the plane crash, and the romance between McCrea and Day is a little too abruptly introduced but is still very sweet and touching. I also loved the cast, Joel McCrea is effectively smooth, compared to other Hitchcock heroes he is rather lightweight but this is in comparison we're talking about(and he isn't even distractingly so). Larraine Day could have had more to work with but is instantly appealing in her roles and works very well with McCrea. The supporting cast fare even better though, especially George Sanders who is deliciously suave and dour(and in a way that few actors have equalled him in), Edmund Gwenn who is both menacingly untrustworthy and offbeat and Albert Basserman who is quite touching in his role. Herbert Marshall also acquits himself beautifully as does Robert Benchley. All in all, one of my personal favourites as of now from the Master of Suspense and also one that deserves more attention. Out of the Hitchcock films that I've seen for the first time as well Foreign Correspondent has also been the best one. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The English win out","Date":"2 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the Hitchcocks I've enjoyed the most so far -- possibly because it isn't famous and I had no idea what to expect, but more probably because it has just the right mixture of humour, thrills and sympathy to appeal to me. (In Hitchcock's subsequent Saboteur, for example, I would end up finding the Hollywood hero so annoying that when the villains' bomb actually went off successfully I found myself cheering...) A young Joel McCrea is more successful here as the all-American hero -- although Edmund Gwenn easily manages to steal the limelight as 'private detective' Rowley in their few scenes together, and again, I found myself waiting impatiently for Rowley to get his opportunity rather than biting my nails over the American's peril! -- but is, as others have said, a fairly generic light romantic character. He is at his best in the comedy scenes, and there is one hilarious double-act between him and George Sanders at the end of the film in which the two are assiduously 'not' reporting their story down the telephone in a piece of the broadest (deliberate) exposition imaginable.But it is the English cast who steal the show Herbert Marshall in a 'Claude Rains' role, likable, resourceful, and surprisingly human for a propaganda piece portrayal, Edmund Gwenn in a bit-part as retired assassin Rowley, and George Sanders simply strolling away with most of the scenes in which he appears -- he comes very near to stealing the entire film with a charismatic, decisive, witty performance that echoes his contemporary roles as The Saint, minus the languor he brought to that part. Laraine Day gives a charming and sensitive performance, and works together well with Marshall as her father, while Martin Kosleck's striking features can be glimpsed in a bit-part scene in a windmill.This may not be a great film, but it is an enjoyable one, with genuine thrills spiced up with wry or overt humour as often with Hitchcock, it probably doesn't pay to examine the plot too closely (and it would be nice just for once to see a film about a *genuine* peace movement I suppose that would be too boring...), but it's a fun romp, especially if you genuinely don't know what's coming next. A slight unbalance of interest away from the hero, who basically ends up as Sanders' sidekick -- but from the point of view of this member of the audience at least, that was all to the good. "},{"Title":"You never hear of circumstances out of our control rushing us into peace, have you?","Date":"6 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Not the best Hitchcock film, but exciting enough as a correspondent (Western star Joel McCrea) is sent to Europe before the war to find out the truth. He stumbles upon the assignation of a diplomat (Albert Bassermann) and the hunt is on for those behind it.The suspense builds as our correspondent teams with Oscar-winner George Sanders (All About Eve) to trap their suspect (Herbert Marshall). In the meantime, our correspondent falls in love with the suspect's daughter (Laraine Day).It all comes to an end as the war starts. But, that is not the end it is the beginning.Basserman got an Oscar nomination for his supporting role, and the film itself was nominated for Best Picture, oddly losing to another Hitchcock film, Rebecca. Rebecca also took the cinematography award. The screenplay, special effects, and art direction were also nominated.Two good films by the same director in one year. I wonder if that has happened before or since. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"19 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I'm embarrassed to say that this is the first Hitchcock movie I have ever seen. I can now see why Alfred Hitchcock is one of the greatest directors of all time. The dialogue of this movie is very well written and delivered even better. Hitchcock's creation of suspense is something I have only heard about but now, for the first time I have the pleasure of experiencing it first hand. The way the actors move along the frame is clearly well thought out by Hitchcock. The plane crash scene in this movie must be the most tense movie scene that has every existed for it's time. Only one of history's greatest directors could make a scene when such great tensity and great acting. "},{"Title":"Fine Hitchcock thriller","Date":"15 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Foreign Correspondent is a suspenseful Alfred Hitchcock thriller full of excellent camera work, attention to detail, plot twists, and overall intrigue. Joel McCrea stars as John Jones a news reporter from New York sent to Europe as a correspondent to uncover information surrounding the outbreak of WWII. Jones ends up uncovering spies, secrets, and a lot of trouble. McCrea's easy going performance was enjoyable, as was Hitchcock's infusion of humor throughout the film. The film's action sequences and their accompanying camera-work were its biggest asset. Hitchcock seamlessly fit a variety of thrilling scenes together. These scenes were suspenseful and shot with a great attention to detail. The camera work was flawless and added to the sense of adventure. Many action films feel like a weak plot wrapped around action scenes, but Hitchcock's action scenes seemed to further and accentuate his story. From the windmill scene to the climactic plane crash, Hitchcock's Foreign Correspondence will keep you on the edge of your seat with your eyes wide open to take it all in! "},{"Title":"Wow he missed Johnny Jones by a mile!","Date":"18 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" While Foreign Correspondent (1940) may not be the greatest Hitchcock film it's still a Hitchcock film which basically in it's own right makes this film great. Joel McCrea is fantastic as Johnny Jones an American reporter trying to expose German spies over in Great Britain; around the time just before the British entered WW2. The whole films great but the part that really stuck out to me as amazing was the scenes of the thought to be body guard Rowley following Huntley Haverstock (Johnny Jones) around England. Time and time again Rowley tries to off Jones (and fails) while pretending he's actually trying to save him. While the concept is quit dreary the actual scenes are hilarious. This comes to an end though when they find themselves hiding out from imaginary men ,whom Roley said were following them, in the Westminster Cathedral. When they get to the top Roley keeps trying to get Jones to look at the view while he tries to make sure no one else is up there with them. Finally when Roley gets the two of them alone he takes a running start and tries to push Johnny Jones over the edge but is sidesteps and goes diving over himself. This is shown by a barley believable dummy being tossed of off the Cathedral. To me this is by far the funniest scene in the entire film and while the Master of Suspense was trying to keep you n the edge of the seat during this scene you could also tell he was having a crack at your funny bone at the same time. I can't say that this film is one of my favorites but that scene is definitely up there. "}{"Title":"Comparing fiction with non-fiction...","Date":"13 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Foreign Correspondent (1940) is a very engaging film and caught my attention right away. The film was released in 1940, before the United States joined the war on the side of the Allies in 1941, but a year after the war against Germany officially began. I didn't notice a specific date mentioned in the film, but it is clearly before Europe becomes engaged in war as it follows a young reporter, and foreign correspondent, trying to discern the likelihood of oncoming war. Of course, Hitchcock fictionalises the reason leading to war, but as a filmmaker he couldn't have known the events that would really lead to war, particularly US involvement, at a point in time when the US was not officially involved.I also enjoyed the recurring theme of the main character misplacing his hat. Some have speculated that the hats represent the danger that the characters are unaware of, and I wonder if that was Hitchcock's intent. "},{"Title":"Great Hitchcock","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my first Hitchcock films, although I have been meaning to see some because he is comparable to Orson Welles. What really kept me interested in this movie was the amount of action that it had. Right from the beginning the viewer is drawn into this hectic and dangerous lifestyle. I have always found spy movies to be interesting and that is the case for this. What made it even more interesting was that it came out right before the War and maybe because some knew it was coming, I felt that there was a certain patriotic feeling to this film in the sense that he was trying to get valuable information to inform the rest of the country. Of course this movie would not be a Hitchcock film without scenes like the umbrella scene. Definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Review for History of Cinema","Date":"5 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" for my first Hitchcock film this was certainly a great one. Hitchcock throws you right into the action with the mysterious absence of Van Meer at the charity function, followed by his murder and an exhilarating chase scene leading to Jones' discovery that Van Meer is not dead, but has been kidnapped. every set was amazing and felt absolutely realistic. my personal favorite was the windmill, which gave off a very creepy feeling while simply being an old windmill. The plot was engaging and kept me on the edge of my seat throughout the entire movie. to be honest though, i completely forgot that Jones was a reporter because his action are so much like that of a police investigator. He always goes above and beyond to find out the truth.I look forward to watching more of Hitchcock's films. "},{"Title":"this correspondent recommends Foreign Correspondent.","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I heartily agree with most of the reviewers. This is Hitchcock at his best with a picture that, unfortunately, does not get the attention of his later technicolor offerings.One reviewer referred to the last scene, Jones broadcasting during a bombing raid, as laughable. Check your radio history, fella. It is the same scenario that brought Edward R. Murrow the fame he deserved.Some of the scenes are classic. There's the assassination scene, so impressive with that sea of umbrellas, the plane crash scene (more convincing on the big screen), and others, particularly the confused windmill. That is a gem.McRae, in the title role was comfortable and convincing, an attitude not unlike those of Grant and Stewart. Gwen, whom Hitchcock later used in The Trouble With Harry was excellent as a Santa hit man, Sanders, later scene in n by nw, and Basserman who deserved that Oscar - a beautiful performance.This movie is on my top 10 list. I am a retired newspaper reporter, but my life was nowhere as exciting. Witness my current web site (if I can get in a cheap plug). The initials are fr and the site is rch103). Shameless. Back to the movie. GREAT. "},{"Title":"Uncle Alfred Wants YOU!","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" In 1939, due to the impending WAR with Nazi Germany, attractive and single New York Globe reporter Joel McCrea (as Johnny Jones) is sent to Europe. Serving as a London-based Foreign Correspondent, Mr. McCrea takes the more distinguished name Huntley Haverstock and meets attractive and single Laraine Day (as Carol Fisher) on duty. McCrea is initially assigned to cover Ms. Day's father, Universal Peace Party spokesman Herbert Marshall (as Stephen Fisher). But, the biggest story of the century becomes the kidnapping of Dutch diplomat Albert Bassermann (as Van Meer). McCrae meets George Sanders (Scott ffolliott) and other suspicious characters, and is caught in a tightly wound web of spies&#x85; With initial Hollywood effort Rebecca (1940) still packing them in, director Alfred Hitchcock nearly topped himself. While Foreign Correspondent isn't a more fully realized film, it outdistanced all others with several innovative suspense sequences - witness the umbrellas, windmills, tower, and the plane crash - all providing technical brilliance as a visual treat; even today, Hitchcock can make you forget you are seeing special effects. The story is densely plotted - perhaps, as many say, to a fault. The intentional propaganda proved to be prescient. Ironically, there were cheers from the Hitler camp; Nazi leader Joseph Goebbels praised the film, especially admiring how quickly the real Van Meer surrendered to torture.********* Foreign Correspondent (8/16/40) Alfred Hitchcock ~ Joel McCrea, Laraine Day, Herbert Marshall, George Sanders "},{"Title":"Hitchcock","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The film Foreign Correspondent(1940) directed by Hitchcock was an inspiring film about foreign affairs. Johnny Johns is chosen to travel to Europe and report about a new peace treaty and what its effects will be. Instead he gets caught up in a Nazi spy ring and is helped by Carol Fisher who is actually the daughter of someone in a Nazi ring. This movie has great acting by all actors. There is a great Hitchcock style scene where a man is assassinated. When trying to follow the shooter, a shot from above shows the crowding of the scene and everyone has a black umbrella. Also the scene where a man falls off of a skyscraper is amazing. I couldn't believe they actually showed the man falling off of the building, that was pretty graphic. The scene of the plane crash was brilliant and is still a scene that people look up to today. "},{"Title":"Vintage Spy Thriller action.","Date":"18 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Great Movie. You gotta love McCrea. His performance as John Jones/ Huntley Haverstock is extremely enjoyable. And funny too. He's this big, capable, honest guy who's clueless about the situation he's in. The scenes with Rowley(Edmund Gwenn) are hilarious, and really accentuate Mcrea's character as I've described him. Rowley has him at the top of a church tower, cluelessly looking at the town's landscape for what seems like for forever. When Rowley winds up to push him off, you know what's about happen. It's actually directed quite humorously. That was my favorite scene, kind of. Overall, it's an awesome movie. It has an ending that really catches you off guard too. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I didn't even know this was a Hitchcock film until after I watched it, I am a Hitchcock fan but this didn't seem very much like his other classic movies, I loved this movie though it was awesome. The special effects scenes were very good considering this movie is from 1940. Joel McCrea was also fantastic as the lead character, I don't recognize him from any other movies I've seen but he was really great in this. The movie is a great story about World War Two starting and this reporter is trying to expose enemy agents in London before it's too late. It's a really good movie that I recommend to anyone who likes any older movies like this, if you don't like 'old' movies you won't like this movie obviously. "},{"Title":"A Superb Hitchcock Thriller with a Healthy Dose of His Typical Playful Humour","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Hitchcock was working at the top of his game in this dazzling thriller. Only he could create movies like this, that blend elements of romantic comedy and dark, grim realism to make something completely unique.Joel McCrea, an actor I've begun to like more and more, plays a writer who travels to Europe with the purpose of reporting on the gathering clouds of war. Once there, he falls for the daughter (Laraine Day) of a respected official (Herbert Marshall) whose peace organization happens to be a cover up for a spy ring. This ring stages the assassination of an important political figure (Albert Basserman) and then kidnaps him to wring secrets from him that will benefit the German army. But McCrea figures this out long before anyone else, and the race is on.Foreign Correspondent is filled with dazzling Hitchcock set pieces, beginning with the assassination itself, which segues into a race through a sea of umbrellas. There's one of the film's most famous moments, a nailbiting hideout in a windmill, made even more effective by the eerie production design. And the grand finale is an impressive airplane crash into the Atlantic. The supporting cast boasts George Sanders, best known for his portrayal of vicious gossip columnist Addison DeWitt in All About Eve, playing a quite different and heroic character here, and Edmund Gwenn, unrecognizable without his Santa Claus beard, playing a quite different and villainous one.Foreign Correspondent maybe feels more like a product of its time than other Hitchcock films, which is maybe also why it seems to be less well known. Like many films from the same time period, it was used both as a piece of entertainment and war propaganda. The last scene finds McCrea delivering a radio address to the American people urging them to pay attention to the dark cloud of war descending on Europe. The speech is quite stirring as delivered by McCrea, and the film fades to black as the rumble of the London blitz pervades the soundtrack.One of Hitchcock's best.Grade A "},{"Title":"Early triumph for the great Alfred Hitchcock!","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" It's always good when I discover a Hitchcock film that I haven't seen yet (not many of those left...), and this one was particularly good because it's actually one of the great director's better films! The film takes place shortly before the release date; namely, just before the start of World War 2 in 1939. Work began on the film shortly after Hitchcock released Rebecca, and this must have been something of a controversial picture at the time of release as the war was, at that time, confined to Europe and I guess all America got to hear about it was the reports of foreign correspondents such as the one in this film. Despite being about the war, Foreign Correspondent is not a war film but rather a story of espionage centred on the Second World War. We focus on Johnny Jones; a reporter sent to Europe to find a story about the events going on there. He takes the name Huntley Haverstock (because it's more memorable), and soon finds himself in the middle of the world of espionage when he witnesses the murder of a famous diplomat, and follows his shooter to a windmill outside Amsterdam...The film takes a while to get going, and unfortunately peaks a little too early as the film is at it's best at around the middle section when our hero is hot on the trail of the spies and finds himself snooping around a windmill and climbing in through bathroom windows. Hitchcock seems keen to implement a sense of humour at this junction of the movie, whereas it gets a little too serious later on when the sense of patriotism grips hold of the movie and spoils the fun. I've got to say that the film is slightly too long at almost two hours, and the overall movie would have been thrilling if Hitchcock had opted to trim it a little bit. That being said, the movie is always at least interesting even at it's worst moments and Hitchcock builds the suspense well, which ensures that the audience is always interested in what's coming next. The acting is more than adequate also, with Joel McCrea delivering a fair lead performance and receiving good backup from the likes of Laraine Day, Herbert Marshall and best of all; George Sanders, who steals every scene he's in. On the whole, this isn't Hitchcock's BEST film - but it's a very good one and well worth seeing. "}{"Title":"More interesting cinema than Rebecca","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Hitchcock made two important films in 1940--Rebecca and Foreign Correspondent. Both were nominated for Oscars. Though Foreign Correspondent was nominated for 6 Oscars, it did not win a single one. Rebecca on the other hand won a few Oscars including Best Picture and people recall it for this achievement. Rebecca had stars to make it memorable; Foreign Correspondent had none. Rebecca had a great story by du Maurier, Foreign Correspondent merely had a strong screenplay contributed by Ben Hecht, Robert Benchley, Charles Bennett, and Joan Harrison Thus Foreign Correspondent was overshadowed and beaten by Rebecca as far as audiences went. Yet, I consider Foreign Correspondent to be the finer cinematic achievement of the two.As good cinema there are sequences in Foreign Correspondent that are truly remarkable. One such sequence is the assassination by a photographer (a Hitchcock joke that recalls the final shot of Easy Virtue?) which is violent and shocking visual of a man being shot in the face. Another is the chase captured from high angle as it weaves through a carpet of umbrellas. The entire windmill series of sequences is superbly captured on camera and the soundtrack&#151;almost in anticipation of the visual and aural suspense of the plane and empty field sequence in North by Northwest. And finally the shooting of the passenger plane over the Atlantic, the crash, the survival in the sea are incredible special effects for its day&#151;and more effective than the recent Titanic. There are touches of the regular Hitchcock, too. Villains are heroes in this movie (the top German agent sacrifices his life for others) just as the guilty are given a cinematic pardon in Marnie, Blackmail, Rebecca, and arguably in Suspicion. There is a reference to cinema and scriptwriting in the sequence with the following dialogMan I am in love with you and want to marry you Woman I am in love with you and want to marry you Man Hmm...that cuts down our love sceneSome performances stood out Edmund Gwenn as a friendly villain and Albert Bassermann (Oscar nominated) as a diplomat who loved birds and peace. Unlike Rebecca, Foreign Correspondent offered great visuals, an impressive quilt of sequences sewn together by Hitchcock and intelligent editing that provide better value for those who appreciate good cinema. "},{"Title":"Give him an Expense Account and he'll Cover Anything!","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Hitchcock was still a young master when he turned out this slightly rough diamond based on a much-prized, oft-revised screenplay about journalists caught up in murder, kidnapping & intrigue as the Great Powers gird for global war. Newspaper magnate Powers (Davenport), frustrated by the failure of economists, sages & oracles to come up with more than a daily guessing game (are you listening, FOX News, CNN & all the rest?) decides to send streetwise, untutored crime reporter Johnny Jones (McCrea) to Europe. Jones is equipped only with his fresh, unused mind, an introduction to prominent peace activist Fisher (Marshall) and the pompous byline Huntley Haverstock, this last being good for laughs until the end of the film. Naive (I didn't know the Lats had a language, I thought they just rubbed noses), slightly intimidated but determined, Jones attends a couple of conferences, meeting an array of distinguished, sometimes slightly absurd dignitaries. Notable are Fisher's daughter, Carol (Day), for whom he at once falls, suave British freelancer ffolliott (Sanders, and yes, that's two small f's) and Dutch leader Van Meer (Bassermann), whose recent treaty negotiations make him extremely interesting to all sides. A long, gently comic start (you want speed? Watch Speed!) gives way when Jones, Carol and ffolliott witness an assassination. Too uneducated to guess at what's happening, Jones objectively looks at the clues and soon realizes that some of his new companions know more about the killing than they're telling. The star that Katherine Hepburn called the most underrated portrays his American the way we all want to be seen and, perhaps, once were. Jones is friendly but straightforward, guileless but clever, unpretentious but skilled, shrewd but honest, careful but tirelessly determined. He's also unabashedly randy, but of course his intentions are Honorable. He's perfectly contrasted by two of celluloid's most elegant actors. Sanders, who could be classier than any Bond when he felt like it, plays ffolliott as Jones's English counterpart sophisticated, smarter & more morally flexible, but just as tough, determined & as snappy with the one-liners. Marshall has no peer as the dignified, worried, thoughtful Fisher, quietly unruffled no matter how dark things look. Hitchcock was ahead of his time with female roles and Day does a fine job as the scrappy Carol, who must eventually face the worst crisis on her own. There are plenty of dark moments & nail-biting action, but so much of Foreign Correspondent is comic that the film comes a bit too close to losing its way. Many bit actors have wry contributions (the female of the species is deadlier than the male) and washed-up correspondent Stebbins (Benchley) is pretty much comic relief. Hitchcock even has the nerve to repeat the stateroom gag from A Night at the Opera! By later Hitchcock standards, the action & suspense are a bit uneven. The Dutch windmill scene and, especially, the tower sequence are drawn out too long. Today, it's hard to believe that the special effects were considered cutting-edge, but they're still effective with a bit of Disbelief Suspension. But the film's flaws are minor & mostly add to its charm, which is unique & matchless. There's a grim realism (best dramatized by Bassermann in a quiet, intense portrayal) that gives Foreign Correspondent a bite that all the Bond movies put together can't equal, a highbrow story with a weight that Casablanca lacks. But its humor & action make it always entertaining. The odd ending, really more of an epilogue, probably had more impact in 1940 but is still as moving as Casablanca's, and more gripping. If Foreign Correspondent is not quite the greatest of the Master's works, it's better than the best of many accomplished filmmakers, with a contemporary impact that no other Hitchcock film ever had. Look for Star Trek's Mr. Atoz, as well as the usual fun, subtle Hitchcock touches. It's a must for any fan of political thrillers, adventure stories or mysteries. "},{"Title":"A romance and a thriller","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Foreign Correspondent has a story that takes many unexpected turns right up to the end. It refuses to fit into any simple categorisation. It has aspects of a thriller but also a fair amount of romance, drama and comedy. And I suppose it is partially about war and politics and spies as well. I really enjoyed the way it unfolded. The start of the movie is harmless enough but then an attempted murder jolts us into a mystery.John Jones (Joel McCrea) has been sent to England from America to get the inside word on the impending war in Europe (I guess it must be late August 1939 in that case). But he gets more than he bargained for, seeing things that don't add up and becoming aware of some kind of devious plot. He wants to report it but some of the evidence conveniently disappears. Corruption must be at work. George Sanders (playing ffolliott, with a double f instead of a capital) later helps him. He reminds me of Christopher Nolan, dapper and intelligent.Among all this, John falls in love with Carol Fisher (Laraine Day) who works with her father in trying to maintain peace. Their romance is more light-hearted and comedic compared to the rest of the film which creates an interesting dynamic.The dialogue in the movie is witty and entertaining. I enjoyed Hitchcock's twisted sense of humour which is sprinkled throughout. A person is inconveniently delayed in crossing the road by a car chase. A man is provided as a bodyguard for John but he behaves rather suspiciously. It's both tense and funny as we try to guess his intentions and what will happen. Even in deadly or threatening situations, the movie has an light tone.One highlight is an unexpected set piece on a plane. The special effects are impressive (and hold up surprisingly well for their time). The scene is very dramatic and exciting. It comes out of the blue and makes the movie more entertaining and original. Foreign Correspondent is not as dark or deep as some of Hitchcock's other films but it's still intriguing and suspenseful. It succeeds in what it tries to do and I haven't seen many other films like it. "},{"Title":"Joe McCrae, Laraine Day and some wrong way windmills","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock's classic is a precursor to his later SABOTEUR & NORTH BY NORTHWEST. It's a thriller that runs at breakneck speed. Joel McCrae is the reluctant reporter sent to Europe (on the brink of war) and gets caught up in an assassination plot, a very outré peace-movement group and Laraine Day. There's plenty of comic moments infused into the clever script (worked on by, among others, James Hilton & Robert Benchley). McCrae and Day have a lot of chemistry and Herbert Marshall is great as Day's misguided father. Benchley himself plays one of McCrae's soused colleagues and George Sanders is a scene stealer as an unusually resourceful fellow reporter. The great set pieces include the now famous wrong way windmill scene. One of Hitchcock's absolute masterpieces. Filmed in the Netherlands and in Long Beach, CA. "},{"Title":"Combines Good Portions of Humor, Suspense and Intrigue","Date":"18 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" It's August of 1939 and all of Europe is held in the grip of a possible devastating war exploding upon the continent. And because this news is so important a newspaper known as the New York Globe sends a journalist by the name of John Jones (Joel McCrea) to London to cover the story. When he gets there he meets a key Dutch diplomat named Van Meer (Albert Bassermann) who holds key information concerning whether a war is likely or not. He also meets several other key players to include a man named Stephen Fisher (Herbert Marshall) who happens to be the leader of a peace movement in London along with his daughter Carol Fisher (Laraine Day). Yet even though John would clearly like to spend more time with Carol the situation at hand leads him to some important discoveries which put his life in serious jeopardy. And the deeper he investigates the more dangerous it gets for him. At any rate, rather than disclose any more of this story and risk spoiling the film for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this turned out to be a pretty good espionage thriller. As a matter of fact it was nominated for no less than six Academy Awards to include Best Picture. Not surprisingly, it managed to combine good portions of humor, suspense and intrigue throughout. In any case, I enjoyed it and have rated it accordingly. Above average. "},{"Title":"A solid Hitchcockian spy adventure","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT is the second film of Hitchcock's one-two punch in 1940, yet its legacy has been mostly eclipsed by the more widely-beloved REBECCA (1940, 8/10), which usurped a BEST PICTURE win in the Oscar games, while the former is also a BEST PICTURE nominee with a total 6 nominations. In retrospect, FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT may be a lesser compelling romance due to the insipid chemistry from its two leads, but no doubt it is a top-notch spy thriller from the master of suspense, with a trio of upstaging supporting players (Bassermann, Marshall and Sanders), plus its FX are rather cutting-edge at its time, a distinguishing precursor of the similar themed NORTH BY NORTHWEST (1959, 8/10), which would arrive nearly 2 decades later. Johnny Jones (McCrea), under the pen name Huntley Haverstock, is appointed as the new foreign correspondent by New York Globe, arrives in Netherland to get a clear picture of the impending war. Soon he witnesses a staged (fake) assassination of Dutch diplomat Van Meer (Bassermann), whereas the real Van Meer is drugged and kidnapped out of the country. Jones becomes the man who knows too much and is chased by unnamed killers, escaped to London with Carol (Day) to her father Stephen Fisher (Marshall), a leader of a peace party, the romance is budding but viewers will realise Mr. Fisher is a fellow conspirator of the kidnap. In no time Jones falls upon as a target of a murdering plan, this is where Hitchcock is at his best, however illogical it seems in the script, an unbeknownst Jones visits the Westminster Cathedral tower with his bodyguard Rowley (Gwenn), designated by Fisher to dispatch Jones, Hitchcock ingeniously plays with audience's anticipation of the approaching danger, generates a frisson of thrill combined with priceless gallows humour although we all evidently aware that Jone's narrow escape is the default upshot.German stage actor Albert Bassermann is honoured with an Oscar nomination as the upstanding diplomat under interrogation for war information, incredibly is that he doesn't speak English, all his lines are uttered with phonetic assist, and the final outcome is a heart- rending one, boosted by his self-revealing contempt to the war through the bird-feeding people metaphor, which first time it is casually articulated like an evasive strategy to Jones' slack pestering, but the second time, under the severe mental torture, its becomes a meaningful and encouraging enlightenment. Herbert Marshall is on an equal footing in his two-faced suaveness, his aloofness contends to be a requisite for a spy, he knows his undoing is forthcoming, even at his remorseful eleventh hour, he maintains his dignity and doesn't descend to desperate malignancy. George Sanders, who also stars in REBECCA, brings his usual conceited mien to the role of Scott ffolliott (the capital letter in his surname was dropped in memory of an executed ancestor), another report who is considerably more sharp-witted in the line of work. All above only makes both McCrea and Day too broad and bland in their gauche leading parts. A revelational discovery is near the ending, Hitchcock and his crew mounts a totally engaging scenario with plane crush-landing on the sea surface, in light of its time of making, its persistent impact remains surprisingly unabated. So in a nutshell, FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT may not be the crème de la crème among Hitcock's oeuvre, certainly it doesn't tarnish his reputation either, and fairly speaking, its spy tall-tale is far more engrossing than most of the products in this long-running genre still flourishing today "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece of Propaganda (Goebbels)","Date":"7 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Foreign Correspondent was Alfred Hitchcock's second Hollywood film. (The first was Rebecca). The action opens in August 1939, the last days of peace before the outbreak of war. Johnny Jones is reporter with the New York Globe who is sent to Europe to report on the looming crisis, despite the fact that he has little knowledge of, or interest in, foreign affairs. His editor has been impressed by his success in exposing crime in the city and believes that he will display a similar tenacity and courage in uncovering the truth behind the European crisis. Once in Britain, Jones becomes involved with a conspiracy by enemy spies to assassinate- or possibly to kidnap- a Dutch statesman. He also finds time to conduct a romance with the daughter of a prominent British politician. (In Europe Jones goes by the alias Huntley Haverstock; to avoid confusion I shall refer to him as Jones throughout).Filming in neutral America in 1940, Hitchcock faced a similar problem to which that had confronted him while making his British spy thriller The Lady Vanishes in 1938, before war broke out- the unwillingness of the film companies to upset the Nazis. Everyone knew that The Lady Vanishes had really been set in Germany, but he had been forced to disguise the setting as an unnamed European dictatorship. Similarly, everyone knew that the villains in Foreign Correspondent were supposed to be Germans, but even at the end of the film, when war has broken out and bombs are falling on London, the words German, Germany and Nazi are never used.Hitchcock has fun at the expense of American neutralists in the scene where an American sea-captain refuses to allow an American journalist to send a report to an American newspaper from on board his ship, on the grounds that to do so would be a breach of neutrality. The figure of Stephen Fisher, the leader of the Universal Peace Party who turns out to be a treacherous enemy agent, may have been a pointed reminder that by 1940 ostensibly pacifist or neutralist organisations on both sides of the Atlantic, such as Hastings Russell's British People's Party or the America First Committee, counted many overt or covert Fascist sympathisers among their members.The film was nominated for the Best Picture Oscar, but lost to Rebecca, Hitchcock's only film to win Best Picture. It also received five other unsuccessful Academy Award nominations. Today, however, it is difficult to see why it was so highly thought of at the time. Certainly, it contains several effective suspense sequences, notably the scene where Joel McCrea and Laraine Day are hiding in a Dutch windmill from the villains, McCrea's escape across the rooftops of the hotel and the shooting down of the airliner by an enemy destroyer. The final scene, in which McCrea makes an impassioned broadcast to the sound of enemy bombs falling on London, makes a great emotional impact. Hitchcock also displays his fondness for setting key scenes in an iconic building, in this case Westminster Cathedral, although the effectiveness of this scene is undermined by Edmund Gwenn's tendency to play his character for laughs, making it difficult for us to accept him as a dangerous assassin. (The use of the Catholic Westminster Cathedral, rather than its better-known Anglican counterpart St Paul's, is presumably explained by the fact that Hitchcock was himself a Catholic).The film also, however, has a number of weaknesses, not least a confusing plot; the villains' scheme seems particularly baroque and over-complicated. This is perhaps not surprising as the script was written by a committee. Four writers- Robert Benchley, Charles Bennett, Joan Harrison and James Hilton were officially credited but several others appear to have worked on it. Day makes a forgettable heroine- and McCrea, his final scene apart, an equally forgettable hero. (Hitchcock wanted Gary Cooper and Joan Fontaine but Cooper was not interested and Fontaine, the heroine of Rebecca, was not available). For lengthy periods, in fact, McCrea seems to be replaced as the hero by the much more charismatic George Sanders as Jones's English colleague Scott ffolliott, ostensibly a minor character. (Spelling a surname with two initial lower-case fs is a genuine, if unusual, practice among certain British families; other examples include ffrench and ffeatherstonehaugh). One person who seems to have been impressed with Foreign Correspondent was Joseph Goebbels, who called it A masterpiece of propaganda, a first-class production which no doubt will make a certain impression upon the broad masses of the people in enemy countries. Goebbels was speaking, however, as a professional propagandist, not as a film critic. Seen as a piece of propaganda from the viewpoint of 1940, the film doubtless achieved its aim of raising morale in Britain and of making at least some Americans question the wisdom and morality of remaining neutral while Hitler's armies overran Europe. Seen as a piece of film- making from the viewpoint of 2015, it is not really one of Hitchcock's best. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Second-Tier Hitchcock","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" On the eve of WWII, a young American reporter (Joel McCrea) tries to expose enemy agents in London.Who would have made the better lead, Joel McCrea or Gary Cooper? This is something to ask because Cooper turned own the role. Now, of course, we have the film we have because McCrea is the lead. But looking back now (in 2014), Cooper is far more notable than McCrea... it might have provided the film a higher status later on. Assuming, of course, Cooper could match McCrea's level.Foreign Correspondent was nominated for six Academy Awards, including one for Albert Bassermann for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor, but did not win any. (The film lost Best Picture to Rebecca, another Hitchcock film, so that was something of a consolation prize.) Nazi Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels called the film A masterpiece of propaganda, a first-class production which no doubt will make a certain impression upon the broad masses of the people in enemy countries. Flattering or horrifying that Goebbels would even comment? "},{"Title":"Not Hitchcock at his best, but it has its moments","Date":"21 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This rather unconvincing Hitchcock film was clearly made with a war-rousing purpose, and the end credits feature the American anthem 'The Star Spangled Banner' being sung with great gusto. The aim was to try to persuade a reluctant American public to enter the war against Hitler. The story is intended to glorify American foreign correspondents who are bringing the truth home to the American public about the horrendous events in Europe. However, the story line somewhat belies this theme, because the New York editor is frustrated that the existing foreign correspondents are no good, and in desperation he seeks for a crime reporter with no knowledge of foreign affairs whatever to be sent to Europe to try to get the facts. The reporter in question has to his credit that he recently knocked out a policeman in pursuit of a crime story, and he is expecting to be sacked at any moment. Step forward, Joel McCrea, a droll but earnest leading man ready to blunder his way through complexities and ready to love Laraine Day as soon as he meets her. So he gets the job and sails to England where he commences uncovering the dastardly actions of Gestapo spies, and immediately he becomes entangled with them. There are numerous trademark Hitchcock touches in the film. On a visit to the Netherlands (when will people stop calling it Holland, as Holland is merely a single province of the Netherlands and not the name of the country?) McCrea is chasing some Nazis spies, who then disappear into a windmill. McCrea notices that the sails of the windmill keep reversing the direction of their turning. They are clearly on a motor, and this is a signal to a plane to land to pick up the spies. McCrea also escapes from a hotel room by edging along the balcony high above the street, another perilous scene of the kind Hitchcock loved. But the most harrowing of all the scenes in this film is when McCrea, Day, Herbert Marshall and others are all flying on the clipper to America from London on the day war breaks out between Britain and Germany, and a German naval ship shoots down their plane. The plane crashes into the sea and a few of then cling to a floating wing. It is all very convincing and impressive. So, as I have said, there are 'moments' in this film which are up to standard, but the film as a whole is a bit thin. Robert Benchley appears throughout the film as the incompetent regular foreign correspondent, and makes wisecracks and wry observations, such as 'I send the press releases back to New York and they pay me a salary,' or words to that effect, a practice not unknown today. "},{"Title":"Foreign Correspondent","Date":"19 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I found this film to be quite entertaining! I generally like war based movies and the action they entail. In this particular movie it involved spies, although the main character is not a spy, but simply a reporter. He gets caught up in the action of the war so to speak. There is also the common man falls in love with a beautiful woman going on in the plot. Little does she know her father is covering up and working with the bad guys. I like the sarcasm used between the reporter and the daughter. It was a nice scene of humor even when the film itself is not a pleasant one. I also really enjoyed the chase scene and the message/ radio cast he gives at the end. I liked how he was determined to finish and keep the light of hope, just as the Americans were doing during the war! "}{"Title":"Not a dull moment","Date":"19 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This movie does not have a dull moment. One moment were in a car chase trying to catch the assassin, the next were escaping a hotel, followed by fake kidnapping, and finally a plane crash in the ocean. This is just a touch of all the action that this movie contains; it's riveting and entertaining with a few aspects of humor.Three scenes come to my mind when thinking of how nicely it was filmed; the assassination scene, the windmill scene, and the final scene on the plane. First, having the assassin escape through a maze of black umbrellas on a rainy day and how it was filmed was really neat. Then the following chase to the windmill, where McCrea ducks and dodges, ducks and dodges his way through a small Windmill room, hiding in the gears and keeping from being spotted. And the final scene with the plane crash brings it all together, and hits home. The final scene is wonderfully filmed (I don't know how they did it in 1940) and ties it all together to bring the message home.You may find the plot confusing and hard to follow but it is written nicely, in an effort to capture the American's heart for war against the German enemy. The cast I could do way with, while McCrea was good in his role, as well as the supporting cast, it was the setting, the script, and the action that kept the audience involved and entertained. Truly an exciting movie. "},{"Title":"Foreign Correspondent","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The movie started well with fast pace newspaper working area and then the movie slowed down after getting to Europe. It was directed very well it was like being in the film. The film also became confusing when Ffolliott and Mr. Fisher started telling each other that they were some how involved in the kidnapping of Mr. Van Meer. The movie then sped up again when everyone was on the plane on the way back to the Untied States. The ending is very well put together ends happy but oddly doesn't seem finished. I would recommend this film to anyone who likes old war and mystery like movies because in the middle of the film you really have to think about what is being said and done if you miss a key part of it you're lost the rest of the film. "},{"Title":"surprisingly gritty and deep","Date":"15 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Like my summary suggests, I was taken aback by how this seemingly light film quickly turned into such a dark, almost film noir style movie. I viewed this film for a college cinema class, and while I am familiar with Joel McCrea's work in the realm of comedy, to see him in a completely different genre of film was enjoyable. That brings me to my first point that must be discusses in regard to this film the acting. It was great. Certainly some parts of the movie contained some non-memorable performances, ie... Powers the newspaper chief, but for the most part every other performance was top notch. The plot was original and quick paced; there were no parts of the film that I felt dragged or lost my interest. Another noteworthy aspect of this film was its content, specifically the subject matter of the film's main storyline World War II. While this film was at times light and funny - namely the character of Van Meer and his nonchalant responses about birds, and life when being asked very poignant, weighted questions about impending war- overall, it dealt with very serious subject matter, which in my opinion, it did an excellent job of handling. Obviously with this film being made in 1940, America was not engaged in the global conflict yet, but hopefully for those who watched it during that time, this film stood as a call to action against the atrocities taking place in Europe and Asia. The on location shots were excellent, as were the sets and set designs. This is perfectly expressed at the end of the film with the airplane crash scene. As a viewer, I felt for the characters on that plane, which clearly means that both the acting and design of the setting was very believable and true to life. Lastly, the one aspect of this film that was not enjoyable was the love story between Ms. Fisher and Haverstock/Jones. For me personally, this was the one part of the film that while obviously necessary to facilitate a fuller plot arc and give the film a much needed lighter side, I could have done without. That aside, I was surprised by how much I really liked this film, and would recommend it to others seeking a good drama, and mystery film. "},{"Title":"A Hitchcock Classic","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Foreign Correspondent was a Hitchcock film that I was never aware of; perhaps because it was one of his earlier films, or because it lacked a certain star power, but to me the film deserves to be near the top of the list of Hitchcock films.After a brief introduction, Foreign Correspondent is filled with non-stop action and suspense. Including car chases, assassinations, and daring escapes, Hitchcock keeps the audience intrigued and at the edge of their seat, including several signature Hitchcock scenes such as the tower scene.This film is a must see for action/suspense fans, especially fans of Hitchcock who have yet to discover this gem. "},{"Title":"A Call to Arms?","Date":"27 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" One of my favorite Hitchcock films, it's also blatant propaganda but it wouldn't be great without it. This is without a doubt, Hitchcock's attempt to bring to light the hotbed that was Europe during the mid to late 1930's. Moments that clue you to this include the convenient dying of letters in the Hotel Europe sign to read Hot Europe as well as the image of Adolf Hitler in the windmill scene. You could consider it a bold move to promote US involvement in WWII given this was only Hitchcock's 2nd movie in America but he pulls it off so beautifully by thinly disguising his motives in a tightly constructed and very well paced plot. There's hardly a dull moment and there's practically nothing present that doesn't deal directly with plot events. All in all, this is a great movie given it's b-movie status and well worth the watch. "},{"Title":"hof","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This film makes me like Hitchcock even more the plot was very good even confusing at some times but I like that. What I find to be so unique about Hitchcock are his sound effects and instrumentals and also his extreme close-ups.He is truly the king of suspense during the tower scene you are lead on to believe the main character has died midway through the movie and then you are relieved to find he is not.Hitchcock just seems to look at movies from a much different perspective than other directors and that's what made him so successful. "},{"Title":"a must see","Date":"17 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I actually found this film to be very enjoyable and extremely interesting. Althouhg Im not the biggest fan of movies from this time period, I have to admit i found my self being drawn into it. A young American female reporter goes to Europe at the start of WW2 to get dirt on the enemy. She soon finds a romantic interest in John Jones( McCrea). This movie has everything you could once. Suspense, romance,plot twist, action, and very appropriate dialog .the acting all around is pretty good. One thing I noticed was everything looked pretty well realistic but then again its Hitchcock. Nice to see one of his more tame/calmer films. The only thing that felt off to me was the courtship between John and Carol. It happened so quickly that it didn't seem realistic. But I guess that element had to movie quickly to keep the whole espionage element moving and exciting. "},{"Title":"A little bit of everything!","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This movie showed what great espionage is like. Not only does this movie have spies, it has suspense, mystery, romance, and war to name a few. I thought all aspects of it were great. For instance, it was really suspenseful especially in the beginning Joel McCrea's character is a windmill in Holland trying to catch a suspect. As the audience, you feel so much suspense and worry for him because there's so many close calls. This movie will keep you on your toes and leave you wanting more. I thought everything was put in there with just the right amount. The suspense was at all the right moments, just bit of romance without being overdone, and the part about the war was just enough to make you understand the time frame just a little bit more. Another aspect of this movie was it seemed to be almost James Bond like. Though Joel McCrea was not as smooth as James Bond, he pulled off trying to investigate things in a different way that worked. I thought this movie was great and would recommend this to anyone that's interested in any sort of mystery stories. "},{"Title":"Worst MacGuffin Ever","Date":"19 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock popularized the term MacGuffin as being what the spies are after, but the audience doesn't care. In this movie, the MacGuffin is Clause 27 of a treaty between two countries. It is a secret clause, so secret in fact that it is only known to the two people who signed the treaty, because it was never written down.Now, whether it is a treaty, a contract, or any other kind of agreement, the whole point in writing it down and having people sign it is so that there is no question as to what was agreed to. Anything not written down can be denied later, especially since there are no witnesses to this oral agreement between the two signatories. I guess we are to assume that the two diplomats trust each other so much that an oral agreement and a handshake will suffice.This raises the question as to how anyone other than the two signatories knows of the existence of Clause 27. The spies know about it, as does Scott ffolliott, so I guess the two signatories must have announced that they had signed a treaty with an unwritten clause. It seems to me it would have been better to keep not only the content of the clause a secret, but its existence as well.One of the signatories is Van Meer. To find out what is in Clause 27, the spies kidnap Van Meer with the idea of torturing him until he talks. But to keep the world from knowing that Van Meer has been kidnapped, they get a man who looks like Van Meer to take his place so he can be assassinated. Presumably, the impostor did not know about that part of the plan.If the world thinks Van Meer has been assassinated, then that means that as far as everyone else is concerned, only one person knows what is in Clause 27. Van Meer might have trusted this other fellow, but can we expect the country he represented to honor a secret clause whose content is known only to the diplomat of the other country and take his word for it? So with Van Meer's faked assassination, it would seem that the clause has just become worthless. Or maybe the spies were planning on releasing Van Meer after he spilled his guts saying, Fooled you. Van Meer is alive after all, but you still have to honor the secret clause that we now know about.Moving right along, if I had been Van Meer and the spies started torturing me to tell what was in Clause 27, I would have just made up something. After all, it's a secret, so how would the spies have known the difference?But enough of this. The point of the MacGuffin, as noted above, is to give the spies something to pursue that the audience is not expected to care about. But that's just the problem. Maybe we are not supposed to care about what the MacGuffin is, but we sure are supposed to care about what makes the MacGuffin important. Over and over again, we are continually being prodded with a preachy message about the need to take a strong stand against Germany. In short, this is another of Hitchcock's propaganda films, the first one being The Lady Vanishes (1938). This is why Stephen Fisher, who is the leader of the Universal Peace Party, a pacifist organization, actually turns out to be a Nazi spy. You can't trust those peaceniks. The problem is not with the message per se, but with the enervating effect of propaganda. Who wants to watch a movie and be lectured to? Of course, there are enough good scenes in the movie, especially the one in the windmill, to make the movie enjoyable overall, but it is somewhat spoiled by the warmongering.Fisher has a daughter named Carol who is the love interest of the title character, Johnny Jones, who is forced to take on the pseudonym of Huntley Haverstock. He agrees to get Carol to go to the country with him so that ffolliott can make Fisher think his daughter has been kidnapped and thus arrange a prisoner exchange for Van Meer. The pretense is that Haverstock needs to hide from the spies, who are trying to kill him, because he knows who they are. When Carol and Haverstock get to Cambridge, they get a room at a hotel.Ooh la la. One room for the two of them! Even if it is just for the afternoon, it sounds very cozy, and Carol seems just fine with it. But then ffolliott calls Haverstock and tells him he needs more time to talk to Fisher, and so Haverstock will need to keep Carol there overnight. Haverstock agrees and makes an arrangement with the hotel for another room for Carol. Carol overhears this and is appalled.Now, I know that things back then were different regarding sex, but I cannot figure this one out. The very fact that Haverstock is getting a separate room for her indicates that his intentions are honorable. But the woman who was just fine having one room for the afternoon is outraged that he would get a separate room for her for the night. I guess she thought that the second room was just for appearances, and that he was planning on slipping into her room later that evening, just the sort of thing a man might have on his mind while hiding from spies who want to assassinate him. Since they were hiding from the spies, she should have figured that something had come up necessitating a longer stay. The reasonable thing for her to do was go up to him and say, Why are you getting another room for me so we can stay overnight? But not much else in this movie makes sense, so there is no reason for this scene to be any different. "},{"Title":"Good twisty suspense thriller","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Europe is on the verge of war and yet the normal reporters can't get a straight answer. The editor of the New York Globe is tired of the lack of insightful news reporting. He calls in crime reporter Johnny Jones (Joel McCrea) to be the new Foreign Correspondent. Johnny is surprised expecting to be let go. He is given two leads; Stephen Fisher (Herbert Marshall) leader of the Universal Peace Party and Dutch diplomat named Van Meer (Albert Bassermann). Van Meer is the center of a secret peace treaty but he is shot in public and assumed dead. John goes on a long winding thrill ride as he uncovers a conspiracy with the help of Stephen's daughter Carol Fisher (Laraine Day) and another reporter ffolliott (George Sanders).This has a winding twisty action adventure. It has a bit of the Hitchcock humor. Of course, it has the iconic crowd of umbrellas scene. It has often been compared to Hitchcock's other movies 'The 39 Steps' and 'North by Northwest'. The difference is that this doesn't have Cary Grant. Joel McCrea is a workmanlike actor but he doesn't have the superstar quality. Overall, this is a good thriller for the era. "}{"Title":"Tilting at windmills or unmasking fascist pacifists?","Date":"8 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" During the 1930s and early 1940s, Alfred Hitchcock was in the forefront of fingering the Nazi threat. The basic message of his flicks tended to be, See something, say something. His 39-STEPPERS were abusing local livestock. His SABOTAGE meanies were blowing up little boys on buses. His SABOTEUR was going after war plane plants, dams, and battle ships. Hitchcock's films of this nature are too numerous to itemize here, but FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT fits neatly into the category. However, with its constant Switcheroos of the Real McCoy for fakes and phonies, the good guys here often are left jousting with the windmills which make up much of the FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT landscape. Many of these scenes play more like a farce than the serious subject matter warrants. Perhaps this is not surprising, when you know that the dialog was penned by HOW TO SLEEP comedian Robert Benchley (who plays reporter #3, Stebbins) and Ben Hecht, the brains behind the screwball comedy HIS GIRL FR1DAY. However, as the late Peter O'Toole used to say, any flick with windmills cannot be all bad. "},{"Title":"Great special effects and some propaganda","Date":"7 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" It is a bit overlong and Joel Mcrea is annoying while Laraine Day is unremarkable. But the thrills in this film are truly out of the world. The stark and realistic scenes at the windmill and the top of the tower without any background music might have inspired the long heist scene in Rififfi. I was thinking about RIFIFFI when i watched those scenes. The plain wreck scenes in the sea were pretty scary - the sea almost seemed like a monster. There were some extraordinary images in the film - one of the gigantic ship (at the beginning of the film) and the one of the almost monstrous sea.Albert Bassermann's performance as Van Meer needs special mention. the scene where he is tortured and interrogated seems to have inspired Brian De Palma in Sisters.Some of the twists could have been done away with. The film needed better editing. And the ending is pure propaganda. I wonder if that was the way Hitch felt about the war or if it was the studio. "},{"Title":"Flawless Film","Date":"13 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" If someone is looking for a film that has everything Suspense, action, comedy, drama, romance, spies, murder, and a powerful message this is a film for you. It goes without saying that Hitchcock is one of the greatest directors in Film History (I might pick him NUMBER ONE), but here he outdoes himself. Spoilers Newspaperman Johnny Jones (Joel McCrea) is renamed as Huntley Haverstock and sent out by his boss Mr. Powers (Harry Davenport)to to Europe to find news. What happens is he gets himself in constant situations where he comes close to death, included is an attempt to push him off by a Nazi spy named Rowley (Edmund Gwenn), being pursued by agents in a hotel (Where he meets Carol Fisher (Larraine Day)), and finally being shot down over the Atlantic by a U-Boat and along with Carol, her father Stephen Fisher (Herbert Marshall), who is the head of a peace organization, while working as a deep cover mole for German Intelligene, Scotland Yard Officer Ffolliott (George Sanders), and several others. Eventually Fisher sacrifices himself by throwing himself in the sea, and the others are rescued by an American Ship who because the USA was neutral in the War, and the Captain was not happy about the fact they had a reporter on board. I love the fact that Johnny was willing to give up the story that Fisher was a traitor and was involved with the kidnapping of a Diplomat named Van Meer (Albert Basserman), because he loved Carol, and when Carol heard that she wanted the World to know and she said I don't want you to protect my father, he fought the hard way for his country (Germany), and I will fight the hard way for my country. So Johnny along with Ffolliott and Carol made sure that Mr. Powers got the story via the ship's radio. At the very end, Johnny and Carol were broadcasting during the Blitz of London, and said how the lights went out and death is coming to London, and for America to send tanks, planes and battleships, and to keep the light on, because you are the only light left on in the world. I cannot even think of one thing about this film I did not like, from start to finish. A flawless film. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock at his finest","Date":"12 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Before watching anything directed by Hitchcock I had learned a little abouthim. Welles and Hitchcock both had a way of playing with the evil and making you fear the unknown. This film had some unclear moments that were not exactly explained. But after learning about Hitchcock as a director, this was just part of his style. He wants us to question what we are seeing. At the the time the plane first starts rushing with water and the people start running chaotically in fear was influential to other directors. it can be compared to a similar scene in a much later Titanic(1997). The plane crashing seen is epic. The plane going down in the middle of the ocean with nothing surrounding is definitely in his themes of playing with the unknown and evil. He wanted us to be scared for the characters. Which we were watching this scene. The chaos of war and death are also among the fears of the characters in this film.This was another one of his great works. "},{"Title":"Breathlessly paced early US Hitchcock","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A hugely enjoyable and entertaining thriller,this was just Alfred Hitchcock's second American movie(after REBECCA),and is gaining in stature as one of his very best efforts in the US,after being criminally underrated for many years.So why should this be regarded as one of his best? There are some of his most memorable set-piecesthe 'assassination' in a downpour surrounded by umbrellas,the windmills turning backwards,the fall at the cathedral,and the final plane crash at sea.That isn't to say the material in between is dull;very far from it.A witty,exciting script,a uniformly fine cast and a director and his most fluid and inventive make this a movie to enjoy time and again.Joel McCrea is perhaps slightly too lightweight a leading man for Hitchcock,but nevertheless is perfectly fine and likable as the US reporter transported into a Europe on the edge of War;Albert Basserman is underused yet still effective in his fairly brief part as a kindly and elderly peace-monger;and George Sanders and Robert Benchley give splendidly witty and charming performances as two of McCrea's confused,if still willing,allies.The equally witty and charming Herbert Marshall is somewhat hard to believe as a would-be Nazi sympathiser,with McCrea's character reluctant to hand him in to the authorities when all is found out.Marshall is still good in his role,but one suspects his character would've himself been horrified when the Nazi regime's true evil fully came to light some years later.Other veterans such as Harry Davenport and Eduardo Ciannelli make the most of their smallish roles,and Edmund Gwenn is convincing as a seemingly innocuous,but in fact ruthless would-be hit-man.Laraine Day is merely adequate as Marshall's daughter(a rather underwritten part),and although much of the film has a great wit and humour about it,Alfred Newman's score is something of a disappointment;too repetitively enclosed to one mood,namely happy.More variation and darker,more atmospheric background music would possibly have made great scenes even better.Hitch himself has a cameo as a passer-by reading a newspaper,and he even manages to fit in an amusing bit for Laurel & Hardy's most famous catalyst,Jimmy Finlayson,as a frustrated Dutch peasant trying unsuccessfully to cross a road! It is convincingly produced(Hollywood didn't always get it right when trying to create European locations in the studio;it actually comes off very well here)and atmospherically lensed by Black and White expert Rudolph Mate.Very minor flaws aside,this hopefully will more and more be recognised as one of Hitchcock's very best thrillers in the US or the UK from his classic period;it is probably his fastest,even above NORTH BY NORTHWEST,making us forget the sometimes over-complicated nature of the plot;exhilarating all the way. "},{"Title":"unmistakably Hitchcock's","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  American Movie Classics gave me my first opportunity to catch this neglected movie, one of Hitchcock's first American projects. Many of the scenes bear Hitch's unmistakable stamp - the sea of umbrellas, the almost surreal mill scene, the tower death, &c. Also notable is the script's strong accent of humor (Send some clean sheets up to my room, please. I've set mine on fire.), doubtless attributable to Robert Benchley as writer. Benchley's appearance as a minor character also lends a lot to the movie. Not to be missed by fans of the master. "},{"Title":"Forgotten espionage gem by the master of suspense.","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Hitchcock came to America in 1939 and in 1940 he released REBECCA and FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT.  REBECCA went on to win the Oscar for best picture, and FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT was sadly forgotten.  But it remains one of Hitch's most entertaining, gleefully original thrillers, boasting many imaginative adventure sequences including the Windmills, the murder among the umbrellas, and a climactic plane crash.  A top notch script by Robert Benchley and Charles Bennet, this is one of Hitchcock's tightest and most suspenseful films.  A must for any fans of the master or the genre! "},{"Title":"Lesser - known gem, but still brilliant.","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Even though this isn't one of Hitchcock's best known movies, it is extremely entertaining. The Master of Suspense proved himself to be quite humorous, which, in turn, made this film not only suspenseful but very funny. Robert Benchley, as Stebbins (the reporter who does almost everything else except drink) adds a lot to the hilarity. However, the actor who shines more than anybody throughout the film, Joel McRea excepted, is George Sanders. He is the quintessential aloof, smooth Englishman with wicked wit. Hitchcock uses his camera effectively all the way through the movie, especially during Van Meer's interrogation scene in the hotel. The scene with the umbrellas has become a classic in the Hitchcock canon. All in all, a very good movie made by a one of the greatest directors.  "},{"Title":"Foreign Correspondent","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  One of Hitch's best! While covering a pacifist conference inEurope during WWII, reporter McCrea falls in love with the leader's daughter only to discover that the same man heads a Nazi spy ring. Beautifully crafted suspense with great performances from McCrea, Day and Edmund Gwynn.  "},{"Title":"Exposing enemy agents","Date":"5 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Foreign Correspondent is a propaganda piece to get the USA to enter the second world war. Joel McCrea is an American journalist sent to the UK to report on the war as Huntley Haverstock. He tries to interview a Dutch statesman, Van Mier, but instead sees him get shot which leads him to a Nazi spy ring that may have links with a Peace party.Huntley links up with a dapper reporter, Scott ffoliot played by George Sanders and has an attraction with Laraine Day who is the daughter of a pacifist. Future Oscar winner Edmund Gwenn pops up as a sneaky assassin.Plaudits to Alfred Hitchcock for making a stirring war piece in aid of the country of his birth. As an espionage thriller it has its moment with some signature Hitchcock moves but the film does not flow well, actually parts of it is a bit silly, such as Day being upset about the way Huntley booked two rooms at a hotel. However the plane crash scene is done very well.McCrea is a bit bland as the leading man, however Sanders steals the film as the more debonair reporter who seems he might be doing a little more intelligence gathering for a journalist. "}{"Title":"I'm in love with a girl, and I'm going to help hang her father.","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Several weeks ago, I decided to give some of the older, less well known Hitchcock films a try. So far, this has been mostly a pleasant experience and has introduced me to several new favorites. Foreign Correspondent may not be the best of the early Hitchcock offerings I've watched recently, but it's still a very solid film. It's the story of a reporter from New York sent to cover the events as Europe stands on the threshold of war. He's soon mixed up in a plot to kidnap the one man who may be able to put a stop to things. But who can he trust? It doesn't help matters that the woman he has fallen in love with seems to be at the center of his investigation.The biggest flaw in Foreign Correspondent that I see is the length of time it takes to really get into things. The opening scenes are nicely shot, but they're not that interesting. It takes a while for the movie to grab you and pull you in. But once things start happening, it's non-stop action and intrigue. Foreign Correspondent rarely pauses for you to take a breath. Before you know it, you're on to the next scene of increasing suspense. While it's fairly easy to spot the man behind the plot to start war, it's interesting to watch the way Hitchcock allows the events to unfold. Characters do not jump to wild conclusions but work toward them gathering evidence along the way. It's a nice job of storytelling.Joel McCrea is billed as the film's star. And while he's okay, I doubt very sincerely that he would have been able to pull off a film like Foreign Correspondent without a superb supporting cast. I've made no secret about enjoying George Sanders in just about every role I've ever seen him in. He's as good in Foreign Correspondent as ever. The man makes every scene he's in better. The rest of the cast is just as solid with Herbert Marshall being another standout.It's been a joy to discover these films for the first time. If movies like Foreign Correspondent are any indication of things to come, I'm looking forward to continuing my journey through Hitchcock's filmography. Next up The Lady Vanishes. "},{"Title":"Thrilling Hitchcock drama as the world is on the verge of war.","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The master at his best. This Alfred Hitchcock thriller is full of suspense, intrigue, murder, kidnaping and spy catching at the start of WW2. Joel McCrea is an ambitious American reporter that refuses to sit on a story that would expose spies in Europe.An all star cast at the top of their game includes; Laraine Day, George Sanders, Edmund Gwenn, Eduardo Ciannelli and Ian Wolfe. As far as Hitchcock gems go, this movie sparkles. A must see. "},{"Title":"Foreign Correspondent","Date":"14 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" There are some that see this as a slightly underrated film for director Sir Alfred Hitchcock, and I'm afraid to say, I'm not surprised, I couldn't see much to be recommended. Basically John 'Johnny' Jones (Joel McCrea) is a New York newspaper reporter sent to London, as a foreign correspondent, to get the inside story from Van Meer (Oscar nominated Albert Bassermann) about his peace movement, started by Universal Peace Party head Stephen Fisher (Herbert Marshall). Johnny finds Fisher's daughter Carol (Laraine Day) a little more interesting, but when Van Meer is apparently assassinated in Amsterdam, and Johnny travels there with journalist Scott Ffolliott (Rebecca's George Sanders) to follow the assassin into the countryside. But the real Van Meer appears in a windmill as a drugged prisoner, and when the kidnappers escape, no-one believes Johnny's story, apart from Carol of course, and they return together to London, where he realises her father is actually the leader of the conspirators. Carol and Johnny argue as he tries to protect her, and then he and Scott try unsuccessfully to convince Scotland Yard of the conspiracy, and war is declared. In the end, on a plane, Fisher explains everything to daughter Carol, before committing suicide jumping off a ship, and she and Johnny made it up. Alsostarring Robert Benchley as Stebbins, Miracle on 34th Street's Edmund Gwenn as Rowley, Eduardo Ciannelli as Mr. Krug, Martin Kosleck as Tramp, Harry Davenport as Mr. Powers and Edward 'Eddie' Conrad as Latvian. The idea of setting a story before the breakout of World War II is good, but I will be honest, I got lost in parts of the story, and only moments like chase sequences are really worth watching, but it is an alright classic spy thriller. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction, Best Cinematography, Best Special Effects, Best Writing, Original Screenplay and Best Picture. Good! "},{"Title":"he's there to get the real story, but how to get it is the real trick in this 40's Hitchcock classic","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" One of the bravest things Alfred Hitchcock could've done during this early run up to the war (or rather when war was already either on the brink of or just flat out going into it) was to make a movie like this. While it ends on a note of being patriotic and upstanding for one's country and pride, it only ends that way probably because it had to, for the immediacy of it all. But Hitchcock is braver for a picture like this not because it preaches, but because it's simply a Hitchcock movie, a thriller that delivers the intriguing mystery, the sly double crosses, the coy love story that becomes trickier when the two men most important to the lady become at definite odds, and some moments of dastardly humor and tragedy tossed in at different measures. It's not one of his greatest films, but it is an entertainer through and through, a crowd pleaser that gives a great nod to the hard-edged reporter who just needs to get the story, and gets much more than he bargained for.This reporter, Johnny Jones (Joel McCrea, meaning business but with more layers within his typical binding character) has to change his name to Haverstock for the sake of sounding not so 'American'. He's sent by his boss to check out a conference in Holland, where a Mr. Van Meer (Albert Basserman) might preside over a treaty to possibly change the course of the oncoming war. But when Van Meer is seen assassinated on the steps out in the rain right in the middle of shocked people holding umbrellas, it's up to Haverstock/Jones to get to the bottom of all of this, especially once he finds that it was a double, and Van Meer is in even more trouble than possibly imagined. The old double crosses start to happen, not least of which by his love interest Carol Fisher's (very charming and well-played leading lady Laraine Day) father (Herbert Marshall, fantastic at being both an exquisitely nasty character, and one with at least some humanity and even a touch of humility once war looms even more), who is really the one pulling the strings.In between all of this almost dense plot are many memorable set-pieces by Hitchcock, the first one being in two parts starting with the murder and get-away of the shooter of the fake Van Meer on the steps, with the rain and the crowds of people in umbrellas creating adding to the chaos of the crowded town square. The second part comes with the windmill scenes, and Jones has to stake out some shady dealings in a windmill not spinning the right way, which leads him to keep trying to find the story. But possibly my favorite, even if it doesn't have the quiet sense of total danger when Jones hides from the Dutch-speaking spies and other nefarious types in the windmill, is when Jones/Haverstock is back in Britain being kept under guard by a man sent by Mr. Fisher (I forget his name now, but you'll know him when you see him, the kind of seemingly polite, shifty-eyed old British chap probably in other Hitchcock films in another form). He takes him up to a tower to try and evade possible spies following the reporter, but then this scene up at the tower almost verges on being the comical for how long it takes for the old guy to try and get his task done with. It's superbly done, even if it's a little shorter than the other big and exciting set pieces.Meanwhile, there are certain scenes between the actors that add to the fun- if that's an odd word to use for an espionage/journalism thriller- like with McCrea and Day. They're romance comes forward pretty quickly, which I'm sure was probably not uncommon in a Hollywood picture during this time. But little things in how they becomes closer are interesting, even near perfect, like when Jones/Haverstock is in his robe, startling Carol in her room, and she demands he leave and not come back. Then he starts to use his gift for words and the delivery of them to suddenly increase her vulnerability to his situation. Then when she says 'don't go', his reaction is priceless. It's the kind of thing that could only happen in the movies, though maybe not, but it's that line of something really entertaining and yet sort of truthful to the characters that makes the film worthwhile at times (this too goes for little scenes with Mr. Fisher as well, where you think at first he's cold and bloodless to anything, but then comes that scene on the plane). And there's a scene too that ends up being both suspenseful and kind of sad, where Basserman teeters on being coherent or not for the needs of the enemy, but then chaos ensues. It's a really well acted scene from him in-particular, from a character who upon first sight in that car is the foggy-minded old man, but then later with his near-MacGuffin info is pretty endearing.If I don't rank it totally as high as the later masterpieces is because it's almost too much enthralled with itself being light in places when it should be a little darker. It finally picks up the right intensity and 'wow' gasps in the third act, but it's not a flawless endeavor. Still, it's a really well-done showpiece of men determined to get their stories, in one form or another, and the big emotional entanglements that come in the thick of it all. It's classic work, if not immediately essential to see if first getting into Hitch. If you've already seen it though, maybe watch it again on a rainy Saturday afternoon (not with your umbrella opened though). "},{"Title":"Disappointing Hitchcock thriller","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a huge fan of Hitchcock's, but this one let me down. For the most part, it was quite dull, and really, not as gripping as many of Hitch's other fine films.Johnny Jones (McRea) is a New York reporter sent to Europe as a foreign correspondent to inform America on the impending doom of the war. There, he meets Stephen Fischer (Marshall) and his beautiful and intelligent daughter Carol (Day). After attending a luncheon in which the host, Mr. Van Meer (Basserman) is said to be unable to attend, yet Johnny arrived with, he attends a press conference which leads to an assasination. Hot on the trail of the assasin with the help of Carol and her friend Scott ffolliot (Sanders), he soon discovers a kidnapping and a cover-up, and becomes a target of spies hoping to keep their business under raps. Throw in romance with Carol, double-crossing, and murder attempts...and, well, you kind of see where it goes from there, all leading up to an exciting climax that is, sadly, the only real highlight of the film.I'm sorry to say I was disappointed by this. It was quite weak, considering how talented Hitchcock has shown the world he can be. All the big thrills (the assasination, the windmill, etc.) were weak, except the climax. In fact, at one point, my eyelids got pretty heavy. It's hard to believe this is the same director that had me glued to the screen with such classics as The Man Who Knew Too Much (the '56 remake) and Rear Window, and showed impeccable skills in Lifeboat. Well, we all have our flukes.Now on to the acting. Joel McCrea, I'm sorry to say, didn't impress me, and fell pretty flat in his lead role. Laraine Day is so-so, a bit weak at times but still quite endearing and holds her own. I did like Robert Sanders, though, as the witty Scott ffolliot (yes, it is supposed to be lower-case). The rest of the cast did fine, and isn't much to mention.My biggest indescretion was the light-heartedness of the film at time. One minute, Johnny, Carol, and Scott are pursuing assasins who are shooting at them, and the next moment, Carol and Scott are watching gleefully as Johnny chases his hat as it blows through the field, after they stopped to let the police continue the chase. A little unfitting. Not to keep comparing, but I was impressed with Hitch's way of holding emotions and tone of a movie in The Man Who Knew Too Much. Doris Day, especially, remains distraught over her son's kidnapping well-after the first scene of her emotion, and though she doesn't become so weepy that she becomes a weak character (in fact, I think she's one of the better Hitch blondes), she remains realistic. The characters in this seem to forget the present reason for concern at times.Overall, quite weak, except for the great climax, which I don't want to reveal much of, but believe me, it's one of Hitch's most exciting, and reminds me almost of one of those 70s disaster films (but well done.) If you can get through the rest of this, then that alone is worth a look, and the pretty grim, if not realistic closing. But, I'm sorry to say, Hitch sort of fell short with this one. "},{"Title":"don't mix flicks with politics","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I should probably begin with some praise, as I'll have to end up with some negative feedback sooner or later. There's a lot of good things to this movie. I liked Sanders' portrayal of Mr. ffollitt, a witty character that initially might be hard to grasp (is he bad or good? what is it that he does in the end?). The American sequence was very likable and funny. Apart from that, there's a whole variety of scenes shot from curious angles and with a lot of taste and class. I wish more directors had as good ideas on how to present their stories to the viewers. Now, for the bad part this isn't far from an agit-prop. What it tries to do is to convince the (American) viewer that he should do all he can to challenge those that want to wage war in Europe (Hitler). This gives the movie a bad aftertaste and a bombastic, (intellectually) flat ending. There's little recourse in the psychological background of the story, although there are some points that could obviously be read as very deep or intriguing. The main premise of the spy plot in the movie is, on the other hand, very, very, very stupid and 19th-centurial. I, for one, can't find anything worth saving in this aspect of the plot. McCrea is irritating as the reporter (Jones/Haverstock), very stiff and uninteresting. That Miss Fisher should fall for him so easily is perhaps a very typical comment on the Euro-American relations, but it is also very unrealistic. That wouldn't be half bad if Hitchcock only let us know beforehand that this wasn't going to be film made for plot. All in all, it's not bad, but compared to the Hitchcock films of choice, it comes as an unpleasant surprise. "},{"Title":"The worst Hitchcock?","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" What a letdown. As a Htchcock fan, I thought I was watching the wrong movie. It's awful.McCrea and Day don't work particularly well together. There's no real chemistry or spark. McCrea was best when the horse did most of the talking. Day did TV ~1950-on and that suited her. Other than a small gem of a performance by George Sanders, the rest is just nothing.But the plot, whew. What is going on? Van Meer is kidnapped but his double is assassinated. He's hidden away and being tortured by a spotlight. When he talks you only hear mumbling (Yes, I know the didn't speak English at the time - so what?).It's got all of the Hitchcock trademarks Characters killed or almost killed by rotating gears; falling and fear of falling; mistaken identities; brusque newspapermen. But it's painfully, dreadfully, mind-numbingly dull.I wondered if the government got involved and Hitchcock somehow tried to do a propaganda job with it. His movies before and after are tight and clean. This one is a mystery. "},{"Title":"My Second Hitchcock","Date":"16 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Wasn't that fond of this Hitchcock film. It was good but not what I thought it would be. The story was OK, but I was expecting a North by Northwest feel to it.Nominated for a number of awards (up against another Hitchcock movie, Rebecca) It did not win any, but that does not take away from the honor. I would call this a transitional movie between Hitchcock's British and American periods, by subject matter and locations. Outstanding special effects, which were quite innovative and still hold their own over time. Crisp clear sound and cinematography, quick clips of humor and a sense of style at a crossroads of change. Historically interesting as well...I wonder, just how did everyone seem to know that war was going to be declared the next day? A definite appeal to emotion from the British Hitchcock to the Americans.... "},{"Title":"Well how about Hitler? Don't you think it would be a good idea to pump him?","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Foreign Correspondent is best described in the same fashion as one might address the thin line of preforations in a sheet of spiral notebook paper. Even if you try your hardest to remove that slim strip of holes, you still end up tearing the sheet, leaving ugly rips and excess paper bits along its edge. In relation to this movie, the same procedure is executed by Alfred Hitchcock; No matter how much effort he put in this movie, it still comes off as a promising film with distracting imperfections. I find the reactions and motives of most of its characters to be bafflingly unrealistic, and I found myself having to pause the movie a few times to reflect on what just happened in the plot. The movie was saved, however, with brilliant cinematography and gripping suspense that helped Hitchcock become a household name in directing. Just as a side-note, this is my first true interpretation of a Hitchcock film. I have seen Rebecca, which was released in the same year as Foreign Correspondent, but that doesn't count, seeing how it was an adaptation of a novel and, according to reviews, wasn't the standard style of Hitchcock's work. I understand that he's an incredible film maker, but I just didn't find Foreign Correspondent as stable as I thought it would be. "},{"Title":"Foreign Correspondant","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This film was an excellent tale of love and deception. A young man sent to find a story in the middle of dangerous turmoil only to discover more than he ever hoped for; a women to love and the story of a lifetime. This young man follows his intuition despite the fact that no one believes him. He ends up convincing a young women who has intrigued him from the beginning only to fall madly in love with one another. After some digging and a few assassination attempts our young reporter uncovers a big secret about his future father in-law; that he is working with the Germans as a spy while running a prestigious league against such people.later after permission from his lover does he share his father-in-laws secrets with the world, showing them the hard and ugly truth. "}{"Title":"Foreign Correspondent","Date":"12 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Foreign Correspondent was directed by Alfred Hitchcock in 1940. The films release was just prior to the United States involvement in WWII. Pre-war anticipation may have been a partial factor leading to the films popularity. A romantic thriller of a young and ambitious journalist looking for his big break during a dangerous time. While on his mission complications arise from a relationship with a woman related to his target. The reporter's job offer symbolizes America's real life worries of going to war. Hitchcock's unique style of creating the mise-en- scene helped bring the plot to life. Quite often there's either a close call with death or some clue digging the storyline deeper. One of the first of many great spy films. "},{"Title":"They're listening in America, Johnny.","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Not the best Hitchcock film, but exciting enough as a correspondent (Western star Joel McCrea) is sent to Europe before the war to find out the truth. He stumbles upon the assignation of a diplomat (Albert Bassermann) and the hunt is on for those behind it.The suspense builds as our correspondent teams with Oscar-winner George Sanders (All About Eve) to trap their suspect (Herbert Marshall). In the meantime, our correspondent falls in love with the suspect's daughter (Laraine Day).It all comes to an end as the war starts. But, that is not the end it is the beginning.Basserman got an Oscar nomination for his supporting role, and the film itself was nominated for Best Picture, oddly losing to another Hitchcock film, Rebecca. Rebecca also took the cinematography award. The screenplay, special effects, and art direction were also nominated.Two good films by the same director in one year. I wonder if that has happened before or since. "},{"Title":"Unjustly forgotten Hitchcock","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Naive reporter Johnny Jones (Joel McCrea) is sent to Europe to find out if war is going to break out (this was before Hitler invaded Britain). While there he gets mixed up with a Dutch diplomat (Albert Basserman), beautiful (if vapid) Carol Fisher (Laraine Day) and her father Stephen (Herbert Marshall). They're all fighting for peace...but someone is out to kill Jones. I can't reveal anymore--it would give away some surprises that you should see for yourself.A forgotten Hitchcock film (for some reason). It's no masterpiece but it's easily one of his best. It never stops for breath--there's plenty of action and the story moves quickly. POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!! It also contains some of Hitch's best sequences a killer trying to escape in a sea of umbrellas; the windmills; attempts to kill McCrea; McCrea escaping over a hotel roof and an exciting and realistic plane crash. POSSIBLE SPOILERS END!!!!It has some minor problems. The romance between McCrea and Day comes out of nowhere and is pretty silly; the plot is sometimes confusing and the movie does go on too long. Acting varies--McCrea was never a good actor but he's tall, handsome and athletic and it works here, but Day is given nothing to work with and turns out a bland performance. However Marshall was excellent as was George Sanders (it's really fun to see him so young).So a really good Hitchcock film deserving recognition. Recommended. "},{"Title":"In Hot Pursuit Of The Story","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" What's interesting about this is how different the storytelling conventions were before the seismic shifts to come -- both in the world on the eve of war, and in the world of movie-making. Up to this point, the 'story within the story' was always one for the newspaper medium. The plot would involve a reporter's efforts to capture the story and transmit it in some way back to the newsroom. For the movie to be smart, the story within had to dovetail into the larger movie, to become the movie itself.That mold would be permanently shattered the following year with Citizen Kane, in which the media story within was replaced by the 'movie within' becoming the larger movie itself.So this sort of cinematic storytelling was supplanted; that having been done, this is now only of importance in terms of its influential components the 'sea of umbrellas', the masterful compositions in the windmill scene, the plunge from the tower, etc. Hitchcock himself went back to this and mined it for his later works, particularly for Vertigo and North by Northwest. In modern times, for example, the plane crash scene was copied for Cast Away.Much of the Hitchcock vocabulary is here, including the maguffin (the secret clause). And it ends in an intelligent way, more so than in many of his other works.What's missing is the full acknowledgment of the camera; the notion is present, but only in embryonic form. See The Big Clock as a better period example of visual storytelling through camera movement...though Hitchcock would go on to top that, as well. Think of this as a stepping stone. "},{"Title":"Early genius shines through","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  One of his lesser known and earlier films, Foreign Correspondent is one of Hitchcock's best.  An unusual film in his terms, the tale of a wartime American newspapermen is sent to London to cover the European War.Uncovering a kidnapping conspiracy by an infiltrator, he falls in love with the man's daughter and it comes to a thrilling climax.  The use of effects and the natural on screen drama of wartime are remarkable for a 1940 film - this is outstanding all round. "},{"Title":"Another Solid Film","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Foreign Correspondent is sort of a forgotten film of Alfred Hitchcock. Joel McCrea, Laraine Day, George Sanders, and Edmund Gwynne all give fine performances.  The action is fast-paced except for times during the first third of the movie.  A movie that needs to be seen.  Watch it--you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Forgotten Hitchcock Gem","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Foreign Correspondent is one of the least-known of Alfred Hitchcock's A-films.  It includes scene after scene of classic Hitchcock set pieces including the great assassination scene, the one among the windmills, and the botched murder attempt atop the London building.  Starting somewhat slowly, the film moves faster and faster as the suspense grows, leading to the climax aboard a doomed airplane.  Though I'm working off memory and can't remember all the details, believe me when I urge you to seek out this somewhat rare wartime thriller that showcases Alfred Hitchcock at his suspense best. "},{"Title":"Intriguing & Entertaining Hitchcock, as usual","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Top-notch Hitchcock thriller set in London shortly before the outbreak of World War II stars McCrea as a US news reporter who exposes a Nazi spy ring. Notable cast gives fine performances, and with a brilliant script makes this a true classic.  This was Hitch's second American film, after Rebecca in the same year.  Both were nominated for Best Picture, with Rebecca being the winner. "},{"Title":"foreign correspondent","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Foreign Correspondent is definitely a strange movie. There is excitement, especially during scenes like the windmill when we get to watch Haverstock climb around just narrowly being missed by the villains. These parts are certainly entertaining and thrilling, and the story of the movie is well constructed. It's very interesting to watch how perfectly executed the timing of the different people are. However, the acting is certainly nothing special. No real stars or anything, but no stand outs either. Not to mention, some of the characters talk too fast and muttered, so you have pay closer attention. Even worse, some of them don't speak English, and I guess there wasn't subtitles back when they made this movie. Another thing I'd like to mention is the scene in the airplane at the end. It's obviously a model, but the camera zooms in and clumsily fades into the shot of inside the plane. Some shots throughout the movie seemed choppy to me, like movies that were even older than this were sometimes. Despite those technical issues it is still a pretty good movie "},{"Title":"Foreign Correspondant (1940)","Date":"13 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I'm not much of an Alfred Hitchcock fan, but i did enjoy Foreign Correspondant (1940). It was a little slow at first. Some films grab your attention right away but this one took a little while, but once it gets moving you realize it was worth the wait. A very well written mystery that I feel was somewhat ahead of its time regarding the story-telling. The film features very suspenseful scenes, for example when Jones was eavesdropping in the windmill, also when he climbs out the window to escape the kidnappers dressed as cops. The movie , in my opinion, could have gone without the romantic aspect between Jones and Fisher. I also think his proposal to her on the boat was a little premature. Older movies in general are constantly throwing around the word marriage, a lot of the time with characters who have basically just met. The scene where the plane is shot down is very suspenseful, and given the lack of film resources at the time compared to now, the plane crash looked very convincing. "}{"Title":"Joel Mcreay Without The Saddle Sores","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the few films you will find with Joel out of the saddle. It is also a well made film for it's time. Alfred Hitchcock was rounding into a fully expert film maker when this film was made. This is also a piece of war propaganda as well.Nominated for best picture in 1940, the plot makes little sense as it was re-written several times from a 1935 novel to the point where the original novel is no longer here but is only a facsimile. It is an olive branch picture in that it holds out to the viewer a chance for peace but at the end of the film actually gives it a feel of war starting.Hitchcock, on loan from Selznick, directs his second American film. The sets are very impressive in this, particularly the windmill set. The clipper plane crash is rather crude but effective as a special effects disaster crashing into the ocean years before George Pal & Irwin Allen perfected the art of modern special effects.The actors & actresses do a very credible job. Some of Hitchcock's trademark camera shots are already here, though a little cruder than in later films. The stairway shots are here in the windmill & in the hotel. The touches of comedy he became famous for are here too. The deceptive murder of a double sequence is here, done on a huge 10 acre recreation of Holland.Overall, while not on a par with his later work, this is a solid film. Hitchcock was happier doing this than working for Selznick & it shows because he does more experimental work with camera angles here than he does in his Selznick films of the period. If the script were as good as Rebecca, this film would be too. "},{"Title":"excellent ! very entertaining.","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" It is a very good movie. At some point -to be accurate, at the point where Jones, the hero, meets Ffolliott around the mills and in the middle of a car chase- I was even wondering  Is this sense of humor really allowed here ? It was all going totally absurd, and I couldn't help but thinking Wow, Hitchcok was indeed a master! The casting was o.k., the crash scene was fine -ever seen 'Castaway' ?- and the dialogue, oh my ! excellent ! though most of it was mistranslated in french subtitles (old copy I guess) you could still taste the undefinable English humor. I'd agree that the final propaganda about America, land of light is a bit out-of-date, it still is an excellent Hitchcock. "},{"Title":"It's not too bad... considering it's put together by a ton of writers, that it's overlong, and so forth","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Before Hitchcock started making great films, he had some titles where he honed his skills... Notorious seems to have been one, and this is, as well. The problem in both cases, I'm afraid, is that he had already done better... Blackmail had been out for ten years before he made this, and that was a fine thriller. Spellbound was released a year before Notorious, and, whilst it presented a somewhat simplified view on psycho-analysis, it was a fairly well-done piece. And in the case of this film, Hitchcock had released Rebecca, one of my personal all-time favorite Hitchcock films, in the very same year! So why the lesser quality of this? I do not know. Regardless, I will try to be fair in my evaluation on the good and bad points herein. When Hitchcock had a good script, he'd usually make the best of it, so I'd say that some of the problem here is that this was stitched together by several writers(and, as noted in the trivia, the very last scene was tacked on). With that in mind, the plot isn't too bad... apart from a few scenes that suffer from Deus Ex Machina(or, in laymen's terms, the writer had written himself into a corner and had something implausible happen to solve the hopeless situation). It develops throughout, though it could have moved a bit faster... in fact, the movie seems to slow down terribly for the last half hour or so. The acting ranges... I found Sanders to be the best of the lot(though Bassermann did rather good, for someone who doesn't understand the language he is speaking). The romantic sub-plot really doesn't work... there is no chemistry between the two leads, and hardly any reason for the romance is given. An interesting thing is how little mention is made of who the bad guys are... I don't think it was ever said that they were German, and I don't believe the word Nazi was spoken a single time in the film. Some of Hitchcock's skill is evident... some scenes do have tension, and the locations weren't too bad. The effects are hardly worth mentioning, apart from one near the very end of the film. Parts meant to be effective seem a little flat, at least by today's standards. The film feels like it could have been cut down some without losing the effect. All in all, it has its good parts, but I doubt I'll ever watch it again. It's been said that this, along with Charlie Chaplin's The Great Dictator, inspired the US to enter the war... that definitely validates its existence, but I'm not sure I can claim an awful lot else does. I recommend this to the biggest fans of Hitchcock, and anyone interested in watching films relating to World War 2. If you're unsure if you belong in either category... this is not something you need to watch. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Similar elements to Casablanca.","Date":"15 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The first thing I noticed about this movie was how during the credits that it starts off with a globe spinning. This scene is similar to that of Casablanca where they both start off with the image of the earth twirling around. The lighting for this movie is very washed out in the beginning because it had scenes of success and happiness. The bar looks familiar too in the scene after the main character meets someone outside of the train. The bar looks like the one that is in Casablanca. This movie is more open then Casablanca was. One can tell with the washed out and lighter lighting indicates that this movie is lighter then Casablanca which was a very dark and mysterious film. As that, these two films were both about war, although Casablanca had more affect on society in my opinion because it was released only a couple years after we entered the war after Pearl Harbor, where as Foreign Correspondent was released before our entrance into the war. "},{"Title":"A party","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Of some reasons Foreign Correspondent has been forgotten - and that is a big shame. Its Hitch in full gear, with all his known trademarks. Many people see the brilliant 39 STEPS as NORTH BY NORTHWEST little brother, but this almost closer. 39 has a fantastic dialogue, but is not so technically brilliant as this. Perhaps the intrigue is too long, but this is enjoyable Hitchcock party, nobody should miss. "},{"Title":"Another exciting Hitchcock classic","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is really suspenseful and edge-of-your-seat, just as you would expect from genius director Alfred Hitchcock.  It was nominated for a total of 6 Oscars including Best Picture.  But I like to remember it as one of the few movies in which George Sanders plays the good guy!  =)  It's really great, and I definitely recommend it to anyone!Rating 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The worst movie Hitchcock ever made!","Date":"7 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I love Hitchcock movies, and have just yesterday viewed Saboteur which is marvelous. The disappointment at seeing such a stupidity as Foreign correspondent equals the pleasure I had enjoyed viewing the other one. Not only the situations are unbelievable,i.e. funny how in five minutes a fair weather and smooth sea can turn into a storm and tempest, I did not know that in such a weather plane wings could float, that's big news to give to Boeing or Airbus! The acting is absolutely awful, Joel McCreea is the worst actor I've ever seen on screen! He and Mrs Laraine Day seem to compete to whom will be the worst of the gang. Herbert Marshall recites his role without the slightest change in tone or attitude, the only one who is not too bad is George Sanders. Nothing stands a minute in this scenario. We are facing here a flop from beginning to end! "},{"Title":"Not a classic but enjoyable and entertaining nonetheless","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" With his New York bosses impatient at the lack of good reporting over developments in Europe, Johnny Jones is sent over to act as foreign correspondent. Stationed in Holland he settles in to try and get the lay of the political land but it is not long before he has witnesses the assassination of Van Meer &#150; an important figure in the peace efforts. He gives chase with the help of Carol Fisher and Scot ffolliott but loses the killer in an area populated by windmills. Investigating further, Jones stumbles upon a network of German agents working across Europe to end the war before it has even begun.In terms of sheer entertainment value I have always enjoyed the everyman thrillers that see ordinary people caught up in conspiracies or mysteries &#150; North By Northwest is the most memorable but 39 Steps and The Lady Vanishes are classics in their own right. Here we have a film that is a wartime propaganda film (annoyingly so at times but perhaps understandable for the period) that follows the same sort of formula with a nice eye for set pieces and a consistent touch of humour. This is not to suggest it is one of Hitchcock's best because it is not, although this does not imply a rubbish film because his best films are generally considered classics as opposed to just being good. This film has enough in the way of set pieces and pace to carry it for the duration. Hitchcock's touch is evident in many of the scenes and it makes for an engaging and stylish film. It may lack his usual dark edge in volume but it has it in fits and starts and it is mostly enjoyable regardless.The cast are fairly mixed but range from the serviceable to the good. McCrea gives a solid performance but not one that stands out &#150; he fits the everyman niche but doesn't make the role his own. Day works well with him even if the love plot did nothing for me. I enjoyed Sanders a great deal and he worked well with a great character. The rest of the cast are solid and turn in what is required to deliver a nice menacing background.Overall this is a light and enjoyable thriller. It is a bit heavy with the propaganda (particularly the heavy ending) and isn't among Hitchcock's best work but it is fun and has a nice pace to it. Not one of his classics then but certainly worth a look for what it does well. "},{"Title":"The Windmills of Your Mind","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Coming off the huge success of Rebecca, for some odd reason Alfred Hitchcock got loaned out to Walter Wanger and provided with a cast of B grade actors. It's initially a bit of a step down but the story, while a bit talky at times does entertain. Racing around Eastern Europe one can see hints of North By Northwest with mistaken identity for Joel McRea's character. McCrea does an admirable job but I wondered if Hitch would have preferred Joeseph Cotton over McRea? Lorainne Day, while beautiful to look at doesn't seem to do too much here. Perhaps a sign of the times however the plane sequence is rather good, and is actually a novel idea at that. A lot of nice little scenes sprinkled throughout but not a stand out Hitchcock classic. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock at his best","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the years ago this was made ,it remains the archetype for any suspense film, having all the ingredients to ensure the the viewer is mesmerised by the magic of the camera work ,the story progression and the suspense. Any modern movie maker would be well advised to obtain a copy and study how to make movies that people enjoy and yet at the same time command the acknowledgement of officianados "}{"Title":"underrated hitchcock","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  this is an excellent movie that it's highly underrated. most people don't know this is a hitchcock movie and they don't see it big mistake. this is a gem. cast, direction, cinemathography and plot are all time high (well, except joel mccrea, who gives a rather wooden performance, robert cummings style). the storyis about a war correspondant who goes to holland to find information of spies, he quiqly gets involved in an assassination and an international conspiracy, in which the boss is the least person we expect to be. good performances everywhere. full of memorable scenes the windmill, the killing, the bombing of england at the end, the tower scene and of course one of hitchcock's best scene the plane crash that includes suspense and good for the time special effects. one of the bests hitchcock.special mention of edmund gwenn as the adorable hitman. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Clever spy film is typical Hitchcock thriller...","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Joel McCrea is an American journalist on the trail of a spy ring headed by the father (Herbert Marshall) of the girl he loves (Laraine Day). In typical Hitchcock fashion, the suspense mounts slowly as the plot thickens. Before it's all over, we're treated to a series of episodes before the climactic crash of a plane into the sea. All of the special effects are quite good (especially considering when the film was made) and there is abundant humor along with the suspense. McCrea is fine in the lead and Herbert Marshall, Edmund Gwenn (in an offbeat role) and George Sanders lend their talents to the good supporting roles. Laraine Day is especially appealing as the girl who does not realize that her father is the head of the spy ring. Alfred Hitchcock claims he was disappointed when she was cast in the feminine lead for she hadn't done anything much until then--mostly playing a nurse, Dr. Kildare's love interest in a popular series of films with Lew Ayres. But she proved herself fully capable of holding her own against some skilled actors. For more about Laraine Day, see my article on her in the current Spring 2001 issue of FILMS OF THE GOLDEN AGE magazine.  "},{"Title":"Confused but enjoyable Hitchcock","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Some standout scenes that are pure Hitchcock, especially the windmill sequence and the wonderfully tense episode on a tower with McRea'S bodyguard intent on pushing him off. Yet the film lacks the moral focus of masterpieces like 39 Steps. Curiously, the chief villain is portrayed as more complex than the lead, Joel McRea. Hitchcock seems not to know what to do with McRea -- he glides through the film, more intent on the girl than the war or even his assignment. Perhaps it was Hitchcock's inside way of jibing the Americans for non-involvement. Even the villain is shown as engaged -- loyal to his cause, and willing to act heroically. Despite the ambiguities at the core, the film has enough Hitchcock magic to carry it through. "},{"Title":"You don't need Ambien, watch Foreign Correspondent instead","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I don't remember feeling more drowsy watching a film than this one. And I don't remember two hours passing by as slowly either. I kept on glancing at the clock through-out the movie.The trailer is highly misleading. They make it seem as if FC is a highly action filled movie, but actually it's the opposite. The vast majority the film is boring dialogue. The few action scenes the movie had, the trailer managed to include all of them, thus spoiling much of the excitement. The biggest problem I have are the acting and directing. The characters behave so similarly to each other that you'd have a difficult time distinguishing one from another. You become confused in recognizing who the good guys are and who the villain is. The jumbled storyline and plot holes also makes FC a pain to watch. Thing is, if you miss one little piece of a conversation you have difficulty following the rest of the story. I understand Johnnie trying to catch the villain who shot Van Meer in the beginning. But later on, I really lost track of what was going on. I don't know what it is. Maybe I'm not accustomed to watching old B/W films and thus have difficulty getting the message. Or maybe I don't understand the events surrounding the world war setting.I do think the ending was kind of memorable though. However, I will NOT re-watch this film to see what I've missed the first time around. "},{"Title":"Searching for a good story, saves the life of an important statesman.","Date":"19 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" An enjoyable movie overall, I found the reporter turned espionage agent plot to be an interesting story. Full of suspense and twists the film does a good job keeping all the characters and their loyalties straight. The romance between John and Carol seemed a bit rushed, it seemed all of a sudden they were madly in love and engaged no less. The film uses light and camera angles nicely to portray suspenseful moods and suspicious behavior. While the film's action may be slow to start, it builds to a climactic finish, in which the plane carrying the characters is shot down, and perhaps the most enjoyable scene, where John covertly gives his story to his newspaper over the phone, is shown. The film also leads to an inspirational and patriotic broadcast to America by John, which i felt added a nice touch and leaves the audience with a sense of inspiration in a time of coming war. "},{"Title":"The Joseph Goebbels Stamp Of Approval!","Date":"2 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A masterpiece of propaganda, a first-class production which no doubt will make a certain impression upon the broad masses of the people in enemy countries. &#x96; Joseph Goebbels (Nazi Propaganda Minister) on Foreign Correspondent Another Hitchcock adventure, this time a slight variation on his running man and man wrongly accused formula. In this case the guy traumatised for our viewing pleasure is Johnny Jones (Joel McCrea), an American journalist sent over to England by his newspaper editor in order to get answers about whether or not World War 2 will ensue.Johnny, a wild boy who will do anything for a story (a sort of cross between Cary Grant and Indiana Jones), soon gets involved in all manners of espionage, danger and pursuit, but the plot is really nothing but a giant MacGuffin designed to show off Hitchcock's stylish camera work, his elaborate set pieces, carefully orchestrated thrills and of course a little humour and romance. The film offers a slight variation on Hitchcock's standard running man formula - our hero, rather than running from bad guys, actively runs after them in an attempt to piece together the truth &#x96; but like most films which rely on quick thrills and simple button pushing, decades of emulation have rendered much of Foreign Correspondent tame.Today, action directors and Hitchcock imitators take Hitchcock's blueprints and mercilessly gut them of every erroneous moment (often removing romance, dialogue etc) in favour for a relentless conveyor belt of set pieces and crowd pleasing antics. For this reason, modern audiences might find Foreign Correspondent a bit dull, fast forwarding toward the film's famous set pieces an assassination in a sea of umbrellas, a sequence in a windmill, an escape through a window and a plane crash.For those bored by thriller mechanics, it's the film's propagandistic endeavours which are most interesting. The film takes aim at the neutrality of the United States before and early on in the Second World War, our hero rallying his countrymen to join the cause against Adolf Hitler. And what better (or sillier) way of calling for the brotherhood of America and England than by having Johnny falling in love with a British sweetheart, the kind of cross cultural love affair that is present in everything from Avatar to Dances With Wolves to The Searchers to Monsters Ball to those sexy Asian girls in Bridge Over The River Kwai. Unity and healed race relations through a little horizontal love action. Vomit.On another level, the film helped smoothen Hitchcock's move from his native Britain to Hollywood. By joining together the US and the UK, by playing the foreign correspondent who brings them together, he's able to feel at home on both sides of the Atlantic, eventually releasing short propaganda documentaries for both sides.7/10 &#x96; There are some shots here inspired by the underground scenes in Fritz Lang's M (a favourite of Hitch's) and a windmill sequence modelled after Dreyer's Vampyr, but mostly this is Hitchcock laying the foundations for his own very personal thriller formula. A formula which everyone pretty much uses and takes for granted these days. "},{"Title":"10 out of 10","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Johnny Jones, an insubordinate city desk reporter, is sent to London as a foreign correspondent. There he interviews Van Meer, leader of a peace movement endorsed by Universal Peace Party head Stephen Fisher. Johnny finds fisher's pretty young daughter, Carol, more interesting than the movement. In Amsterdam, Van Meer apparently is assassinated. Johnny and journalist Scott ffolliett follow the assassin into the countryside. Johnny investigates a windmill and find the real Van Meer, a drugged prisoner. His captors escape with their prisoner, and Johnny's story is not believed. After attempts on Johnny's life, Carol believes him. Now in love, they return to London, where Johnny realizes that her father is actually the leader of the conspirators. Johnny tries to protect Carol, who is totally innocent, but she misinterprets his motives, and they quarrel. He and Scott try without success to convince Scotland Yard of Fisher's conspiracy to stall peace efforts. Then war is declared. On board a clipper plane, Fisher explains to his daughter that he was only being loyal to his native country. Johnny, also on the plane, tries to make up with Carol.Great action movie! The acting is great and the ending is like WOW!!!!Rated PG for Violence. "},{"Title":"Unheralded Hitickock GREAT!","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" INCLUDES POSSIBLE SPOILERSI saw this on TV on Turner Classic Movies in July of 2006, and was unfortunately subjected to many interruptions, but managed to follow the plot line. I felt that the film may be overly long, but the constant interruptions that I had may have colored my judgment. At any rate, remember that in 1940 there was no television, life was slower paced, money paid for theater tickets was hard earned, and most theater goers would view a longer film as getting their money's worth.What I liked;There were MANY excellent moments of humor! All the supporting cast kicked butt. While the film is not TOTALLY polished Hitchcock, there is MORE than enough of the true geld to make it a winner!To reprise a few points MOSTLY already made by othersGreat scenesThe building step assassination. The chase through the sea of umbrellas. The totally BRILLIANT windmill sequences! The chase out on the hotel ledge. The BRILLIANT final plane crash!All of the cast were GREAT, see posts b previous posters for details.One not mentioned yet, I think, was the brilliant small role by Eddie Conrad who plays, (as Edward Conrad) a unintelligible Latvian diplomat with a marvelously expressive face. He really scores when he sticks his head in the door of Carol's bedroom; sees McCrae in a dressing gown, AND HIS SMILE NEVER SHIFTS, but his eyes speak volumes! Foreign Correspondent recalls a simpler day when foreign correspondents were unabashed agents of wartime propaganda; in fact, the film refers to them as soldiers in the opening captions, and trumpets their long ignored warnings of the coming conflict to a deluded public. (Opening captions made me think of William L. Shirer's book Berlin Diary.) FC is reminiscent of Casablanca, showing that a propaganda film can still be brilliant film making!What is amazing is that this film was made in 1940, and Pearl Harbor was not until December 7, 1941. So Britain was at war when this film was released, but the United States was not. (Of course, Hitchcock was originally a British director.) While opinions may have been shifting, I think it was a bit of a gamble for Hitchcock to make such a blatant propaganda film in 1940 for U.S. release.Some find the final propaganda radio broadcast from London being bombed as being over the top. But if you know your World War Two history, it was actually just the right note. The plane crash was a brilliant portrayal of the psychological transition of people still desperately trying to believe in peace now forced to accept the brutal reality of the total war that was now thrust upon them.(Hitchcock has one of his signature wicked moments with the lady who vows to contact the British Consulate as soon as the Atlantic Clipper lands!)Also, remember the precise nature of propaganda during the Second World War. To contemporary ears, it sounds like British and American people of that era were naive believers in some VERY cornball garbage. NOT at all! Propaganda was of TWO types. One was covert, intended to deceive. The second, and far more common type, was very open and straightforward, much like cheerleaders cheering for the home team. People loved it because it made them feel better. They knew it was VERY biased; hoping only that it was rooted in real facts, so far as possible. They knew that propaganda, just like tanks, bombers, aircraft carriers, and soldiers, is a vital weapon of war.(In a recent PBS documentary of Nazi propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels, Goebbels OPENLY boasts in a public speech of the superiority of Nazi propaganda.) Actually, my only real criticism of the film is the title, Foreign Correspondent. To me, that title is a VERY flat note to the contemporary ear, and probably why I gave it a pass for so many years. And I suspect, many others did as well. This film clearly belongs in the pantheon of Hitchcock's greats. "},{"Title":"Better Than Rebecca","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I found this one to be quite interesting. Hitchcock's 2nd Oscar nominee of the year is a far better movie than the winner. A newspaper sends our hero to Europe to cover the burgeoning war and the subsequent peace movement. One of the most renowned peacenik gets a gunshot to the face on the steps entering the Peace summit. (Pretty heavy gunshot-to-the-face scene for 1940).What follows is a well-written tale of intrigue and espionage. Turns out old dude wasn't assassinated, but a stand in was to make the public think he was dead. They did that so that they could tie him up and torture him to talk about a secret clause of the last treaty that would be beneficial to the war movement. All of this is headed up by the bad guy, who also just happens to be the father of our hero's love interest.Yes there's a love interest. It's okay. It isn't given so much time to make it in the way. The biggest problem for me in this movie was make Joel McCrea the hero. McCrea is a kid- a pansy. He's too aloof and airheady to bust up an international plot. George Sanders on the other hand, is a great treat as a wiseass London reporter. He also plays a big old asshole in the Rebecca movie. Hitchcock also throws in great director scenes. The assassination and following chase through the streets of Amsterdam, the spying in the windmills, and a terrific airline ocean crash.It did however, end on a peculiar note. With the hero addressing the American radio audience in a basic call-to-arms with the American National Anthem rolling the credits through. The bombs are dropping and the lights are going out. Protect your lights, America. They're the only lights left in the world. This scene was added after production finished. Hitchcock returned to England, where the Germans were preparing to start bombing. He came back and cut the scene five days before they did drop bombs. "},{"Title":"Not among Hitch's best but still pretty good","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Foreign Correspondent isn't usually listed among Alfred Hitchcock's best films. Heck, most wouldn't even consider it Hitchcock's best film of 1940. Nevertheless, the master's touch is evident at times in this tale of foreign intrigue.Joel McCrea plays a foreign correspondent for a New York newspaper who discovers a plot that could disrupt peace-keeping efforts in the face of escalating hostilities in Europe circa 1939. The story savours a little of propaganda but that's understandable given the time in which the film was made. Propaganda or no, though, it's hard to argue with the message of McCrea's character.The cast isn't bad but it's nothing to write home about. The leads, McCrea & Laraine Day, are adequate but unexceptional. Albert Bassermann was nominated for a supporting actor Oscar but I wasn't too impressed by his performance. In my opinion, the best performance came from George Sanders as a suave ally of McCrea's.Hitchcock's direction is as good as ever here and there are at least a couple of memorable set-pieces. The film's attractiveness is illustrated by the resultant Oscar nominations for art direction, cinematography & special effects. The film also sports a score by nine-time Oscar winner Alfred Newman.The film's six Oscar nominations (including Best Picture) make a case for Foreign Correspondent as a worthwhile film. Personally, I see it as a decent thriller but not particularly remarkable, except for a couple of high points showing Hitchcock at his best. "}{"Title":"There's a crime happening on that bedevilled continent","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This was Hitchcock's second picture since he moved to the United States and, after the Gothic melodrama of Rebecca probably something of a welcome return to the adventure thrillers he had made his name with in Britain. It's also one of the earliest World War Two propaganda features to come out of Hollywood.At this point in Hitch's career he was still using largely British casts and settings. For Foreign Correspondent we have an American lead in Joel McCrea &#150; the propaganda here is aimed at US audiences, so they obviously needed to show things from the point of view of a US citizen &#150; but the action takes place in Europe and by and large the supporting roles are British. Ironically I think this was perhaps a bad project for Hitch for that very reason. He seems to get a little bogged down giving screen time to some old familiar quirky English types &#150; none of whom are really interesting enough to warrant it in this case &#150; at the expense of the hero.This is one of a small number of Hitchcock's political intrigue thrillers to revolve around real events. Generally countries and figures would be fictional, whereas motivations and politics would scarcely even be hinted at. While the war here was all too real, the latter is still true for Foreign Correspondent. Hitchcock was always wary of getting too close to genuine politics, even when he was doing propaganda. Hence we have all this vague, unhistorical idea of a peace party, and in fact the tone here is as if the war was some kind of clandestine act of organised crime. This of course places it firmly in Hitchcock's comfort zone.So, leaving political affairs on the doorstep, Hitch gets on with business of action set pieces. There are some good ideas on display once the introductory scenes are over &#150; a dramatic assassination and car chase, secret messages sent by spinning windmills and&#133; then it kind of peters out a bit. Many of the Hitchcock trademarks established in his British thrillers &#150; the hero carrying a dangerous secret with all the evidence against him, the villain who appears respectable and beyond question, an assassin whose identity is revealed to the audience but not the hero &#150; but it lacks the focus and the relentlessness of The 39 Steps or The Lady Vanishes, and the suspense never really builds.There are problems too with characterisation. Joel McCrea is a great actor and does a good job here, but it's difficult for the audience to become his character or feel the danger he is in &#150; his character just isn't rounded out enough in the script. Another reason is that, whereas Hitchcock's heroes were generally the innocent everyman unwittingly caught up in events, Joel McCrea is a reporter who deliberately went and got himself involved, thus losing the powerful it could happen to you factor. Add to all this the fact the love angle with Laraine Day has no chemistry to it, and not even a supporting cast featuring Edmund Gwenn can save us from Foreign Correspondent being pretty boring.The film's saving grace comes in its final moments. I won't give out any spoilers, but let's just say there's an action finale that works like a proto-disaster movie, a cunning device by which McCrea sneaks out his story and a final speech &#150; tacked on after war broke out &#150; that is a passionate plea for the US to come to Europe's aid. It's still stirring stuff today and, even if the bulk of the Foreign Correspondent drags at least the last five minutes should leave the viewer feeling satisfied. "},{"Title":"Hitchcockean Fantasy","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Although it is almost heretical to say anything against the great director, this was not one of his great films. It displays both his best qualities and some of his weaker tendencies. Of the former, we see here a masterful display of extended suspense; of the latter, a great deal of elaborate (for its time) kinetic exaggeration and many fanciful chases.The plot is thin as well. And the bad guy is telegraphed to the audience the first time you lay eyes on him. For those who know the facts of those terrible days before the onset of World War II, the suggestion that an obscure Dutch politician might have carried some elaborate peace plan around with him is simply bizarre.But who can quarrel with the cinematic marvels seen here? In particular, the camera work and sets involving the windmill and the plane crash are pure genius.Joel McCrea may have been slightly miscast. His forte was that of playing cerebral cowboys and intensely romantic social philosophers. This script called for a fast-talking newspaper hound with many rough edges. Gary Cooper would have been equally unsuited to the role; it should have gone to a James Cagney, a James Stewart, or a Henry Fonda -- someone more youthful and raw.Nowadays, if this kind of film were to be remade, it would require enormous and expensive sets with lots of noise and flash. For all its faults, I like this one well enough. "},{"Title":"Plot-heavy Hitchcock...","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Joel McCrea plays an American reporter in 1938 who is sent to Europe to cover overseas relations and the impending war, instead becoming mixed up in a phony assassination plot designed to undermine foreign defenses. Acclaimed but over-stretched, heavy-going Alfred Hitchcock suspenser was based upon Vincent Sheean's book Personal History, its screenplay worked on by several top writers (including Ben Hecht, James Hilton, Charles Bennett, and Joan Harrison). It is weighed down with talk, though the pace is lightened a bit by the Master's usual dollop of droll asides and by McCrea's fine performance. There are some amazing visual highlights (particularly a plane crash near the finale), but the film's unsubtle patriotic stance is a little corny--especially coming from Hitchcock. Robert Benchley (who also worked on the script!) has a showy supporting role, as does Albert Basserman who received an Oscar nomination. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Good Hitchcock spy yarn but not close to his best","Date":"18 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Watching this I can see all the elements of his later...and better...spy/thriller films. This one seems almost like a training or getting it together right typa project. Trying to put all the elements together in the right order like he did so well with his later 50's successes.Being that this film was made in 1939 it still packs a paranoid punch. As old as it is it'll still make you think about how politics and war always go hand in hand. It'll make you think...in a light way...whose side the people around you are on cause you never really know who someone is...deep down inside.There are a few quibbles I have. One being the scene where the fake gets shot instead of the real guy. The part where the assassin just runs around with hundreds of people around and someone quite easily could have stopped this guy in his tracks was a laugh. It made me laugh and give the screen a...come on...get the guy!!!. Another scene was the famed bleak landscape scene where the windmills are (very reminiscent of the North by Northwest scenery years later). They chase the bad guys into a baron area and they just....lose em. Looking around the area, how in the world did these guys just escape outta the blue when they were clearly in site of the car chasing them? The funniest part is these geniuses never checked tire tracks to see that they went into the windmill a few yards away. To me that wasn't even a remotely plausible scene unless the 3 characters in that scene were just too stupid for the films sake.My quibbles with this film are minor but for a better feel on Hitchcock and his spy/thriller films....try any film he did in the 50's and you'll see that Foreign Correspondant was an early training film of his to get is legendary technique...down to a science. "},{"Title":"World War 2 propaganda for the American audience","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Simplistic World War 2 propaganda for the American audience designed to evoke a common feeling with Britain against Germany. Action and character based with a plot so weak it must have made Hitchcock despair. Several rather wooden and out of context set piece speeches where the actor stares into the middle distance and delivers their oration.Predictably for the time, it was nominated for 6 Oscars. Balance was restored when it won none.Pleasant enough viewing if you enjoy movies of this period, particularly the social history. "},{"Title":"Write-Off","Date":"14 November 2009","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Romance, Thriller","Review":" There is of course by now a whole industry devoted to milking the sacred cow (Hitchcock) for every drop of low-grade milk it will yield. For some reason best known to the easily led who enjoy being led by the Academic-Psued axis this title enjoys the distinction of being Hitchcock's most loved film. Whatever it lacks - and that's plenty - it does have perhaps the greatest collection of mis-matched acting styles in film, from the leads - Joel McCrea marginally less wooden than Charlton Heston, Richard Todd, Laurence Harvey et al but possessed of a certain left-handed charm that helps take the edge off, and the insipid Larraine Day - to the support, Herbert Marshall, Harry Davenport, Robert Benchley, George Sanders, Eduardo Ciannelli, Ian Wolfe, fifteen year old Joan Leslie and Edmund Gwen whose outrageous mugging as a hit man makes Charles Laughton seem heavily medicated. The plot has no respect for its audience in a scene set in the home of Herbert Marshall, George Sanders - who is aware that Marshall is in fact the leader of the cell - attempts to obtain a vital address using the supposed kidnapping of Marshall's daughter as leverage; as they speak Marshall scribbles something on a piece of paper and passes it to Sanders. Minutes later the daughter enters the room, clearly safe. Outside, Sanders opens the paper to read Sorry, I can hear my daughter's car arriving outside. Great. Not only is Marshall able to distinguish the sound of his daughter's car from any other but he fails to consider the possibility that whilst it may indeed be her car there is nothing to say it isn't being driven by one of the kidnappers. If you can sit still for sloppy writing like this then don't let me stop you getting your rocks off. "}]