[{"Title":"Workmanlike B movie","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It could be argued that the 1940's were something of a golden age for the B movie in America -at least in quantity terms - and several studios arose to make a great many cheap pictures for double bills and the sleazier end of the market . Monogram pictures were one such company and they strove with Universal for the horror end of the spectrum although with fewer resources . Like other such pictures The Ape gives a leading role to a horror icon , Boris Karloff ,while featuring unknowns, and untalented ones into the bargain, for the supporting parts . He plays Doctor Adrian who is regarded with suspicion by the small town locals but is revered by a young woman ,the wheelchair bound Frances Clifford whose paralysis he is striving to cure .His favoured method is by injection of spinal fluid but he is running out of the stuff till fate takes a hand .A giant ape escapes from the visiting circus ;unknown to the townsfolk he is shot .Adrian skins the dead beast and goes out at night dressed in the skin ,killing to obtain victims so he can continue the treatment . Karloff is his usual excellent self ,this time playing the scientist rather than a creation of a scientist ,and the script is quite sharp in its depiction of small town narrow mindedness .The ape suit is better than usual in this type of picture with this type of budget and this is a decent little horror number "},{"Title":"Karloff and Siodmak add class to ridiculous tale","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It doesn't sound like much of a compliment, but this cheapie was better than I expected, thanks not only to Karloff's sympathetic performance but to a script by Curt Siodmak, who did much better things. Once you accept that the main idea is stupid, you can appreciate that each individual scene is well-written in terms of character development. Everyone is slightly more ambiguous than their stock character usually would be. The mad doctor is sincerely concerned with the insipid heroine who reminds him of his daughter, and his madness is a kind of beautiful tragedy. The good boyfriend says he doesn't want her hurt, but he also seems jealous of the doctor and resentful that the heroine won't be so dependent on him. There's real tension in their triangle. The hick sheriff is almost sharp enough to figure things out. The town blowhard gets several scenes showing what a well-chiseled wretch he is, especially the scene with his pathetic wife. The small-towners are all various little unflattering types--lazy, suspicious, gossipy, narrow-minded--not exactly an ad for rural life. Karloff's maid seems mute except when she suddenly whispers one word. There's a city doctor who comes on as an antagonist, then gets converted into an ally by Karloff's evidence, and disappears from the movie! There's the wise caretaker, introduced in a surprising pan shot that begins with a black circus worker playing a trumpet for a dancing elephant and ending with the ape being provoked by the rotten trainer. The very ending, too, has a certain power if you meet the movie halfway. The trouble is, just as you're pulled into the simplicity and effectiveness of all these human scenes, along comes another scene with that apesuit to pull the rug out from under the movie's credibility. The ape is the worst thing about THE APE! "},{"Title":"Karloff Slumming","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" William Nigh directs this low-budget Monogram picture about a circus ape escaping simultaneously with an eccentric doctor trying to cure a young girl's paralysis. Somehow the two plot strands meet and end in a very far-fetched denouement. Fantastical plot notwithstanding, The Ape is a quality picture at least as far as Monogram pictures go. Sure it has some real cheap sets and a threadbare, ridiculous story. The direction is adequate but nothing more. But what it does have is a fine performance from Boris Karloff as the doctor working endlessly to free a girl from the confines of her wheelchair all the while blurring the line of good and bad. For me there are three types of mad doctors. The first and probably most familiar is the crazed, maniacal, egocentric mad doctor looking for revenge or glory or the affections of a girl. These guys are the ones full of themselves and usually are dedicated in some form or fashion to evil. Bela Lugosi excelled at these. The second type is the same maniacal, crazed doctor but one that is more worldly. He wants money or power and position. He knows oftentimes that what he is doing is wrong(differentiates him from first type). I think Lionel Atwill played this type very well. The third type - and a very broad one - is the mad doctor who crosses the line of acceptable behaviour but his action are all done with good at the core. Karloff really perfected this type. The Ape has just such a mad doctor in it. Karloff gives such a good performance despite everything working against him. He creates genuine pathos in his role. The rest of the cast in this film is nothing too special. I enjoyed Henry Hall as the lawman, and Gertrude Hoffman as Karloff's quiet maid was chilling in her demeanor and silence. The Ape should not be overlooked simply because of its less than stellar roots with Monogram. Karloff rises above the material and this film rises above the standard fare usually created. The ape itself, well, quite ridiculous. In this one George Barrows gets a break and Ray Crash Corrigan(the alien in It! The Terror from Beyond Space)dons the unrealistic simian outfit. "},{"Title":"Where would (mad) science be without Boris Karloff?","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In this very short and extremely cheap horror film, horror legend Boris Karloff once again stars as a devoted doctor/scientist on the verge of a big medical breakthrough. He played quite a few similar roles in his rich career and this time he's helping out a young woman who's suffering from an almost terminal case of polio. Dr. Adrian (Karloff's character) has great visions but his experiments are what they call 'unethical' and all the villagers avoid him. When a mad-raving ape escapes from a nearby circus, it brings Dr. Adrian to an idea&#133; 'The Ape' is quite an imaginative and well-intended horror film with a slick plot but unfortunately too little action. It never features a horrific atmosphere and the ape costume isn't exactly convincing. Still, I'd certainly categorize it as a worthwhile horror film if it were only for the performance by Boris (who looks quite thin and unhealthy here, though). In case you're looking for a really excellent film starring Karloff going insane while reaching new medical heights, I strongly recommend purchasing 'Corridors of Blood'. This film would make a neat appetizer before watching that one. "},{"Title":"KARLOFF TRIES TO FIND A CURE FOR POLIO!","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Monogram pictures produced rather low budget films and cut costs in every way imaginable. Karloff made this entire film possible with his great acting as Dr. Adrian, dedicating his career to finding a cure for the dread disease Polio. He ties to help the only person in town who believes he can cure her from paralyzis. Karloff soon learns that he needs spinal fluid from a human being, he tries to blame the Ape for his horrors.  This APE Film finished Karloff's contract with Monogram and he returned after eighteen(18)years when Monogram became Allied Artists in 1953 where he made Frankenstein 1970.   "},{"Title":"Spinal Fluid Seemed to Be at a Premium","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If it weren't for the presence of Boris Karloff, this would be pretty bad. Apparently there has been a bout with polio in the community (paralysis) and there is a pretty young victim who the doctor fancies as looking like his late daughter. He makes it his life work to cure her. Unfortunately, he needs the bodily fluids of others to bring about that cure. Of course, he chooses the base, the outcast, for his work because the young pretty girl has more worth in the society than these others. He chooses his victims by judging this worth. He kills them by dressing in the skin of an ape that he killed and skinned. If this sounds silly, it's hard to defend. There's also a subplot of the jealousy of a young man who loves the young woman but may feel if she recovers she will reject him. Karloff's doctor is the constant victim of the community. They don't know what he's doing in that house and so he is victimized by the local kids (your garden variety brats), and looked on with suspicion. He is such a kindly man, it seems odd that there is such venom when it comes to him. Anyway, it's a small town and people do need their preoccupations. It just seems that a doctor with this much imagination could be a little more creative in his methods than the one he chooses. Imagine how lacking in dexterity if you were about 60 years old, running around in an ape pelt. It's rather forgettable and predictable, but it's fun to see Karloff's character. "},{"Title":"Choppy Video, But Decent Nonetheless","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A local doctor and scientist (Boris Karloff) is working on a treatment for paralysis. He finds the cure requires human spinal fluid. But to get such a thing, he must kill. And then a local circus starts on fire and a murderous ape escapes...First, let me give a shout out to director William Nigh of Berlin, Wisconsin. I always have to support my local directors, even if they're dead. And while there was nothing really out of the ordinary as far as directing style, it was good just the same. And Nigh has a history of working with Karloff, which I'm sure helps quite a bit (look at Tim Burton and Johnny Depp).This film has a strong point, a weak point and a mediocre pint. The strong point is the plot. My summary will sound strange to those who haven't seen the movie. There is a circus, an ape, a scientist and people are getting killed. It really fits together very nicely, and I found this to be impressive. Many older films fill time with extra fluff, but this one was only the necessities and even that was pretty thorough.The weak point is the film quality. I don't think I can blame the movie for its quality, but the sound is not great, the picture is not great, and many frames are missing entirely. Either lost, or filmed with bad equipment. Once I adjusted, this wasn't such a big deal. But other films from this time period have fared better, so I wish this had been one of them. A restored, touched up version of this film would have been vastly superior.The mediocre point is the costume designer. The ape was obviously a man in a costume. However, despite this being obvious it was still a very good costume and worked for the sake of the picture. Can I reasonably expect a better ape without a real ape being used (which would be much harder to control, of course)? Perhaps not. So I give them credit for the effort. (And I assume the costume here is much nicer than the one used in the earlier theatrical production.) This film was alright. As far as older, lower quality movies go, I think this is better than much of the stuff we now call classic. Karloff delivers, as usual... and we get a good story that has a nice dark comedy element to it, or at least an element of sympathy for evil acts. And that's always nice. "},{"Title":"Karloff makes this B-movie fun to watch!","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Watched this 1940 movie last night and had fun watching Karloff. His scenes as the caring Doctor trying to find a cure for the paralyzed girl (played by Maris Wrixon) were touching and well done. His mad obsession to cure her seemed very believable to me. Though it looks like Wrixon played mostly bit parts during her career, she did a good job in this larger role and she is beautiful. Gene O'Donnell as her protective and jealous boyfriend seemed unrealistic as he took an immediate and illogical dislike to Karloff, the man trying to help his girlfriend walk again. Maybe he thought he resembled some kind of mad scientist, remembering Dr.Janos Rukh in 'The Invisible Ray' or Dr.Ernest Sovac in 'Black Friday.' Of course, this Monogram film is lacking in production values and the supporting cast is for the most part forgettable. And, Karloff has certainly been more fun to watch in some of his other films. The killer ape was a little goofy, as were the never-ending posses hunting him. However, with all that being said, it was still fun to see an old Karloff film, if only for old time's sake. "},{"Title":"Karloff lifts this movie above itself","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Boris Karloff's performance is wonderful as always, mainly because the moral ambiguity with which he presents his character makes it unique. Most mad scientist movies portray truly mad doctors who perform their awful experiments for less-than-pure purposes. Karloff, on the other hand, kills only a mortally-wounded, insolent trainer, and an exceedingly evil cheater (there's always the river), and does it for a wonderful young woman who he truly cares about. Karloff augments this story by making his character nearly the most sympathetic player in the story. The sheriff is crooked, the polio scientist accommodating, the men in town drunken gossipers, and even the girl's boyfriend afraid of what he doesn't know. The only characters we really root for are the mother and daughter, and the happy ending centers on the daughter, so we are appeased. Overall, the acting (outside of Karloff) is OK, but nothing special, and the direction pedestrian, but this makes for a solid hour of entertainment and thought. "},{"Title":"Dear Kindly Dr. Karloff","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In between episodes of the Mr. Wong detective series, Monogram Pictures found some time to cast Boris Karloff in his traditional role as a scientist experimenting in things unknown. The Ape has him in a more traditional Karloff type role.Boris is a doctor who has settled in a small community and is not well liked by the inhabitants of this place. Rumors abound of his experiments on animals. What he's doing in fact is exploring a cure for infantile paralysis.It's hard to understand these days, but that was a dreaded thing back in the day, the President of the United States had that disease, but Karloff isn't worried about curing FDR, it's pretty Maris Wrixon, that's got his attention who's confined to a wheelchair like the president.At the same time a circus ape that's been abused by his trainer gets loose and sets fire to the big top. What The Ape getting loose has to do with Karloff and his experiments is for you to see.Let's just say that Jonas Salk was not pursuing the same line of research as Boris Karloff was. "}{"Title":"THE APE (William Nigh, 1940) **","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Very minor and frankly dull Boris Karloff vehicle, one of the mad scientist roles he specialized in during this phase of his career. The plot takes pains to render the idea of how despised his character is, presumably because of his unorthodox experiments, but I cannot fathom why &#x96; surely what he was engaged in would prove exceedingly beneficial to mankind if successful (as readily acknowledged by an authority brought in from out of town to investigate him)! A measure of the film's ambivalence in this respect is that both views will be accounted for at the very end &#x96; as Karloff's miracle cure does work, but he has had to resort to the despicable act of murder in order to procure specimens!; incidentally, this latter business and the fact that one of the protagonists is wheelchair-bound would both resurface &#x96; to infinitely infinitely greater effect &#x96; in a later Karloff picture, the Val Lewton classic THE BODY SNATCHER (1945). The titular creature, then, is seen prowling about a number of times &#x96; even after having watched Karloff stab it where we supposed to know that he was behind subsequent killings?; my brother actually arrived at this conclusion about three-quarters of the way in&#x85;but I just could not believe Karloff would go to such extremes for Science (after all, he failed to save the immediate members of his family and had kept up the fight for a good 10 years afterwards &#x96; why should he bother so much with the rest of the world, especially since they hated him for it?!) and, in any case, being a doctor does not automatically give one a propensity for taxidermy, does it?! All things considered, this is watchable but inessential &#x96; and not nearly as much fun (in a guilty pleasure kind of way) as when Bela Lugosi did something similar i.e. in THE APE MAN (1943). "},{"Title":"Doors","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Just how many doors does Karlof open in this flick? Every shot seems to start or end with him opening or closing a door - or both! The sheriff opens and closes a lot of doors too. The whole movie is full of people opening and shutting doors. The ape suited doctor dies just in front of his own house door. The only character who doesn't use a door is the Ape who enters the doctor's house by smashing through a window. I'm sure there is a deep and complex metaphor going on here somewhere but I can't be bothered to work out what it is.If you are looking to buy this movie be warned, the copy I own is on a DVD with two other Karlof movies (Both Mr Wong films) and is duped off a really terrible print. "},{"Title":"Committing evil acts for the sake of good.","Date":"5 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The pretty Maris Wrixon has spent the past ten years in a wheelchair because of paralysis and research doctor Boris Karloff, the pariah in his community, is doing his best to cure her. Practically all of the townspeople hate him (although he's the first one they go to in a sudden medical emergency!) and the children all fear him even though they go out of their way to throw rotten tomatoes at his house. A rash of dog disappearances have caused suspicion to be thrown at him, but when a circus fire breaks out and the caged ape escapes, Karloff sees an opportunity to find the serum he so desperately needs in a way that nobody could suspect him.This is a truly horrible movie, fortunately short, but it is almost laughable that somebody could think up such tripe. Karloff gets to try and humanize his character in a scene with one of the doctors (played by Selmer Jackson) who years ago fought his methods, and when they are standing facing each other, actually look almost identical. Jackson looked here exactly like Jack Betts who would play Karloff in the recent James Whale bio Gods and Monsters, so that aspect absolutely distracts from the scene. Gertrude Hoffman, the old lady playing Karloff's housekeeper, only gets to whisper one line to him. She would go on to be better used as Barbara Stanwyck's murdered aunt in The File on Thelma Jordan and most memorably as the lifer who stands up to Hope Emerson in the cult classic Caged. "},{"Title":"Karloff Goes Ape","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Boris Karloff once again plays a scientist. Whether this one is mad or not I'll leave for you to decide. A circus ape has recently escape and attacked a man. Karloff treats the man and uses his spinal fluid on a young crippled woman. When she reacts positively to the treatment, Karloff realizes he must have more spinal fluid. So he dresses as the killer ape and seeks victims for his experiments. Cheap Monogram effort with Karloff effortlessly playing the role of the kindly scientist doing the wrong things for the right reasons. What's there to say, really? It's a guy-in-an-ape-suit movie. There's a pretty low ceiling on how good it could be. Karloff fans will like it most. "},{"Title":"Monkey Business","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" With a title this blunt, one would expect that the actual narrative of The Ape follows suit. It actually does try to switch things up with some last second bet-you-didn't-see-that-comin' idiocy, but this is a movie about an escaped circus gorilla terrorizing a rural community. Oh, and then there's the outcast scientist who's illegally experimenting on a paralyzed young woman named Frances.Yeah&#x97;it's every bit as random as it sounds. How the escape of the ape in question correlates with this doctor's ethical quandary is hazy to say the least, and the behavior of the townspeople is just as weird. Apparently, they're all scared of this doctor because he practices medicine in an unorthodox manner (that's about as much details as we're given). In fact, even the kids around town hate him; so much so that he catches them pelting his house with rocks. In any case, the good doctor is forced to treat a circus trainer who was attacked by the beast in question. The doctor draws some spinal fluid from the dying man, injects it in his paralyzed patient, and marvels at her ability to begin twitching her hitherto unresponsive feet. Meanwhile, the escaped animal breaks into the doctor's house; during the chaos, the aging practitioner throws some sort of liquid in the ape's face and then stabs it with a knife (and, we assume, kills it). What's really weird is that he informs his mute assistant that no one in town should know the gorilla is dead. This seems to have a sinister motivation at first, but we later discover that the doctor begins dressing as the ape (I think? Or maybe he skinned it and then made a suit?) in an effort to motivate Frances to finally stand on her own two feet&#x97;*cough, cough*&#x97;and prove that his research had scientific credence all along.Uh-huh.In short, this is a movie that uses the presence of a lumbering ape to try and add an element of horror to an otherwise straightforward&#x97;and boring&#x97;story about a renegade scientist who's misunderstood. It's the classic he's-got-good-intentions-and-we-should-all-feel-like-jackasses- for-doubting-him tale.There are plenty of chances for the film to be inventive, but it suffers from a particularly bad case of convenient circumstances; you know, the sort of thing that happens at just the right time to allow the narrative to move forward in an absolutely unbelievable way.Case in point an official from the institute that trained the doctor shows up to investigate strange occurrences in the town. The man accuses the doctor of breaking all sorts of ethical codes. How does the scientist respond? He suggests that the official see the result of his research, and takes the man to visit Frances. The official requests that Frances prove she's recovering from her Polio by wiggling a foot. She can't do it. Based on all of this you would assume the mad scientist is in deep doo doo, right?Wrong. Instead, right when it seems that our anti-hero is about to be taken into custody, the official says, Well, she didn't move her foot. But I definitely noticed a muscular reflex. Congratulations, doctor! Umm&#x85; what?These sorts of occurrences plague The Ape, making it one of the most eye-rolling attempts at scary film making to have ever come down the pike. But, like a lot of the B offerings from this era, it does have its moments of unintentional humor. Because of that, I'll award it half a star. "},{"Title":"Pretty dumb","Date":"3 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Boris Karloff stars as a doctor attempting to cure paralysis. To continue his research, he needs to collect spinal fluid, but there just aren't enough corpses from which to harvest it. Thankfully, he has just killed an escaped circus gorilla, so he hollows out its corpse, puts on its skin and goes out at night to murder townspeople for their precious, precious spine juice. This movie is pretty retarded. Why exactly does Karloff need an ape costume to kill his victims? I mean, he knows that the sheriff has organized hunting parties that go out every night looking for the ape. It seems that an ape costume is probably the least safe thing to be wearing. And it's not like wearing a gorilla costume is going to give him super-strength or anything. It's more likely to make it much more difficult to murder your victims, as it's got to be hot as Hell in there and your maneuverability and vision have to be severely diminished. The film is also painfully slow, and the characters are as dumb as the plot. Not Karloff's finest hour, but at least it provided some good laughs. "},{"Title":"A awful example of forties B-grade simian-horror...","Date":"12 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This dull time-waster is a delirious drag from start to finish. The twisted plot involves Dr. Bernard Adrian (Boris Karloff), who is conducting crazy experiments involving spinal fluid. Meanwhile, a vicious circus ape breaks free and starts murdering townsfolk. The animal soon enters Adrian's lab, but the elderly scientist kills the monkey and then comes up with the devilish plan of wearing it's skin and killing more people so that he can get the desired amount of spinal fluid for his experiments. While the cheesy ape effects have some cheap charm, this typical example of forties B-grade horror is nothing but a badly-constructed bore and should therefore only be viewed by the most die-hard Karloff fans. "},{"Title":"I'd rather be drained of my spinal fluid than have to see this again!","Date":"14 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a bad movie made worse by horrendous DVD restoration. Like many old public domain films, the quality is so bad it looks and sounds like someone tore little bits and pieces of the film away. The best way to describe the quality of this film is moth eaten. I don't know why, it just sounds right to me. It's about a scientist(Karloff) who tries to cure polio by running around the countryside in an ape pelt in search of victims that he can drain of spinal fluid. It has a ridiculous plot that takes itself too seriously. Don't go into this film expecting it to be a pleasant surprise or better than most cheap old horror movies, because it's just like all the rest. At least it was in my opinion. "},{"Title":"A Case of Conscience","Date":"28 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Ape starring Boris Karloff is a morally ambiguous tale centering on a kindhearted but misunderstood doctor (Karloff) and his attempts to cure the polio (never mentioned but assumed) that inflicts a town, and a particularly his attempts to help one girl walk again, a girl that becomes his sort of foster-child, as his own daughter and wife have died from the affliction. When a giant ape escapes from a circus and the doctor manages to kill it, he sees a way of getting the injections he needs to continue helping the girl... by taking over the place of the ape and murdering people and taking their spinal fluids.What follows is a far-fetched idea, but only if you look at it from a logical standpoint I decided to see the doctor's ape-transformation as metaphor. We are never shown the doctor actually putting some ape-costume on, rather we see the ape leaving the doctor's house after we believe it to be dead. The ape transformation then becomes a metaphor for the doctor's fervent fanaticism, the brutality he will create in himself to save the life of the girl (who must herself experience pain before she can get better). This film then becomes an expose on humanity's sacrifices to science, whether or not it is ethical to forfeit the lives of others in order for the greater good of a cure. One could draw a comparison between the Ape and stem cell research, antidepressants, and animal testing. The Ape of science is always near, primitive in its actions, shielded from the world.Boris Karloff is excellent in the title role, commanding our pathos, and the rest of the cast is believable townsfolk (I especially liked the corrupt-but-honest sheriff, who reminded me of Tom Skerritt) The Sheriff and the Doctor have an interesting relationship to one another, as do all the characters to one another in the film. For 1940, in a horror movie that's only 60 minutes long, this movie captures quite the dramatic range of emotions and depth.Spoiler In the second-to-last scene, in which it is revealed the doctor is the ape, the girl finally walks towards him. Yet notice she does not walk to a man in a monkey suit, but the doctor sans the monkey suit, that has strangely disappeared... she cannot see the ugliness he performed to create the cure, only the human being that helped her walk. "},{"Title":"An Underrated Karloff Horror Classic","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is one of those lesser known Boris Karloff films that is an underrated horror classic! Worth watching if you enjoy the films concerning a mad scientist, older horror classics and/or Boris Karloff.Yes Karloff is finding a cure for polio in this underrated classic - but is he really a mad scientist or a man desperate to help humanity? What does a circus, an ape, a mad scientist, a woman with polio and murder have to do with each other? If you are curious then I would recommend you watching the Karloff film The Ape. The copy of this film I have is clear and I can hear the movie quite well but it does jump around a little bit. I would guess the film was not preserved all that well but that has NOTHING to do with the original film before the wear and tear of time. If you want a fairly decent copy of this film like I have then I would recommend getting the horror film pack called Horror Classics 50 Movie Pack Collection (with Phantom of the Opera on the cover). It's a fairly clean/decent copy although their might be a better copy of this film floating around out there that I am unaware of. The Ape is a good old fashioned horror film that I do recommend to others. 8.5/10 "}{"Title":"Plenty of primate action in this one","Date":"3 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Boris Karloff has promised his niece he will cure her paralysis at all costs, despite his research making him a bit of a pariah in his home town (doesn't help that he experiments on dogs that he kidnaps). When an Ape escapes from a local circus and mauls its keeper, who had it coming, Boris extracts spinal fluid from the guy and creates a formula that seems to work. Problem is &#x96; he needs more spinal fluid. Solution is &#x96; the Ape is going around killing people and Boris has just murdered the Ape in his kitchen (in a hilarious scene), so now Boris can disguise himself as the Ape and get more spinal fluid. It's simple as well as completely daft.Dressing up as an Ape and wandering about while there's an armed posse looking for a gorilla is as crazy as dressing up as Hitler and walking down a street in Stalingrad during World War 2, but that's what Boris does. He's determined to help his niece walk and nothing's going to stop him, dammit! Mad scientists are ten a penny, but Karloff's mad scientist has a heart, and even though his method is slightly off, he's trying to help folks, so you end up rooting for him to finish his research before the posse riddle him with bullets. Besides, his victims are all sort of hick bad guys, so you can't feel too sorry for them when Boris leaps on them with his Ape suit. The film itself isn't too eventful, but the bittersweet edge to it was more than welcome. "},{"Title":"Boris","Date":"6 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" first off I enjoyed The Ape, not one of Karloff's great movies but it didn't stink either,, the premise of the movie is that he is trying to find a spinal cure for a woman, and the only way he can do this is to go around killing people,, he decides to use an Ape suit this way I guess he can scare the living daylights out of his victims.. he is great to watch his every move ,, what he is gonna do next, and how he will go about doing it,, he's really creepy in the Ape suit, I would not wanna be in his way when he is gonna get to his next victim,, granted there's not a lot of suspense here because you already know what he is doing, so there is really no great mystery about what's going on, just sit back and enjoy Boris Karloff that's what I did. "},{"Title":"If only for Boris","Date":"11 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Basically, Boris Karloff is the only good thing about this movie, and I wouldn't be at all surprised if the makers of this film were aware of that. He truly does give a good performance, and adds a good amount of depth to an otherwise rather stereotypical character. But imagine if it had been played by anyone else a doctor is trying to cure polio, when he is attacked by an escaped circus ape. He kills the circus ape, skins it and makes a perfect costume out of it, and then makes a remarkably unsuccessful attempt to go on a killing spree looking for spinal fluid. It's not a great concept, and no one but Karloff could have added any plausibility to it. And even with him, there are still problems. Lines like Man... the greatest of animals are pretty hokey and some of the throwaway scenes that don't relate to the plot (like that random guy and woman whom you never see again looking at the circus) are pretty annoying. I will also note that although there is no such thing as a convincing gorilla suit, that one is scraping the bottom of the barrel. "},{"Title":"Fair","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Ape (1940) ** (out of 4)Boris Karloff plays a kind-hearted doctor trying to cure a woman who is paralyzed from her waist down. When a giant ape escapes from a local circus the doctor sees a woman to continue his experiments but this leads to murder. THE APE comes from Monogram and I think it's the perfect example to use if one wanted to compare the straight Boris Karloff to the more over-the-top Bela Lugosi. Lugosi would appear in Monogram's THE APE MAN, which is a very silly film that has several silly moments but it's actually entertaining thanks to the campy stuff. This film here is just incredibly stiff, lacks any real entertainment and really comes across as boring. The film seems constantly worried that they're going to hurt Karloff's good guy image and no matter what happens through his character, the screenplay is always quick to give some sort of excuse to make him look good. The character is basically a murderer but instead of just being a bad guy, the screenplay is constantly making him look better and all the excuses just leads to a rather boring story. Karloff offers up a good performance but it's certainly not enough to liven up the film or make it more interesting. The supporting cast is mostly forgettable but I'm sure some of this is due to the screenplay simply not giving them much to work with. THE APE has a pretty forgettable story and there's just no life, energy or passion to be seen anywhere. The film is certainly better made than most Monogram movies but that doesn't lead to any sort of entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Do It! do It! Only your minds holding you back in that chair not your Body!","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" **SPOILERS** One of the great Boris Karloff's most sympathetic and touching roles as a mad scientist who's obsessed in his mission to conquer paralysis but at the same time goes a bit too far and over the line, in murdering a number of people, in doing it. After a polio epidemic hit the quite little town of Red Creek dozens of townspeople ended up dying from it including the towns doctor Bernard Adrian's, Boris Karloff, wife and young daughter. Determined to find a cure for this, at the time, incurable disease Dr. Adrian started to fiddle around in his lab with spinal fluid feeling that it's the key in curing that illness but the spinal fluids that Dr. Adrian needed was from humans beings that if extracted from them would eventually kill them.While treating a patient, what seems like the only one in Red Creek who's willing to put up with him, the pretty but wheelchair-bound Frances Clifford, Maris Wrixon,Dr. Adrian is called upon to do an emergency operation on gorilla trainer J. Standford Jolley who was mauled by the big ape, Nabu, when he began abusing the, what he thought was, helpless animal. Seeing his chance to get the valuable spinal fluids from the near-dead Jolley Dr. Adrian extracted it from his spine thus killing him.Injecting the spinal fluids into the unaware Frances she suddenly began to get some feeling in her legs that were totally paralyzed for ten years but the bumbling old fool, in a fit of exhilaration, dropped the test tube containing the fluid causing it to smash to pieces and become worthless. Meanwhile Nabu the escaped gorilla makes his way to Dr. Adrian's place and in a wild and pitched struggle the elderly and frail Dr. Adrian ends up killing the 400 pound gorilla and using it, or it's hide, to go out in the countryside looking for new victims to both kill and extract their spinal fluids.Even though Dr. Adrain is undoubtedly a homicidal maniac you have to say that his heart is in the right place in him using his talents as a man of medicine to help rather then hurt those he's treating. Blinded by his attempt to cure those who are suffering from crippling diseases like polio the kindly but at the same time foolish old man just overlooked the fact that he had no right to play God with peoples lives like he did in the film. Tracked down by a posse of townspeople Dr. Adrian, dressed in a gorilla suit, is shot and stabbed a number of times as he tries to find, and kill, new victims for his experiments and the big reward that he gets at the end of the film, as he's about to expire, is that Frances whom he was so determined to cure got up off her wheelchair and walked towards the dying doctor showing him, and the people of Red Creek, that he wasn't all that bad. Whether they were good bad or indifferent I seriously doubt that the medical community would continue the late Dr. Adrian mad and murderous experiments anytime in the near future or for that matter anytime at all. "},{"Title":"The monster that cures","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Not much to say about this slow movie. It doesn't seem to fit in the horror genre other than the fact that it has a large ape running havoc in Mayberry. It is more of an ideological attempt to find a cure for the paralysis rampant at this time - which is the real monster. Karloff as always is dominant as Dr Avian among an otherwise lack luster performance by the rest of the cast. Maris Wrixon is convincing as a rag doll - but not much for anything else. For myself I give the best performance nod to Gertrude Hoffman, she was by far the creepiest housekeeper I have yet to run across in any movie. Don't waste your time hunting down this movie. If however it falls into your lap, there are worse things to do with an hour. "},{"Title":"Dull cheapie.","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Pretty much everything in this ancient Monogram flick is dull, save Boris Karloff. The story was predictable, not to mention somewhat slow, the acting, again save Karloff, was only passable, and just about everything you'd expect is on hand here. It seems I can't get away from this movie, it's a favorite on late night horror shows here, plus it's shown from time to time on a local independent station, it just keeps coming back. An interesting view for Karloff fans, however. "},{"Title":"Karloff is mediocre","Date":"10 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Another decent movie by the famous Boris Karloff. It starts off with a bit of semi-action. The story starts out with a father, who turns out to be a scientist seeks a way to cure his daughter who his dead from the waist down. The circus also happens to be in town, and an ape who is unusually large turns out to be one of the inhabitants. It then takes a turn for the worse when a fire breaks out and the ape escapes. The story is interesting and deals with a scientist seeking a miracle cure through incredible means. The plot is a little hard to follow towards the end, but as always Karloff plays an incredible role and pulls off his title as a great actor. If you like Old-School thriller movies such as this, then I recommend this for you. If your not a fan of Karloff or even a fan of decent Old-School thrillers such as this one, then its best to just avoid this film. "},{"Title":"A silly, melodramatic mess; but, Karloff is great","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm working my way through the Horror Classics 50 Movie Pack Collection. THE APE is one of the movies in the set.I thought that THE APE was a fairly original adaptation of the King Kong story, with Boris Karloff playing the part of am eccentric doctor, who's only aim is to cure a young woman of paralysis. Albeit his methods may be unorthodox.The doctor his held up to mockery and ridicule in the community. Worse, a jealous boyfriend fears his girl won't need him any more if she's cured, so he resents the doctor's attention.It really is a silly, melodramatic mess of a plot; but, it works; and, Karloff is really in top form.The special effects surrounding the ape are very poor by today's standards; but, fairly impressive for 1940! "},{"Title":"A fun little low-budget quickie","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Kindly, but slightly bent Dr. Bernard Adrian (a typically fine performance by the ever-dignified Boris Karloff) is trying to find a cure for polio so he can make sweet young cripple Francis Clifford (a charming turn by the fetching Maris Wrixon) walk again. A lethal giant ape (veteran simian thespian Ray Crash Corrigan in a nifty suit) escapes from a nearby circus and goes on a rampage. Adrian kills the beast, dresses up in the ape's pelt, and bumps off a few folks for their spinal fluid which he needs for his polio cure serum. Director William Nigh, working from a concise script by Curt Siodmark and Richard Carroll, treats the rather silly story with admirable seriousness and maintains a brisk pace throughout. This film further benefits from sincere acting by a likable cast Gene O'Donnell as Francis' nice, supportive boyfriend Danny Foster, Henry Hall as the folksy Sheriff Jeff Halliday, Gertrude W. Hoffman as Adrian's loyal housekeeper Jane, Dorothy Vaughhan as Francis' loving mother, and Selmer Jackson as Adrian's pesky nemesis Dr. McNulty. Karloff's distinguished presence ensures that Dr. Adrian elicits the viewer's sympathy While you may not approve of what he's doing, his motive nonetheless is well intended. Harry Neumann's pretty rough, yet still fairly polished cinematography and Edward J. Kay's spooky'n'shivery score are both up to speed. An enjoyable B romp. "}{"Title":"Not quite as bad as you'd expect for a picture featuring an ape run amok","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film is very much like an earlier Monogram Pictures effort, THE MAN WITH NINE LIVES. That's because both starred Boris Karloff as a well-intentioned doctor who is trying to help mankind but ultimately becomes a mad scientist. Here Karloff is trying to find a cure for spinal paralysis and he uses the spinal fluid of a man injured by an escaped ape to help cure a lady who is bound to a wheelchair. The problem is, although there is improvement, Karloff needs more and more fluid in order to effect a cure. The rest, though predictable, is pretty entertaining for a low-budget horror flick. The conclusion is particularly good--giving a nice twist that's not expected.And speaking of low-budget, this film is very, very cheaply made--with occasionally bad acting and an annoyingly repetitive musical score. Despite the film's many short-cuts and all, it's STILL very watchable and worth a look--particularly for fans of Karloff. "},{"Title":"Somebody better get after that ape or he'll tear this town wide open.","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As I sit here and think about the movie I've just seen, I ask myself why the film makers even bothered to feature a gorilla as a central character in this story, but there's the title The Ape, so I guess they had to fit one in somewhere. The story is actually rather standard fare for the era, a mad scientist/doctor Bernard Adrian (Boris Karloff) is obsessed with finding a cure for a young woman's paralysis, and will go to any lengths to succeed. Those lengths include killing a circus ape that invades his home, gutting out the creature (off screen of course), and then using the carcass to disguise himself as he seeks victims from which to extract spinal fluid for the serum he needs to complete his experiments and cure the stricken Frances Clifford (Maris Wrixon). To state that the film makers took excessive liberties with the premise of the movie is putting it mildly. For example, Karloff's character, who appears frail and weak, manages to dispatch the ape by blinding him with some lab fluid, and stabbing him once with a knife, and to the back no less. Then, in his first outing in the monkey suit, he manages to waylay a burley Henry Mason (who was such a cad, he actually had it coming) on his way into town to join the gorilla posse.If not for the presence of the venerable Boris Karloff, this film probably wouldn't stand a chance. However, you then ask yourself why Karloff would even consider getting involved with this project after having created film history with Frankenstein and The Mummy. Perhaps he was intrigued with the idea of working a comedy.You'll get a chuckle out of the Ray Crash Corrigan ape early in the film as he makes his way to Dr. Adrian's home. Attempting to cross a rail fence, he practically trips over it, and has to correct his balance. You have to love these low budget Monogram efforts, no time or money for do-overs.In spite of some of my tongue in cheek comments, you owe yourself at least one viewing of The Ape, whether you're a fan of the poverty row movie machine of the 1940's or a follower of Boris Karloff. In my case, I'm all the better for having seen it, and I can truthfully say it didn't make a monkey out of me. "},{"Title":"Doesn't make a lot of sense, but kind of okay. *spoiler*","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This isn't quite the groaner one would expect from a low budget, mad scientist/killer ape movie. It's more dull than anything else, although Karloff is better than he has to be and Crash Corrigan looks pretty scary in the ape suit. He doesn't look  much like an ape, mind you, just scary in a man in an ape suit kind of way. By the way, even if he somehow managed to skin the ape, dispose of its carcass and craft a lifelike suit out of its hide, how exactly would a frail old gent like the doctor be capable of mauling two younger, stronger armed men to death in a matter of seconds? I know, I know, willing suspension, etc.Interesting note This is one of the first credits for Gene O'Donnell (Danny the skeptical boyfriend), and one of his final credits is as an extra in the original Planet of the Apes. At least he ended on some better ape suits... "},{"Title":"The Ape","Date":"13 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Macabre tale with quite an interesting moral conflict at it's center regarding a small town doctor, Bernard Adrian(Boris Karloff), who is also a brilliant scientist determined to create a serum which can cure paralysis. This driven desire is fueled by the loss of his wife and daughter at the hands of a crippling disease caused by a paralysis outbreak. His experimental subject is the darling Francis(Maris Wrixon), a gentle soul confined to a wheelchair, with crippled legs. Francis' auto mechanic boyfriend, Danny(Gene O'Donnell)worries about her well being disapproving of Adrian's methods because of how unorthodox they are. A carnival gorilla breaks free from it's cage after attacking it's abusive trainer, and both wind up at Adrian's home, one brought by the town's sheriff and other helpers, while the primate introduces itself rudely by ripping through the window of his laboratory. Adrian discovers the key ingredient needed to perfect his serum and it's spinal fluid..fluid extracted from the dying trainer, mauled beyond help. After killing the gorilla, Adrian(..whose serum's flask falls to the floor shattering accidentally)makes a very shocking decision..in order to get the spinal fluid he needs, he'll don the skin and head of the slain gorilla, attacking citizens in order to get a supply to help cure Francis. Meanwhile, Sheriff Jeff Halliday(Henry Hall)and locals search tirelessly for the gorilla not knowing that Adrian is responsible.The film has an unnecessary sub-plot featuring a slimy, sleazy banker, Mason(Philo McCullough), establishing how corrupt and vile he is(..he cheats on his wife without remorse, cares for nobody but himself, and hypocritically balks about how much a detriment Adrian is to the town, when his behavior is anything but harmonious)..his story is abandoned half-way into the movie and we never hear about him again. At the very least, Adrian could've killed this loathsome bastard, since the only good use he is to mankind is the spinal fluid which could help a far better human being walk again. The film presents quite a disturbing sub-text regarding the determination of one individual to find a cure which could rescue those cursed with paralysis, only to question his diabolical methods, while still maintaining a humanity about him. It kind of reminds me of the current debate of stem cell research..in order to find a cure for some diseases, the ingredients needed often come from human embryos. And, fascinating enough, the results for Francis are positive, giving the audience a heart-warming conclusion..the doctor's experiment is a success, but comes with a pricehuman life for a paralysis cure. Food for thought, for sure. Despite being typecast, Karloff shines yet again, creating a character we can sympathize with, while at the same time disagreeing with his ways for achieving success..it's not an easy task to pull off. You can identify with his driven obsession for defeating the paralysis while also feeling mortified at his willingness to take human life in order to succeed. This was another film, made on the cheap, featuring a man in a gorilla suit challenging the viewer not to kind of chuckle. Karloff's sincere performance and a story-line that's anything but conventional, makes THE APE an interesting curiosity item.I'm pretty sure many viewers might find the whole thing appalling with a rather tasteless central theme of murdering innocent people for their spinal fluid in order to help one person walk again, with a finale concerning the person actually standing from her wheel chair walking to a fallen scientist beckoning/inspiring her to come towards him. "},{"Title":"Not horrible but nothing really special","Date":"4 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A kindly but insane scientist is working on a cure for a woman's paralysis using serum. He experiments using animals until a giant ape escapes from a circus and starts to kill people. Karloff (the scientist) kills the ape and dresses in its skin to continue killing people and use their serum to continue his work.This was a passable but not particularly special black and white movie with decent acting by Karloff, and reasonable supporting performances but little else going for it.The plot was simple and interesting enough, but strangely reminiscent of several other movies of this type that I've seen. The camera work was adequate but not terribly inspired.Overall, my impression was meh. Not a total waste of time but likely only of interest to those who are already fans of this particular type of movie. It won't likely do much for anyone else. "},{"Title":"Boris must have been hard up","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Aaaaargh, atrocious, a terrible waste of a most talented actor's skills. This little gem runs under 60 minutes, but seems to last as long as James Cameron's Titanic. Typically formulaic, but unsatisfying (I like most of Karloff's mad scientist films). The only good part **SPOILER HERE** is when the ape takes out the scumbag who's cheating on his poor, mistreated Okie wife. I wouldn't have minded breaking his worthless neck myself. Karloff gives his all in this poorly-scripted, badly-filmed and rottenly-directed spontaneous abortion, and you just gotta admire him for it. What a work ethic. From what I understand, Karloff's contract with Universal ran out in 1939 -- poor Universal. The golden years were ended, and we are all worse off for it. I only wish Val Lewton had worked for Universal. Cinematic history would have been a great deal different. "},{"Title":"Slow, occasionally funny old horror flick","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a ridiculous yarn about a doctor who seeks to cure paralysis with human spinal fluid.  Why do all these old horror flicks have characters who need human spinal fluid to stay young/cure disease/remain human, etc.? I've never understood how human spinal fluid was thought to accomplish these things.  This movie is slow and the idea that Karloff would be able to gut out a gorilla, turn it into a costume and make people believe a gorilla on the loose was responsible for a series of killings is unbelievable, unless you take into account the fact that no gorilla appears anywhere in this cheapie, just a man in a gorilla suit.  SO, I guess it would be possible to kill the man in the suit and take him out of it. Only watch this flick if you love crapcinema, Karloff, or movies about men in gorilla outfits killing to collect a supply of human spinal fluid. "},{"Title":"Interesting movie that just missed the mark for me...","Date":"8 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" 1st watched 5/1/2009 - 5 out of 10 (Dir- William Nigh) Interesting movie that just missed the mark for me due to a strange quick ending that I don't believe was prepped well, in my opinion. The movie is about a misunderstood doctor, played by horror great Boris Karloff, who is trying to cure the local town of a crippling disease but is using animals in his experiments and the townfolk don't like his methods. The Ape comes into the story after it escapes from a local circus, causes a fire and then is hiding somewhere in the town. While the authorities are hunting for him it is noticed that he spends a lot of time around the doctor's place but no-one knows why. When the doctor first encounters the creature he stabs it, but it's not apparent that he killed the beast. The ape still continues showing up killing others, but escaping from the authorities. A subplot revolves around a crippled woman that the doctor is slowly healing thru spinal fluid from victims of the ape and wherever else he gets it. It appears to be working but he needs more fluid. This is where the filmmakers lost me because they don't link these two pieces together very well. You can probably figure out what's going on, but I'll let you watch the movie and see if you felt the same way I did about the quick ending. The movie wasn't bad it just felt like the makers didn't have enough movie to really do what they wanted to do and tell the story better. So, this one just missed the mark for me despite the fact that I was glad that I saw it. "},{"Title":"Spinal Tap","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Red Creek doctor Boris Karloff (as Bernard Adrian) goes Ape (as Ray Corrigan) for pretty paraplegic Maris Wrixon (as Frances Clifford). Doctor Adrian is a researcher looking for a cure to polio that would benefit his young friend Frances Clifford, who suffers from the disease. His research centers upon the use of spinal fluid in a serum that could return mobility to sufferers of polio. The escape of a circus ape and the injury of its trainer provide an opportunity to test the procedure on Frances and it provides positive, but limited, results, according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis. Shockingly ill-conceived.** The Ape (1940) William Nigh ~ Boris Karloff, Maris Wrixon, Gene O'Donnell "},{"Title":"Thought-provoking drama with unbelievable special effects","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" That was a guy under a gorilla costume? I might believe it if you were to say the same thing about the balrog in THE LORD OF THE RINGS, but not this great film. Every second of every minute of THE APE is filled with ferocious excitement and intellectual scientific discussion. Anyone who tells you otherwise is a communist. If I was a college professor, I would probably make my students write paper after paper on this movie and not let them graduate until developing a deep appreciation for the incredible dedication psychotic killers have for their craft. If you are mad and feel the urge to kill you might as well win a Nobel prize. Boris Karloff may surprise you in the role of a mad/deranged character. "}{"Title":"lackluster medical horror","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Karloff is out to save polio victims and paralyzed people by developing serums from human spinal glands.  He experiments on the pretty, young, wheelchair-bound heroine, over the objections of her boyfriend (who isn't exactly jumping out of his own seat to marrry her when she can't walk). He kills a sick man, then uses ape serum from an escaped circus monkey (looks like old Crash Corrigan in his suit again) when the serum is knocked off a table by his serving-woman.  Yes, this, and all kinds of other equally predictable things happen, but Karloff is a gas as always. "},{"Title":"Quite Ahead Of It's Time","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I must say, I was very impressed by this film. I knew that Karloff was in it, so therefore I knew that I would at least like it a little bit, but I must say I did not expect it to be near as good as it was. I would have guessed it to be made in 1960 rather then 1940.Now I must warn you, in order to get into this movie as much as I did you must have the love of classic films like I have. I love these old black and white horror movies. So if you are the type that can't get into old black and white horror flicks, then don't continue to read this review.So we have this crazy doctor, who is obsessed with trying to get this young cripple girl to walk again. While trying to figure out how to do this, he must settle for testing on animals. Until&#133;One day, a gigantic ape escapes from the circus, and kills one of it's trainers. The ape is on the loose, and the trainer, who is barley alive, is rushed to the crazy doctors house.While trying to save the hurt man, the doctor then realizes that he has the perfect chance, to use a human as one of his experiments and try to help the young girl walk again. So he tries his experiment, and it works. But just barley. The young girl can feel her legs, but can only move her foot a little bit. So he must get the ape to kill more people so he can use them for his projects.A very strong movie, with strong performances. If you are a fan of old classic horror movies, then check out THE APE! Starring Boris Karloff.  "},{"Title":"Fun Hour-long horror flick","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When you think of old horror movies (circa WWII) you often don't think that they are much worth their while. We all watch movies of this genre either for a bewildered laugh (wondering how anyone could ever take a movie like this seriously) or because we have a sincere love of classic horror cinema; I was influenced by both inclinations when I first sat down to watch The Ape. This movie, starring Boris Karloff provides at least one good performance, with the classic actor in the lead role, as a mad scientist willing to go to any lengths (especially murder) to help cure a young girl suffering from polio. If you are in a light-hearted mood, it is not difficult to make fun of this movie, as you should. Gather together with friends on Halloween or a stormy night, and enjoy a light scare that will carry no consequence of true nightmares. However, this movie can also be approached from a serious analytical perspective. The technique is very good considering it was made in 1940. Also, Karloff's performance is stirring and allows one to see the film in greater depth than one would initially believe possible. Perhaps the movie can be taken as an allegory for the age-old struggle between science and society (like Frankenstein). Here, as always, society craves desperately the cures offered by the scientist, but is weary of the bent ethical standards necessary to achieve those treatments. At the same time, the movie addresses a contemporary issue (contemporary for the original audience, but perhaps topical even today) the science v. society conflict over the origin of life. Notice that the mad scientist disguises himself as an ape, man's closest relative according to Darwin. The movie seems to rebuke the idea of evolution, portraying the scientist and his ideas as unnatural, and making him all the more evil as he puts on the ape costume to murder. Paradoxically, the scientist must do these crimes to ensure a cure for his patient. At the same time, there is a love stroy here, which suggests that the Doctor's cure is not really necessary, and that love can help ensure the young girl will have a full and happy life. However, I doubt even the original screen writers invested this amount of thought in drawing up the plot for this movie. Perhaps I like to over analyze movies to justify the expenditure of my time, but either way, whether for real scientific purposes of film analysis or just for a good laugh, this movie deserves a closer look. "},{"Title":"The Ape!","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This older film is really good and its made good too! Boris Karloff is really good in it! His character is much different than the other ones he has played as. Actually this is his most interesting role in My opinion! I noticed that The ape or the gorilla in the film is the same gorilla that was in some of the Three Stooges shorts! The movie has very good acting from all of the other actors that were in the film! The story of The Ape is quite different and original! The ape sequences were cool! The movie has some good music and direction as well! If you like Boris Karloff and older horror films like the Universal Monsters then I strongly recommended that you see The Ape! "}]