[{"Title":"Quite amusing movie, Fields seems very modern","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"30 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The irreverent Fields gives spark to what would otherwise have been a quite humdrum comedy movie.His politically incorrect jokes seem very present-day, and so makes you understand that the people back in the 1940's weren't so far removed from us as we sometimes think.Fields is nasty to children, his wife and the bank examiner, whistles at pretty girls and in general just behaves terribly. You wouldn't think they would film stuff like that back in 1940, but Fields did. The movie is populated by crooks and phonies, as for instance the bank president, who says let me give you a hardy handshake and then just rests his hand lightly in Fields' for a second. It's a very observant and stinging visual commentary which tells more than many phrases that's what films are good at, and it is used here to great effect.The final car chase is really scary, with extra's ducking under cars with only inches to spare! "},{"Title":"Classic Comedy That Gets Even Better As It Goes Along","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"27 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  W.C. Fields uses his expert timing and his large collection of gags to make The Bank Dick a classic comedy that gets even better as it goes along.  The amusing, tangled plot gives Fields plenty of material to work with, and the other characters also pitch in to keep you smiling.After a few amusing introductory scenes that introduce Egbert Sousé, the kind of character Fields loved to play, things really start rolling once Egbert somehow manages to land a job as a bank detective.  The wackier the plot gets, the more it shows just how effective Fields's dry style can be.  His stoic character and the confusion going on around him often make a hilarious combination.  It's very entertaining, goes by quickly, and is filled with comic detail that makes it just as funny when you watch it over again. "},{"Title":"The Accidental Hero","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" THE BANK DICK (Universal, 1940), directed by Edward Cline, from an original story and screenplay by Mahatma Kane Jeeves, better known as W.C. Fields, stars none other than W.C. Fields in his third of four comedies for Universal, a classic in the sense of it becoming his most famous and admired works next to IT'S A GIFT (Paramount, 1934). Unlike YOU CAN CHEAT AN HONEST MAN (1939) where Fields loses screen time in favor with a ventriloquist act of Edgar Bergen and Charlie McCarthy; MY LITTLE CHICKADEE (1940) in which he divides his time with Mae West; and NEVER GIVE A SUCKER AN EVEN BREAK (1941) where he steps aside in favor for the singing of the teen-age Gloria Jean, THE BANK DICK is pure Fields from start to finish. As the head of a household of a dysfunctional family, with Fields playing the henpecked husband on screen for the last time, the supporting players consists of a fine assortment of character actors who can be just as funny as Fields himself and not draw attention away from him.As for the story, set in the town of Lompoc, the focus obviously is on Egbert Souse, accent over the final E (W.C. Fields), an unemployed husband who spends much of his leisure time smoking cigarettes and hanging around the local bar, The Black Pussy Cat Cafe, as well as coping with Agatha, his wife, (Cora Witherspoon), Mrs. Hermisillo Brunch, his mother-in-law (Jessie Ralph), Myrtle, his adult daughter, (Una Merkel) and Elsie Mae Adele Brunch, the obnoxious youngster, (Evelyn Del Rio). Of the members in his family, only Myrtle, his eldest, understands him. Aside from being a character herself, she's is in love with the hayseed Og Oggilby (Grady Sutton), a bank teller who later encounters a couple of robbers at his window and forced to hand over a large sum of money at a point of a gun. When their getaway car is taken away, the crooks make a run for it by foot. Chased by the police, one gets away while the other is found by Souse seated on a bench nearby, making him a hero for capturing the crook. In gratitude Souse is awarded a job as a special officer by Mr. Skinner (Pierre Watkin), the bank president. In order for Oggilby to earn enough money to marry Myrtle, Souse arranges for him to invest the bank's money on Beefstake Mines Stock, which finds Souse spending much time preventing the visiting bank examiner (Franklin Pangborn) from looking over the books to find a shortage. More complications occur when the bank gets robbed again with Souse being forced to take the driver's seat in another exciting car chase from the police.Supporting players enacting under oddball names include Shemp Howard as Joe Guelpe, the bartender whose whistle to Listen to the Mockingbird entices Souse to follow him to the bar; Richard Purcell as Mackley Q. Greene; Russell Hicks as J. Frothingham Waterbury; Jack Norton as A. Pismo Clam; Bill Wolfe as Otis, with Jan Duggan, another favorite of the Fields stock players, once again doing a funny bit, playing a mother in the back whose son pokes fun of Souse's nose. While Al Hill is credited as Filthy McNasty in the credits, he is called Repulsive Rogan in the final story. As or the support provided by the diversified Una Merkel, her performance is unlike the assortment of starlets, ranging from Mary Brian, Judith Allen or Constance Moore as Fields' daughters playing their roles in a more serious-minded and caring nature while Merkel provides her role with comic flare and free-spirit. She was true to the sense amusing where comedy involving her is concerned. Merkel and Grady Sutton (in his final Fields comedy) make a perfect odd couple.THE BANK DICK may have some flaws, such as having the audience accept the middle-aged Fields and Cora Witherspoon as parents to a minor child while physically they pass more as grandparents. However, overlooking such minor details, highlights include Souse filling in for a drunken director (Norton) of Tel-Avis Picture Productions, a movie company filming on location; Sousé getting the bank examiner (Pangborn) ill on a Michael Finn drinks in order to keep him from examining the books; the climatic car chase; and bank president Mr. Skinner on two separate occasions giving Sousé the hearty hand clasp in which Skinner's fingers barely touches Souse's outstretched palm heightened by going to a split-second freeze-frame. While the attention is focused more on Souses' outside activities than on his domestic affairs, one cannot ignore the underscoring to There's No Place Like Home used during each opening scene at the Souse household.THE BANK DICK, along with MY LITTLE CHICKADEE, became the first of Fields' comedies to be distributed on cassette during the early days of home video in the 1980s. Other than frequent revivals on commercial television prior to 1990, THE BANK DICK assured popularity to a new generation when it shifted over to cable stations, first on American Movie Classics from 1995 to 1999, and after wards premiering on Turner Classic Movies in 2001.Fields' fourth and final starring role for Universal being NEVER GIVE A SUCKER AN EVEN BREAK (1941) not only reunites him with Franklin Pangborn, but opens and closes with the same underscoring from THE BANK DICK as well as Fields, playing himself, seen standing in front of a billboard advertisement which reads W.C. Fields in THE BANK DICK. Because of these similarities, these Fields comedies make logical choices as double features whether on television or a DVD package. As THE BANK DICK is a fun movie, it's kind of sad in a way watching this comedian named W.C. Fields, older and heavier, in what's to become the final phase to his long career. All good things come to an end but the legend of Fields and his movies lingers on. "},{"Title":"This is Just Too Funny","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the second best Fields film (after It's a Gift) and it's similar in that it casts Fields as the lovable drunk with an absolutely hateful family. From the almost surreal episode directing the movie to the eye-poppingly ridiculous chase scene, this one is pure comic entertainment.  One side note it's sad and not a little scary how bloated and tired the Great Man looks in this compared to just six years earlier when It's a Gift was released.   "},{"Title":"joyful comedy, asides, and the pleasures of smoking and drinking....","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  a source of strange joy, even in its quiet and failed moments.  great moments mostly mumbled and underplayed so that the film seems so humble and so unaggressive, unlike most comedies now which would wring your neck if they could...Fields' before-its-time irony and self-consciousness about moviemaking is revealed in a throwaway line during the car chase at the end...in the midst of all the obviously speeded-up film and projection effects, Egbert Souse deadpans you're going to make me have an accident.....  I'm almost ready to move into Lompoc, with its Spanish-Americo chili parlor, and, I hope, rivers of beer flowing over your grandmother's paisley shawl....   and, apparently, absinthe is still available.... "},{"Title":"All time classic and Fields best for sure","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is so brilliant, it is almost sad that Fields did not make more movies than he did. As 1940 approached, he actually was doing his best work but was in deteriorating health through his death in 1946. This movie was all written and done under Field's supervision and a masterpiece it is.The all time funniest scene in movie history, in my opinion, was when he gets the bank examiner, J. Pinkerton Snoopington drunk and sick and brings him back to the hotel he was staying at. When he allegedly falls out the window and Field's comes running down the stairs to retrieve him was so brilliantly executed, it's amazing. He moves the camera to the far side of the lobby which allows you to get the full view of him running down the stairs. While the content of this humor may seem ordinary, it was filmed and executed brilliantly and is forever etched in my mind as the single most funny scene I can think of in movie history. "},{"Title":"Classic Field's, Classic Comedy","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a wonderful example of classic comedy from the late vaudeville era. Fields is brilliant in spite of the fact that he's far past his prime. The story is fun and timeless. I saw it years ago, and I have watched it a couple times since I got my DVD last week. It's a movie worth having on your shelf. "},{"Title":"Classic Fields!","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  'The Bank Dick' is a wonderful piece of comedy from W.C. Fields.  He plays the town loser, who is given a job as a bank security guard when it appears that he helped stop a bank robbery.  Fields' scenes with Franklin Pangborn as the bank examiner are the highlight of the film.  The climactic chase sequence, with Fields mentioning points of interest as he is chased by the police, is also hilarious.  Only a sequence early in the film, in which Fields pretends to be a Hollywood film director, fails to delight. Overall, a comedy classic! "},{"Title":"Do you happen to live in a dysfunctional family? Congratulations!","Date":"15 May 2008","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The second to last film in which The Great Man starred is widely regarded as his signature work, a deserved estimation for a number of reasons. However, it should be stressed that this does not guarantee that it will preserve the curious into a fan THE BANK DICK is a product so painstakingly characteristic for its creator that it may be required to view the comedy in context to him. With this film in 1940, W.C. Fields was at last considered powerful enough to do his whole act again, having been forced to perform on radio and only as a side-kick to other stars during the last few years, after his drinking habits had caused him severe illness. The Great Man was ready to confirm that his grit was still present; some would say more than ever before.Problems were soon to occur, though. Universal objected to several parts of Fields's script, and hired a writer to change story structure and dialogue. Thankfully, experienced director Eddie Cline recognized which of the scripts that was superior; hence the original version passed by with minor changes. What remains is a comedy which appears surprisingly modern, not only in terms of humor but also in tone. Many viewers tend to express disappointment in the admittedly nail-thin thread to which the material is tied; and in the process, not recognizing the fact that a loose story is not necessarily a disadvantage. Having observed the dysfunctional family eating breakfast, we are hastily introduced to our hero Mr. Anti-Hero --a certain Egbert Sousé, that is-- replacing a movie director, only to soon witness his mishaps as a Bank Dick. This lack of continuity serves at least one highly significant purpose instead, we are presented with scenes to thoroughly characterize Sousé himself, along with his family and dubious associates. This focus on characterization is really from where the movie, and the comedy, evolves; for the most part, the eccentric personalities simply struggle to survive one another, with one hopeless dilemma leading to the next. Everything is a result of the previous. That is the one thing they know for sure in life.Certain reviews and posts at the message board confirm that THE BANK DICK is not a comedy for the entire family, so to speak. Without underestimating the brilliance and originality of several of his contemporaries, it is a fact that screen comedy before Fields was, generally speaking, quite innocent and suitable for most ages. Problems in the family, controlling wives, and annoying children; sure, it had all served as sure-fire inspiration for all of the comedians at one time or another. However, what is unique when we see Fields confronted with such problems in THE BANK DICK, is that his character witnesses the mayhem from the perspective of a comparatively mature reality. When Laurel and Hardy, lovable as they are, elope from their wives, one can be quite certain that the women will take off in a pursuit immediately, emphasizing that what we are presented with is a truly cartoonish world, and we need not to worry about it. As a contrast, when Egbert's wife nags at her husband for smoking in the house, probably just in need for something to complain about, it's delivered in a way which seems almost uncomfortably close to a truly convincing, dysfunctional family atmosphere. So much so that, while hideously funny, much of the humor comes off as rather dark in essence. Don't you dare strike that child! Well she's not gonna tell ME I don't love her!Apart from this, first-time viewers should be aware that based upon my experience, THE BANK DICK improves after each viewing. I did find it funny after first viewing, but much more so during the second time; having got more acquainted with the characters, I howled with laughter throughout. Numerous lines and sketches come to mind, but there is particularly one part which I simply can't resist mentioning here bank examiner J. Pinkerton Snoopington (played by ever-brilliant Frankling Pangborn) is offered a drink by Sousé --for reasons I will not reveal-- and consequently forced to bed due to a hangover worthy of acclaim. Helping the poor thing to bed, Sousé drops him out of the window, presumably by accident. The manner in which Fields rushes downstairs in order to save him, determined yet underneath quite matter-of-factly, is a brief moment of priceless comedy which beautifully demonstrates the comedian's ability to achieve subtlety into his acts, when it was required for. Sensitive cheek-bones should stay away, though.Thank you for reading this review. Now, turn off your computer, put this film in the player and laugh your head off. THE BANK DICK may not be the very funniest film Fields ever made in my book (IT'S A GIFT and MAN ON THE FLYING TRAPEZE share that nomination), and it seems totally deprived of the tiny soft spot which had often been present in previous Fields-films. Yet, the film easily presents the comedian at his most daring -- and purest. A feast of laughter from start to finish, once you get it. "},{"Title":"Matriarchy triumphant","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Has there ever been a better satire on the hypocrisies of small-town life before the Second World War than this comic masterpiece of 1940? W.C. Fields as Egbert Sousé, accent grave on the e, is the victim of female tyranny and American matriarchy triumphant his wife, his mother-in-law and his dreadful brat of a daughter all abuse him both verbally and physically; he bears their insults stoically with no other escape than the sanctity of the local saloon, poetically labeled The Black Pussy Café, the only place in town where he is treated with any semblance of respect by a bartender, Shemp Howard, one of the Three Stooges minus his other two brothers. Into this sanctuary wander bizarre representatives of the outside world, the real world &#151;a sissified bank examiner (Franklin Pangborn); a slick traveling salesman peddling shares in the Beef Stake mine (Pierre Watkins); a harassed assistant director (Pat West) looking for a replacement for a drunken director.Fields deals with them all with his usual nonchalance and cunning. He is existentially alone, mumbling asides to himself along the way, caring not if anyone listens, rarely complaining, making the best of whatever good or bad fortune that comes his way. In this American Dream turned on its head and upside down and sideways, Sousé, the forgotten man, turns out in the end to be a true hero through no fault or skill of his own, and is rewarded with a contract to direct a movie as well as a hearty hand clasp! A film not to be missed if you want to understand what this crazy nation is all about. "}{"Title":"W.C. Fields represents America's aspirations right before we entered WWII","Date":"21 September 2007","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As I understand it, W.C. Fields spent at least most of his career playing henpecked drunks. Believe it or not, The Bank Dick is the first of his movies that I've ever seen; and I really liked it. Fields plays Egbert Souse - with an acute accent on the E - a bored family man never too aware of his surroundings. One day, he accidentally stops a bank robber but is only too happy to take credit for it. So they make him a security guard.Throughout parts of the movie, I wasn't sure whether it was going to be as funny as I usually like (and there was a scene portraying a black man in a manner that wouldn't be allowed nowadays), but it was quite entertaining overall and the whole chase was certainly beyond a hoot. I suspect that they had a lot of fun filming it. Moreover, one might interpret Fields's as a look at America's aspirations of getting out of the Depression (that's pure conjecture, so don't quote me).So, having seen this movie, I understand what W.C. Fields's brand of humor constituted. One can see why Warner Bros. animation department liked to caricature him as a manipulative pig in some cartoons. Worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Bank Dick easily makes my top-ten funniest movies of all time list. If you're curious about Fields and want a good introduction to his brand of humor, I suggest this, then My Little Chickadee.  For my tastes, The Bank Dick is the superior of the two. "},{"Title":"In Many Ways Fields Best Film","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Even though Fields would go on to only do 2 more films, in many ways this film is his most satisfying effort of them all. He ghost wrote the script at Mahatma Kane Jeeves & the script is excellent. The sequences are all a perfect length & funny. The humor is Fields subtle quality & funny.Fields often imagined himself as an accidental hero. In this film, his character Egbert Souse is exactly that. He plays the harried middle aged parent who battles his kids & his battle axed wife. He dreams of get rich quick schemes. One day on a park bench he is reading his paper when he accidentally foils a bank robbery.From there, the comic possibilities multiply. His reward for foiling the robbery is a job as a bank guard. There he works with his future son-in-law. He gets his son-in-law into an unknowing stock scheme in Beef Stake mines using the banks money illegally.Then when the bank examiner shows up, he connives with The Black Pussy Cafe owner (ably played by Shemp Howard) to delay the examiner. The stocks turns out to be a gold mine & the con man wants to buy it back. The future son-in-law is about to dump the stock back to the con man who sold it to him for little money because he needs to head off the bank examiner.Fields finds out about the gold mine & stops him just in time. Then Fields gets involved with yet another bank robbery & him, the robber, the cash & the stock go on a wild car chase with the police. Fields actually borrowed parts of the chase from Harold Lloyds Girl Shy but then improved upon it.After the chase, Fields daughter marries the now son-in-law from the bank & they move into a huge mansion on the Beef Stake mine money. Fields does a classic comic blackout to end the film.The casting for this film all works very well & Fields material & comic timing are great. Even his advanced age stunts are well done. A fine film which still stands the test of time & made a lot of money for Universal when it was in theaters. "},{"Title":"Good,  But Never As Good As I Remember It","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Here's another W.C. Fields farce, one of his better-known films. It features Fields' classic double-takes, strange lines, strange names, a lot of sight gags and a chase scene at the end.I never found this film as good as its reputation, even though I own it and have watched it three or four times. It's one of those movies I keep remembering as something really good until I watch it again! I enjoyed watching Grady Sutton and Una Merkel more than Fields, although Una doesn't look as cute as she normally did. Shemp Howard of Three Stooges is also in the cast.It's dated, of course, which sometimes translates poorly in the field of comedy but there are still enough funny things in here to make it worthwhile seeing. The only scene that really dragged was the Franklin Pangborn sickness scene, which went on way too long.The last 10 minutes is a lot of fun, reminiscent of a silent comedy finish with a wild car chase. Maybe that's what draws me back every five years or so. "},{"Title":"Parallel With The Great McGinty","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" By probably nothing more than sheer coincidence W.C. Fields's greatest triumph, The Bank Dick, came out the same year as The Great McGinty, Preston Sturges's first directorial triumph. Interesting because I think the two films have the same exact theme.It's an inverted view of the American dream in that any boob who happens to be in the right place at the right time can become an overnight success. Hard work, save your money, get an education, all that's nothing but hogwash. Well, at least get very good in arithmetic.Meet Egbert Souse, henpecked American family man, wife, two daughters, and a harridan of a mother-in-law all under the same roof. Egbert is W.C. Fields's finest creation. From being bar room lounger, Souse rises to being a man of wealth and property merely by being in the right place on a few occasions in this film. Very similar to what Brian Donlevy did in The Great McGinty. I've always loved the Dickensian names that Fields gave his characters in The Bank Dick. Og Ogilby is his sidekick and future aspirant son-in-law played by the ever flustered Grady Sutton. Franklin Pangborn never had a better screen name than J. Pinkerton Snoopington, the bank examiner. And we can't forget the inebriated film director played by Jack Norton, A Pismo Clam. The Bank Dick is the only film I know where you can read the credits, laugh uproariously before the film starts and then eagerly anticipate more.As good as his films at Paramount were, Fields never had the creative control that he did that Universal gave him for The Bank Dick. It's Fields's height as a performer and not to be missed.And don't forget, you pronounce his last name SOO SAY. "},{"Title":"timeless comedy classic","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This comedy classic revolves around the misadventures of Egbert Souse, accent grave over the e (W.C. Fields) a drunkard who hates his family and the feeling is mutual. As he goes about his day he stumbles into becoming a film director, bank guard, and local hero. Fields is at his best in this film. And the humor is priceless as well as timeless. Whenever he sees the bartender (Shemp Howard of Three Stooges fame), he stops whatever he's doing and follows him to the bar. Hilarious. This movie can be found in the W.C. Fields comedy collection, along with, My Little Chickadee, You can't Cheat an Honest Man, It's a Gift, International House, and W.C. FieldsBehind the Laughter My Grade A+ "},{"Title":"Have You Seen Michael Finn?","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" W. C. Fields' humor seems modern because it's timeless. In The Bank Dick, he plays a person who stumbles into success without trying, but who takes advantage of the situation as he goes along.One cannot make too much sense of a W. C. Fields written story. At one point, he suggests investing in a beef steak mine, and this apparently can be done in the world of the film. Once the film starts going, it gathers a momentum of its own, and follows its own making it up as it goes logic.As with a lot of Fields' best work, the asides in the film are among the best dialogue. A really enjoyable view. "},{"Title":"Forsaking the Artistic for some Good Old Fashioned Laughs, only to find That You Have Done Both!","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" We can well remember hearing a Film Critic doing an on TV review of HELLO DOLLY(1969). As this was about 40 damn years ago, I'm not sure just who the reviewer was, nor what was the program. It was long before this Golden Age of Film Criticism that we are now living through, but, no matter. It what this learned Movie Reviewer had said in passing that was important to this write-up.What he said went something like that the Leads, Star Barbara Streisand(Dolly Levi) and Walter Matthau(Horace Vandergelder) ....were sort of like one of those old May West/W.C. Fields comedies, with both doing their part to impersonate the old Stars on the Modern Screen! (Well, I didn't hire him, Schultz!) A lot of folks hold that Mr. Fields had his true Golden Age during his association with Adolph Zukor, Jesse Lasky & Paramount Pictures. A great argument can be made for the Starring Vehicles of Fields, but for his guest starring during that time. The quality of story, writing, Direction(using some of Fields' favourites) and the sheer magnitude of sets and intricacy of their detailed construction gave a real true to life look to these Paramount gems (and to a picture, they were).A move from Paramount to Universal Studios would certainly be considered a come down in any quarters. For Paramount was, along with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, RKO Radio, Warner Brothers and 20th Century-FOX, called the big 5 of Hollywood, Universal was not so prestigiously endowed, though it didn't qualify as Poverty Row, either.To my way of thinking, it was the four MACK SENNET Productions/PARAMOUNT Release of the 2 reelers that put W.C. Fields on the right track. The big four being THE DENTIST (1932) THE FATAL GLASS OF BEER,THE PHARMASCIST and THE BARBER SHOP(all 1933). In these he seemed to have the proper genesis of the crotchety guy who was also a victim of his environment. The trends were continued at those previously mentioned features, which also sometimes gave him a heart of gold underneath it all(see THE OLD FASHIONED WAY).But once at Universal, Bill (as his friends called him)had a free hand to make the feature pictures that he wanted, in the manner that he wanted. All this added to his financial arrangement with Universal. In essence, he was taking his best ideas as developed in the 4 Sennett Shorts and bring them to full fruition in his various Features, though none was by any means a remake.And let's not forget during this period he was as well known as a Star of his own W.C. Fields Radio Show.* Oh yeah, about that 'Big Shot' movie critic of those 4 decades ago, we can agree to the similarities in Miss Streisand's and Mr. Matthau's characterizations resembling May West & W.C. Fields, though it was surely a case of purposeful impersonation, not any coincidental similarity. And by the way, Mr. Hot Shot Movie Critic, the only film to co-star or even feature both Miss West and Mr. Fields was Universal's MY LITTLE CHICKADEE(1940)! It surely did leave a lasting impression. Got it, Schultz!NOTE * The Radio waves were his other domain as listeners were treated the very distinctive & melodious W.C. Fields verbal humor. His on going feud with Edgar Bergen & Charlie McCarthy kept things interesting for years and led to YOU CAN'T CHEAT AN HONEST MAN(Universal 1939)in which they co-starred. A lesser known gag involved Mr. Fields' repeatedly speaking of his nephew, Chester, which went on for several weeks' shows. Then his sponsor. Old Gold Cigarettes finally got it! C'mon, Schultz, concentrate; his 'nephew', Chester Fields? Get it, Chesterfields! "},{"Title":"This film shows us the unseen face of alcoholism the humor!","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think that W.C. Fields' caricature is recognizable by many people, but I think almost no one is familiar with him from his actual movies. More likely, people are just familiar with him from Looney Toons and such. But the actual comedian W.C. Fields was an absolutely hilarious guy. He fits in with other classic comedians like Keaton and Chaplin and Lloyd and even the Marx Brothers and the Three Stooges in that he had an established persona which appeared in his films. What is really unique about him is his perfection in comedic acting, both physical, like the comedy you would see in the silents, and in delivering dialogue. His timing is so good in The Bank Dick. The dialogue has to be some of the best comedic dialogue ever written. To boot, the other players in the film are just as funny. His family members are just great, especially his youngest daughter, who constantly beats on him with various objects. And when you see the film, which you definitely should, notice that Shemp Howard of the Three Stooges plays the bartender whom Fields (his name is Eggbert Souse (pronounced Soosay!)) follows around back to the bar whenever their paths happen to cross. The Bank Dick is certainly one of the funniest comedies ever made. 10/10 "},{"Title":"I like my children parboiled as well.","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Fields is amazing.  For anyone who loves watching men lose, you'll love fields.  For the same reason I love Al Bundy, Larry David, and George Costanza.  His hatred of children and love for the bottle are legendary. Everyone should experience Fields, but keep in mind that he is either drunk or playing drunk on screen.  It's a subtle drunk, but it makes it funnier. Good flick. "}{"Title":"Wild comedy from W.C.","Date":"21 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mass hysteria ensues when ne'er-do-well husband and father Egbert Souse' (W.C. Fields) is given a job as a security guard at a bank after supposedly catching a bank robber. Abused by his wife (Cora Witherspoon), younger daughter (Evelyn Del Rio) and nasty mother-in-law (Jessie Ralph), Fields spends most of his free time (which is a lot) at Shemp Howard's bar, The Black Pussycat than he does looking for a job or doing chores for his ungrateful family. In fact, only his lovely older daughter (Una Merkel) seems to genuinely love him. Engaged to bank clerk Grady Sutton, Merkel has no idea that thanks to a bogus stock tip, Sutton is guilty of embezzlement with daddy Field's help. Enter J. Pinkerton Snoopington (Franklin Pangborn), the officious bank examiner whom Fields must stall from examining the bank books for four days until Sutton gets his bonus check. Pangborn, usually typecast as a nervous nancy, greatly underplays his character, allowing Fields to get him rip-roaringly drunk and ending up with a hangover to end all hangovers. By making his character quietly dignified without hysterica, Pangborn becomes the perfect straight man (!) surrounding the ensemble of wackos which populate this small California town.Fields is hysterically excellent as the harried everyman, far from perfect, yet able to steal every moment on screen with his endless treasure trove of tricks. Whether it be misplacing his hat (in eye view of the audience, yet not to Egbert) or accidentally donning a featured pen, Fields surrounds himself with some hysterically named characters. My personal favorite A. Pismo Clam! Some might find the lack of likable female characters (with the exception of Merkel) to be in bad taste, but it suits the plot. The result is a hodge-podge of comedy that ranks with the best farces of all time. This certainly is worth a nose full of nickles! "},{"Title":"A Man for all Seasons","Date":"3 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What a great chance to thrill to the adventures of a true American hero, Egbert Souse (Soo- say, accent gravamen over the e, please). Glory in Egbert's acrobatic family as they talk and stuff their mouths at the same time, while seated around a loving breakfast table. Catch little Elsie Mae's affectionate tribute to her dad, a billiard ball at his head, while he returns her love with a raised flowerpot. See him rescue a movie set from the clutches of a crazed downtown Lompoc (Lom-pock, please). But most of all, glory in Egbert's fearless capture of an inert bank bandit, catapulting our hero up the ladder of success, where among other feats, he alertly disarms a maddened 11-year old cowboy. With our Egbert, the thrills just keep coming.But our hero is nothing if not versatile. Follow his genius for threading through the mysterious world of high finance. Learn from his expert use of liquid treats in greasing the wheels of finance, where he greases and greases and greases. Note how quickly he turns facts and figures into the sheer poetry of beer beneath an arboreal dell. And finally, thrill to his NASCAR skills in maneuvering a 1930's flivver to the background demands of a Hollywood projection screen. Truly, a man for all seasons.But more importantly, one heckuva funny movie. "},{"Title":"W.C. Fields- an unlikely hero","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" W.C. Fields plays a man who has a nagging wife and children who show him no respect.His name is Egbert Sousé, who must repeatedly remind people to pronounce his name with the accent over the e.People keep calling him Souse, which is a slang word for drunkard.Well our hero likes to drink, and smoke too.Then things start to happen to Mr. Sousé.First he is recruited to replace a drunken film director and then he happens to capture a bank robber.He's hired by the Lompoc Bank as a guard.There his daughter's fiancée, Og Oggilby works as a teller.Sousé persuades Og to embezzle $ 500 to buy phony stock.The real trouble starts when the bank examiner shows up.Can Sousé fix the problem? Edward F. Cline is the director of The Bank Dick (1940).It's written by Fields himself.Fields makes this character most amusing.The rest of the Sousé family is played by Cora Witherspoon (Agatha), Una Merkel (Myrtle) and Evelyn Del Rio (Elsie Mae Adele Brunch).Jessie Ralph plays the mother-in-law Mrs. Hermisillo Brunch.Grady Sutton is Og.Franklin Pangborn is the bank examiner J. Pinkerton Snoopington.Shemp Howard, one of the Three Stooges plays the bartender Joe Guelpe.This movie holds plenty of great gags inside.One funny one is where Fields entertains a group of kids by taking a drag from a cigarette, places it in his ear and exhales multiple puffs of smoke making it seem like he's using his ear to inhale the smoke.Or getting hit in the head multiple times by his young daughter is hilarious each time.The chaotic car chase is really something.What a funny guy that W.C. Fields! "},{"Title":"Marvelous","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Apart from IT'S A GIFT, this is among W. C. Fields' greatest films--with tons of laughs. He plays Egbert Sousé (pronounced 'soo-zay', not 'souse'--a great play on words) and the film is filled with more Fields bizarre names than usual. My favorite is the bank examiner, 'J. Pinkerton Snoopington' but 'Filthy McNasty' and 'Og Oggilby' are also dandy! Plus the script credit which goes to 'Mahatma Kane Jeeves' (a pseudonym for Fields himself)). But there is far more to the film than just silly names. Like almost all of Fields' films, it's about a likable small-time blow-hard who somehow makes it big by the end of the film. In this film, Fields accidentally foils a bank robbery and is rewarded with a job working in the bank. Later, he once again saves the day and is the town hero. In between he manages to make a mess of things, but in Fields fashion, it all manages to work itself out as well.What helps this film is that in addition to an excellent Fields performance is some excellent support from the likes of Grady Sutton, Shemp Howard, Franklin Pangborn and Una Merkel and they're all in top form. Overall, the film shows that you can take a very simple plot and just let Fields act--that's really all you need for an excellent comedy. The only negative is the rear projection used during the police chase--it was very obviously fake--too fake to be funny. "},{"Title":"Good '40's slapstick? Yes, it's really possible!","Date":"15 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Slapstick movies were most popular in the '20's and '30's, after that the genre more started to change and the humor became more different and perhaps less physical. The story became more and more relevant but none of this applies really to The Bank Dick.The Bank Dick is a completely old fashioned comedy, done in the same style as for instance a Buster Keaton, Charlie Chaplin and Laurel & Hardy movie. The movie features lots of great slapstick moments and a main character that is totally carrying the movie to some great heights. The Bank Dick features some truly hilarious moments, making this a real great and effective genre movie to watch.W.C. Fields was a great genre actor, who isn't that well known any more now days, which probably also has to do with the fact that he hasn't starred in that many movies throughout his career, especially not when comparing him to many other genre leads from the same time period. The Bank Dick was one of his last movies, which most likely also had to do with the fact that the '40's were coming and the genre- and the movie world in general began changing rapidly. What I like about him is that he's really acting. For instance a Charlie Chaplin or a Buster Keaton is always more relying on the movie its psychical aspects. W.C. Fields paid way more attention to the delivery of lines and how he should act, move and look in a scene. You can tell that everything got planned out but it still feels all very natural when you see Fields acting out the movie its comical and especially slapstick-style moments.I love that this movie is deliberately old fashioned. It hasn't got a story you have to think about too much and the movie overall has a childish naivety over it, mostly due to the way W.C. Fields is portraying his character. It provides the movie with plenty of delicious comical situations.What also makes this movie fun are its other characters. The movie just isn't an one man show from W.C. Fields but the movie also really gives all of the other characters within the movie plenty of opportunity to shine and give them some comical moments to handle as well. The movie is filled with some amusing characters, which also helps to keep the movie going at all times. This isn't just a 'one-joke' movie that relies purely on one comical situation or absurd premise but it's a movie that is always going from the one place to the other, introducing the one character after the other.Perhaps this movie is one of the great last true slapstick movies from a bygone era.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Highest % of classic comedy lines in history!","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There may be water cooler cult comedies (Caddyshack, Marx Brothers, etc..) and there are generations of machine-gun comics (a la Henny Youngman, Dangerfield), but this film is riddled with Field's signature classics.Ninety percent of Field's complete dialog/script should be automatically dumped in the Memorable Quotes section, granted one has any sense of Field's remarkable delivery/demeanor. He fell out of a window and my friend caught him on the first bounce is just one of many gems. The visuals (but allow me to give you another hearty handshake) and mannerisms (closing tophat scene) are the best of the genre.This is time capsule material.. "},{"Title":"The best, the very best...","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  On a scale of 1 to 10 this movie deserves a thousand, imo. Guess I'll have to vote a few more times. Can't believe this other person said the movie direction scene fails to delight. Must not understand WC's funny. Been watching it since I was 15 which was a very long time ago indeed. Have to watch it at least twice a year (ditto Maltese Falcon, btw). So many great lines great scenes great expressions great reactions, etc etc etc. Here's an idea for divine casting Waiting For Godot with WC Fields playing all the parts. "},{"Title":"THE PERFECT TEAMING","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My two favorite actors W.C. Fields and Shemp Howard team up in this great film. W.C. plays an alchoholic (as usual) who accidentally does a great thing for the bank. Shemp plays a bartender who is too darn cool. The film was funny with its actors definitely though I still prefer Fields's short films in the early '30's the best. This film is for all Fields lovers and fans. "},{"Title":"A WC FIelds Gem","Date":"10 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of WC Fields last films and made in 1940, it's a memorable film and often-told story of a ne'er do-good making the best. WC is supposed to an assistant film director but instead lands a job as a bank guard (but how? by being cluelessly reading a newspaper) and thwarts a crook . He pulls off his obnoxiousness and rudeness (its funny when he ignores his daughter and impresses her boyfriend  he seems awfully nice I didn't know your father had so much intestinal fortitude) right away at the start of the movie which sets the pace. Watch for Shemp Howard of Three Stooges fame as the bartender. His line with Shemp about $20 is classic. His altercation with a potential child star and don't strike that child is hilarious as it works on his stereotype as a child-hater which in reality he wasn't, but keeping a studio/stage image was important then. WC wrote the screenplay as Mahatma Kane Jeeves. WC is the original accidental hero (much like today's Jackie Chan). Enough of the little hints, just watch it and enjoy. The humor is timeless and brilliant. For overall film-making, I'd rate this a 7 or 8 but because it's WC, it's a 9. "},{"Title":"Fields At His Best","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Having first seen this movie when I was in college back in 1976, I wondered if it would still be as funny as I remembered. Thankfully, it is just as I remembered.Fields is at his irreverent best. Like the Marx Brothers, he could stretch the mores of the times (and the censors) with a nod and a wink. I would describe the humor as juvenile sophistication - a kid 12 years old and an 40 year old adult could both laugh at the same thing for different reasons.Also, catch Shemp Howard at a time he was trying to go beyond the Three Stooges. As much as I love the Stooges, it's a shame Shemp couldn't have appeared in more films.Catch this next time it's on TCM. You can safely watch a comedy with your little kids and not having to worry about explaining what certain words mean. "}{"Title":"Fields Straight Up, With Chaser","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While W.C. Fields had the misfortune to share many of his most memorable screen moments with babies, ventriloquist dummies, and Mae West, he was occasionally put in a film that presented him to the audience in undiluted state. Which is perhaps why The Bank Dick, a solid if not classic Fields film made near the end of his career, is so well regarded. It's Fields the screen icon presented in his most beloved form.As Egbert Sousé (who introduces himself invariably by specifying there's an accent grave over the e), Fields lives a life of indolence and alcoholism, supporting his four female dependents as little as possible. Fate intervenes on two occasions, first when Egbert is drafted to direct a movie, then when he finds himself credited for stopping a bank holdup. After getting a hearty handclasp from the bank's manager, Egbert is hired as the institution's guard. But how safe can a bank be with W.C. in charge of security?The Bank Dick ends with a classic car chase that's one of several nods to the silent-screen comedies Fields followed. Fields serves up a lot of physical humor in that vein, while delivering some of his most memorably inscrutable lines Don't be a luddy-duddy! Don't be a mooncalf! Don't be a jabbernowl! You're not those, are you?Other reviewers here say Fields was stale and obviously past his prime. I see a comedian who had perhaps lost some energy but more than compensated for that with a better understanding of what works for laughs on screen. Instead of using juggling to keep the audience's attention, he milks the few pauses in the dialogue with a veteran's poise, exclaiming Godfrey Daniels half under his breath and reacting with relief when the bartender played by Shemp Howard tells him why he did spend $20 at his establishment the night before.What a load off my mind, Egbert replies. I thought I lost it.Perhaps because he needed to, or maybe because he just thought it would work better, Fields doles out much of the laughter to his castmates. His family, for example, are a genuinely funny batch of fault-finders, not the more bitter bunch you find Fields stuck with in other movies, especially Una Merkel as Myrtle, who threatens to kill herself one moment (which her devoted mother Agatha reacts to by taking another bite of her muffin) and then brightens manically when her improbable fiancé, Grady Sutton, arrives. Sutton, Merkel, and Franklin Pangborn as a sickly bank examiner provide the best support, but nearly everyone around the film's single star gets their moment in the sun. Even the mismatched movie couple Egbert attempts to direct are given funny lines of their own.The film is episodic, and what there is of a plot is pretty thin, designed to give Fields things to comically bounce off of. Occasionally there's a hint of filler, such as a bit of business involving an old lady and her chauffeur. The part of the movie in which Egbert suddenly finds himself a film director is certainly odd, but it works not only as a foretaste of the surreal Hollywood satire of Fields' final bow, Never Give A Sucker An Even Break, but for the indignant way his family reacts when they discover him actually working for a change.Written by Fields under the pseudonym Mahatma Kane Jeeves, and directed by silent comedy vet Edward F. Cline with undoubted assistance from Fields, The Bank Dick is a feat of economy and skill, hopping across the screen from joke to joke, easy to watch and enjoy over and over again. Sure, it's taradiddle, but Fields invests every frame with his unique mold-breaking character, and that ain't hay. "},{"Title":"Who's watching the store?","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  W.C. Fields gets all the attention as a soft-hearted small-time grifter who manages to become a film director and then a bank detective.  Most of the film's plot concerns a seemingly poor investment Fields' character has encouraged his daughter's fiance to make with borrowed bank money, and how Fields attempts to keep a bank auditor from finding out.  Good solid laughs, with a chase scene right out of Mack Sennett and a phony satyrical happy ending to boot.  Good stuff. "},{"Title":"A very entertaining 74 minutes","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Although not as funny as the same team's Give a Sucker an Even Break (1941) &#x96; even though it re-uses some of the same gags including the much-reprinted car chase finale &#x96; there's still plenty of typical Fields' humor in this entry. True, the plot does take up some precious screen time that could have been better used for comedy and Franklin Pangborn's study of J. Pinkerton Snoopington seems to run forever (although it does conclude with a marvelous gag which almost &#x96; I stress almost &#x96; makes up for all the tedium and marking time that has gone before. The rest of the support players are first class &#x96; particularly Russell Hicks and Grady Sutton. And music director. Charles Previn has provided a first-class score. In all, a very entertaining 74 minutes! "},{"Title":"Some Funny Stuff","Date":"23 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Henpecked Egbert Sousè (W. C. Fields) has comic adventures as a substitute film director and unlikely bank guard.Otis Ferguson was not so keen on it. He said, When the man (W.C. Fields) is funny he is terrific... but the story is makeshift, the other characters are stock types, the only pace discernible is the distance between drinks or the rhythm of the fleeting seconds it takes Fields to size up trouble and duck the hell out. It is number 8 of Stanley Kubrick's ten most favorite films. I have to agree more with Kubrick on this one. Ferguson comes down too hard, as some of the things he criticizes are what make it such a great comedy. That sort of stuff may not fly today for sophisticated audiences, but Fields fits right in with Keaton, Chaplin and others... he is a natural successor to the silent age. "},{"Title":"Ever do any boondoggling?","Date":"19 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Happy to say I found this film a lot more amusing than It's A Gift, reputed to be W.C. Fields' funniest. Made six years later than the earlier film, it's as if Fields realized that the repetitive nature of the bits in 'Gift' tended to wear the viewer out, whereas he presented each of his humorous situations here just once and moved the viewer on to the next. Yet at the same time he recycled some of the ideas from the 1934 flick, like the pronunciation of his last name (accent grave over the e, Souse/Bissonette), the irritable wife and a willingness to beat his kid to prove how much he loved him or her. I don't know if these themes were staples of his pictures because I haven't seen enough of them, so I guess I'll find out in due course.If you stay attentive to the opening credits you'll see one for Screenplay by Mahatma Kane Jeeves. Watching this film on Turner Classics and hosted by moderator Ben Mankiewicz, the origin of the name was explained by Fields' granddaughter, Dr. Harriet Fields. It was derived from one of Fields' sayings when he was getting ready to perform. He would ask for 'My hat, my cane and my shoes'. So a clever play on words, and as a word-smith, Fields sprinkles his story liberally with uncommon words like moon calf and jabbernowl. But he really caught my attention with a line that Hitchcock wound up using in his 1945 picture Spellbound when Ingrid Bergman says to Gregory Peck - Professor, you're suffering from mogo on the go-go. However the phrase used here was 'mogo on the ga-go-go'.Anyway, I found the picture to be highly entertaining, and even a bit risqué at times, Fields' caricature of being a souse notwithstanding. Every time the Black Pussy Cat Café came into view I had to wonder what was on Fields' mind, other than ordering up a depth bomb to wet his whistle. Similarly I would never had considered his proboscis to be an 'adsatitious excrescious', and by that time I thought he might have been making it all up as he went.Above all, make sure you stick around for the well choreographed car chase near the end of the film. It reminded me a lot of the painstaking choreography Chaplin put into some of his pictures. The ditch diggers in particular stayed right on cue for their bit, and the near misses with the dueling road cars was epic timing at it's best. Something you take for granted today but back in the Forties I imagine it was quite the feat. With all that, one's best take away from the picture might well be the advice Egbert Souse offered his soon to be son-in-law on preparing for the future, even if it was offered in convoluted Fieldsian double talk - 'Don't wait too long in life'. "},{"Title":"The Bank Dick","Date":"6 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Legendary comedy released by Universal starring the popular vaudeville actor, W.C. Fields, has him starring as an aimless goof with few prospects that happens to be in the right place at the right time, even though the circumstances and dangers for sitting on the alley bench he does could have gotten him killed. A bank robbery ends with one of the thieves getting away *without the loot* while the other (knocked unconscious by the first thief) is left knocked out underneath a bench for which Fields is sitting. He's considered a hero (!) when the police and bank representatives find one of the robbers left out cold while Fields gets up, dusting himself off, taking credit (obviously) for the save of the robbed money. Awarded for his *bravery* with a bank officer job for his efforts, Fields influences his unfortunate future son-in-law into using bank funds to invest in what soon appears to be an investment scheme (a smooth-talking, enthusiastic scoundrel in the saloon bamboozles Fields with his delivery on the potential of the investment) involving a meatsteak mine (!) with a nerdy bank examiner arriving in the California town of Lompoc as a potential threat as his job is to look through the books for any possible improprieties. So Fields sets out to keep the examiner in a drunken (or sickly) stooper until the soon-to-be son-in-law can get his bonus and pay back the bank what was taken to fund the investment. Included in the shenanigans of the scatter-brained plot include Fields getting involved with a film being made in town, dealing with his disapproving wife, demanding and highly opinionated mother-in-law (who doesn't like when he smokes), and violent acting-out daughter (who often hurls objects at his head!), lending his unwanted supposed expertise to a chauffeur working on his employer's car (when he balks at Fields she corrects him for his impoliteness!), & his having to drive the returning bank robber (able to rob the bank a second time and use Fields, who was to guard the bank so that he wouldn't return, as a shield to protect himself) out of town in a car that starts to fall apart all over dangerous and curvy dirt roads. His vernacular, reactions to sudden people that jolt him when he turns around, his shtick with a getaway hat that he accidentally loses off his head but is always nearby, the bits with his cigarette smoking, saloon trips to keep from getting dry, and how he walks or talks himself into one loony situation after another (sometimes by just being in a certain place, mostly the saloon, as characters appear and emerge) comprise this busy film. The movie doesn't operate under the formula of a moving plot that focuses on a singular story, The Bank Dick is more or less Fields' adventures and encounters that often present potential trouble or hardship. The end allows him to get out of every one of them and go away with a happy ending. My favorite bits involve Fields with the bank examiner. The film uses every bit of the town as Fields always winds up (even if inadvertently) in the middle of the most active of events happening there. I would be remiss to not mention that Shemp Howard has a supporting part as the operator of the Black Pussy Saloon. "},{"Title":"His 2 best The Bank Dick and It's a Gift","Date":"6 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Actually one of his more coherent films, as the story-line is much easier to follow than many of his other adventures, which were heavily censored and cut for time. He is always plagued with a terrible and unappreciative family. Always the teller of tall tales, he clumsily and accidentally foils an armed bank robbery, recovers the stolen money and exaggerates the entire thing. He attacked me with a sword that long...) He is then given the lowly position of special officer, A bank dick! Grady Sutton is also at his best as the inept bank teller and suitor of his 18 year old daughter. Also a small part for Shemp Howard as the proprietor of the Black Pussy Cafe Saloon. Fields gets robbed at the bank and becomes driver and hostage with one of the same robbers. Also contains many famous scenes including Is that gun loaded? (Field's to a little kid in a cowboy costume.) The movie director. The bank examiner meets Michael Finn. Another trademark ending where the getaway car is totally destroyed in an improbable and wild chase scene, like in some of his other films. As the car falls apart, the brakes fail, the engine falls out and a wheel comes off! Best running gag The Bank Manager's cold and unfeeling Allow me to give you another hearty handshake. Fields wins it all in the end A $10,000 movie contract, A $5,000 reward for capturing the bank robber, and the thought-to-be-worthless Beefsteak Mining Stock. He becomes rich and a changed man. Wonderful ending, as Fields, all resplendent in fine garments, calls and runs after Shemp who is whistling (like The Pied Piper) Listen to the Mockingbird. "},{"Title":"The invaluable Fields","Date":"18 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" W.C. Fields was invaluable as a comedian simply because he doesn't fit. Like Groucho or The Tramp or Mae West or Buster Keaton's stone face, Fields was such a strong personality that any situation or plot was simply an excuse to let him loose and see what kind of damage he could do.The first time that I saw Fields was in a bizarre 1933 short called The Fatal Glass of Beer. That was the one where he goes to the door of his snowbound cabin and proclaims And it ain't a fit night out for man nor beast. Then is rewarded with a face-full of fake snow. That's also the one where he utters the immortal words I think I'll go milk an Elk. From there, I set out to see everything of Fields that I could get my hands on. I have noticed an interesting thing In nearly every film, in nearly every short film, he always plays the same character, the same irascible, mean-spirited little man who hates children and dogs and whose entire existence is the endless pursuit of the drink and the misadventure therein. The experience is something akin to hanging out with the bad kids at school, you can see them getting away with doing bad stuff but it is a fun journey even if you only sit on the sidelines.Of his features, The Bank Dick is my favorite. He wrote the screenplay himself but the credit went under his pseudonym Mahatma Kane Jeeves (say that name out loud slowly). Like most of the great comedians of the time, he was given control over his own project but still had to battle the Hays office over content. For instance, the Black Pussy Cat Cafe was written in the original script as The Black Pussy Cafe and Snack Bar. Joe Breen and the Hays office changed the name even though somehow the film's title remained.He plays henpecked Egbert Sousé, his usual lecherous drunk who accidentally foils a bank robbery and is offered a job as the bank's guard. A light bulb goes off in his brain to employ his good-for-nothing future son-in-law in an embezzlement scheme to siphon bank funds into a fly-by-night mining enterprise. From there, it is just one damn thing after another. The movie has no real structure and in any other comedy that would be a problem but for Fields it's just a series of set ups and comic pay-offs that have no real connection. Like The Marx Brothers, the plot is more or less an afterthought. The problem in describing Fields is that he can't really be described in words, he's an experience, not an explanation.The persona that Fields created has, today, fallen out of favor. After a brief revival in the 70s, the generation that followed has yet to discover him and I don't think they ever will. Today, in these politically correct times, Fields drunk act doesn't fit. We take alcoholism seriously and a man whose happy pursuit of the sauce frames his very existence doesn't seem in step with the times. But for me, I am bound to see comedy for what it is. If is makes me laugh, it's not my business whether it's politically correct or not. That's why Hollywood had such a problem with Fields, he didn't fit the good-natured mold they wanted to fashion for him. "},{"Title":"a  gem","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" one of the most fascinating movies of W. C. Fields , it has rare gift to be more than a good comedy but an admirable work in which each detail impress and seems be perfect. it is not a surprise because W. C. Fields himself represents an entire universe. result - a fresh film, splendid for dialogs and gags, for the performance of Franklin Pangborn and for the flavor of fairy tale. a film who reminds basic values of society without be a moral lesson or only fun. part of long chain of films about the good American , it has the art to be a pure gem , using each nuance of script in wise manner. a movie from a lost period. so, a message. or only one of the greatest performances by W. C. Fields. "},{"Title":"Welcome To The Black Pussy Cat Cafe.","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I probably enjoy this at least as much as any of W. C. Fields' other flicks but I think it helps a lot to be in the proper mood. As an actor, Fields was sui generis. His gags, his gestures, his characters were all his own. He was even able to inject a bit of the Philadelphia vaudevillian into his Mister Macawber. It's hardly possible to imagine his playing a straight part or sharing the screen with an equal, as Bob Hope did with Bing Crosby. There was nobody like him.Therefore, whether or not you appreciate his comedy is going to depend almost entirely on your ability to appreciate the on-screen persona of W. C. Fields.You have to be in the proper mood to appreciate his bits of business. (The stories themselves are of practically no consequence.) You must ask yourself serious questions, such as When the ex-juggler tried to put his hat on and sets it on top of his upraised cane instead, is that funny? Are vile and politically incorrect habits like smoking and drinking amusing in themselves? Does it deserve a chuckle when a man's family hates him so much that they insult him in the third person when he's present? How about a man shuffling down the street of an indifferent town and muttering to himself about life's tribulations? I usually find his movies full of stretches of rough road -- a plump man with a turnip for a nose who shows a startle reaction to every unexpected sound or sight. But there are some good gags sprinkled along the dusty miles. Allow me to offer you a firm handshake, says the bank president, barely touching Fields' fingers with his own. And Fields in the Black Pussy Cat Cafe interrupting an intense conversation to turn to the bartender with a curious squint to ask, By the way, did I spend a twenty dollar bill here last night? I did? Whew, what a load off my mind. I thought I'd lost it. Or shepherding the dreaded bank examiner into the saloon, intending to incapacitate him before he can get to the books, and then slyly inquiring of the bar tender, Has, er, Michael Finn been here today? (Boys and girl, a mickey finn was slang for an alcoholic drink into which so-called knock-out drops had been placed, probably chloral hydrate.) If you see nothing funny in Fields passing his family at the breakfast table, swimming through a sea of humiliating derogations, and getting beaned by an object thrown by his young daughter just as he's walking out the door -- well, that's not too funny. But how about if the family continues with their aspersions for a bit more, until we cut to the still-open door and see Fields struggling to carry a potted plant the size of a garbage can inside in order to smash it over his little girls' head? "}{"Title":"Outrageous and subversive","Date":"22 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is just nuts from beginning to end the bizarre situations and characters really do defy description it must be seen to be believed. If it's 'about' anything, it's about a seemingly endless series of petty humiliations suffered by the pseudo-genteel king of pompous assery, our friend and alky Mr. Souse. The family is unbelievable, and the final chase scene is really scary the driving stunts are genuinely dangerous; hair raising.I'm adding this review for a specific reason, though, and that's the insertion of the stereotyped African-American in the bank line. I think a few people missed the subversion of that scene. I saw it and couldn't believe it, and had to watch it again. Viewers fixate on the stereotypical 'Yassuh-Massuh' characterization of the character, and, I think, miss the real point that among Souse's humiliations is being told to 'step aside' and wait for a Black customer at the bank! A Black customer who, while outrageously racially stereotyped, still proceeds to withdraw his money due to the bizarre hat of the White bank teller! This was 1940 GONE WITH THE WIND was made one year earlier, and the insertion of this scene, a buffoonish White Man being instructed to step aside for a Black Man, was a seriously radical gag. Seriously radical like I said, I couldn't believe it. I can't help but wonder what a Black audience made of this scene at the time of release my guess is delighted glee. The fact the Black Man is a degrading stereotype (which is how Blacks were portrayed in White movies at the time, always!) does not change in any way the true subversion of that one remarkable scene. It's not a Black Maid rolling her eyes at her Missus' frivolity or any such thing the Black Man is a full-fledged bank customer, is given preferential treatment over a White Man, and the relative silliness of Fields' Mr. Souse does not matter one bit. For that one scene this a truly special little movie. It's also screamingly funny, with practically every line spoken a priceless quote, and every sight gag destined to remain in your mind forever. My un-PC, hysterical favorite? The 'mountain team' of the film-within-a- film's romantic couple, and Fields' dumbfounded, short-joke exclamation Is she standing in a hole? So wrong. Wrong, wrong, wrong. "},{"Title":"This movie reminds me of Johann Sebastian Bach","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A music critic once said that the secret of Bach's magic could be summed up in several words Everything he wrote was flawless. This film is approximately one hour long, and does not contain a single wasted motion; to me, especially but not only because of its economy of length, is the most flawless motion picture ever made. The performing and writing of Fields in this picture always reminds me of the fruits of long and tireless Zen practice. Watch him maneuver glasses at the Black Pussy Cafe. The trajectory of every scene is perfectly comprehensible and economical in the light of what has come before. Its subject, Fields, plays off fugal countersubjects (hapless foils Grady Sutton, Franklin Pangborn,and wise non-fools like Shemp Howard) which are absurd yet flawless in their own right. Its climactic car chase is a gemlike climax. "},{"Title":"A Great Comedy","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    This is one of the few comedies from back in the day that is still funny today.  Sure aspects of the movie are dated, like the way Fields daughter and her boyfriend talk to each other or the scene with the black man, but overall it remains fresh.  The Fields character himself holds up well because he is an anti-hero and clearly has no morals.  He doesn't like his family, hates kids, is a drunk, he's always trying to do what will get him ahead, and an obnoxious liar.  This would create a despicable character if it wasn't for the fact that he is hilarious.  The plot for this movie is ridiculous but it really moves along and I don't think it would be as good if it was more plausible.  The chase scene at the end is actually more exciting to me then many chase scenes in modern movies, because it looks (and probably was) real dangerous to shoot, and they didn't have all the special effects guys and stuntmen that are all over movies today.  Anyway I recently sat down and rented this movie along with another classic comedy The Lady Eve.  I found that movie to be dull and not very funny at all, and proved to me how different comedic tastes were back in the 40s.  After that one I put off this movie thinking it would be just as unfunny, but I was wrong, this movie is great and I recommend it highly.  My favorite part comes at the beginning when he smacks his kid in the head, then she throws a bottle at him and he walks out the door.  You think he is leaving until he starts to come back in holding a huge potted plant which he is about to throw.  Unfortunately he is stopped from throwing it by his older daughter and her boyfriend, but it was still hilarious.  It was a perfect way to start the movie as it set the tone for what kind of character he was, and after watching the rest of it, you know that if they didnt show up he would have launched that pot at his like 8 year old daughter.  Classic.Zoopansick "},{"Title":"Not My Favourite Fields","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Bank Dick is reputed to be one of or even THE best W.C. Fields movie. I can't agree. I am a great fan of W.C. Fields, and ANY W.C. Fields is better than NO W.C. Fields, but this movie doesn't present the Fields that I like or want to see on screen.My W.C. Fields is a graceful man of good build, whose every movement and action seems to be executed to perfection. He may be at the mercy of a vengeful world, but he is in complete easy control of himself. Middle-aged by the time of all his great movies, he was still a man of energy and enthusiasm. The Fields of this movie is a very rotund fellow, who seemingly is making an effort in just moving around. The balance has of necessity swung from activity to dialogue, and however sharp and unconventional that dialogue, it comes from a sadly stationary Fields. The visual comedy there is has declined from Fields' own subtle mannerisms and gestures to blatant slapstick that could easily be the work of a stunt double.To watch this movie, for me is to long for the W.C. Fields of 1933, in his fifties but on the crest of a wave as a creative writer and performer... and feel pitifully sorry for the W.C. Fields of 1940, whose time has clearly passed, commercially and physically. "},{"Title":"Field(s) Of Drams","Date":"27 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've just had the chance to check this out again after several years. Time was I found Fields easy to take especially when he managed to slip some manual dexterity - at which he excelled - into his movies. Time, I fear, hasn't been kind to our boy though anyone who likes slapstick - and there are thousands, how else to account for the popularity of Chaplin - will enjoy this. It's well documented that Bill was fond of a dram or seven and I've heard serious debate on whether what appeared to be comic timing was actually the DTs and that aspect - the not-quite double take as he suddenly twitches as if beset by a swarm of invisible bees - is in evidence here in this self-penned tale of the head of a dysfunctional family who lucks into a job as security guard at a local bank. In the nothing-new-under-the-sun department scriptwriter Fields created a character named Egbert Souse pronounced SoosAY a good couple of decades before someone else created Hyacinth Bucket pronounced Bookay. Fields buffs will love this one. "},{"Title":"This Bank Dick is Flaccid","Date":"30 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I had no particularly high expectations for The Bank Dick but since it is reputed to be one of W.C. Fields' best movies I thought I'd take a flier on it. Not the worst movie I've ever seen but far from the best. The real problem is the acting is very mediocre. All the types are there... the shrewish wife, the nasty mother in law, the super-bratty offspring, con men, drunkards, etc. but they just don't pull their weight. Most of the lines aren't all that funny to begin with but they could succeed much better with superior delivery.As I think about it, comedies don't seem to age nearly as well on the whole as dramas. That must have to do partly with comedies being much more culturally/contextually dependent for their success with audiences. Perhaps whatever W.C. was trying to poke fun at or deflate is so irrelevant in 2011 that this dated movie just isn't worth the bother any longer. "},{"Title":"Incredibly unfunny","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" W.C. Fields plays a henpecked husband who's a police officer in a bank. That's about it for plot! What happens is a string of disjointed and increasingly stupid escapades with Fields becoming a director and a hero for catching bank robbers.I've never seen a Fields film but heard that this one was one of the best. I tuned in and HATED it! I didn't laugh or even smile once! This is one of those early movies where alcoholism is treated as a big joke and violence is supposed to be side-splitting. Fields mumbles most of his lines which ends up making his jokes either inaudible or lifeless. At the end it seems the filmmakers gave up and just threw in a WILD car chase which goes on forever and also isn't funny. I realize Fields is considered a genius and his movies classics but this one totally escapes me. "},{"Title":"**Terribly Unfunny Disaster**Partially Redeemed By  Special Effects Towards The End**","Date":"6 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't know what to say about this film except **It Stinks** W.C Fields would star in one or two more films after this prior to his death. I have watched most of his films and I can't think of one time I have laughed at any of his antics. If I was to say anything about this film I would say it is slow and meandering and without a payoff.I watch and love many old films and the reason I watched this one was to see Shemp Howard in a non stooges role and he is very underused in this film I think that back sixty years ago W.C Fields was probably funny to people and that was his charm, but his films today don't make any sense, because his jokes come from a lazy no good buffoon, who has no ambition, no drive, no anything!! The women in this film are bitches, and the kids are brats, and the businessmen are cold hearted bastards!! (*1/2 Out Of *****) And The *1/2 is for technical achievement towards the end Very Terrible Film!! "},{"Title":"A dated forerunner to Married with Children","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Elsie Mae Adele Brunch Sousé Shall I bounce a rock off his head?Agatha Sousé Respect your father, darling. What kind of a rock?Egbert Sousé, the main protagonist of W.C. Fields' the Bank Dick has no redeeming qualities &#150; neither does any member of his family or any other character in this 1940 movie.  Given the general fare that was available at the time, it is easy to see how a drinking, lying, dishonest anti-hero such as Sousé could be attractive to movie-goers of the 1940s.   Yet neither Sousé, nor any of his acquaintances or family members shows any depth, and the whole bunch is more banal than evil.    The movie is in no way realistic, nor does it offer any significant social commentary as a parable or fantasy.  Its cynicism was probably very refreshing in 1940, but it hardly matches latter-day imitations such as the TV series Married with Children.  In fact any one episode of Married with Children offers more sarcasm and mockery of family dysfunction than the whole of the Bank Dick.  It is not a bad movie, quite enjoyable to watch (with the exception of the scene of Sousé with the black bank customer, which has distinct racial undertones). Numerous phrases and scenes were stolen from the Bank Dick for other projects (for instance, the it's pronounced Sousé shtick was used most recently by the writers of Keeping Up Appearances.)   Still, this movie is certainly dated.  The only scene that continues to be fresh and satisfying in its own right is the hilarious car chase at the end.  The movie is worth watching primarily for its historical value if for no other reason.   "}]