[{"Title":"Hell Hath No Fury As The Lady Scorned...","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"82 out of 92 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  On the surface of it, THE LADY EVE is a delightfully shallow evening's entertainment. It's a clever little film, filled with great dialogue (Don't be vulgar, Jean. Let us be crooked, but never common.) and eccentric characters, from the leading lady Jean (a marvellous Barbara Stanwyck) and her much-beleaguered main man Charlie Pike (Henry Fonda) down to the other con artists that make up Jean's circle, including her dad Harry (Charles Coburn), sidekick Gerald (Melville Cooper) and Sir Alfred McGlennan Keith (Eric Blore)... or just Pearlie for short. Charlie is heir to the Pike Ale fortune, and while on a cruise home from South America, Harrington father and daughter decide to take the hapless lad to the metaphorical drycleaners. What neither of them gambles on is a romance that was always in the cards for Jean and Charlie. But just as Jean is about to go 'straight' for Charlie, he discovers that his girlfriend is part of a con racket, and unceremoniously dumps her. Hurt and determined to get revenge for his cruel parting words, Jean initiates a farce as the Lady Eve Sidwich of the film's title and infiltrates Charlie's home and heart again. She quickly teaches him a lesson he'll never forget, just as she realises how much she really still loves Charlie.Story-wise, then, it's no doubt that THE LADY EVE provides fine frothy entertainment. Pair that with the surreal touches added into the film by Preston Sturges (take for example the supposedly climactic scene in which Charlie repeats his words of love to Eve--Fonda never gets to play the scene straight, even though he has to maintain a stony face as his horse keeps butting into his speech... presumably to try to get him to stop talking!), and there's certainly plenty to keep one occupied as is. The film is, of course, a screwball comedy absolutely bent on throwing every possible obstacle it can into the path of its intended couple, coming up with more twists than you expect... However, thanks largely to the brilliant writing and direction provided by Sturges, it actually also plays very close and very insightfully to the theme of what Stanley Cavell calls 'remarriage comedy'. The idea behind this is that legal or religious marriages, the 'first' marriages of the couple concerned in such comedies, are actually sham marriages. It isn't saying 'I do' or signing a piece of paper that makes a marriage a marriage; it's the behaviour of the couple, their own endorsement, that makes it a true marriage. This theme is reflected in, for example, THE AWFUL TRUTH, which sees Lucy and Jerry Warriner divorcing (their first, sham marriage didn't work out) but getting back together again for a true, albeit not yet legalised, union. The same theme pervades THE PHILADELPHIA STORY. Preston Sturges very skilfully and effectively--but subtly!--brings this theme to his film as well. Eve and Charlie are married, but it is only when Charlie asks Jean for forgiveness and vice versa is it possible for the fact that they are married (to each other, as poor Charlie does not know!) to become significant and actually positively affirmed.This isn't the only interesting point the film makes while appearing to be little more than a fluffy piece of entertainment--when Charlie breaks Jean's heart, she tells him, The best girls aren't as good as you think they are and the bad ones aren't as bad. Not nearly as bad. She sets out to prove this, both in her fabricated 'good-girl' persona as Eve (later revealed to have had many MANY suitors) and her real 'bad-girl' con-artist self Jean (who has a soft heart and a love for Charlie that proves to be one of her virtues). Practically everyone in the film has (at least) two names by which they're known Jean/Eve, Charlie/Hopsie, Muggsy/Murgatroyd/Ambrose, Harry/Colonel Harrington, Pearlie/Sir Alfred and so on. This suggests, quite rightly, that people are complicated complex beings, and that appearances often have nothing to do with reality. It also brings the film's story to a head--Jean and Charlie can never be happy together until Charlie can accept Jean as she is, and this he presumably will have learnt through his short, disastrous 'marriage' to Eve.Stanwyck and Fonda are really outstanding in this film. Stanwyck's job is to persuasively depict two characters, and then effect a blend of the two of them in the final minutes of the story, and she pulls off both the sassy, confident Jean and the elegant, British Eve perfectly. It's not hard to imagine Charlie falling hard for Jean, even with her hard-headed casing of the joint and her prospective competition (appropriately deemed second-rate) for his affections... a very memorable scene involving her make-up mirror and a narrative voice-over, the latter of which is used to great effect in the lead-up to the 'romantic scene and horse' bit which follows later in the film. Fonda has the apparently easier job of appearing mostly colourless and stodgy as he spends most of his screen time reacting to situations created by both Jean and Eve, but I contend that it must really take quite a lot of true acting ability to execute the pratfalls that he does without making Charlie such a wimp that you can't imagine Jean still wanting him at the very end. Though not quite as effective as Cary Grant, who has to do the same thing in the face of Katharine Hepburn's breathlessly effusive Susan Vance in BRINGING UP BABY, Fonda still brings a sweet charm to his role as the not-at-all-slick, often befuddled Charlie Pike. Add these two classy performances to that given by the able supporting cast, and THE LADY EVE is not just well-scripted and directed, but also very very well-acted indeed.So, watch this film the first time just for fun--be charmed by the characters, by the dialogue, by the actors, by everything. Then watch it again to realise just how subtly and effectively THE LADY EVE actually makes several comments on marriage and on love. I highly recommend getting your hands on the Criterion Collection DVD, which has (aside from a tremendous photo gallery and interview with Peter Bogdanavich and other special features) a fantastic, thought-provoking commentary by film critic Marian Keane--it most certainly got *me* thinking!Great film, great entertainment, great message! "},{"Title":"A Tonic For The Senses","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"57 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As a lifelong Preston Sturges fan, I find the problem with submitting 'user comments' on his films to be twofold. The first is where to begin, the second how to stop. A third problem (growing out of the first two) manifests itself immediately upon watching a flawless jewel like THE LADY EVE why even bother to praise it? No matter how accurate or elegant a rave you write, they'd still be merely words, and words can't do Sturges justice...not after hearing and seeing his own words spinning like a thousand plates over the 90-odd minutes it takes for this film to utterly captivate you. Unlike many black-and-white products of the studio era, which generate condescension or apathy among the Gen X'ers of today (when do we get to Gen Z - or are we there already?), the Sturges cult grows with every passing year, as younger fans fall under his spell, drawn initially to his work for the still-startling energy of the stream of raspberries he blew at the Production Code. (In this sense, EVE marks a high point; it's all about sexual gamesmanship, and its tone is both matter-of-fact and dizzyingly playful at the same time.) But hopefully, they're coming for the sizzle and staying for the steak. Like all Sturges' Paramount films, EVE is an embarrassment of riches - a boudoir farce, a slapstick clinic, a cynical dialogue comedy AND a love story of great, soulful heart. It's especially recommended to anyone beset by misery and tribulation as a guaranteed restorative and cure-all. When a movie from any era can so completely take you out of yourself and lift the blackest of clouds without resorting to any cheapjack plot-gimmicks or trite manipulation of an audience's emotions, all you can do is be grateful. Though the unfailingly superb Sturges Players are on hand, in fine form (including of course his human rabbit's foot, Wm Demarest) EVE features a number of actors making their first and only appearances in a Sturges-directed film Stanwyck, Fonda, Eric Blore, Melville Cooper and perennial Fonda cohort Eugene Pallette. All of them take to the material like catnip, making one long for an alternate reality in which Preston Sturges could have remained unmolested at Paramount for 20 years and a dozen more films than he actually made, not only to see this cast reunited, but to see what might have resulted from any number of quality actors being exposed to the hothouse atmosphere of his screenplays. That it never worked out that way is one more reason to treasure THE LADY EVE. "},{"Title":"Eve, the temptress","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"45 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is another Preston Sturges masterpiece! With The Lady Eve, Mr. Sturges proves he was at the pinnacle of his career. Rarely do all elements mesh together into films that are pleasing as well as showing intelligence to the viewer. This comedy has its heart in the right place.Mr. Sturges assembled an amazing cast to appear in the movie. Barbara Stanwyck and Henry Fonda make the ideal players for Jean Harrington aka Lady Eve Sidwish, and Charles Pike. The saying that opposites attract is well demonstrated in the film when we watch these two different characters fall for one another. Ms. Stanwyck shows in this film her great timing; she is seen at her most attractive as the devious Jane/Eve. Henry Fonda is excellent playing comedy. Under Sturges' tight direction both these actors show why they were about the best in the business.The strength with Mr. Sturges' films are the fantastic group of actors that follow him from movie to movie. Thus, we see William Demarest, one of the best character actors of the time, playing Mugssie. Eric Blore, another impressive English actor does amazing work as Pearlie. Charles Coburn is perfect as the gambling father. Eugene Palette plays Charlie's father. There are many more that make contributions to the success of this film.Preston Sturges shows with this film he was one of the best auteurs in Hollywood, even when the term had not been coined. "},{"Title":"A brilliant comedy - from script to acting","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"38 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of my favorite films of the forties and, I believe, one of Barbara Stanwyck's best.  Fonda also gets a chance to show some comedic chops as well as the foil for her Eve.  It's apparent everyone involved knows they're in something good and enjoys it - Eugene Palette as Fonda's wealthy Father, William Demarest(think Uncle Charlie in My Three Sons)in one of his best supporting roles as Fonda's crusty valet, and Charles Coburn and Eric Blore doing brilliant comic character turns as card sharks on Eve's side.  Stanwyck hadn't really cared about clothes before(see Mad Miss Manton) but this time Edith Head came up with some innovations that suddenly made her a fashion hit as well.  Her bolero jackets, evening dresses, wedding gown and cap hats were big fashion successes, tailored to Stanwyck's tiny form.  But the real star is the sparkling dialogue, delivered flawlessly by everyone.  Plenty of one liners, double entendres and an incredibly sexy seduction in one long take where Stanwyck simply toys with Fonda's hair as he reclines, uncomfortably, on the floor beside her.  There are other scenes - Stanwyck sizing up the room with commentary as seen thru her makeup mirror...the dinner party where Fonda can't get over how much Eve looks like the girl he left on the ship...a sequence where Fonda's horse started to move in on a romantic scene so Sturges rewrote and reshot other parts, making Fonda the foil of the intrusive horse.  See if you can spot the take where the horse actually nibbles on Fonda and watch Stanwyck glide thru it all like a pro.  BRILLIANT film -- can't recommend it highly enough - five stars of five - MDMPHD> "},{"Title":"Sturges Perfection","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"34 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A second viewing of this after many years has confirmed it as truly one of the great comedies. I don't think Sturges was ever better (although I haven't seen all his films), and certainly he was never blessed with a better star pairing than Fonda and Stanwyck, plus his usual wonderful array of character comedians in the supporting roles. A double bill of Eve with Hail the Conquering Hero reveals that, while both still have their charms, Eve can still have a theatre rocking with laughter, while Hero leaves them a bit cold with its descent into Capra-cornish patriotism and mother love.The Lady Eve has one of my favourite performances ever from Henry Fonda, showing that his grave sincerity could serve screwball comedy equally as well as Fordian moral uplift. He takes some of the funniest deadpan pratfalls this side of Buster Keaton.And of course Stanwyck is a delight ... and Charles Coburn ... and Eugene Pallette ... and William Demarest ... and ... and ... ssshhh ... Eric Blore.If you've never seen it, give yourself a treat "},{"Title":"Oh Hopsie","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In this period of Henry Fonda's career, most of the good films was stuff he made away from his studio at 20th Century Fox. The Lady Eve is one of the best examples of that, With the success that Preston Sturges had with Christmas in July and The Great McGinty the year before, Paramount decided now they could trust Sturges with a big budget and an A list pair of leads. In fact they borrowed Henry Fonda from Darryl Zanuck and signed the then freelancing Barbara Stanwyck.This was a banner year in the career of Barbara Stanwyck. She did Meet John Doe, The Lady Eve and Ball of Fire in the same year, the last one she got an Oscar nomination for Best Actress. The Lady Eve came first and paved the way for a similar role in Ball of Fire.She's a street smart dame in both films, in the Lady Eve she's a shill for her conman father Charles Coburn and in Ball of Fire she's a nightclub singer and moll for gangster Dana Andrews. In both films she falls for rather withdrawn, naive, and bookish sort of men who bring out the mother instinct in her. In fact she has similar nicknames for them, Gary Cooper is called Pottsie and Henry Fonda is Hopsie.Stanwyck, Coburn, and Melville Cooper are a trio of con artists who are looking for a fresh pigeon and they find one in Henry Fonda who is a millionaire's kid. Fonda today would be called a trust fund baby, but he has an interest in science and he's coming back from the Amazon on a boat when meets up with the slick trio.Of course Stanwyck falls for the shy and bumbling Fonda, but there are many hurdles to overcome before these two find happiness.This may have been Henry Fonda's best comedy part. And like Joel McCrea in other Preston Sturges films, Fonda does so well in the part because he plays it absolutely straight. No tongue in cheek, no winks at the audience, Fonda plays it straight and sincere.The usual Preston Sturges stock company is here and prominent in the cast is always William Demarest as the mug that is a kind of bodyguard factotum for Fonda. Hired of course by Eugene Palette in another one of his crotchety millionaire father roles.Best scene in the film is right at the beginning as Stanwyck analyzes all the moves a lot of the other females on board are using to attract Fonda before she decides on a very direct approach.The Lady Eve holds up very well as do all of Preston Sturges's work after over 60 years. I do kind of wonder though if Stanwyck can control that streak of larceny in her even though she's marrying a millionaire who can give her anything. "},{"Title":"Exquisite comedy","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A stunningly beautiful film -- and very funny, too, with 2 of the strongest leads in film paired memorably.  Some moments, like Fonda slouching on the floor and Stanwyck drooping onto him in a wry parody of Hollywood lovemaking, actually achieve the grace and beauty of the best silent films. The story takes some fairly predictable turns, and the script and direction by Sturges are first rate.  Fonda is very broad but miraculously pulls it off, and Stanwyck revels in the excellent role she plays (two roles in one, no less, an actor's dream!).  One of the best comedies of the classic Hollywood era. "},{"Title":"An Interesting Combination That Works Very Well","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is an interesting combination of talents and material that works very well, thanks most of all to Preston Sturges's ability to create a distinctive feel to his pictures. The Lady Eve has many of the elements familiar to screwball comedy, and yet it is something a little different, a little more than the oddball characters and comical plot developments.Barbara Stanwyck has quite an interesting role that allows her at times to assume several different personas. She shows good versatility, and effectively brings out the different sides of her character's nature. Henry Fonda works better than you would expect in such a comic picture. He is wisely used as a straight man most of the time, and even his occasional stiffness actually fits the role.Much of the supporting cast gets only limited opportunities, but they are generally good also, especially Charles Coburn, who is perfectly cast as Stanwyck's shifty father.There are many amusing moments, yet often with a current of humanity underneath. Sturges and the cast keep the laughs coming while also making sure that you care about the characters. "},{"Title":"Great 1940s Comedy with Fonda and Stanwyck","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" OK so the plot of The Lady Eve doesn't make a lot of sense, but why should it? It's fast, funny, and offers two great stars--Barbara Stanwyck and Henry Fonda--great roles. Although both stars were better known for their dramatic roles, Fonda and Stanwyck breeze thru this romp in classic style.Fonda plays a rich goofus who falls for Jean (Stanwyck) onboard an ocean liner but she turns out to be a crook so he dumps her. To get even, she pretends to be the British Lady Eve and crashes his Connecticut manor. He falls for her again.Surprisingly racy lines for a 1941 comedy and a totally wonderful supporting cast make this a must see. Charles Coburn plays Stanwyck's father. Eugene Palette and Janet Beecher are Fonda's parents. William Demarest is the valet. Eric Blore is the faux earl. Melville Cooper is Coburn's valet. Robert Greig is the butler. Torben Meyer is the purser, and Martha O'Driscoll is a maid. The film is full of other faces familiar from Preston Sturges comedies Jimmy Conlin, Al Bridge, Julius Tannen, Robert Warwick, and Robert Dudley. Also look for Bess Flowers, Barbara Pepper, and Luis Alberni.First and foremost, however, are Stanwyck and Fonda. They made 3 films together and they are perfect Sturges types. He is still and gawky but basically good. She is slightly bad and sexy but basically good. It would be easy to replace Fonda in this film with another Sturges favorite, Joel McCrea, or replace Stanwyck with Veronica Lake (the star's of his Sullivan's Travels) and this would have been a good film. But Fonda and Stanwyck make this edgier than Lake and McCrea could have made it. Indeed if Fonda had been the star of Sullivan's Travels, that film would be in the top ten on all film fans' lists.But The Lady Eve is just terrific. It's a comedy that runs hot on pacing, great lines, and the charisma and chemistry of two major stars. How odd that this classic comedy received only one Oscar nomination--for writing. Preston Sturges would be nominated for writing 3 times and win for The Great McGinty. He was never nominated as a director. The Lady Eve, Sullivan's Travels, The Palm Beach Story, Miracle of Morgan's Creek, and Hail the Conquering Hero remain cornerstones of 40s comedy.The Lady Eve is a must see for fans of great comedy and the likes of Sturges, Stanwyck, and Fonda! "},{"Title":"Clever Sturges comedy and very, very funny...","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't know how I missed seeing this until now, but tonight I watched THE LADY EVE unfurl on TCM and took notice of how great the chemistry was between BARBARA STANWYCK and HENRY FONDA. And even more so, how fantastic their ability with screwball comedy had to be in order to make their characters as believable as they are.Fonda, especially, impressed me with his honestly naive interpretation of a man without guile. He seemed totally hoodwinked by Stanwyck's con artist, even in those relentless close-ups that captured every expression on his Honest Abe face. Stanwyck, of course, had a role tailored to her abilities and was at the top of her form as an actress.I would have liked a better role for Melville Cooper who is somewhat wasted in his rather thankless supporting role but Charles Coburn, William Demarest and Eric Blore have no such trouble with full-bodied character parts.Sturgess obviously is a master of long takes--and proves it again in his seduction scene where Stanwyck toys with Fonda's hair as she drapes herself across him, a spider spinning her web. Her best moment is the scene in the dining room where she uses her make-up mirror to make a running commentary on all the women who are ogling the rich catch (Fonda) while he becomes aware of the female attention. Although Fonda's pratfalls are painfully real, Sturges lets them occur a little too frequently. Demarest too has his share of falls--as he did in that other Sturges masterpiece, THE MIRACLE OF MORGAN'S CREEK.Fonda's performance ranks with his mild professor in THE MALE ANIMAL. As for Stanwyck, her professionalism has never been more solid. She was nominated in 1941 for Best Actress in BALL OF FIRE but she is equally impressive in her dual role assignment here. "}{"Title":"Outstanding classic comedy.","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Lady Eve is one of the most memorable comedies of the golden age, and today it stands as a highly entertaining movie that has a lot of enjoyably dated comedy. Particularly hilarious are the scenes in which Stanwyck spills her life story to Fonda as they swoosh under the train tunnel, and the scenes in which the food trays keep spilling on Fonda. The performances are great, and though it seems more like Stanwyck falls for Fonda out of pity more than love, the two work well together. And Barbara Stanwyck in that black, bare-midriff dress is one of the most breath-takingly beautiful images ever to appear on the screen. "},{"Title":"hilarious tour de force for two stars","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Henry Fonda and Barbara Stanwyck light up the delightful Preston Sturges comedy, The Lady Eve. Stanwyck plays a dual role as a con artist who falls for a mark, Henry Fonda, on board a ship and then, angry with his rejection of her, reappears in his life later as a member of the British upper class - you got it, the Lady Eve.Fonda is hilarious as a clueless child of privilege. Always the most subtle, internalized of actors, his facial expressions are priceless, as is his slapstick. The funniest scene takes place on a train when, as the train races along the tracks, Eve recounts her various love affairs while Fonda becomes more and more flummoxed.Betty Grable got a lot of publicity for her legs, but Stanwyck's were the best, shown to great advantage here, as is the rest of her gorgeous figure. She's fantastic in this and has great chemistry with Fonda. Stanwyck always creates a whole character, and she does here as well (in fact, two of them) as a woman who is smart, independent, vulnerable in love, and conniving when angry.A great comedy, not to be missed. "},{"Title":"The Suckersapiens and the Grifters","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Lady Eve marked an important milestone in the career of Preston Sturgis. Unlike his first two directed films (Christmas In July and The Great McGinty), Sturgis got a bigger film budget from Paramount and had two leading stars in his lead parts. Christmas In July had Dick Powell and Ella Raines in the lead roles. The Great McGinty starred Brian Donleavy and Akim Tamiroff. Now he had Henry Fonda and Barbara Stanwick. The success of the first two films convinced the studio to trust him.Are snakes necessary? That question is one of the double entendres that bedeck this story of a young innocent millionaire who finds love the hard way. Charles Pike (Fonda) is a Candide type, coming out of the Amazon Jungle with his factotum aide Muggsy (William Demerest) where he has been studying his passion - snakes. He is an available bachelor, and all the woman on the ocean liner that picks him up aim for him. The one who makes the least effort is Jean Harrington (the daughter of one Colonel Harrington - Charles Coburn). Jean does not smile or order Pike's Ale (The Ale that won for Yale), which Charles father (Eugene Palette) brews. She gets straight to the point - she trips him. His accidental falling over Jean's foot is symbolic of his eventually falling for Jean.Jean's motive is not love - she and her father and their valet Gerald (Melvin Cooper) are professional card sharks, and they plan to pluck Charles. But Charles and Jean fall in love, and she starts revolting against her father's view of the saps he cons whom he refers to as suckersapiens. The scene where she uses her wiles to thwart her father's attempts to make a killing at poker is quite funny, especially with Coburn's sudden reactions (What wonderful cards you've given to me., he mutters when she gives him an impossibly bad hand). The romance falls apart when Charles learns of Jean's card-sharping career. Later she meets an old con-artist friend, Sir Alfred MacGlennon Keith (Eric Blore) who knows the Pikes. Introducing Jean as his niece, Lady Eve Sidgewick , she enchants the society of the Pike family's town, and only gains the suspicions of two people Charles who does not know what to make at Lady Eve's great resemblance to Jean, and Muggsy, who is sure they are the same woman.You will enjoy the disastrous dinner party for Eve, where Charles changes clothes more frequently than a female model at a fashion show. You will enjoy Charles' attempt to propose to Eve, and the silent commentary of a horse who butt's in. You will also find out how Charles and Eve spent the most memorable railroad honeymoon in film comedy.Are snakes necessary? Yes, but so are card sharks and suckersapiens too. "},{"Title":"An absolute wonder!","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" One of the most delightful and remarkable traits of this movie is the perfect chemistry between Stanwyck and Fonda. As characters with completely opposing characteristics, the two act side by side with fantastic expressions - Fonda's bewildered acting is most hilarious - and great timing. Though many consider DOUBLE INDEMNITY to be Barbara Stanwyck's best film, I personally prefer THE LADY EVE because this role has a wider range. Stanwyck is the daughter of a professional gambler and is a pro when it comes to bewitching men for the purpose of cheating their money out of poker games. But she is also pure at heart and wants to come clean when she finally falls for a man probably unlike any she had ever encountered before. Then things go wrong, but the best part of the film starts right here, when Stanwyck becomes an actress playing an actress. It is simply amazing how perfect her acting is, to such a degree that Fonda's character doubts himself as to whether the lady in front of him is the woman he once knew or a different woman altogether. The film is very adept at making the audience feel slightly bewildered, like Fonda's character Charles Pike. It makes the viewers dazzled, leaving them feeling like Charles, while marveling at Jean Harrington's (Stanwyck) tactics. Full of witticisms and brilliant performances, THE LADY EVE is undoubtedly one of the best comedies of the flourishing year of 1941. "},{"Title":"The Two Faces Of Eve","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The one about the naive, unworldly guy falling for the fast-talking cynical gal who starts out by using him and winds up loving him is hardly new indeed Stanwyck herself played virtually the same role in Ball Of Fire whilst Gary Cooper, her 'victim' in Fire did something similar in Mr Deeds Goes To Town where Jean Arthur came to laugh and stayed to love and so on. Nevertheless Sturges is able to give a hackneyed plot a fresh coat of paint with some fine writing and direction and it does no harm to have a first-rate cast from the two leads, Fonda and Stanwyck through Eric Blore, Eugene Palette, Charles Coburn, Melville Cooper and fully paid-up member of the Preston Sturges Repertory Company William Deamarest. This is the one where virtually all the main characters have two names and Stanwyck comes complete with two personas; there should really be a sub-genre for films like this and others like Easy Living (written but not directed by Sturgis) Sophisticated Screwball but call it what you will it's still great. "},{"Title":"Stanwyck is brilliant...the writing here is excellent....","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My first foray into the films of director Preston Sturges (I've been a bit hesitant to watch one of his films, for fear of disappointment I guess) came with THE LADY EVE. Well, I wasn't disappointed- it was amazing! The dialogue was scorchingly witty and fast-paced and Barbara Stanwyck was just perfect. Forget the hoo-ha over Miss Stanwyck not winning the Oscar in 1944 for her Phyllis Dietrichson in the classic noir DOUBLE INDEMNITY. She should have won it for this film! She was nominated in 1941, but for BALL OF FIRE (another screwball comedy with Gary Cooper as her leading man, directed by Howard Hawks). I've not seen the film. so I can't really judge if she's any better there than here, but it's hard to see anyone topping this performance in that year. Forget the de Havilland-Fontaine battle, this should have been Barbara's year! It contains one one of the most sexiest scenes I've yet seen- you all know which one, the scene in Stanwyck's cabin with Fonda where she rakes her fingers through his hair, leaving him literally frozen and quite breathless! Hopsie (Fonda, also wonderful and taking pratfalls with an ease I never thought possible)looks like he needs a cold shower, and so does the audience! Phew!I just loved it! "},{"Title":"Classic screwball romance","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Probably one of the classic screwball romantic comedies of all time, this film remains a fast and furious delight. The comedy isn't just in the witty lines, but the sudden bits of business, the abrupt switches from high comedy to slapstick, and the wonderful interplay of the performers. Henry Fonda and Barbara Stanwyck were never funnier, livelier, nor would either of them be more romantic. There are so many memorable scenes, such as the disastrous dinner party (with Fonda tripping all over himself or tripping up others), or the honeymoon on the train, that it's impossible to do the film justice. It's one of the high points of literacy in Preston Sturges's career, with such gems as Eric Blore's comment I positively swill in their ale, or William Demarest's declaration Positively the same dame! It's positively one of Preston Sturges's best comedies. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Romantic Comedy","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After one year in Amazon researching snakes, the naive ophidiologist Charles Pike (Henry Fonda) returns to the United States in a transatlantic. Charles is the son of the Connecticut's brewery millionaire Mr. Pike (Eugene Palette) and disputed by gold diggers. The swindlers Jean Harrington (Barbara Stanwyck), her father Colonel Harrington (Charles Coburn) and their friend Gerald (Melville Cooper) plan a confidence trick on Charles, but unexpectedly Jean falls in love with Charles and she calls off the scheme. However Charles's bodyguard Muggsy (William Demarest) discovers that Jean is a con-artist and the disappointed Charles leaves Jean. Sometime later, in New York, the trio of con-artists meets their friend Sir Alfred McGlennan Keith (Eric Blore) in the horse races and they learn that Sir Alfred belonged to the high-society of Connecticut based on the reputation he had built. Jean sees the opportunity to take revenge at Charles, and she travels to the house of her aunt pretending to be the British noble Lady Eve. Mr. Pike promotes a party for Lady Eve and she seduces Charles that proposes her. But her intention is to get even with Charles. The Lady Eve is a wonderful romantic comedy by Preston Sturges. The lovely Barbara Stanwyck has a witty performance in the role of a swindler that falls in love with a naive heir. The best moments of the movie belongs to her and I laughed when she tells her adventure in the tube in New York; or when she discloses her love affairs to Charles in their honeymoon. Henry Fonda is funny in the role of a simple and credulous son of a millionaire. The result is a movie that makes laugh and feels nostalgia for a time when the society could buy a story so delightfully unbelievable and witty. My vote is eight. Title (Brazil) As Três Noites de Eva (The Three Nights of Eve) "},{"Title":"She needs him like the ax needs the turkey!","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Not many actors could make an unscrupulous, vindictive cardsharp lovable. Then again, not every actor is Barbara Stanwyck, and she accomplishes this daunting task beautifully in The Lady Eve. Jean Harrington (Stanwyck) and her father, the Colonel (James Coburn), are a daughter/father con artist team who prey on unwitting rich folks on cruise ships. On one such cruise, they meet their richest, most naive victim Charles Pike (Henry Fonda), a hopelessly gullible reptile lover who's just spent a year in the Amazon. He's been far away from civilization... and from women, so imagine his stunned reaction when sexy, worldly Jean makes a pass at him. Jean initially just wants Charles's money, but she unexpectedly falls in love. Charles, however, finds out about Jean and her father's shady ways and unceremoniously dumps her. This really throws Jean for a loop she's used to breaking hearts, not having her own broken. She's refuses to let some pampered rich boy permanently wound her pride, so she decides to exact her own unique revenge on the deserving Charles...The Lady Eve is indeed a fine comedy, but I didn't quite love it as much as I thought I would. I think it's because, in the end, they completely de-claw Jean and have her throw herself back at Charles. I don't care what anyone says there's no way a vibrant, feisty, independent woman like Jean would ever fall for an effete nincompoop like Charles. She may be a con artist, but that doesn't mean she shouldn't have standards! I thought Charles could have been written better; there's a huge difference between innocence and stupidity. I much preferred the relationship between Jean and her father. While hardly a good role model, he obviously loves his daughter and even supports her when she toys with the idea of going on the straight and narrow to win Charles.Stanwyck owns this movie. Like Bette Davis, she was never a conventional, classic beauty, but it was her confidence, style, and way she carried herself that made her a knockout. Stanwyck also gets to don gorgeous Edith Head dresses, including that resplendent, sparkling white gown with cap sleeves (you have any idea how hard it is to carry off cap sleeves?) that she wears when she re-enters Charles's life.So, in my humble opinion, the romance falls a little flat, but the comedy sure doesn't! To see Stanwyck at her most seductive and Henry Fonda at his most ridiculous, don't miss The Lady Eve. "},{"Title":"small time cheats on the prowl","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" small time card cheats Charles Coburn and Barbara Stanwyck meet up with Henry Fonda, the rich heir to Pike's Ale, on a cruise ship. At first, they try to take his money at cards, but the more Stanwyck gets to know Henry Fonda, the less sure she is. Coburn (Uncle Piggie from Gentlemen Prefer Blondes) plays Colonel Harrington, and Stanwyck (Double Indemnity and SO many others) plays Jean Harrington, his niece, and they work as a team. William Demarest, Pike's valet (played Uncle Charlie on TV's My Three Sons) quickly figures out their racket. all around fun ensues, and my only problem with this movie is how easily Henry Fonda (Charlie Pike) is fooled as actors play several parts, with little or no changes in hair-style. anyhoo...there are some great scenes, such as when Jean Harrington narrates the competition as girls throw themselves at Pike, and again on the train when Jean talks about her past. "}{"Title":"Another bona fide gem from the astute Preston Sturges.","Date":"17 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Fresh from his Amazonian based jungle adventures, wealthy Charles Pike Henry Fonda is ripe for some female company, you would think? However, as he sets off home for New York aboard a luxury liner, Charles is oblivious to the attentions of all the women on board, with one exception, con-woman Jean Harrington Barbara Stanwyck. Who, aided by her card-sharp father, set about fleecing Pike of some serious cash. Until that is, Jean starts to fall for Charles and a turn of events will see The Lady Eve Sidwich put in an appearance.The Lady Eve is one of Preston Sturges' best romantic comedies. Dripping with sly asides at the snobbish and fusing slap-stick with its gender inversion satire, Eve's ending may never be in doubt, but the journey getting there is an unadulterated joy. Flawless direction from Sturges and cracking performances from the leads, most notably Stanwyck who cements her standing as one of the finest comedienne's of her generation, Eve continues to this day to be a darling of critics and fans alike. Back in 1994 the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress, the reasons correctly cited as being culturally, historically, and aesthetically significant.Co-written by Sturges and Monckton Hoffe, the story is a loose reworking of a Hoffe story titled Two Bad Hats (also the original title for Eve the movie). A number of casting changes and rewrites to appease the Hays Office Censors occurred, but in the end it all worked out rather well, with the set apparently a fun and easy one to be on. It's something that shows thru in the best of Sturges' film's, that his cast are relaxed and knowing they are working for one of the sharpest and in tune writers of 1940s cinema. With Stanwyck baring midriff and sexy legs, and Fonda pratfalling for all his worth, The Lady Eve is simply a must see in classic cinema terms. But as is the way with the best of Sturges, you need to see thru the froth and sample the cunning that he was want to deliver, because only then you come to understand why critics and some big hitting directors have lauded him for the brilliant work that he did. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Sturges, Fonda, Stanwyck = Perfection","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is pure perfection. That's all that needs to be said. Sturges may be the greatest comedy writer/director of all time. Mel Brooks & Woody Allen, are the only two who could give him a run for his money. Fonda & Stanwyck are perfect. This is my first movie to see Stanwyck and I was beyond amazed at her talent and beauty. Fonda is a favorite of mine and he doesn't disappoint. I say forget the next Movie of the Week, and go to your video store and rent this one. A perfect date movie. I love the line, I need him like the ax needs the turkey. Forget the romantic comedies of today. Instead rent The Lady Eve along with It Happened One Night, and sit back by yourself (like me), or cuddle up with the one you love, and enjoy the show. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Sturges fails again","Date":"9 July 2011","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Barbara Stanwyck (Jean/Lady Eve) and her father Charles Coburn are tricksters who take money from the wealthy by cheating at cards. They single out wealthy Henry Fonda (Charles) as a target aboard a cruise ship but Stanwyck falls in love with Fonda and wants to back out of fleecing him of his money. Too late coz Fonda's bodyguard William Demarest (Muggsy) has found out how Stanwyck and Coburn make their living and tells Fonda about it, who subsequently ends his engagement plans with Stanwyck. Stanwyck plans revenge.....Stanwyck and Coburn are the standout characters in this film. Unfortunately, EVERYONE else is annoying - especially Fonda and Demarest - and when these 2 characters have so much screen time, this can't possibly make for a good film. So it's not. The film starts with some hope as Stanwyck dominates in some amusing scenes, eg, her running commentary as she watches the interaction of flirtatious women with Fonda through her face mirror before taking her own more direct way of effecting an introduction. The standout amusing scene for me is when Coburn is trying to fleece Fonda at cards and Stanwyck plays Coburn at his own game in order to protect Fonda from losing a fortune - clever Barbara.After this amusing beginning, the film just falls away, especially in the second half of the film where Stanwyck re-invents herself as part of the English aristocracy. She sounds exactly the same and looks exactly the same yet she fools Fonda completely into thinking that she is a different woman to the one that he had fallen in love with aboard the ship. How dumb is that? But it's one of Preston Sturges' trademarks - an unbelievable storyline. While the film is certainly better than his complete failure which is Sullivan's Travels which was released in the same year, it is still not entertaining enough and riddled with slapstick scenes like all his efforts which tediously drag on - Unfaithfully Yours and Miracle at Morgan's Creek are two good master-classes of his in how to bore an audience with slapstick and irritating actors.The film started with promise but Fonda is sooo irritatingly naive and given such crass dialogue, eg 'you sure are a strange woman for a man who's spent a year up the Amazon to be meeting' - what the hell kind of rubbish dialogue is that - that it's just impossible to relate to the guy. And if slapstick is your thing - routines that you can see coming from a mile off - then you need a brain transplant and you will enjoy this rather bland affair. And who on earth told William Demarest that he was funny......God help us! "},{"Title":"Why is this a classic?","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"19 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"    I have heard a lot about this movie from various critics and in books, and after seeing it I'm not too impressed.  To me it just seemed like a routine studio romantic comedy from the 30s or 40s.  It didn't have a unique storyline or great ending.  Even the famous scene was just Fonda lying on the floor looking stupid while Stanwyck tricks him into loving her.  In fact I can barely remember the context of her speech let alone any funny/memorable lines from it (and i just watched the movie).  Now I realize that modern taste in comedy is a lot different from what was considered funny back then; but movies like Bringing up Baby most of the Marx Bros. films and Abbott and Costello are all funnier to me then this.  Fonda is especially bland and unfunny (oh wait, he's always bland and unfunny) in his role as the overly stupid wealthy bachelor.  He trips over stuff but has no funny lines and is vanilla as per usual.  Stanwyck is much better, and keeps things lively on her end.  Also to the films credit the pace is quick and things move along.  The movie wasn't horrible or anything like that, but I don't see why this particular movie became as famous as it did in front of any of the hundreds and hundreds of other studio releases from the same time period.  If your video store still caries old vhs tapes why don't you try out this experiment...Rent The Lady Eve, and then rent like 3 other old comedies from the late 30s and early 40s.  Then ask yourself, does this movie standout from the others; and if so why?  If you answer yes, come back here and explain it to me, I'd love to know why.Zoopansick   "},{"Title":"Fun but nonsensical","Date":"23 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I realize that the screwball comedy genre has its own kind of logic, but The Lady Eve strikes me as having no logic at all. Though well written, which one expects from a Sturges film, I came away with the unsettling sense that the audience was being played for suckers. The turning point in the film appears to be the moment when Hopsie was presented with a photo of Jean and her father as evidence of their swindling career. This can come as no surprise to the audience, which has already seen how the Colonel can turn a five-card nothing into four kings, then four aces. But can a supposed scientist (I forget the proper name for snake hunter) be so gullible as to fall for his blatant card-sharpery? And when he confronts Jean with the photo, can his sense of betrayal and humiliation really be so shocking to her? Yet this event sends Jean on a completely preposterous crusade of revenge. What exactly is her trick? To pose as an upper-class Brit who, by coincidence, looks exactly like Jean. And though Muggsy, Hopsie's dimwit ward, sees though the imposture immediately, our scientist falls for it, literally and figuratively, in no time.Jean/Eve finally delivers the coup de grace while on their honeymoon -- in a train, of course. As she divulges her numerous supposed dalliances, Sturges intercuts shots of train whistles, lightning and the obligatory tunnel. Maybe this Freudian stuff was novel back in 1941; today it verges on self- parody. Watching Hopsie detrain with a muddy pratfall (one of literally dozens in the film), Eve/Jean seems to have an attack of conscience, as though she's just now realizing he the only man I ever loved. Stanwyck is sensational, even if her character(s) make no sense at all. William Demarest is very good, and occasionally hilarious, as Muggsy. The whole case, in fact, is first-rate. But Fonda's character is impossible to sympathize with, let alone root for, so improbably clueless and clumsy is Hopsie. Is he really surprised that an English aristocrat is not a virgin (the whole point of the setup)? Is he really so stupid as to fall for a grifter not once, but twice? Yes, evidently he is. It's clear to me that his real element is with the snakes of the Amazon, not those of Connecticut. "},{"Title":"Stanwyck is ingenious","Date":"8 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Barbara Stanwyck absolutely amazes me, she can play any type of role with skill, gusto and panache and has to be the most versatile actress of all time. This is one of her top five performances of all time, she is brilliant. Every movie she is in she seems to have such rapport with the rest of the cast. Henry Fonda is also at his best, a great performance. Preston Sturges direction is sublime, the screenplay is ingenious. Certainly one of the funniest movies of ever made. Highly entertaining and what a supporting cast - Charles Coburn, Eugene Palette and William Demarest are all amazing. It is a joy from start to finish, never a dull moment. Wonderful. "},{"Title":"Notes from my big screen intro 2/25/2010. Good evening class, the word for today is, Wit.","Date":"1 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Of all the masterpieces Preston Sturges wrote and directed, many claim this sparkling comedy is his very best. Wonderfully acted by Barbara Stanwyck and Henry Fonda, it's a classic battle of the sexes. An updating of Adam (think snake) and Eve (think apple) displaying the director-writer's magical gifts for clever dialogue, expert comic timing and subtle blending of cynicism and romanticism. From the snake in the opening credits getting hit on the head by an apple to Barbara Stanwyck eating an apple in her first scene, the Garden of Eden symbolism is well&#x85; paradise! She plays part of a team of professional card sharks; he plays a shy (or introverted) millionaire's son and an easy target. The hustle, which unfolds during an Atlantic cruise, goes according to plan until they hit a snag The lady falls in love. The gags are everywhere and fly fast so laugh quick or you'll miss one. The puns are also reflective as when Stanwyck narrates the scene like a director using her compact mirror. This is all before Fonda falls for her, the first of many times. Who is this director with the funny name, Preston Sturges? He was born wealthy to a family that made cosmetics, he traveled Europe with his socially connected mother (who used to cheat at cards) and he invented kissable lipstick. Preston Sturges became a writer by accident. When he complained about a play he had seen, a friend challenged him to write something better. So in six days he wrote the Broadway hit STRICTLY DISHONORABLE which earned him $300,000 in royalties and led to a Hollywood contract. He then wrote hit-after-hit screenplays for three different studios, including TWENTIETH CENTURY, IMITATION OF LIFE, EASY LIVING, IF I WERE KING & REMEMBER THE NIGHT. Sturges became frustrated when directors altered his scripts so he offered to direct his next, THE GREAT McGINTY for only $1. It became a hit and off he went to both write and direct SULLIVAN'S TRAVELS, THE PALM BEACH STORY, THE MIRACLE OF MORGAN'S CREEK, and HAIL THE CONQUERING HERO. Sturges cast Henry Fonda as Charles, Barbara Stanwyck as Jean, and Charles Coburn as Stanwyck's father and card shark Colonel Handsome Harry Harrington in the lead roles. Also appearing in supporting roles are rotund Eugene Palette as Fonda's father, William Demarest as a body guard & watchdog and Eric Blore as English con-artist Sir Alfred. Paramount gave Sturges his biggest budget yet, allowing him to hire Edith Head to design twenty-five gowns for Stanwyck and fourteen changes of costume for Fonda. Sturges liked a different kind of fashion &#x96; he directed wearing funny hats and loud sport coats... the reason for the peculiar outfits, he told visitors, was that it helped crew members find him in crowds. One of the many devices writer Sturges employees is to have lines or words explained by other characters, redefined in funny ways. And he loved funny names, so every character in the film has two or three names. Stanwyck plays Eugenia or Jean & Eve; Fonda plays Charles or Charlie Poncefort Pike with the nickname of Hopsy cause his father's in the ale (not beer) business, William Demhurst plays Ambrose Murgatroyd nicknamed Mugsy; and froggy voiced Eugene Pallet plays appropriately Horace! Another odd habit he had - sometimes while directing a scene he had to stuff a handkerchief in his mouth to keep from laughing out-loud and ruining good takes. In his biography of Barbara Stanwyck, Axel Madsen wrote that the actress compared Sturges' set to a 'carnival.' The set was so much fun that instead of going to their trailers between setups, the players relaxed in canvas chairs with their sparkling director, listening to his fascinating stories. To get into the mood for Barbara's bedroom scene, Sturges even directed the scene wearing a bathrobe! In an interview about Sturges for The New York Times she said, He'd ask us how we liked the lines. If we didn't, we'd say so, and he'd say the scriptwriter was fifty kinds of an imbecile - and change them. But, you see, he wrote the thing himself. For Stanwyck, THE LADY EVE marked a real turning point in her career, made between REMEMBER THE NIGHT, MEET JOHN DOE & BALL OF FIRE. Audiences who were used to seeing her play tough working girls, sacrificing mothers or bitter prostitutes were dazzled by her stylish, sophisticated appearance in the Sturges' film. Here she radiated sex appeal in her scenes with Henry Fonda, whether she was throwing out a sleek leg to trip him or nibbling provocatively on his ear. In Fonda, she met her match. He too, always knew his lines and was affectionately called 'One-Take Fonda.' THE LADY EVE was a milestone film for him that came between two forgettable titles CHAD HANNA and something named WILD GEESE CALLING? After THE LADY EVE, he called Barbara his favorite leading lady. He said, she could act the hell out of any part. Considering the risqué nature of some of the scenes in THE LADY EVE, it's surprising that the censors didn't give Sturges more trouble over the film, particularly in regards to the eight love scenes. And later during a honeymoon confession scene &#x96; even the music, sound effects and weather are used to erotic and comic effect. But audiences and critics alike delighted in it and the film went on to win an Oscar nomination for Best Writing. Film critic Roger Ebert said, If I were asked to name the single scene in all of romantic comedy that was sexiest and funniest at the same time, I would say it's in Preston Sturges' screwball classic The Lady Eve. It was voted the Best Picture of the Year by the New York Times beating out that same year CITIZEN KANE & HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY! "},{"Title":"Meet John Doe meets Tom Joad","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie suffers from two problems Henry Fonda and the plot.  Fonda manages to do  some funny pratfalls, but he just isn't very adept at comedy.  Gary Cooper and Jimmy Stewart,  for instance, could portray earnest-yet-naive characters while still casting a humorous wink  at the audience.  Fonda, on the other hand, plays an earnest-yet-naive character with grim  determination.  He's Tom Joad with lots of money and a wacky girlfriend.The other problem is with the plot.  The first half of the movie is, in effect, Mr. Deeds Goes  to Town on a boat.  A bumbling, distracted, rich naif is targeted for romance by a woman  with mercenary motives.  He falls in love with her, and, despite her best efforts, she falls in  love with him.  Then, just as she's about to reveal everything, he finds out about her ulterior  motives on his own and, in a disillusioned funk, dumps her.At quayside, however, the plot turns.  Instead of taking the Jean Arthur approach (or, indeed,  the Barbara Stanwyck approach in Meet John Doe) and attempting to win back her man,  Stanwyck decides to get even with Fonda.  This is a refreshing twist on what is basically a  Frank Capra plot, but it is at this point that all semblance of character motivation breaks  down.  We're not quite sure why Stanwyck plots her revenge, we're not quite sure why it  works, we're not sure why Stanwyck recants (again!) after exacting her revenge, and we're  certainly not sure why, in the end, everything ends up happily.The supporting cast is uniformly good and there are some humorous moments.  As an  example of this particular type of genre (savvy dame falls for bookish guy), however, it  doesn't rate alongside Ball of Fire (a much better Stanwyck performance) or even Bringing  Up Baby. "},{"Title":"Didn't Do It for Me","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Maybe I wasn't in the right mood, but I just didn't think this film was that special. I can't say anything bad about it exactly, because there was nothing wrong with it. It just didn't have that spark that other movies of its type have.Maybe the problem lies with Henry Fonda, who I never thought had much chemistry as a romantic leading man. Barbara Stanwyck is great and sexy, so the fault doesn't lie with her.I almost feel bad about not liking this movie, because all of the elements for a good movie are there, and I can't give any rationale for my opinion. But for me it doesn't even come close to matching the allure of other screwball comedies from the 30s and 40s.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Fonda And The Film Are Horrible","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"20 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Henry Fonda's character in here just about made me puke. He is so stupid, it's more-than-annoying and simply a plain insult to any viewer with a modicum of intelligence. (For instance, Fonda falls in love with Barbara Stanwyck, and six months later doesn't recognize her when he sees her again?)This could have been much better with more emphasis on the con games between the two main characters, and more realism in the story.Summary one of the most overrated, stupid classic screwball comedies ever made. Screwball is a good term for this film. Fonda should have stuck with Westerns where he was at least somewhat palatable. "}{"Title":"brilliant rom-com from Sturges","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Charles Pike (Henry Fonda) is an heir to a beer fortune. He would rather study snakes in the jungle than face gold-digging reptiles in the modern jungle. He's going home on a cruise ship being hunted by every women on board. Jean Harrington (Barbara Stanwyck), her father Colonel Harrington (Charles Coburn) and his partner Gerald (Melville Cooper) are a team of con artists. Jean literally trips Charles into her trap. Muggsy (William Demarest) is his ever-present suspicious guardian.Stanwyck talking trash about the other girls is brilliant. It's classic Preston Sturges and it takes a ballsy chick like Stanwyck to deliver those lines properly. She's great and so is Henry Fonda who has the sincere boy scout quality. The moment he pulls down her revealing skirt is all Fonda. They make for quite a rom-com pairing and Sturges showcases them magnificently. "},{"Title":"a card shark falls in love with her prey","Date":"3 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a tale of love and trickery. About coning and redemption . a man who studies snakes on the amazon fall for a beautiful woman on ship back home. She is a hustler who targets him. but even she cannot help who she falls in love with. love is a funny thing it can change people some times for good other times no so much . But in this case it was for good. They bonded instantly as couples do in these old films. Its kind of corny yet charming because thats how things were back then . I was a simpler time.I always like the stereotypical old movie dynamic a guy a love interest something happens that makes the couple break up. There is a break up period and at the end of the film they find their way back to each other . Its Not all realistic but hey its the movies thats why people pay money to go and see them for a little break from reality . This film gives that to the audience. "},{"Title":"Screwball","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After seeing Bringing Up Baby I was extremely excited to watch this movie. I fell in love screwball comedies and I just wanted to watch all screwball comedies that were out there. I was so excited to start watching the movie but as it started to go along I was really annoyed with the movie. I was not as thrilled as I was starting is as I was watching it. I did not really appreciate the storyline with Barbara Stanwyck. On the other hand, Henry Fonda played a great Charles. Even though I did not like the storyline I could still sense the amazing chemistry between Barbara Stanwyck and Henry Fonda. It was really unbelievable how well the acted together. I do not think that I am going to rule this movie out completely. I think that maybe I can give it another chance and maybe I can appreciate it the second time watching it. "},{"Title":"Oh Hopsy!","Date":"20 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I thought this movie was wonderfully done for the time frame. The concept of a con-gone-wrong (fake love turning to real love) is still a plot that is widely used today. The acting was superb and I loved the fast-paced dialog. It's borderline woman-empowering when you see the control Jean has over her men and the revenge that she exacted so magnificently. I thought that the cinematography was the smoothest I've seen in the movies I've watched leading up to 1941. I don't know if I would place it in the screwball comedy category, however. Parts were comedic but overall it seemed more like a romance. Jean and Hopsy were the least funny of the cast, however the side characters lightened the movie up a bit and allowed for some comic relief. "},{"Title":"Not too comedic for my taste","Date":"19 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After watching this movie it was a little on the fence for me. I enjoyed it but overall I didn't really find it funny but more of a dramatic love story. It was funny in very subtle ways like when Charles first boarded the ship after his expedition in South America all of the women were obviously eyeballing him but he didn't care for it and actually found it awkward. It was also funny when Jean came back as Eve to see him at his fathers party and he kept making a mess of himself by tripping over furniture and getting multiple things spilled on him. The one thing that I found the most funny and maybe even a little confusing was at the very end when both Charles and Jean were aboard another ship and went into Jean's cabin; after they shut the door Charles's body guard, Burrows, sneaks out of the cabin and says That's definitely the same dame. I thought that was pretty random and although funny didn't really fit with the rest of the movie's theme. As far as the camera work it was very clean and the camera followed the actors and actresses with ease. This shows me that the camera work is starting to improve and update as time goes on because before the camera used to just stay in one place. The actors and actresses spoke very clearly and the lighting was very good. As far as form goes the film was great but as far as content it was okay but not overly hilarious. "},{"Title":"Which girl?","Date":"9 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Charles the man that just came back home seems to have every woman watching him everywhere he goes but one finds a way to get his attention. This may turn into a relationship, but what if it ended and the girlfriend disguised herself as another woman and makes Charles fall for her again and not even know it. Now that would be funny, but wait she just makes it even better as the Lady Eve to create more comedy with that.Eve knows how to wrap herself around Charles who isn't the brightest around women is able to create a great screwball comedy that will make anyone laugh. The two characters take the audience through another film that you really don't need to understand as long as you are laughing.A great film done by Preston Sturges probably one his best I have seen with a great set of actors that make the comedy so good. "},{"Title":"O how I adore thee...","Date":"27 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Lady Eve is a magnificent screwball-comedy. I came across this gem of a film when browsing through the earlier half of Henry Fonda's filmography one Sunday morning - and yes, the date and time in which I discovered this film is relevant to my liking of it. It is sweet, charming, hilarious, and offers to legendary stars at their zeniths of attractiveness and acting genius. And yes, again, this film features some of Fonda's and Stanwyck's greatest performances in the genre of comedy - that is undeniable.The scene in which Barbara Stanwyck's character strokes Henry Fonda's character's hair while holding him is one that will end my very existence. Aside from the aesthetically yummy scenes of the movie, including a scene where Henry dons a very handsome white suit, Henry Fonda gives a strong performance. He displays unbelievable charm in his gullible and oh-so-innocent attitude that it's rather hard not to admire and root for Fonda in this film. Especially when one has seen some of his other films, where he portrays less-than-kind Western psychopaths. Barbara Stanwyck also gives an incredible performance - seeing this film, one couldn't possibly think that Stanwyck can ever do wrong.I definitely recommend the viewing of this film - even if it's nothing more than to see Fonda and Stanwyck share phenomenal chemistry. "},{"Title":"Lady?","Date":"10 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Preston Sturges directed this well-regarded comedy with Henry Fonda playing Charles Pike, a rich but unsophisticated heir to a brewing family who is returning from the Amazon by ship after studying snakes. He meets and falls in love with Jean Harrington(played by Barbara Stanwyck) who is really a con artist, along with Col. Harrington(Charles Coburn) a notorious card shark who tries to swindle poor clueless Charles by a crooked card game, then by having Jean marry him for the money. After getting wise to their scheme, the jilted Jean decides to get back at Charles by pretending to be someone else at his mansion home! Can real love blossom despite the lies? Disappointing comedy does not live up to its reputation, since any effective humor is undermined by two lead characters it's impossible to care about or find endearing. "},{"Title":"Review for The Lady Eve","Date":"9 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Lady Eve was an interesting movie to say the least. Actually the entire screball comedy genre is a little strange; the characters are cooky and the story line does not have much depth, but I guess that is the point. The Lady Eve didn't make me laugh as much as other screwball comedies, and it was not to interesting either. However I found Eve's role very entertaining. This was the first movie I saw from the 1930's that featured a manipulative, smart, and driven woman as the main character. I man not agree with what she did in the movie, but I think the film has a hidden women's rights movement message without many people realizing this. Although Eve was vindictive and some might even say evil she played her role very well and helped kept the weak story interesting. None of the other actors really jumped out as me as they all played their role, but I don't think it was anything special. In fact I found Henry Fonda quite annoying and even a little disappointing in this movie; maybe that's how it was supposed to be, but I did not like it. I may not have enjoyed the movie itself all that much, but the message it portrays and the role of Eve sway my opinion in a more positive way. "},{"Title":"Not an exciting movie","Date":"26 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film did not keep my attention, it was funny but in a silent film sense. The roles of the actors were silly and not very entertaining, it did have a few funny scenes where genuine laughter came but other than those few scenes nothing really stood out that would make it a amazing film. the quality of the film was pretty good other than some scenes where there was a few black dots on the screen. The main male character came off as being brilliant but naive when it comes to everyday social parts of life which gives the impression that he can be easily tricked into doing something which is what essentially happens in the end of the movie. "}{"Title":"Starts slow, but becomes an outstanding romantic comedy","Date":"23 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Lady Eve is a classic and a treat to lovers of old comedies and romance films. Henry Fonda is perfectly cast as an innocent, typical, lovable guy who falls in love with a girl on a cruise ship (Barbara Stanwyck) until he learns that she and her father are con artists. The rest of the film involves the very funny plot of Stanwyck trying to win back Fonda. This film's storyline is a perfect example of a plot I love to see in a movie. It's full of laughs and very romantic. Barbara Stanwyck is beautiful and funny in this film. There is also a great supporting role by William Demarest, a typical comedic character actor popular at this time who plays the tough and funny guy he was known for. As much as I love this film, it's not quite perfect. It takes a little bit too long to get going at the start. The first 50 minutes or so are, in a sense, just setting up the plot and are filled with too many long scenes of romance and dialogue. Don't give up the film if you get bored, however. The second half is well worth the wait, and few romantic comedies are this funny and romantic without being predictable. A delightful, recommended film.***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"The Man Sturges","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What a year 1941 was for Sturges, with the release of not only his masterpiece, Sullivan's Travels, but also this screwball comedy about a scheming woman trying to con a rich ale company heir out of some of his fortune. Stanwyck is at her alluring best as the woman whose plan goes awry when she falls in love with her prey. Fonda is wonderful as the klutzy heir who is more interested in snakes than women. Both stars, better know for dramatic roles, show fine flair for comedy under Sturges' direction. The terrific supporting cast features Coburn as Stanwyck's card sharp father, Demarest as Fonda's suspicious caretaker, and the hilarious Palette as Fonda's rotund father. "},{"Title":"Smart, engaging, sophisticated piece of comedy.","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Preston Sturges is arguably the greatest writer/director of comedies in the 1930s and 1940s, and The Lady Eve is arguably his masterpiece, a splendid mix of raucous dialogue and love scenes that are just bursting with sexual connotation. After the success of his previous two writing and directing efforts, Sturges goes all out with the use of having two of the greatest stars in Hollywood as the leads Barbara Stanwyck and Henry Fonda. Stanwyck is a revelation here as the fiery, fast-talking femme fatale who succeeds twice in seducing the naive and extremely rich Charles Pike(Fonda). Fonda is good here, but he simply cannot match the power of Stanwyck, but I think that is what Sturges had in mind. The story is fascinating as we watch a con catch her prey, fall for it, then masquerade to catch it again. It is a wonderful piece of film that is such a joy to watch. Stanwyck is beautiful, the directing is smooth, and as with most Preston Sturges films, the screenplay is excellent. "},{"Title":"grows on you","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of the funniest films ever made, but it may not seem to be that the first time you see it, thanks to Henry Fonda's underplaying of his part. And it is just his underplaying his role that makes it grow with every viewing, the perfect foil to the always superb Stanwick.  And Preston Sturges was a genius who produced only four films of note, but what films! You've heard the phrase die laughing... so don't watch it too many times. "},{"Title":"Smart, hilarious and non-stop.","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the only Preston Sturge's film I have seen (so far) and I was captivated from beginning to end (well, I could have done without the cheesy opening credits).  Barbara Stanwyk is gorgeous and Henry Fonda is hilariously naive and clumsy.  Though not the typical screw-ball comedy (Bringing Up Baby), The Lady Eve is genuinely superb because it blends in a rough intelligence with its slapstick.  If ever there was a comedy that truly takes its audience for a ride, this one is it.  This gem keeps you guessing and thinking, as well as laughing. "},{"Title":"Master of Snappy Dialogue","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sturges proves once again that he is the master of snappy dialogue, through both ingenious wordplay and faultless timing.  I love the way he will have two or three characters toss a catch phrase back and forth until its full absurdity flows forth.  His physical comedy also benefits from perfect timing and grace, especially in the hilarious dinner scene, which is as fine a piece of balletic clownery as one will see outside of Chaplin.  Another example of the Sturges touch is the way he segues into the third and final segment of the film Stanwyck's Eve sits back and fantasizes about how she will avenge herself on Fonda, and then as one shot follows another it slowly dawns on the audience that we are watching not the fantasy but the reality. Tricks like this and the way Sturges writes dialogue show why artificiality can be a hallmark of fine art.  As with a Dickens or a Hugo, we always have the feeling that the artist himself is talking to us in a voice uniquely his own, that the story is not an end in itself but a way for artist and audience to join in communal appreciation of the human comedy.  "},{"Title":"Wickedly clever and heartwarming screwball...not the very best, but who cares? Good for your health.","Date":"5 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Lady Eve (1941)Wickedly clever and heartwarming screwball...not the very best, but who cares?I'm not sure either Fonda or Stanwyck make the best comedic actors (compare to Grant and Hepburn or, for something more apples to apples, Gable and Colbert), but Preston Sturges makes this silly and smart enough to work anyway. You might say Fonda's deadpan role, surely intentional, is what makes him so funny, but he does sometimes seem wooden (and I love Fonda in general). Stanwyck is wicked and wickedly sharp, so she pulls off her role as a conflicted card shark, with her father-figure humorously (and with good nature) always in the background to back her up.I found Eric Blore absolutely hilarious, however (see him in Top Hat and The Gay Divorcée). And the story is really funny and fast, depending on everyone being a little confused about what's really happening, not just us. The very end is a kind of raspberry to the Hays Code because it is as close to all out adultery as you can get (Fonda thinks so, at least), and yet it's all okay due to the trick of the plot.Oh, the key trick of the plot is inconceivable in real life, at least to me. I say no more, but that you have to go with the farce and picture Fonda's character (a befuddled, young naturalist) as really daft. Which is part of the point in the end.Preston Sturges? Witty and a little effete (I've been waiting for a chance to use that word). Another director might have milked the romance differently, and drawn out the comedy with more snap (it often pauses for Fonda's delayed reactions). But his own madcapness is at work, and the movie is fun if nothing else. Lots of fun. "},{"Title":"Fair","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Lady Eve, The (1941) ** (out of 4) Here's a film I've been meaning to catch for quite some time but it's reputation as being one of the greatest comedies ever made certainly goes way over my head. The story is pretty simple (and unoriginal) as a con woman (Barbara Stanwyck) tries to sink her teeth into a naive rich boy (Henry Fonda) but naturally they end up falling in love. I really don't get all the hype surrounding this film. It's certainly cute in parts and funny in others but on the whole I was really bored by the fifty-minute mark so the rest of the film dragged along at a snail's pace. I didn't see any chemistry between Stanwyck and Fonda, although both were good, not great, in their roles. We've seen this film countless times before so there wasn't any great shock to anything that happened. Perhaps I'm nitpicking at this aspect but the twist of the Lady Eve character was just downright stupid and I didn't buy into it for a second. "},{"Title":"It's Simple Enough  This is a Cinematic Masterpiece, See it or Live an Unfulfilled Life.","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" And that goes for 'Sullivan's Travels' as well. It's amazing to think that both of these films premiered in 1941, Preston Sturges must have been eating his spinach that year.I'm not going to bother stabbing away at the plot, you can get that somewhere else if you need it. Instead, I'll just start lobbing adjectives at you Hilarious, vibrant, nuanced, well-acted, sparkling, balanced, refined, poetic, honest, tour-de-force, superb.Barbara Stanwyck and Henry Fonda both give the comedic performances of their career, Stanwyck especially has a vibration that almost comes through the screen. The supporting cast (Sturges mainstays like Charles Coburn, William Demarest, and Eric Blore) play their roles to perfection, as always Sturges manages to wring every drop out of his actors.If you've never heard of Preston Sturges don't waste any time moping around about it, just get out and latch onto a copy of both 'The Lady Eve' and 'Sullivan's Travels.' The guy should be pointed out as one of the all-time greats, Hollywood wasn't big enough to hold him and he made frustratingly few movies but if you haven't seen these two yet then get cracking. "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Romantic Comedy That Gets Better As It Goes Along","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a very pleasant romantic comedy, more mildly amusing than outrageously funny in my opinion, that gets better as the story progresses. One has to like the chemistry between a very dapper and young Henry Fonda (Charles Pike) and a very beautiful and young Barbara Stanwyck (Jean Harrington/Lady Eve). The two worked perfectly together and made a believable couple.For all the chemistry, I must confess that the first half of the movie did little for me. Charles and Jean meet on a cruise from South America to the United States. Unknown to Charles, Jean and her father (Charles Coburn) are con artists who seek to bilk people out of their money in card games. Love, however, intervenes. Jean and Charles fall head over heels, and Jean doesn't want Charles to be cheated. Charles, however, discovers her identity and ends the relationship. I didn't find much funny in this part of the movie. It picks up, however, in the second half. Jean decides to get her revenge by masquerading as an English heiress of some sort; hoping to get Charles to fall for her again and then take his money. The humour picks up here. First, it's hard to tell from scene to scene whether Eve loves Charles or not. Henry Fonda's physical comedy at the dinner (tripping over couches a la Dick Van Dyke) and constantly having food and assorted other things spilled all over him is truly funny, and the scene on the train after they marry, as Eve takes her revenge by telling her new husband about all the men in her life, whom he knew nothing about, got me laughing.I was never clear about the importance of the snake, except to draw some sort of connection between this Eve and the Eve of the biblical creation narrative, although I'm not sure why that connection was necessary to the story.As I said at the outset, this is a pleasant movie, but in my view nothing more than that. I give it a 5/10. "}{"Title":"Overrated classic","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Lady Eve has been hailed as a classic, given a digital release with great attention to it's restoration, and has garnered huge accolades. Which is a shame, given how many fantastic films are degrading virtually unnoticed and forgotten as we speak. Don't get me wrong, The Lady Eve is not a bad film, it's just not a particularly great film. Barbara Stanwyck turns in a great performance as the titular temptress, and Henry Fonda is fine as a wealthy herpetologist, but it's hard to believe that he (or anyone) could be naive enough to fall for all of Stanwyck's schemes. Ultimately it's a run-of-the-mill romantic comedy that isn't too romantic (due to an absence of chemistry between the leads) and not very funny either (the comedy consisting mainly of continuous pratfalls by Fonda). If you are a fan of Stanwyck or Fonda, you'll probably want to see it anyway, but if you are looking for a good classic romantic comedy, I'd recommend watching Sabrina instead. "},{"Title":"Incredible cast & dialogue marred by poor direction","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Lady Eve suffers from the same problem all Sturges' films have slow pacing that undercuts the energy of the scene.The cast in this film is outstanding, with the greatest ensemble of character actors I've seen. Barbara Stanwyck is unbelievably good, playing two characters that eventually blend into one. Her performance is on par with Katharine Hepburn's Philadelphia Story, but Hepburn had a lot more dialogue and a great deal more aspects to her character's persona to get across. While Stanwyck's attempt at an English accent is regrettable, her performance is otherwise flawless. Her conniving, seductive, confident, fun-loving, vulnerable, extroverted, and tender aspects are woven together so skillfully that you don't even question so many traits residing in one woman.Henry Fonda has been much-praised for his performance but I found it lacking. Part of that is due to poor writing -- his character is largely an easily duped buffoon who then bursts into soliloquies of such refined beauty that you wonder where his brain has been. Fonda doesn't pull it off; instead, he simply reacts to whatever is being done to him. The camera-work underscores this, focusing almost exclusively on the riveting Stanwyck. He's entirely unbelievable as an eminent scientist, since he exhibits very little rational thinking throughout the film. His expression barely alters throughout the entire film, going from befuddled to earnest and back to befuddled. Unlike Stanwyck, his face never actually *looks* highly intelligent. It's hard to understand what Stanwyck's character sees in him.This would have been a far more interesting film if almost one-third of it were cut. Sturges writes some brilliant dialogue which the actors deliver with flawless timing, but then he follows the character for what seems like endless seconds as they leave the room, enter the room, pace the room, or do whatever empty gesture soaks up some time. All the energy and sparkle created by the interchange during the scene bleeds slowly away.There is the usual Sturges montage, as boring as most. I found myself able to fast-forward through far too much of the film. (With The Philadelphia Story, for instance, you can't fast-forward without missing a critical bit of dialogue or character development.) The physical comedy would be far more interesting if he simply cut in, captured the action, and then cut out. His continually lingering camera-work mars the flow and pacing of the film.My wish is that the dead screen time could have been replaced with more sparkling dialogue. The film would be a much better picture that way. As for its being the greatest screwball comedy ever, it doesn't hold a candle to It Happened One Night and others of the Great Age of Hollywood. Perhaps Sturges should've just stuck to writing! "},{"Title":"What a team, Stanwyck and Fonda!","Date":"14 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The noted Preston Sturges directs a Mockington Hoffe screenplay based on his own story about a stunningly seductive gold-digger Jean(Barbara Stanwyck)and her conniving father 'Colonel' Harrington(Charles Coburn)poised to pounce on and bam-boozle a wealthy socialite Charles(Henry Fonda). Charles is an affable some what naive heir to a brewery fortune. The young man is not wise to certain ways of the world and Jean is trying every which a way to get her clutches on him. The attractive young lady is smitten, but Charles catches on to her plan to trap him. A well written screwball comedy ensues.Stanwyck is outstanding and at her best. Fonda is no slouch either. A timeless classic that also features Eugene Palette, Martha O'Driscoll, William Demerest, Melvin Cooper and Eric Blore. "},{"Title":"So Close, Yet So Far","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Lady Eve is a conflicting film. The first hour is some of the most perfect romantic comedy I've ever seen, however it falls apart around the one hour mark. However what is it that makes the first hour so perfect? Firstly it didn't take too long for me to realise that Henry Fonda and Barbara Stanwyck are one of the most flawless screen pairings ever, the perfect combination of sexy meets innocent. Watching these two I get the impression they must have been head over heels for each other. I've read that apparently Henry Fonda would later tell his wife he was still in love with Barbara Stanwyck, dam! But then again, after having your hair caressed by Stanwyck for 3 minutes and 51 seconds, who wouldn't be?!The Lady Eve is a prime example of a How did they get away with that?! movie. I'm not aware of what Stanwyck's ideological or moral beliefs where, but a number of her films are some of most sexually suggestive old Hollywood films I've seen. There's her pre-code work such as Baby Face, but in the post code era we have Ball of Fire, Double Indemnity and of course, The Lady Eve. Call me old-fashioned, but movies were sexier when the actors kept their clothes on. Vilma Banky did more with one raised eyebrow than an entire (Warning! Problem in Sector 7G).So where does it all go wrong, well about 50 minutes into The Lady Eve, the movie pulls my least favourite movie cliché of all time, the liar revealed. You know, when a character is exposed as a fraud causing a relationship to end, even though you know they're going to get back together again by the end of the movie. Having this cliché is bad enough, however I thought it was only a contrived modern invention, but here it is in 1941. At least they don't drag it out like any rubbish modern day romantic comedy would. I've found Preston Sturges' films to be indiscipline, his films all have their moments of greatness, but at times they delve into over the top absurdity, even by screwball comedy standards. During the later part of The Lady Eve it's hard to buy into Stanwyck disguising herself as another woman who doesn't look massively different from her previous self in order to win back Henry Fonda. Oh, and he buys into the charade, the dope! Part of me wished the entire movie could have just been the two of them on the boat and it would have been a perfect film, however the final third still has some hilarious moments, such as Eugene Palette frantically banging the table demanding his breakfast, or Fonda getting his suit destroyed three times at a party, a perfectly timed slapstick gag if I've ever seen one.On a second viewing of The Lady Eve I still have the same reaction to the first hour, but I did find myself more forgiving of the last third. With my love of screwball comedies and the pairing of Stanwyck and Fonda, perhaps with additional future viewings I may become completely forgiving of the last half hour. The first hour is just that perfect. "},{"Title":"This is a perfect romantic comedy...","Date":"10 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ... and probably my favorite A-list film. Barbara Stanwyck and Henry Fonda display such chemistry and play off of each other so perfectly, and I have to credit director Preston Sturges, because in another pairing of the two at about the same time, in You Belong to Me, their chemistry - heck the whole movie - just landed with a thud.Fonda plays Charles, somebody born to wealth, and therefore with the leisure to do whatever he wants to do without thinking about the beauty of his situation. Charles chooses to study snakes. His no-nonsense self-made man father, perfectly played by Eugene Palette, holds his egg head son in only medium esteem, to quote another film, and has therefore assigned tough guy Muggsy (William Demarest) to be his body guard since he somewhat rightly perceives that Charles has no common sense or survival instincts. Charles is naïve, Jean (Stanwyck) is a con-woman wise in the ways of the world. She starts out to fleece the guy at cards when they find themselves on the same ship, but falls in love with him in spite of herself. When Charles finds out Jean is a con artist, he rejects her and she vows revenge, which she gets in the most imaginative way possible, all the while claiming that she doesn't love Charles anymore - but she does. She is a young woman wise to the tells in everybody else but blind to her own true feelings.Eric Blore, usually given to expressing himself with looks and one liners, is given a rather intricate story to tell at a crucial moment in the film and carries it off wonderfully. William Demarest has never been funnier, and poor Charles gets no end of grief from his father. Sure he's clumsy, but at one point he's blamed for having the main course dumped in his lap at a dinner party caused by two servants fighting over who is going to serve the main course.I won't give away any more, because the story is truly part of the delight here, but just let it be said that Jean teaches Charles that you can't tell what is in the present by looking at the wrapping paper, although the real moral of this film is that people in love believe what that want to believe. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A disappointing 2nd half.","Date":"1 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Barbara Stanwyck is one of the hottest ladies to hit the silver screen. On top of that, in this film she is a really interesting strong character unlike the paper thin ladies in distress seen in so many other films of the time. This is very much her movie, just as the title accurately suggests. Most other actors are good too. Charles Coburn plays a father and partner in crime to Barbara's character and he is charming and has chemistry with the girl.It is unfortunately Henry Fonda, the biggest of the names, who is kind of boring at best and annoying at worst. He is given a role of a naive doofus and he plays that role a little too well. calling into question the believability of his given profession as well any chemistry between him and the intelligent lady. It feels from some of the initial dialgoue that the original plan may have been for him to appear as a smart bookworm who is simply awkward with women, but instead he is just dumb. This is not really a comedy where being dumb is more forgivable so this is just not a very interesting character to put in the lead role.And this flaw is one of the problems with the story. It starts strong, but fizzles out, both in terms of interest and excitement. The plot becomes increasingly ridiculous, depending on the stupidity of James Fonda's character for its continuation. Then, towards the end of the film, the two main characters argue (which is in itself a cliché) and the point of contention between them is based on a cultural norm for women that no longer exists, and in fact, was already not realistic at the time this movie was made.The dialogue can be quite witty. You have to be fast enough to catch the good parts. However, eventually it gets romantic or sentimental and that is when the movie becomes a cheap romance novel with lines like You believe me, don't you spoken from behind sad puppy eyes.The cinematography is OK, but there is nothing inventive or of particular interest. It is a surprisingly sexual film for a 40's film with a good amount of skin from the main lady, though not enough to make it interesting that way.The makers do something interesting with the music in the later part of the movie to incorporate it into the film, but at all other times it is the usual sappy 40s romantic tunes.Lady Eve is all about its main female character. To a lesser degree it is about the funny supporting characters. However, the story disappoints and the main male character is a drag. "},{"Title":"Fluffy romance","Date":"18 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Usually, when films have a male protagonist, they're strong and seemingly able at least a couple girls, if not one. In this case, Pike is extremely shy and awkward around women, which I found to be adorable. Jean, the other protagonist is a very strong woman in my eyes. She knows the con game like it's nobody's business, and she could be a little ruthless. But then while trying to con Pike, the plan backfires and she falls in love with him. Jean wasn't portrayed as a bad guy character, rather, she was a good woman with a good heart, and I liked how she went to show Pike that good girls aren't always good girls (shown with her Eve persona), and that bad girls aren't usually bad. The ending had me shocked, because Pike never knows that Jean was actually his wife Eve. It was hilarious, honestly. You'd think he'd find out that they were both the same person. but apparently not. Another thing I enjoyed was the symbolism through the snake and apple. Pike holds a huge love for his snakes, and they can be quite the charmer. I find that Jean was Pike's more human snake, seducing him into a romantic world, though she hurts him plenty with her fangs. That's the kind of girl I like, but again, I never saw Jean as a bad person. She's a well done character, and it makes me love the movie more for it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant first half, muddled second half. Still a delight.","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The first half of The Lady Eve is one of my new favourite things. Film noir mixed with screwball romance, it blends them both magnificently, utilising Barbara Stanwyck's smooth femme fatale and Henry Fonda's clear lack of comfort zone in any of this. Taking place over the course of a boat trip, the dialogue is sharp and witty, lying through their teeth but grounding it in compelling and whole-heartedly engaging truth. It has a feel that Preston Sturges had a very inspired weekend and wrote this on a productive bender and that kind of thing rubs off on you in the best way. It's a truly wonderful 50 minutes or so. Unfortunately, the plot thickens and life gets complicated after the boat. The film keeps its wit but gets very messy. It becomes difficult to keep track of what's going on, what the motive is and why the characters can't plainly see the problem. An overuse of Fonda falling down proves that the second half just isn't on the same level as the first. However, it doesn't drag the film down too far for me, it only drags it off a potential spot on my all-time favourites list.8/10 "},{"Title":"Sex comedy climaxes on the train . . .","Date":"26 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" . . . when newlywed bride Barbara Stanwyck as cardsharp Jean, a.k.a. The Lady Eve, itemizes for her virginal groom Charlie Pike (Henry Fonda) a list of past lovers long enough to go down one arm and up the other. An old-style farce, where you almost have to take notes to keep track of what's going on, features such couplets as a near-orgasmic Jean being innocently handled by Charlie, breathlessly exclaiming, Oh, you don't know what you've done to me, to which Charlie's deadpan reply is I'm terribly sorry. Jean, to Ophiologist Charlie Are you always going to be interested in snakes? Hopsie (as the beer heir is nicknamed) Snakes are my life. When Jean begins her iteration of past lovers to Charlie on the train, first off is an elopement with Angus the stable boy, which she says lasted for weeks. Charlie dismisses this account with a shrug, saying A girl of 16 is practically an idiot. THE LADY EVE is pretty funny off and on, and one would have to be practically an idiot not to chuckle. "},{"Title":"The Lady Eve","Date":"14 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" From director Preston Sturges (Sullivan's Travels, The Palm Beach Story), I may have got confused a couple of times with the film All About Eve, as both titles were in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, but I was going to definitely watch it. Basically beautiful con artist Jean Harrington (Barbara Stanwyck) has found her latest target is naive rich heir to the Pike Ale fortune, Charles Poncefort Pike (Henry Fonda), he is woman-shy, she works alongside her scheming father 'Colonel' Harrington (Charles Coburn) and his partner Gerald (Melville Cooper). Pike has returned from a year-long expedition in the Amazon, he is a snake expert, and though ladies are surrounding him desperate for his attention, but he turns to putty in the hands of Jean, but of course plans go astray as she is slowly falling for him in reality, and is trying to keep him away from her father. Muggsy (William Demarest), Charles's minder/valet is highly suspicious of the relationship, and he uncovers what she and her father really are, following this Pike ends it between them, and angry at him, having true feelings, she tries to find a way to reenter his life. Jean manages to do so posing as the niece of Sir Alfred McGlennan Keith (Eric Blore), another conman who is fleecing rich people in Connecticut, she becomes posh Lady Eve Sidwich. Jean instead of rekindling their relationship is determined to torment Charles mercilessly, and he meets Eve is of course besotted with her and is willing to do anything to spend time with her, but Muggsy is trying to convince him of her true identity, Pike does not believe she would come back to him without disguise, so sees the resemblance as coincidental. Following brief courting the couple do get married, and on their train journey to a honeymoon she begins to reveal more about herself, dropping past boyfriend and lover names, and he gets fed up and leaves her jumping off the train, so after this the con team tell her she should try and close the deal and get a settlement. Charles's father and lawyers are trying to come a settlement, but Jean doesn't want any money at all, only to know that if Pike wants to end the relationship for good he should tell her in person, he refuses and through his father she finds out he will be going another travel. In the end though she manages to get on this voyage, this time returning to being Jean, no more Lasy Eve business, Charles is overjoyed to see her and they reignite their love for each other, he confesses to already being married, and she replies so am I. Also starring Eugene Palette as Horace Pike, Eric Blore as Sir Alfred McGlennan Keith / 'Pearly', Melville Cooper as Gerald, Martha O'Driscoll as Martha, Janet Beecher as Mrs. Pike, Robert Greig as Burrows and Dora Clement as Gertrude. Stanwyck is likable as the beautiful woman trying to screw someone over before falling in love, and Fonda as usual is a nice guy who occasional lets himself fall for tricks, this is obviously the same standard as something like Bringing Up Baby or My Man Godfrey, the con artist plot works pretty well, and the romantic element is nice, overall it is a fun classic screwball comedy. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing, Original Story. Very good! "}{"Title":"Lady","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film amazed me! I had no clue what it were to be about and I sat and watched this movie to the end, it was so good. What made me like it more was that I had not the slightest idea what it was about. Catching this movie on Turner Classic Movies and sitting and watching the film was astonishing. I like the fact that this movie was based on a female main character this time. She played the role well as a Femme Fatale. The no color in this film didn't mean much to someone who was already lost in the comedy and extreme humor of the film. This is definitely a film to sit and watch with sisters and just discuss the film in it's entirety. "},{"Title":"Great Acting!","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Lady Eve personally was one of my favorite movies from the 1940s, its really believable cast members made the movie for me. I felt the sincereness in the characters throughout the movie, the two main characters showed a connection and Jean had a very funny personality that was portrayed in the movie. I also was very fond of the music played throughout the movie, it was very flowing and set the tone for certain scenes. There was also i quote I happened to catch that I really liked, I fell in love with you, which wasn't in the cards. This particular quote said my Jean is ironic because her and her dad were scam artists in taking peoples money through card game playing. Overall The Lady Eve definitely had a great and well thought out storyline and had a message I thought to be was, whats meant to be is meant to be. This is referring the relationship Jean had with Charles. "},{"Title":"The Lady Eve","Date":"15 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Preston Sturges' The Lady Eve is a screwball comedy, although it is a bit more screwball than it is comedy. There are very funny parts, such as when Barbara Stanwyck's character watches Henry Fonda's character in her hand-held mirror and provides a improvised narration of the people she sees. Although not as funny or heart-felt as Gregory La Cava's My Man Godfrey, The Lady Eve is a very good film with intricate sets and two strong lead performances. In the early scenes, Stanwyck succeeds at creating a character that the audience both contempt and sympathize with. Also, there is a long shot in which Stanwyck's character seduces Fonda's that contains some of the film's best dialogue. "},{"Title":"Love wasn't in the cards","Date":"15 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After having just seen LaCava's My Man Godfrey this film couldn't compare. Some parts i found funny, but it had a much stronger romance feel to it than a screwball comedy. Maybe this was because the film came out in 1941, towards the end of the screwball comedy era. The camera moves so smoothly along with the the characters. I noticed there when a lot more long takes then cuts. There are even some nice subtle zoom in's. There's a great shot at the beginning of the Pike family party. The camera slowly pans down out from the tree tops to the car which holds the Lady Eve. Sturges takes a step back in filming history with the scenes preparing for Charles and the Lady Eve's wedding. It reminded me of the silent era of films. There was no dialog only non diegetic music that amplified what was going on on screen and the film seed was unnaturally fast. The intro credit cartoon was very clever and fun. "},{"Title":"Didn't feel quite right, but still great","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Lady Eve is considered to be a screwball comedy, and although it certainly is, it didn't feel like it was entirely to me. More of the movie felt like it was on a more serious note for most of the movie when compared to other screwball comedies, at least as serious as a screwball comedy can go. The film was still full of excellent comedic elements and scenes, while having an excellent storyline that felt very gripping. One of the elements in particular that i found interesting is how quick Jean, the con man's daughter, actually fell in love with Charles. Although it doesn't feel like what a screwball comedy should be to me, The Lady Eve is still an excellent film, full of great humor and an excellent storyline. "},{"Title":"Emotional roller-coaster","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I found this movie to be very good. It had great use of lighting. The concept was great. The costumes were great. The flow of the entire movie was so intriguing. The movie gave me the ability to feel like I was right there interacting with the actors throughout each scene. Although Jean played the role of the antagonist her character was very attention grabbing. The role she depicted was powerful, head strong, confident in her wants and her abilities to obtain them. Although she had many of these great characteristic she showed her true colors threw her many schemes that often backfired. I loved how this love story had its twist on the game of love. "},{"Title":"All About the Three Faces of the Lady Eve....","Date":"8 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" And Boy, Did She Know Her Apples! In fact, she uses one to clunk her victim (Henry Fonda) on the noggin, and while a cartoon lump doesn't grow, you will feel one in your chest-from laughing! Fonda plays a shy explorer who stops a cruise ship to board it like he was catching the A train uptown. Barbara Stanwyck is the title character, a shady lady with a card shark father (Charles Coburn) who plans to fleece the wealthy Fonda at cards, but doesn't count on Fonda being a bit of a card shark (or at least lucky) himself. Of course, Stanwyck and Fonda fall in love, but Fonda's suspicious associate (the grumpy William Demarest) gets the goods on the father/daughter team, and spills the beans. To get even, Stanwyck disguises herself as a titled English lady (the niece of Fonda's father's pal Eric Blore) who becomes a guest at their palatial estate and there comes the second face of Eve. Like Garbo in the same year's Two Faced Woman, Stanwyck turns her single character into two totally different ones, but unlike Garbo, Stanwyck had much better luck, the results being a screwball comedy that is proof when comedy is done to perfection, it can be just as influential as Citizen Kane.1941 was Stanwyck's best year in films-two with Fonda and two with Gary Cooper. Three of them have become classics, and this one is the film if she had been nominated for it (rather than the fun but slightly less memorable Ball of Fire), she would have had a better chance in winning. This is Stanwyck at her sexiest, funniest and loveliest, and for those who only know her for her film noir roles, women's pictures and later westerns, they will find her a total natural surprise. Fonda will surprise you after his Grapes of Wrath dramatic performance with a serious of pratfalls (falling all over the place each time he sees Stanwyck) that Dick Van Dyke would be proud of. Coburn is brilliant as her father, although the plot takes him out of most of the second half. Eugene Palette takes over his reign, stealing every moment as Fonda's eccentric father.Edith Head truly gives good wardrobe, as each gown she creates for Stanwyck just gets lovelier and lovelier with each scene. A picture perfect screenplay by the film's director (Preston Sturges) is just the right touch, and proves that a true artist who writes so brilliantly should probably be at the helm in the director's chair. "},{"Title":"very subtly funny film.","Date":"1 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" this film is very funny if you are really paying attention to the conversations, if not you could very well miss all of the comedic dialog. the main character named Charles played by Henry Fonda is a sometimes a bit awkward, but very wealthy explorer and a target for a group of professional gamblers, but this get interesting when he falls in love with the gamblers charming and beautiful daughter played by Barbara Stanwyck, then breaks up and gets together with another girl who turns out to be the same one from before. i wont tell too much more, but it is a pretty good film overall, definitely worth a watch, maybe not worthy of any awards, but a very sweet movie. "},{"Title":"A nice film","Date":"15 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is about people taking advantage of other people. Even if she feels bad and tricks him into forgiving her. I think this is a crazy unrealistic plot. She tricks him into marrying her to convince him to divorce and then marry her. I don't know why there has to be the snake part, except to solidify that they're not right for each other since he is going to spend his life around snakes and gross stuff and the girl he's into should be acutely interested in it. At least be able to be in the same room. Can people not recognize other people when they talk a little differently? That aspect of the plot is just plain crazy. This film is fun, sure but in no way a good look at real love, or comedy, or good writing. Just sort-of entertaining. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"4 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think that this movie used great techniques and sounds to help show the emotion between the characters. I think the music was great, the tone changed as the characters acted in certain scenes. The sound of the steamboat horn was underneath the people's voices, as you could still hear it, but it wasn't the first thing you heard. The corners of the screen show to be a vignette, where they are out of focus in the corners. They cut scenes as she came running from the room to the hallway to the staircase all the way to the other end of the staircase into the main room. The camera is shown to be in front of her showing her rush towards the camera, giving us that full screen perspective. They do not crop her body at all and you can tell that she is running at some what of a distance. I think if it was cropped or even shown at a different angle then it would not give the same point, as it does now.There were a few sounds that did sound like they were added in, such as the chatter of the people in the restaurant. I think it doesn't sound as real and I think you wouldn't be able to hear the main characters as much if it wasn't added in after the fact. "}{"Title":"review for The Lady Eve","Date":"25 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think The Lady Eve was a well put together film. I don't think it was as funny as other screwball comedies I have seen, and it took a little while to start up, but it was a good film to watch. The lighting and sound were very well done, but the scenes seemed rushed at times. I love Jean Harrington in this movie; I think she did a great job and was a perfect fit for the character. I also love the fact that it was a woman lead as the evil-nice character and a man as the kind of blind character. Who also did an outstanding job with his role. I liked the plot of this movie, it kept me involved and interested from the start and I would recommend people to see it. "},{"Title":"Jean Harrington is a skilled con artist who falls in love with her victim Charles Pike.","Date":"25 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This screwball comedy stood out in it's time because most films favored a male lead character who was skilled at being either bad or good, and a smooth talker. Jean Harrington took this role in The Lady Eve. She was a smooth talking, charming, con artist who was set out to cone naive Charles Pike into loving her in hopes of a hand on his Pike Ale fortune. The two main actors could not have been a more perfect match. Stanwyck and Fonda had a witty connection on screen and their chemistry as actors was fulfilling for the film. It kept my attention in its entirety and I found myself laughing throughout and thoroughly entertained. The gender inversion is also brilliant. Rarely in this time period were women ever in charge of any situation. Throughout the film Jean holds her ground, completely motivated by her goal of Pike's fortune, until her true feelings get the best of her and put to rest her dubious intentions. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie!","Date":"15 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie so much, when it first began I was a little skeptical because it felt a little cheesy to me, but it quickly picked up and drew me into the story line. Upon first meeting Jean, Barbara Stanwyck, I knew right away that I would like her, she sold her character perfectly, she was funny (with a controlled cheesiness), clever, and she was sweet when you really saw more of her character through out the film. I thought it was a well written and directed movie! I think one of my favorite lines was one of Jean's where she said, I need him like an ax needs a turkey. I don't know if it's just how she said it or the picture that came in my mind, but it certainly made me chuckle. "},{"Title":"The Perfect Con...","Date":"11 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film did have a wonderful cast. I have grown quite fond of Henry Fonda and Barbara Stanwyck in resent years. As great as these two are, (Except maybe Fonda's corny love-sick acting.) the real star of the show is the story. I guess that's why I like most screwball comedies. This one certainly doesn't disappoint. It may have been a little too predictable, but I would attribute that mostly to the times. We needed to see Jean as this evil, conniving leach only to fall head over heals for Charles. How else would they fight?It really is a funny movie and I would suggest it to anyone that loves those dopey love-scheme plots. "},{"Title":"Awesome Film!!!","Date":"5 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" One of my favorite films of the forties and, I believe, one of Barbara Stanwyck's best. Fonda also gets a chance to show some comedic chops as well as the foil for her Eve. It's apparent everyone involved knows they're in something good and enjoys it - Eugene Palette as Fonda's wealthy Father, William Demarest(think Uncle Charlie in My Three Sons)in one of his best supporting roles as Fonda's crusty valet, and Charles Coburn and Eric Blore doing brilliant comic character turns as card sharks on Eve's side. the film was quite well made though in some shots the composition, lighting, and editing seem off. it seem to shift fast between frames making the film loses focus. Over all this movie made me laugh and is a great movie to watch! "},{"Title":"Funny movie, a little slow","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film was definitely a funny film, and being a screwball comedy it was expected what would happen. What the film lacked in my opinion was a more interesting plot, screwballs such as My Man Godfrey (1936) have an interesting and developed plot. This movie was great; it just didn't match up to other screwball comedies I've seen. As far as the quality of the film goes, the photography was excellent and a clear picture was present the entire time. The sound was on par as well, nothing outstanding but it was enjoyable and you can clearly hear the characters. Overall It's a great movie; it just needed a more interesting plot in my honest opinion. I rated the movie a 6 out of 10 because it was visually great as well as providing great audio, it only lacked a more interesting plot; however, you may feel otherwise! It's worth a watch for sure, so if you haven't seen it, start watching it and see if it will interest you! "},{"Title":"playing the cards","Date":"15 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie seamed to flow extremely well in my perspective. Compared to others, the smoothness of the camera movement when filming longer shots seamed to be right on key. It also seamed to have a lot more movement with the camera rather than having it sit still with one background. The over all tempo of the movie seamed to be a bit slower than most black and white films and i actually enjoyed that. It made it a bit easier to follow. I think the only thing I didn't enjoy was the scene on the boat when Lady Eve realizes the man has a snake. Her voice was so high pitched and ear piercing when she screamed the only thing I could think of was how the audience would of reacted when viewing this in a theater. "},{"Title":"Quite enjoyable.","Date":"16 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Romantic-comedies such as this movies flourished in the '40's and even though they are basically all much alike, they are still quite enjoyable to watch all, due to their simplistic and fun nature and the fact that there were often some great directors and big name actors involved.The screwball genre isn't really my favorite and I also wouldn't exactly rank this movie among my favorites but that doesn't mean I can't enjoy a movie like this one. I had seen some Preston Sturges screwball movies before, that are widely being regarded as classics and I must admit that I wasn't too greatly impressed with any of these movies. I must say that this movie is actually one I did liked much better for some reason though. It's definitely the best Preston Sturges movie I've seen so far.Perhaps it are the movie its settings, perhaps it are the movie its actors. Who knows. But the movie does definitely entertain better than most other genre movies did. Still I feel that the movie with some more clever written could had been a far funnier one. The movie could had used some more comical moments, involving mistaken identity for instance. The movie didn't had enough laughs in it for my taste and the movie its comedy relies more on its dialog and performances by the actors, rather than its writing.Luckily the movie does have some great actors in it though. Henry Fonda of course wasn't best known for his comedy roles but that is perhaps what makes him so perfect for his role in this movie. Barbara Stanwyck is truly excellent as well and to me was the heart and soul of this entire movie.I enjoyed it more than any other Preston Sturges movie,8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Great chemistry between the two leads,but disappointing plot.","Date":"4 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Henry Fonda never fails to charm.He had that certain something that compelled folks to watch and whether it be comedy,drama,suspense,or whatever else,he could do it all.Barbara Stanwyck never failed to wow!She was very easy on the eyes,and her range was just as wide.Seeing the two paired as an on screen couple was a delight.All of that being said,I had a slight problem with this film's plot.Ms. Stanwyck meets and wins the heart of Fonda's character to the point that they are engaged to be married.Suddenly it all falls apart,and it's over.He later meets her under a different ruse and he buys it when she says that they haven't met before? If he were that in love with her before,he would have known it was her,looking at it realistically.I give the film high marks for the natural chemistry between the two leads,but deduct points for it's disappointing plot. "},{"Title":"just because something is old doesn't make it great...","Date":"3 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have to keep reminding myself that this is supposed to be a comedy...but were people dumb back in 1941? I seriously doubt it. In order for the story's main premise to work Henry Fonda's character (as well as some others) have to be very very stupid, or Barbara Stanwyck has to be an amazing espionage style secret agent type...which she doesn't seem like she is. In other words, some serious disbelief has to be suspended. Maybe people were a lot easier on their expectations back then, before special effects and ultra realism took place? It doesn't translate well to today, especially when considering Barbara Stanwyck's efforts to entrap Henry Fonda. As adorable as he is in his sharp little sport coats he does not seem like the type who would attract a really sexy and intelligent woman.I will say that it is worth watching, there are a couple lame chuckles, and it is well acted by both Stanwyck and Fonda. I am truly stuck between a 6-7. Another thing that does not stand up is Henry Fonda's reactions to some crazy stories Barbara Stanwyck tells him about her past. The modern viewer cannot help but ask him/herself why him? "}{"Title":"A charmer of a movie","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a charmer of a movie with a gorgeous Henry Fonda and a beautiful Barbara Stanwyck, directed by the famous Preston Sturges. Charles Coburn and William Demarest have important supporting roles.If you never saw Fonda and Stanwyck when they were young and in a Sturges comedy, you're in for a surprise and a treat. Henry Fonda is absolutely adorable in the role of a naive snake specialist. Stanwyck is sunny as the snake charmer. (Eve - get it? Well, her character's name isn't Eve in the movie, but she pretends to be Lady Eve to swindle Henry.)Fonda plays Charles Pike, heir to a beer fortune, and Stanwyck plays Jean Harrington, a con artist on a cruise ship with her con man father (Coburn). Their goal is to land and fleece a sheep. Of course, Stanwyck makes the mistake of falling for her mark, so things go horribly right after many pratfalls and lies.Preston Sturges wrote the script, and he was at his top in The Lady Eve. The studio system was at its best as well, calling up a marvelous cast of character actors in the background. There's all the boy meets girl, boy loses girl, boy gets girl standard action, but Sturges had a brain, and he was said to have written the script in Reno while getting a divorce - so he had some bite in the script, too. Everyone has perfect timing, all the marks are hit, there are no false notes, and even the horse is perfect. It's a fantastic screwball comedy.If your memories of Fonda and Stanwyck are from their roles in the 50s, 60s, and later, you're in for a real treat seeing them in this comedy. "},{"Title":"A Fine Case of Cat Chasing Mouse","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Charles Pike (Henry Fonda), heir to the Pike's Pale Ale fortune, is pursued by Jean Harrington (Barbara Stanwyck), the daughter of a card sharp and a pretty good swindler herself. But, wouldn't you know, she makes the mistake of falling in love with the man. How can she snare a man she hasn't been honest with? This film had me falling in love with Barbara Stanwyck. While not the most beautiful woman, she has a charm about her that is very alluring, which made her the perfect casting choice for Eve. The rumor she was wanted for the part of Scarlett O'Hara is not surprising, and I daresay that would have been a good choice.The story is fairly simple, but enjoyable. Charles Pike is a likable man, from the very first scene, but very dull. Whoever wrote the script gave him some really stupid lines, but they seem more fitting when we realize how backwards he is. While a brilliant scientist, he doesn't really have any common sense or smarts about the world.Of the screwball comedies and romantic comedies I've seen, this was one of the ones I enjoyed most. I enjoyed it much more than the highly respected Philadelphia Story, for example. If you have a chance to catch this one on Turner Classic Movies, please watch it. "},{"Title":"Probably Sturges' best","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Lady Eve is the first film I watched that Sturges directed, and can I say that I adore this film? Really. While watching it the first time around, I was a bit bored in the beginning, but it was the little things that kept me going and the second half of the film was great beyond words. In retrospect, I think the pace of the film in the first half and then the second half reflects what is going on. I HIGHLY recommend this film to anyone! Barbara Stanwyck is as lovable as she could be in this film and is intelligent and beautiful, and Henry Fonda plays the role of naïve Charles Hopsie Pike perfectly. I'm not going to give away much of the story and I'm not going to analyze this film because it's so enjoyable that I want people to watch it for at least that one reason. I am definitely in the boat with The Lady Eve fans.It's the little things that make the film great and I'm going to just point out some of my favourite parts of this film. Starting with the credits, can you deny the cuteness of that? I've never seen an animation for credits in old films and I did read that it was because the real snake in the film was uncooperative thus Sturges settled for the cartoon. I thought it was a cute and whimsical touch to the film, especially at the end of the credits when the snake weaves through the O in Preston Sturges' name and then gets stuck. I wondered why the snake had a maraca on its tail, but maybe it is to reflect Charles studying at the Amazon? I have no idea. When Jean (Barbara Stanwyck) is using her mirror to spy on Charles, the way she talks, the way the whole scene is filmed, and how her monologue fits in with the scene is, for the lack of better words, perfect. The whole scene was incredibly amusing to watch and it was one of the moments in the beginning of the film that made me keep watching it. I can say that without a doubt, it is one of my favourite scenes in this film. It is scenes like these that make me love old films because the lines she says are great. If you get to watch this film, look forward to the section of the scene when she makes up a dialogue, which made me giggle because it worked with what the viewer was seeing. How can I ever forget that look on Henry Fonda's face when Barbara Stanwyck is on her chair, stroking his hair and face? Oh Barbara, if you were doing that to me, I would be all hot and bothered too! I have to say that I was on the verge of fanning myself because it sure was getting steamy between the two character. While watching this scene, I was completely falling for Jean/Barbara. The chemistry between the two characters and actors was perfect; it was overwhelming to just watch them together! The way Jean was toying with Charles and wrapping him under her finger, just like she was twirling/playing with his hair, was unbelievable, and when she is done with him, his response to the moment they had had me burst out laughing. I am surprised how these scenes were able to pass the Hays Code. The ending also shocked me, but then I understood why they were able to do what they did in the end. I'm sorry for the ambiguous sentences, but you must watch it! The lines about marriage made me chuckle and explained their final action.And as a fan of classical music, I have to note the wonderful use of Suppé's Poet and Peasant Overture when Jean is telling her adventures to Charles in the train scene. You just HAVE to watch the film to see how great the train scene is when they are off to their honeymoon because the editing, sound, and the visuals work well together to fit the mood and feel of what is going on between Charles and Jean.I will leave you with this (as if I didn't say so already), The Lady Eve is a film that is worth a watch whether you will like it or not. There are so many parts that are cute and the script is so well-written that even if you end up disliking the film, I'm sure that you will at least say, Well, I did like that one incident when&#x85; or something along those lines. Any film with the line And I hope he's got a big, fat wife so I don't have to dance in the moonlight with him is good in my books.FILM BLOG - http//sachlichkeit.net "},{"Title":"Love Is A Suckers' Game","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Barbara Stanwyck should have been court-ordered to keep a safe distance from any future cast member of My Three Sons. In Double Indemnity she canoodles the future Daddy Douglas into a deadly scheme. Here, she messes with William Demarest, Uncle Charley himself, by whisking gullible Henry Fonda from under his protective glare.Fonda plays the young heir to the Pike's Pale Ale brewery fortune, who prefers spending his time chasing snakes in South America while his guardian Muggsy (Demarest) looks on. On a boat for home, young Pike catches the eye of Jean Harrington (Stanwyck) who sets out to scam the boy but winds up falling in love with him instead. But Muggsy intervenes, and Jean, reverting to her former type, plots revenge.I need him like the axe needs the turkey, she muses.Indeed, this is about as close to Thanksgiving as romantic comedies ever get. Director Preston Sturges may be much beloved by the intellectual elites and ignored by most everyone else, but The Lady Eve is a robust laugh-getter in the classic screwball tradition, aiming to please from its opening title sequence (introducing its indelible samba-like theme with the help of a friendly snake) to its door-slamming finale.At the heart of the film are Stanwyck and Fonda delivering killer performances. Fonda's a particular surprise, given comedy was not his forte, acting the part of a bookwormy nebbish. You have to cast forth some 27 years to see him so out of character again. Yet he's the junior partner in this film, as Stanwyck steals every frame of the film as both Jean and, later on, the title character.Though no out-and-out bombshell, Stanwyck sizzles with humor and merry mischief, her eyes flashing and dancing as she looks at Fonda. You have the darndest way of bumping a man down and bouncing him back up again, he tells her, and we know just what he means, more than he does, and love her for it.The only miscue the film makes is a scene of Jean crying in her bed after being jilted. She is such a strong personality its hard to imagine her melting in tears. Otherwise, the film respects her strength and encourages us to do the same, for its only by playing him so cruelly that she bounces him up for good.Scholars talk about subtext, but The Lady Eve at its heart is a plain-spoken, good-humored, rumination on the art and folly of love. For Muggsy, its about not being taken for a sap. I know a guy who married the same dame three times, then turned around and married her aunt, he claims.Muggsy may be wise, but he's bitter, too. The only time we see him in a romantic context, at the film's beginning when a heartbroken woman sees him off at a dock bearing flowers, he sends her off with something less than a fond goodbye So long, Ula, I'll send you a postcard.So no bumps for Muggsy. But what are lovers but suckers willing to go through some bumps? The Lady Eve, beneath its wit and pratfalls, makes a strong point for just that. G.K. Chesterton wrote once about the greenhorn being the ultimate victor. With torches and trumpets, like a guest, the greenhorn is taken in by Life. And the sceptic is cast out by it.Here the skeptic is cast out, with the last line in fact, utterly true but of no use in a film that celebrates the happy folly of Life and love. "},{"Title":"Romantic Whimsy.","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Henry Fonda is Charles Pike, scion of the Pike's Ale Company, the Ale that made Yale. He and his father, Eugene Pallettr, are rich as Croesus. Fonda, however, has no interest in anything other than snakes. He's now coming home from a year-long expedition to the Amazon collecting the creatures for Dr. Marsdits. (This is a contemporary joke. In 1941 the most prominent popular scientist was herpetologist Raymond Ditmars, the Carl Sagan of his time.) Barbara Stanwyck and her father, Charles Coburn, are also on board the ship that is returning from South America. They spot Fonda at dinner and immediately thrust themselves upon him. They're a team of cynical card sharks and intend to fleece him.The problem is that Fonda and Stanwyck fall in love. Evidently they spend the night together. Just after he proposes he discovers their identity and pretends to have known all along. The couple part bitterly.Stanwyck and Coburn run into another grifter, Eric Blore, and they arrange to get even with what they see as Fonda's exploitation of Stanwyck. Blore will assume the identity of an English nobleman and Stanwyck will adopt the role of his daughter. It takes some doing to convince Fonda that she isn't the same woman he met on the ship but eventually Fonda marries the phony English woman.On the night of their honeymoon, Stanwyck sinks in the barbs by confessing that she's had so many lover she can't keep their names straight. The offended Fonda storms out, steps off the train, and slips into a mud puddle.Later, once again aboard ship, they meet with Stanwyck adopting her original identity and, since they're already married to each other, retreat to his cabin.The acting is fine. Henry Fonda makes an exceptionally good dope and Stanwyck is sexier and softer than most of us who knew her screen image only from her later movies might imagine. William Demarest is present to provide yet more lowbrow comedy -- I'm telling you dat's da same dame! And the dialog has its felicities. When Stanwyck asks Blore if he knows the Pike family Do I know them? Why, I positively swill in their ale. I've tried more than once to get into this, partly because people whose opinions I respect keep recommending it, yet I've never found it exactly enthralling.Fonda's falling for the pose of Lady Eve is unbelievable. And their final meeting, when they fall into each other's arms, with all those complications still hanging murkily in the air, is hard to swallow.But most of all, this isn't a very funny movie despite the gags and the good performances. It's two steps away from a romantic drama. Take out a few pratfalls and wisecracks and you've got a Joan Crawford weeper or, at best, one of the less light-hearted efforts of Fred and Ginger.Preston Sturges was a sophisticated and talented guy in almost every respect. He could do better than this -- and he did. "},{"Title":"The world seen backwards in a cosmetics mirror","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  On paper this film has everything to be the best of all screwball comedies. But it required a lot of patience and concentration to sit through....much more convoluted than something like Christmas in July, and in a lot of ways more contrived.  Also a lot of gratuitous slapstick..... But certainly a showcase for the supporting actors Demarest, Pallette, Greig, and Coburn; and a wonderful role for Barbara Stanwyck.  The world seem backwards in a cosmetics mirror is an interesting place, but a very complex one.  "},{"Title":"Sneaky","Date":"20 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A card shark and his daughter scam a wealthy young man aboard ship, but romantic complications soon arise.Stylish comedy that's both thoughtful and amusing. It's definitely in the Sturges mold with colorful supporting players getting most of the funny lines, while Fonda and Stanwyck carry the story. The two stars are both excellent in difficult roles. He as a stodgy, often clumsy rich man's son, while Stanwyck alternates between a seductive sharpie and a well-bred English lady. The romantic challenge and the plot crux amount to getting the two to become the persons they really are so that their love can become genuine. In between are a number of amusing set-ups, especially Fonda taking a number of ill-timed pratfalls. He also manages the difficult trick of being likable even if slightly feckless.Watch out for the dialog that sneaks in a number of innuendoes underscored by knowing looks&#x97; for example, Fonda suggests naively to Stanwyck in a late-hour intimate situation, Isn't it time we went to bed, as if unaware of the innuendo, while she almost looks at the camera as if this could really be in the script. No doubt about it, this is cleverly done sophisticated comedy, 40's style, that holds up pretty well despite the passing decades. "},{"Title":"Textbook Screwball","Date":"7 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Lady Eve possesses many characteristics associated with the screwball comedy. It shares the story of a man and woman of different backgrounds, one of whom is a swindler, that both experience some sort of personal growth and eventually end up together. However, Preston Sturges' film does not contain as many layers, nor is it as a-laugh-a-minute as other Screwball Comedies such as My Man Godfrey and Arsenic and Old Lace. The film does have its moments, but tends to rely on frequently used means of achieving laughs. The highlight of the film, for me, was Barbara Stanwyck's portrayal of Jean, the swindler. She flawlessly drifted from character to character, changing her accent and diction as frequently as her wardrobe. Henry Fonda's performance as the wealthy, clumsy geologist is amusing, but is definitely shadowed by his co-star. The Lady Eve does succeed in demonstrating classic screwball fashion by tossing out the standard message Love prevails. "},{"Title":"Slow Starting Screwball Comedy","Date":"21 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As a screwball comedy, this movie took a while to warm up, though it did mostly get there toward the end. While I cannot fault the acting, some of the writing could have been cleaned up a bit. On one hand, the number of times Charles Pike went on about how long he had been up the Amazon was more than a bit grating but the way Eve handled the Colonel's attempted fleecing of Charles Pike at cards was delightful. Otherwise, the plot and story were interesting enough to keep me watching, if not engrossed.There were no real stunning moments of cinematography or sound quality excellence, but the overall quality of the movie was quite fluid and well done. "},{"Title":"The Snake-Lover and the Seductress...","Date":"11 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Fast-talking, quick-thinking, altogether delightful comedy from Preston Sturges, who also adapted the screenplay from Monckton Hoffe's original story. An elderly cardsharp and his equally crooked daughter, traveling in style by cruise ship from South America, zero in on their next victim--a handsome but somewhat unsteady ale-heir--but the daughter mixes business with pleasure and ends up falling for the lug. Barbara Stanwyck, with her crafty stare and sexy smirk, surprisingly doesn't run roughshod over articulate Henry Fonda, and they make a winning combination. Sturges' script blends grown-up jokes and conversation with pratfalls while never losing the filmmaker's graceful touch and innate sophistication. The results are amusingly frisky, prickly, and unpredictable. *** from **** "}{"Title":"Easy fun.","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" They certainly don't make them like this anymore. The Lady Eve is a charming little romantic comedy starring two major stars, in the form of Barbara Stanwyck and Henry Fonda, who run through a wild gambit of cons, false identities and broken hearts in their tumultuous relationship. The whole thing is very light and certainly shouldn't be considered anything special by today's standards, but it flies by so briskly and provides many a laugh that left me with a big smile on my face at the end. I've never been one for physical comedy and they do make Fonda slip and trip far too many times here, but there are also a lot of smaller, dialogue-driven jokes that had me in stitches.William Demarest portrays the protector of Fonda's character and he delightfully chews up the scenery whenever he's on screen, easily my favorite part of the ensemble. Everyone manages to get their moment or two, but the whole thing works primarily thanks to the chemistry between Fonda and Stanwyck at it's core. He is very straight-laced, naive and easy to love, she is intelligent, ferocious and cunning. They provide a nice counter point to one another that make this a very easy, enjoyable viewing all the way through. "},{"Title":"Snake in the Grass","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" On an ocean liner, poker-faced card-sharp Barbara Stanwyck (as Jean Harrington) sets her sights on handsome snake enthusiast Henry Fonda (as Charles Pike). While snaring Mr. Fonda, Ms. Stanwyck falls finds herself falling in love. After falling likewise in love, Fonda finds out Stanwyck and father Charles Coburn (as Colonel Harrington) are professional con artists. Naturally, this dampens the couple's relationship. Later, on dry land, Fonda meets Stanwyck posing as English noblewoman The Lady Eve Sidwich. Fonda's buddy William Demarest warns him she's the same dame, but Fonda thinks the two Stanwycks look too much alike to be the same and falls for her all over again. Some cleverly inserted allegory is the film's main calling card.****** The Lady Eve (2/25/41) Preston Sturges ~ Barbara Stanwyck, Henry Fonda, William Demarest, Charles Coburn "},{"Title":"Priceless dialog, lovable performances make this a must see.","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sturgess was a genius and this is one of his best. Though the chemistry between Fonda and Stanwyck seems forced, none of the situations do.  The dialog is brisk and you need several viewings to pick up the gems you miss on first seeing. Eugene Pallette is at his usual best as the wealthy father of Fonda... And Bill Demarest (later of My Three Sons fame), steals every scene he is in and actually has most of the best lines in the film. "},{"Title":"no wonder it's top of the charts!","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have to agree with everybody - this movie is just top of the charts! (Watch out, I do give away a bit of the ending in this review, so skip it if you don't want to know!).  I once read that at the time, part of the humour of a screwball comedy was supposed to be in seeing a woman (so unnaturally!) strong, smart, witty, and in charge of the situation.  Well, Barbara Stanwyck certainly is all that here. Some of my favorite scenes Barbara's running commentary in the dining room, the stateroom seduction scene (I still don't see how they got that one past the Hayes Office!), the discussion about breakfast, the big card game, the meeting with Pearly, and of course Lady Eve's confession on the train.  The only two things wrong with this movie are the from meeting to engagement in three days routine common in old Hollywood movies, and the male-bashing that makes Charles (Henry Fonda)so stupid that even in the final scene, he still doesn't know exactly which woman he's holding in his arms.  However, Fonda is so handsome and is such a good actor that his final I don't care who you are, so long as we're together, (or words to that effect), is really quite moving, and he almost carries it off.  As other reviewers have said, the great thing about this movie is not just the comedy and the dialogue, but that Preston Sturges and the actors get the emotion right, too.  The list of amazing supporting actors is terrific, too! "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of the Golden Age","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie, although not as well known as some of the screwball comedies of the 30's and 40's, is nevertheless one of the best movies of all time. Barbara Stanwyck is perfect as the con-artist who becomes Lady Eve, and even Henry Fonda manages to be funny.   The supporting cast of Eugene Pallette and Eric Blore add to the fun.  As soon as I watched it, I decided to buy it for my collection. "},{"Title":"Funniest film of all time?","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If The Lady Eve is not the funniest film ever made, it is on a short list of candidates with Some Like It Hot, The Producers, Bringing Up Baby, His Girl Friday, and Sturges' own Hail the Conquering Hero and The Miracle of Morgan's Creek. Barbara Stanwyck was never sexier and Henry Fonds was never dumber. And in my mind, William Demarest's perfect last line outshines even Joe E. Brown's in Some Like It Hot as the best last line in film. "},{"Title":"one of Preston Sturges best","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Much better than Hail the Conquering Hero and The Miracle of Morgan's Creek. This movie stars Henry Fonda as a very rich guy who just came from the jungles and is on a boat heading home. Also on the boat are a couple of con artists played by Barbara Stanwyck and Charles Coburn. All the ladies on the boat are interested in Fonda but Stanwyck gets to him first. At first, she only wants his money but they fall in love pretty quick. Charles Coburn doesn't like this and tries to take his money at cards, but every time she stops him. Pretty soon, Fonda finds out about them and he doesn't believe that Stanwyck was about to tell him the truth. There's more to the plot but you can find that out for yourself.  "},{"Title":"When Harry and Jean met Hopsy and Mugsy","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Lady Eve was one of Sturges best films, wittily scripted (for the most part) filmed and acted. And yet as with all of his films it leaves something to be desired, there's just something missing that prevents any of his efforts from being a true classic. Immensely enjoyable, but his best stuff all suffered from such choppy or convoluted unbelievable plots that detracted from what was going on.Of the scintillating lead quartet Coburn would definitely be someone to avoid at the card table, Fonda needed a bodyguard to protect him from the ever flailing Demarest and while Stanwyck was very alluring, but she wasn't cut out to act the part of an English Lady, even in comedy. Very versatile however, she had only 3 years to go to starring as the best femme fatale ever, as Phyllis in Double Indemnity. The satirical scenes with Eve's reception into American Society can be very funny but you can't help shaking your head at old Hollywood's pre-occupation with nobility or good breeding. Of course nowadays we've gone to the other extreme born and live your life a drunk and violent junkie pimp in a dark sewer makes you a hero!Back to soft fantasy imho an almost brilliant romantic comedy black and white 1940's film overall with a few faults mainly centred on implausibility, but a catchy insistent theme tune I have a job shifting afterwards Recommended. "},{"Title":"The horse steals it.","Date":"7 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" You can't help thinking Sturges was having a sly dig at womanhood here by updating aspects of Adam and Eve by having Fonda play a naïve innocent in thrall to both snakes and the irresistible charms of Barbara Stanwyck's alluring grifter. She watches her mark climbing aboard and drops the apple from which she has taken a bite onto his head in order to grab his attention. That's about where the biblical comparisons end, especially as Fonda's character pretty much retains his innocence and reforms Stanwyck's in the process. The story is pure hokum, but has so many funny moments that you can't help but like it, and the cast is top notch &#x96; Fonda and Stanwyck (who never looked lovelier), crusty old Charles Coburn, rotund Eugene Palette, William DeMarest, Eric Blore all of them are on top of their game here. Mind you, they all have to bow down to the brilliant comic timing of Barbara Stanwyck's horse in the movie's funniest scene. "},{"Title":"All-time comedy classic withstands test of time","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Preston Sturges' comedy classic is as fresh now as it was in 1941. Charles Coburn is a standout in Sturges' reliably great supporting cast.  Henry Fonda is marvelous as the rube who turns out not to be quite so dumb. The screenplay as lots of humorous wordplay and reflects many essential truths about our characters. "}{"Title":"Possibly the best screwball comedy EVER","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Lady Eve is possibly the best screwball comedy EVER for four reasons 1) a brilliant, hilarious script; 2) perfect direction from the master, Preston Surges; 3) Henry Fonda's right-on (funny!) performance as an intelligent but extremely naive scientist; and 4) the always appealing Barbara Stanwyck, who steals the show with her streetwise character. The chemistry is sparkling and the dialogue quick, witty, and so funny you'll wish the movie never ended. A must-see. "},{"Title":"the model for what a romantic comedy should be","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There was once a time when wealthy people believed poor folk admired them for their money, but Preston Sturges knew better. He admired the rich for being saps and scoundrels, an insight that gave even his wildest satires an air of affectionate insanity. While perhaps not quite so giddy as later Sturges comedies, his third feature (number three in the space of a single year!) is nevertheless one of his more consistent efforts, sparked by the maverick director's lightning wit and ingenuity.No other filmmaker knew how to twist the ties of love into such fascinating knots. Barbara Stanwyck, never brighter, stars as a card playing con artist out to fleece an unsuspecting Henry Fonda, the socially eligible but shy and clumsy heir to the Pike brewing fortune (Pike's Pale the Pale That Won For Yale). Fonda's true passion is collecting snakes, and in Stanwyck he encounters an alluring new species, falling (literally) head over heels in love. So begins one of the oddest love stories ever written, mixing slapstick comedy with an often genuinely touching romance into one seamless, hilarious package. "},{"Title":"Comedy Plus","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Everybody else has commented on this comedy's exquisite screenplay, direction, and acting, so let me direct you to one line of dialogue. When Stanwyck finds she's actually falling in love with this poor rich jerk Fonda, she turns to partner-in-crime Coburn and says dreamily, Hopsy, tell me my fortune. So we know that she has suddenly made a real connection with another human being and her whole life is about to change. That's where we start to see beneath her larcenous facade and care about her, and it's one of the best fadeout lines I've ever heard. (Stanwyck's delivery, of course, is an immense help.) That's the difference between a good comedy and a great one, because suddenly Sturges' screwball mechanics, perfection in themselves, have been suffused with emotion. He never melded mind and heart together so beautifully, though The Palm Beach Story comes close. "},{"Title":"A Joy to Watch","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had to go all the way back to 1941 to remember how good movies could be. Was Henry Fonda ever that young? I certainly enjoyed the evening watch the Lady Eve show us a few tricks including how to play cards and catch your man. This is a must see for anyone who would like to savor how comedy should be done.  "},{"Title":"Pure delight....","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Two week ago, I saw The Lady Eve for the first time. Having seen a great many classic films in my 26 years of existence, I had never seen a Preston Sturges film. Major reasons has to be that A. Dutch and Belgium TV channels almost never broadcast a film that's more then 20 years old and if they do it's either a. Gone With The Wind b. Ben-Hur or C. Doctor Zhivago. B. The BBC never broadcast them.But after reading hundreds of books about film and seeing dozens of documentaries, I of course know, who he was and what films he made. So I bought both The Lady Eve and Sullivan's Travels, just to see how good these films really were. And I have to say they were both equally perfect screwball-comedies.Henry Fonda was great in one of his rare comic performances as Charles Hopsie Pike, I wish he had done more comedies. Babara Stanwyck graces the screen as Jean AKA the Lady Eve. I had seen William Demarest before in a couple of supporting roles, but I had never really noticed him before this movie, he was hilarious.But was else is there to say this movie. It's a great screenplay, all the actors are on great form, besides the three mentioned before, we have Charles Coburn, Eugene Pallette and Eric Blore.A pure delight10/10 "},{"Title":"Very easily one of the greatest films ever made","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Preston Sturges never fails to amaze me. His directorial skills are excellent. His skills as a writer are even greater. There are probably fewer than five scripts better than The Lady Eve. Both the plot and dialogue are exquisite. It is a comedy, but it is also a grand romance and an affecting drama. Barbara Stanwyck, always a master actress, is at her very best here. I'm not very familiar with Henry Fonda, but his performance is as good as hers. 10/10 "},{"Title":"American comedy of fading interest","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"11 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Rich heir, Henry Fonda, and a beautiful, effervescent and effusive woman, Barbara Stanwyck, meet on luxury liner. Fonda, smoothly good-looking in white tuxedo, naive, uprighteous and ready for love, is obviously meant to fall in love with the scintillating woman. The love of the morally correct Fonda disintegrates when he learns that his shining goddess Stanwyck is the daughter of a shady father and he is reluctant to compromise his morality. The novelty for American society around 1940 is that Stanwyck later gives Fonda a healthy dose of what is good for the goose is good for the gander when she concocts a list of men she has been involved with in order to get her own back on being shunned by the uprighteous Fonda. However, the dialogue is generally dull and, with some exceptions, no longer witty in to- day's world of 2000 in fact in many cases the scenes are outright boring and too obviously clumsy to cause a chuckle or a laugh. The film's merit is Barbara Stanwyck's lively acting. "},{"Title":"Classic Comedy. A Must See!","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is just the best movie, to date, that I've ever seen. Haven't seen all of Preston Sturges' movies, but I don't see how it gets better than this. The screenplay is pure gold, classically funny and beautifully written. It never lets up. It grabs you from the first scene to the last. Henry Fonda is fine in it. But it's Barbara Stanwyck's film. She's just totally hot here. It's a brilliant movie and a brilliant, sexy, funny, powerful performance by Stanwyck. A New Leaf by Elaine May takes off from The Lady Eve, but it's not even in the same league. Gone With the Wind, The Godfather, The Wizard of Oz... Forget it. The Lady Eve leaves other classics in the dust. It will spoil you for most anything else. "},{"Title":"A must to see","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My kids would probably say it`s in black and white and dated.  Too bad for them!  Barbara was never more beautiful.  I still don`t how the censors overlooked that scene in the cabin with her lying in the bed and Mr. Fonda sitting right next to her on the floor with his back against the wall. Only two truly great professionsals could have pulled it off.  GREAT STUFF! "},{"Title":"Another Sturges Classic","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Lady Even is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. Sturges is a genius - I don't think anyone else could have gotten Henry Fonda to be funny. "}{"Title":"100% unbelievable fun","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you are looking for a believable movie, this certainly isn't for you. The plot, to put it mildly, is ridiculous. BUT, given the wonderful performances and dialog throughout the film, I really didn't care--I just suspended belief, sat back and enjoyed. Barbara Stanwyck is at about her best, and while Henry Fonda isn't at his VERY best, he does a good job of playing the rich smitten guy. However, I am a Cuddles Sakal fan, and so his supporting work is greatly appreciated--though it is hard to imagine such a cute cuddly old guy as a con man! This film and HAIL THE CONQUERING HERO are my favorite Presto Sturgis movies. While I have been a VERY severe critic of his on IMDb for several of his films because I think they are overrated (MIRACLE OF MORGAN'S CREEK, SULLIVAN'S TRAVELS and UNFAITHFULLY YOURS), I must admit he also made some films I loved. Give it a watch. "},{"Title":"The Tense of Pretense","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Preston Sturgis made some of the best films in history, perhaps two. But he also made some real stinkers and this is one.His method was to divide the world of the film from reality in fresh ways. His talent was in the dividing, always the same distance. Sometimes the target was fresh, as in Sullivan's Travels sometimes not.The setup here is a story about a woman who tells a story about herself. She gets found out and her target tells his own (false) story. She gets back at him by weaving yet another performance within the performance. After wedding him, she spins yet another false tale on top.He balks. She regrets and arranges to set him back into the first story-within-the-story which he accepts as reality. And the picture ends happily ever after.It is a great setup. The problem is that the tone of the thing is all wrong. It breaks Ted's law where these levels need to be discriminated by equal changes in abstraction.Sturges understood the notion of levels and separation, but not the notion of abstraction which has become the standard for film perception.Oddly, he got it right the next film, and wrong again in the one that followed that.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "}]