[{"Title":"Pollyanna eh?","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"66 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film offers a standing rebuke to critics who use the term Capracorn. None of Capra's films are as blindly optimistic as is often argued, but this one is a pitch-black jeremiad against manipulation by the media. The mob scene at the John Doe convention is one of the powerful scenes ever filmed. Stanwyck is incredible as reporter Anne Mitchell. She is one of the great actresses of the century, and she always did her best work Capra, whose female characters are generally more compelling to the women we get in the movies of our liberated era. Cooper is fantastic as a truly average guy who is awakened by his experience with the John Doe movement, and Edward Arnold is absolutely terrifying in the role of Fascist D.B. Norton. This film is even more relevant today than when it was made, and I would argue that it should be viewed in high schools across the continent. Capra is asking his viewers to think critically of EVERYTHING they hear on the radio or see in papers or hear from elites, and amen to that!  "},{"Title":"WOW!!.....Again!","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"46 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  About 15 or twenty years ago MEET JOHN DOE aired on a saturday matinee program on the CBC. I watched it and absolutely loved it. In the ensuing two decades I have Studied Film History and the art of film making. I have debated Film Theory and criticisum with some of the country's most film-smart people  and have worked extensively in the film industry. And very rarely through all of this was Meet John Doe mentioned. The other day I saw A copy of the film in a used video store, remembered it from my youth and promptly bought it. And after viewing it again I have to say it is definetly one of the finest motion-pictures I have ever seen. It has to be one of the most under-rated movies ever made. The social commentary exhibeted is one of the boldest that the medium has ever presented, especially considering the time it was made. A time when media propaganda was a driving force for home-shore morale at the beginning of WWII. Capra and langs techniques in this work are absoloutly astounding. The riot scene should be looked upon as ground breaking. The performances (both the lead and supporting) are among some of the finest and most endearing of the time. Needless to say I'm going to be toot this films horn for quite some time. (I think I'll go watch it again.)  "},{"Title":"Dark, Sweet and Powerful","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"57 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There's an Italianate cinema verite in Capra's work, perhaps genetic . . . I find this film so powerful, and its characters so sympathetic, that I can hardly watch the riot scene.  It's almost too terrifying.Cooper's performance at first seems wooden, but he's an actor whom you need to watch, like a pond, to see the emotions swimming beneath the surface.  Barbara Stanwyck is one of my favorite actresses--she never makes a false move and is beautiful to watch from any angle.I find some lines of dialogue chilling in this age of Patriot Acts I and II and corporate globalism/global corporatism The American people need an iron hand, declares D. B. Norton, whose sneer looks like Cheney's. "},{"Title":"Who is John Doe?","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"38 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is a classic example of a movie working effortlessly on a range of different layers. Capra weaves his well-loved everyman through a tale of both simplicity and political intrigue, taking in the American depression and Biblical references along the way, and comes up with messages that remain startlingly relevant today, over six decades after this movie's release.Gary Cooper delivers a masterful performance, and in keeping with the film, achieves this with a deceptively easy touch. He is supported by a peerless cast which includes Barbara Stanwyck and Walter Brennan, both on top form.Perhaps most impressive is the illustration of Capra's democratic ideal by including the views of the audience throughout the story. You can find all your views being voiced by different characters at various points in the tale, opening the question of just who is the average everyman that Capra is seeking to show? - and how do they relate to you?This movie is ten stars all over. Even for keen Capra fans, the expectation is surpassed by the final delivery. Thoroughly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Dark yet optimistic, beautifully realized piece of Americana as only Capra can dream up.","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"37 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Frank Capra's unabashed patriotism wins another pennant for Team U.S.A. with `Meet John Doe,' an Oscar-nominated feature (for original screenplay) that roots for the underdog while demonstrating the power of the people en masse. He backs up his strong, daunting ideology with sharp, crisp writing and even sharper character delineation.  Capra's social piece was timely released in 1940, when Nazi sympathizers were gaining a potent voice in America, just prior to our involvement in WWII.Struggling columnist Ann Mitchell (the incomparable Barbara Stanwyck)  is one of many about to receive their walking papers as the latest casualties of a newspaper takeover.  Learning that her dismissal is in part due to a writing style that lacks bite, she vents her anger on her last assignment, fabricating and printing a somber, biting `John Doe' letter.  `Written' by a despairing, unemployed man, who, tired of life's indignities, has given up on an indifferent, capitalistic society, the writer vows to throw himself off the top of City Hall on Christmas Eve.Ann's last column sparks a major outpouring of varying concern, not only from top government officials, but from newspaper competitors who claims the piece is a work of fiction designed to promote sales subscriptions, and from the public who are genuinely moved by this man's plight.  Caught between a rock and a hard place, the new editor-in-chief (James Gleason, in a marvelous turn) reluctantly keeps Ann on the payroll (with a bonus) while deciding to run with the story.  Auditioning indigent men to lend a face to their `John Doe,' they find their man in 'Long John' Willoughby (played to perfection by Gary Cooper), an ex-baseball player who has fallen on hard times.  Willoughby becomes an instant celebrity and an identifiable symbol of integrity and humanity.  `John Doe' clubs soon start sprouting up all over the place promoting `good neighbor' policies.  Trouble brews, however, when a ruthless financier (played with typical malice by Edward Arnold) agrees to sponsor `John Doe' appearances for radio and the lecture circuit, then threatens the movement by using it for his own political aspirations.Cooper and Stanwyck are ideal in their top roles.  Stanwyck is peerless when it comes to playing smart, gutsy gals.  Here, she shows all sorts of vibrant colors as an assertive reporter trying desperately to climb up the newspaper ladder without getting her hands too dirty, trapped on both sides of the fence and playing both sides superbly.  Coop too is deeply affecting, the epitome of the `aw shucks' kind of 'everyman' who manages to find a stirring, articulate voice underneath all that awkwardness and reticence. Nobody plays this kind of role better.It helps too that the leads are surrounded by all-star character pros. James Gleason is marvelous as the frustrated editor who must wrestle with his conscience as the hoax he orchestrated gets seriously out of hand.  He has one exquisitely tipsy scene in a bar with Coop where he lays all the cards out on the table.  Regis Toomey, as a prime spokesperson for the John Doe movement, has a touching moment as he expresses the impact the club has made on his community.  Edward Arnold is exemplary as the manipulating moneybags, and Walter Brennan's straightforward Colonel is insightful as Coop's obstinate buddy who sees his friend falling into the same opportunistic trappings he is supposedly rebelling against.  The one veteran, scene-stealing player not up to snuff is Spring Byington, who is stuck on the bench in a rather benign, devoted mom role.The only foul ball I found in this fast-paced, smooth-running story takes place atop the City Hall with an overly hysterical Stanwyck punching home Capra's idealism ad nauseum.  It could have been more effective with a still strong but subtler set-up and approach.  So, hey, it's not quite a shutout, but why quibble when the rest of the film is way ahead of the game.Like the equally dark `It's a Wonderful Life,' Capra's genius is that he knows how to pitch and score the important points when necessary, not only with laughter and tears, but with unyielding hope and, most significantly, with words.  It's more than any home crowd can ask for. "},{"Title":"Capra and Riskin at their best","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is so much to recommend this film, especially in repeat viewings. I'll try to touch on things rarely mentioned. The opening credit montage that ends with a solitary newborn in a hospital ward speaks volumes, as does the opening scene the jackhammering of the old Bulletin cornerstone. The dream that Long John tells Ann about, in which he plays a dual role, is a warm and economic device for letting us know about what he feels for her and why she could go for her. The near-monologue of Bert, the soda jerker, is as masterful in its sustained understatement as the small-town mayor's bumbling is hilarious. All of Capra's sound films starting with American Madness employ an effective, trademark montage, but Meet John Doe overflows with three. The Colonel's joyous Three Little Pigs dance inside the freight car to the rhythm of the rails is joyous. The Jesus metaphor throughout becomes heavyhanded at the very end but is saved by the dead-on final line about the people. Finally, the movie succeeds not just because of its attributes that can carry over to other forms of art such as books or plays, but also because it is a uniquely cinematic experience.  "},{"Title":"uplifting and moving and a message for all","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoiler Director Frank Capra gives us yet another moralistic gem in the form of Meet John Doe. With a stella cast which include Barbara Stanwyck, Walter Brennan, Edward Arnold and James Gleason. Capra delivers a movie with a message of human kindness and compassion released exactly the same time as man was killing fellow men all over the world.In order to keep her job at a failing newspaper Ann Mitchell (Stanwyck) concocts a phoney letter from a man who is determined to end his life in protest at the state of humanity and civilization, by jumping from the tower of city hall on Christmas eve. The plight of the non existent man known only as John Doe touches the hearts of the papers readers. The Newspapers hard edged editor Connell, (Gleason), is now in a spot as Mitchell has declared that the letter was fake. With everyone trying to save John Doe and the Newspapers circulation improving, Connell and Mitchell decide to flesh out their creation by hiring someone to be John Doe. Enter Long John Whiloughby (Gary Cooper) a failed Baseball player who's homeless and looking for a job. In return for money for an operation to enable John to continue his baseball career, he agrees to appear on radio as John Doe, explaining his reasons for his intended suicide and explaining that mans cruelness to others should cease and loving thy neighbour is the way forward for the world. Connell and Mitchell must first explain their actions to corrupt oil magnate and paper owner D B Norton (Edward Arnold). After the Radio broadcast, John decides that he's being made out a stooge and goes back to his nomadic lifestyle. When recognised in a small hick town, He is soon aware of how much his radio broadcast has united the towns community. The community elect a spokesman in the form of Bert Hanson (Regis Toomey) who explains that they have formed their own 'John Doe Club'. John is visibly moved by what he has caused, and agrees to do a lecture tour of all the states in the hopes of uniting others. D B Norton however, has other plans for the John Doe clubs and that is to unite the people through the John Doe cause and then exploit them by cornering their votes for his new 'third' political party and then rule with an 'Iron Hand' (sound familiar) Whether this party is Communist or Fascist is not explained but Norton does have his own Uniformed army at the ready not to mention many crooked politicians and Labour leaders in his slimy pockets. During the Lecture tour, John and Ann develop their romance. On the Eve of a mass John Doe Convention, Connell becomes aware of Norton's scheme and tells John that he and the whole John Doe Movement is about to be exploited, to which John confronts Norton and is determined not to let his evil new order come to fruit. Wrongly thinking that Stanwyck is in cahoots with the would be dictator, tears up the intended speech and says he's gonna tell the people the truth. Norton's henchman are prepared for this eventuality and expose John as a phoney in front of thousands of John Doe members. Doe barely escapes injury as the crowd turns nasty. With the John Doe clubs disbanded, the myth exposed, and the girl he loves out of his life, John makes up his mind to re-ignite the fire of the John Doe Movement by the only way that will prove that he is no longer a fake and that Norton's scheme can never transpire, and that is to obey the original text of the ficitious letter and to jump from the tower of the city hall. Arnold's performance is outstanding as is Cooper's, and as he closes his eyes in silent prayer moments before he is to make his death leap brings a lump to your throat, and one of Stanwyk's final lines is equally as Moving ' If it's worth dying for then it's worth living for' Capra's film is strong to this date, and 60 odd years on has not dated as it gives a message as prevalent today as it was then. people can debate whether or not Capra deliberately made Doe out as a Christ-like figure till doomsday for all I care, I like the movie because it demonstrates that even the most ordinary man can make a difference.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful!!!~","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie.  Gary Cooper is wonderful as John.  At first, he does it for the money, but then, he feels bad because some people really have faith in him, and trust him.  He feels guilty about being a fake.  My favorite part is when he saysThe John Doe idea may be the answer though!  It may be the one thing capable of saving this cockeyed world.  Yet you sit back there on your fat hulks and tell me you'll kill it if you can't use it.  Well you go ahead and try, you couldn't do it in a million years with all your radio stations and all your power.  Because it's bigger than whether I'm a fake, it's bigger than your ambitions and it's bigger than all the bracelets and fur coats in the world!I also think Barbara Stanwyck gives a wonderful performance as Ann.  I love it when he's standing on the building, threatening to jump, and she tells him that she loves him, and the world does too, and they'll forgive him for lying.  I cried so much!I first saw this movie on Christmas Eve and I loved it.  I guarantee it will be a tradition for many Christmases to come! "},{"Title":"The third film in Capra's unofficial trilogy is darkly wonderful.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After doing Mr Deeds Goes To Town and Mr Smith Goes To Washington for Columbia, Capra quit and made this third film about an average Joe thrust into a powerful world where exploitation is high on the agenda, but in true Capra style the story unfolds to a customary flip flop triumph.Ann Mitchell is a struggling journalist who gets fired from her newspaper job by new editor Henry Connell, by way of venting her frustrations she writes in her stinging last article about a man called John Doe who is tired of being pushed around and held back by the big bosses, she finishes the piece by claiming that Doe will commit suicide on Christmas Eve by leaping off the roof of city hall, the public react to the letter with tremendous heart and Doe becomes a champion of the people.After Connell gets interested in the letter Ann has to confess that she made it up, they hatch a plan to turn a real unemployed drop out into John Doe so as to continue the story and sell more papers, and of course Ann gets to keep her job. This brings in ex minor league pitcher Long John Willoughby, who is down on his luck and very short of cash, and this is when the story shifts from amiable comedy on to a much darker path, the result making for a riveting watch.Whilst not being up with the best Capra films in his armoury, it is, however, one of his smartest. The portrayal of the human spirit in many guises is stark and poignant, whilst thematically Capra got his point over about the unsavoury elements blossoming in America. The cast are nailed on watchable, Gary Cooper is John Doe, the right amount of sympathy and guts is garnered from his performance, and in one rousing speech he has the viewers in the palm of his hand. Barbara Stanwyck is Ann Mitchell and she delivers a great turn that calls for a number of emotions to be performed convincingly, while the support cast are all solid with the stand out a bizarrely unnerving Edward Arnold as D B. Norton; a man wishing to be a dictator if ever there was one. 10/10 "},{"Title":"The Forgotten And Anonymous Get A Voice","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Meet John Doe was rudely jerked back into relevance in the Nineties by the emergence of a third party presidential candidate, wealthy enough to finance his own campaign, who ran in two presidential elections.H.Ross Perot and Edward Arnold's D.B. Norton have some definite similarities. Both men of wealth, both ego maniacal enough to try and eschew the normal political route to the White House. Both firmly convinced they are what the USA needs.Perot for all those graphs and charts didn't have much going for him in his candidacy other than a grudge against the Bush family. Although his platform isn't spelled out in Meet John Doe, Arnold says quite bluntly there's a new order of things coming and America needs a firm hand in the leadership. 'New Order' in 1941 meant fascism.There's a marvelous bit of imagery that Frank Capra give us right at the beginning, it's one of my favorite moments in his films. The image of the old Daily Bulletin sign being sandblasted away about a free press guaranteeing a free people and vice versa. Replacing it is something about the new Daily Bulletin being a streamlined paper for the modern era.Streamlining involves layoffs and the new editor James Gleason is giving out pink slips a plenty. One goes to Barbara Stanwyck who writes an innocuous chatty column. Gleason won't listen to her pleas so she fakes an anonymous letter from a man who signs it John Doe who threatens to jump off the City Hall Tower on Christmas Eve.Stanwyck gets more than she bargained for and she and Gleason have to come up with a real John Doe. A sore armed former baseball pitcher, Gary Cooper, fills the bill.This gets bigger and bigger and soon Arnold sees possibilities in it. Cooper goes on radio and delivers some homilies about love thy neighbor and being kind to others. He puts it over and a John Doe movement on these principles commences.Homilies and bromides they may be. But love thy neighbor is a concept that should never go out of style. As is proved it's quite a bit bigger than the political aspirations of a snake.This was the first teaming of Gary Cooper and Barbara Stanwyck. They followed it up with Ball of Fire another classic. Said to say that their third film, Blowing Wild, from the fifties hardly lived up to the first two. Capra used a whole lot of familiar faces from his previous films in Meet John Doe. Also one new face who made his one and only Capra film, Cooper's good friend on screen and in life, Walter Brennan. He's Coop's cynical traveling companion on the open road, the Colonel. Edward Arnold is one cold and sinister force in this film. I'm not sure but that this may be his penultimate role as a screen villain. His ambitions here would warrant that appraisal.One performance I like is that of Regis Toomey. He plays a soda jerk who starts a John Doe Club in his small town. He has some great lines that he delivers simply and eloquently about how Cooper's first radio speech inspired him to really get to know some of the neighbors he had not bothered with before.The lessons of Meet John Doe are simple and profound. Love Thy Neighbor and be kind to others are taught in all major religions and philosophies and the power is there when its focused. The other lesson I like is that the ordinary common people have a lot more in common than the things that divide them, be it race, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, you name it.Meet John Doe is a profound and moving film, but I be it's not one of H. Ross Perot's favorites. "}{"Title":"Powerful, Involving Story - Maybe Capra's Best","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a very absorbing story and one of director Frank Capra's best efforts. There is some great acting in here, almost mesmerizing at times. The story is a typical Capra-esquire populist one in which the average man is elevated to high status, his worth and valued boosted in a cynical world. Yes, it's a far-fetched story but it's fun to watch and has some powerful messages, leading with Love thy neighbor. I was very impressed with Barbara Stanwyck's speech near the end, noting Jesus' words to that effect while pleading to Gary Cooper. By the way, having Cooper and Stanwyck as the leads isn't all bad, either! Adding actors like Walter Brennan, James Gleason and Spring Byington make it all the better.Photography-wise, the film has an almost-eerie look to it in parts and is very interesting to view. I have yet to see this on DVD, but I plan to soon, I hope. Script- wise, it has a very good mixture of drama, comedy and romance. The story and the convincing actors all make it an involving experience and an emotional film.As I said, I think this is one of Capra's best films, if not THE best. "},{"Title":"The keys to a reinvented world","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Capra once again examines American society's unholy collusion of big business, media, and politics as a force toxic to the interests of the common man, here represented by a vagrant minor league baseball washout (Gary Cooper) elevated to working-class hero in an opportunistic newspaperwoman's (Barbara Stanwyck) fabricated story. Vividly emerging from his stark critique of money-mad power brokers and the well-intentioned docility of the masses is a sense that Capra is giving the proletariat a stiff dose of tough love the thematic fulcrum of the film is the scene in which corrupt D.B. Norton uses misinformation to persuade and plainly manipulate a stadium throng of supporters into turning on their hero. In evidence is Capra's clear frustration with administered peoples for their naivety and lack of strong principles that makes them implicit in their own subjugation, even as he praises their potential for constructive social change&#x97;in essence, affirming the power of the people even as he casts doubt on their ability to break free from corruptive influences. What could have been in lesser hands a one-sided, didactic rail against corruption and lack of virtue in a modern age is instead a rallying call for strength in numbers; a caution to the John Does of the world to resist becoming pawns to their avaricious subjugators and conspirators against themselves; and a lament for a future age in which commonplace imagination and faith are the catalysts for social change, the key to a reinvented world.In the parlance of snide critical dismissal, is there sentimentalism in his vision? Sure, but it's beside the point&#x97;when an artist does the commendable work of doing no less than presenting an alternative model for a better human existence, a penchant for overdramatizing the matter is bound to creep into the conception. But this is not a filmmaker compromised to intellectual short-cutting or base heart-tugging, and if you find James Gleason's final words evidence of a corny sensibility, then I implore you to take a closer look, for reasons I've attempted to elucidate above. For me, Capra's artistic reputation is safe on evidence of this film, as well as Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, It's a Wonderful Life, and It Happened One Night, and I'm sure many others I'll have the pleasure of discovering in the future. "},{"Title":"Eh. Not Capra's best","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Meet John Doe epitomizes the topsy-turvy world (a favorite of Capra). A bum is pulled from the masses to become the unique John Doe; his speeches are written by another but they eventually define him; a fake persona and movement becomes a rallying point for the masses; a fake threat of suicide becomes the only reason to live, and so on.Too many scenes are static. The baseball scene in the hotel is a waste of time. Barbara Stanwyck's attempts to create a news story from a fake letter is eerily reminiscent of today's headlines, but any good editor would have fired her. Gary Cooper plays an inarticulate man who speaks the words of others. Somehow Babs, an articulate writer, finds him irresistible.The ending is vague. Why is Norton (Arnold) on the roof? Is is hoping Doe (Cooper) will jump? The film ends with ringing bells. "},{"Title":"America Versus D. B. Norton","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" MEET JOHN DOE is a natural extension of Frank Capra's populist view of American society and politics following MR. DEEDS GOES TO TOWN and MR. SMITH GOES TO WASHINGTON. It in turn would be built upon in IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE and STATE OF THE UNION. All these films center upon a central figure (Gary Cooper, Jimmy Stewart, Spencer Tracy) who finds himself confronting figures of influence or power or stature who may threaten him (and through him the society) or who may nearly pervert the strengths of the hero so that they become defects (Douglas Dumbrille as Cedar the successful shyster lawyer in DEEDS; Edward Arnold and Claude Rains in SMITH; Arnold again in DOE - more below; Lionel Barrymore in LIFE; Angela Lansbury in UNION). It is rare when any of these villains demonstrate a human trait that is sympathetic. Lansbury comes closest at the start of UNION when she realizes her dying father (Lewis Stone) is going to commit suicide to end his pain, and tightly controls her own emotions as she leaves him for the last time. But the men rarely show these traits if at all. Arnold is sympathetic towards the end of another Capra film, YOU CAN'T TAKE IT WITH YOU - he comes to recognize he has lost his spiritual compass when his oldest friend and now recent enemy H.B. Warner dies confronting him for being so ruthless in business. But that is really rare.I suppose it is both a strength and weakness in the Capra films. The director was trying to demonstrate the resilience of American democracy and character despite threats. Certainly, despite moments of doubts, the heroes all remain optimistic and beat back their enemies. But it has been shown that Capra is so set on making his heroes larger than life that the people who support them are usually very weak on their own. Look at the small businessmen who depend on Mr. Deeds loan plan for his fortune to help them in the depression. When Deeds looks like he is tired of all of Cedar's tricks and willing to just give up, a series of these scared rabbit businessmen start saying, No, Mr. Deeds, you can't give up! Or how the Congressional pages keep turning from supportive to rejective of Jefferson Smith when evidence of his bribery is produced. Or how George Bailey's Uncle Billy (Thomas Mitchell) is rather absent minded (he is the one who carelessly drops the deposit money into Potter's lap at the bank). The fact is, for any democracy to succeed you need a fair minded and intelligent (and courageous) public to support a point of view - and that never shows up in Capra films until the hero makes his last stand.Which is why the villains are more impressive at times. Edward Arnold in particular as would - be Fascist leader/tycoon D.B. Norton. With his quiet demeanor, and sharp mind (Arnold lets his eyes reveal more of his viewpoint than the tone of his voice), he is the most dangerous figure in Capra's political movies. He sets his financial muscles into action, taking over companies (like the newspaper at the start of MEET JOHN DOE) and examines how the staff is working out, and notes the clever marketing idea of Barbara Stanwyck in using Cooper as a mouthpiece for social commentary. Gradually he realizes that Cooper is creating a real movement here - and he might (with prompting) push that movement into the hands of D.B.Norton.The key moment for his use of eyes and eye contact is (paradoxically) a simple action that is not really staring at anyone. Arnold explains to James Gleason and Stanwyck what he intends Cooper to say on a national radio hook-up that he'll stage that Cooper is going to recommend his million of followers in the John Doe clubs to support Norton for the Presidency. While Arnold tells this to them, he has taken off his pince-nez eyeglasses and is quietly polishing the lenses - like he is replenishing the strength of those evil eyes of his.In comparison to the goal oriented Norton Arnold's Jim Taylor in MR. SMITH is corrupt but more accessible. Taylor (in a brief scene) is shown with two cohorts having a night's entertainment with some women (presumably high class call girls - they are being offered jewelry as an incentive). Norton's idea of an evening is to have a dinner party of all his cronies, to whom he explains what plans he has for American society (with their assistance) once he gets elected! Norton and Taylor are both serious in what they do, but Taylor can step back a moment and enjoy himself.Capra was assisted by good script writers, but he and they must have had some figures in mind. Publisher William Randolph Hearst comes to mind, with his repeated attempts to jump start his political career (he had been a Congressman and a serious Presidential contender in 1904) up to the 1920s. Similarly there was Henry Ford, who had been a candidate for the U.S. Senate in a controversial election defeat in 1922, and then a strong Democratic Presidential possibility in 1924. By 1941 both men were considered reactionaries, somewhat unfairly in Hearst's case. But in retrospect neither of them was as totally power hungry (or control freaky) as Norton is. He remains Capra's blackest character, and one of Arnold's finest characterizations. "},{"Title":"More contemporary than ever","Date":"17 September 2010","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie couldn't be more salient and relevant to our times. The John Doe Clubs had the appearance of embodying the disgruntled sentiments of the Little Man, just like the Tea Party Movement today (which one quipster rightly has called an exercise in mass false consciousness). These movements of the little man have a long history in the US and Europe (in the US, the Know-Nothings of the 1850s & Father Coughlin of the 1930s, in France, the Poujadistes, in Italy the Qualunquisti); and all of them end up diverting attention away from the real enemies of little people, the fat cats at the top--in Capra's movie wonderfully incarnated in Edward Arnold's character, D.B.Norton (the real-life counterparts today to D.B. Norton, and who've done a fab job of manipulating the little people, are the Koch brothers). Capra rightly sensed that the little man's rage at being buffeted about by forces bigger than himself was exploited by the fascist movements of Europe to create right-wing mass parties which, in the end, served to protect the privileges of the wealthiest social classes from revolutionary egalitarian movements. "},{"Title":"Capra's corn is black","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It always seemed to me that Capra's dark allegory against fascism has been unfairly overlooked down the years in favour of the more celebrated Mr films Deeds and Smith as well of course as the universally loved It's A Wonderful Life. It could be just down to it having had a lower circulation down the years (you rarely see it on TV schedules, at least here in the UK), or its war-time genesis, or just that it has a less clearly defined happy ending than its three siblings, but for me there's no question that it fully punches its weight and continues to do so almost 70 years since its release.Capra-corn cynics may again mock the director's seemingly simplistic take on the malleability and simplicity of the American public at large, which here sees them swallow whole self-serving journalist Barbara Stanwyck's phony story about an everyman so disenchanted with the selfishness of society that he will make a suicidal sacrifice of himself on Christmas Eve to drive home his point. When she produces a stooge to actually play the part (Cooper's vagrant, baseball-loving Long John Willoughby) his scripted John Doe idealism strikes home in Anytown USA, fanned by Stanwyck's initially manipulative and no less cynical newspaper editor James Gleason. So far so good. However the the cause takes an altogether darker turn when it's later taken up by would-be dictator Edmund Arnold's sinister megalomaniac magnate DB Norton and his acolytes of faceless power-sharers. The initial scene where we are introduced to Norton, with a high-power display of motorcycle riders seems to these eyes a premonition of the way that today's dictators invariably preside over displays of their war machinery, usually at May Day parades. The more things change...The movie brilliantly takes us on the respective journeys of all these major characters to self-awareness at the same time making its bigger point about the dangers of state control (a rallying call against the rise of fascism engulfing war-torn Europe at the time of the movie's creation) with great subtlety and conviction. I've read that Capra agonised over a suitable ending for the movie and balk a little myself at the perhaps over-zealous religious symbolism of Cooper's character as a Christ-like figure, rebuffed as a prophet in his own time, turned on by the mob and walking towards self-destruction on Christmas eve. That said, some fantastic acting by Cooper and superb direction by Capra at the climactic scene held enough sway for me to trust the outcome as seen.Capra as ever, deftly handles his actors, prising superb performances from Arnold, Stanwyck, Gleason and Walter Brennan (as Willoughby's vagrant chum, the only one to see through the emperor's new clothes with his humorous Helots pronouncements) and especially Cooper who progresses his trademark gawky, bumbling sub-Deeds average-Joe character to someone altogether more complex and real by the finish. The cinematography too, is great, particularly in evidence at the pivotal mob scene where Capra again displays his mastery of editing and crowd control.I'd forgotten the tie-in to Christmas at the finale and was glad that I was watching a movie at this time with a weightier message than most every other film of this festive season (even as I appreciate it was initially released in May of 1941!). On the DVD mini-focus on Capra, he's described at one point as a 20th Century Dickens. Taking into account the quality of the peak of his work from It Happened One Night in 1934 through to State Of The Union in 1948 (with Meet John Doe at the epicentre both episodically and fundamentally) I firmly believe he deserves this timeless accolade more than any other director I can think of. "},{"Title":"Craftsmanship, funny and touching.","Date":"3 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's best to think of this as a Great Depression story, when it was probably conceived. Barbara Stanwyck is a reporter who tries to keep her job by concocting a letter from a nonexistent John Doe who is mad as hell and is not going to take it anymore. So he's going to jump off a skyscraper at midnight on Christmas Eve. When the letter is published, the public reacts with excitement. They vow support for the phantom Doe. Stanwyck's editor, James Gleason, decides that the newspaper and its owner, Edward Arnold, should go with the flow and hire some bum off the street to play John Doe.They pick the friendly, innocent Gary Cooper, ex-minor-league baseball pitcher, accompanied by his equally crummy buddy, Walter Brennan. These two hobos are raggedy and hungry, the kind of people who at the time were called bindle stiffs. The bindle was the bundle of personal effects they carried over their shoulders. A stiff was a person of no importance. You can still hear the word in the expression working stiff. Where was I? These damned voices keep distracting me. Oh, yes.So Cooper is hired to act as John Doe. After Christmas Eve, when he has his phony date with the angels, he is to be given a railroad ticket straight out of town and disappear.Surprisingly, though, his radio speech turns the audience on. They love it. They form multitudes of John Doe Clubs all around the world. The John Doe philosophy? Nothing dangerous, don't worry. Let's be kind to our neighbors. Let's break down the walls separating all of us John Does. The villainous Edward Arnold, the paper's owner, gets an idea. As the John Doe Clubs spring up all over, he sees their members not as airheaded do-gooders but as voters. This leads to a bright idea. In his next radio speech, John Doe will announce that Edward Arnold is forming a third party and running for president. All those John Does out there will vote for him -- that's ninety percent of the vote. And Arnold's philosophy is a little different from that of Cooper and Stanwyck, who has been writing his speeches. Everybody's complaining, Arnold tells his cohort of corrupt goons, gangsters, politicians, and labor leaders. What this country needs is a firm hand, some discipline. Does Arnold's scheme work? Of course it does. That's why he was elected president in 1944 and switched our allegiance to Nazi Germany and we lost the war and were occupied by the UN.Well, the fact is that Arnold may be evil but these targets are pretty soft ones. The film is so stripped of real-life counterparts that it almost amounts to a fantasy. The private police force that Arnold has at his disposal are all dressed as State Police but their shoulder patches read Norton Motorcycle Squad. Something else about Arnold. He probably gives the best performance in the movie. It's really quite subtle. He has to activate several latent roles -- loudmouthed dictator, thoughtful schemer, avuncular con man, and repentant fomenter of discord. He's followed closely by Barbara Stanwyck, in one of her fine performances of the period, and by Cooper himself, who must look simultaneously stupid but sensitive. Cooper has a priceless moment near the beginning as he is shown to a fancy hotel room and allowed to order five hamburgers from room service. With a wide smile he hangs up the phone, then notices the statue of a bouquet-holding nude woman on the stand. His expression changes instantly to an exopthalmic gawk. Capra and the editor give him a full half minute to stare at it, touch it tentatively, and gulp, before Stanwyck's voice comes from behind him and he jumps. It's a small moment but an exquisitely comic one.This was the last of three films that Frank Capra directed before entering the Army for World War II -- the others being Mr. Smith Goes to Washington and Mr. Deeds Goes to Town. All have in common an innocent young hero who runs into greed and corruption and through strength of will manages to overcome his adversaries. Capra was an apolitical populist and humanist, and there's a good deal of corniness in these movies, but that doesn't stop them from being successful. John Doe, unlike the others, becomes almost tragic before the improbable end. After his war service, Capra directed one more wildly successful film, It's a Wonderful Life, perhaps the best modern Christmas story, but it too had its moments of genuine anguish. "},{"Title":"Can't get more Anti-establishment","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Somehow I caught this movie on AMC in the early 90s and was immediately stunned, mostly because its timeless themes were still relevant, portrayed in an aggressive and masterful way. This film must have been at the top of a do-not-broadcast list, seeing as it was directed by Frank Capra, who made some of America's most watched patriotic and holiday movies, and yet remained hidden from view. It is shamelessly populist, but its biting portrayal of the press and financial elites as fascist manipulators was probably too much. Recently, though, the proliferation of movie channels has led to more broadcasts in the digital era.Meet JD is masterful on every level. The performances are great, the pacing is quick, relentless, and utterly without filler, the sets are gorgeous in a sharp and contrasting period film noir. I've caught no errors in this film, and despite its tight production values, it retains an amazing ability to address a wide swath of portrayals and views on politics, class, power, and the rank intersection of propaganda and modern journalism.It's far from the obfuscation of today's media, made at the tail end of the depression, released in 1941, just preceding the fundamental changes WWII would bring to America. In fact, Doe's opening radio speech is a prescient call to arms for the common people against the growing clouds of fascism and war. It's also the tragedy of this film - the horrors of WWII that followed it.MJD is a sharpening of Mr Deeds Goes to Town from 1936, and is balder than the Capra classics starring Jimmy Stewart. This film makes no apologies - the elites are bad, manipulative people, with a fundamental distaste for democracy, and the common people are innocent and just trying to get a break in the world. The film is crushingly sweet, but Capra gets away with this by contrasting it with evil so unabashed and real that the choice is always obvious.Gary Cooper's every-man persona is most convincing in this role, livelier than in his Westerns, as a real loser who first just wants some meals a good bed, and some money, and then gets a chance to be someone, something the purer Jimmy Stewart doesn't pull off as well (for me, not all). Barbara Stanwyck is a stunningly gorgeous and alluring tornado of energy, intellect and activity, openly compromising her morals at the start, only to get sucked in by the morality of the struggle and her interest in John Doe as a man. This transformation of both her character and John Doe into a man who finds something important in himself offers great traction and emotion for the film as it progresses. Any director would be grateful to have one picture show such growth so perfectly.The supporting cast include Walter Brennan as the Colonel, Doe's hobo sidekick, an inveterate cynic and free spirit, a drifter comfortable with being no one, warning of the pitfalls of obligations to a regular life. He sees the manipulation of John before John does, and incessantly pulls in the opposite direction. Capra uses him as a foil to the ambition of everyone else, and as a mirror into a past before technology. His clichés reach back into the 19th century with remarkable authenticity.Edward Arnold plays the creepy fat cat who wants to ride John Doe to political power, and James Gleason is perfect as the grizzled editor who works for Norton and starts regretting his involvement in a 'fifth column' coup.They all give multiple soliloquies about common men and elites. One of these scenes could make a picture, but they arrive constantly but naturally. Everyday people make it into the production as well, and their moments are precious, including small-town soda jerks, outcasts, and little old ladies saying 'Bless You My Boy.' The John Doe movement, created as a scam, actually takes hold and makes everyday people treat one another better. It's a striking concept, and the genius is how the script takes a dirty con and turns it into something unintentionally sublime and as ambitious as community and world peace. It's the reverse of something good rotting away. Far- fetched, sure, but that's the power of a movie, of ideas, and of unintended history.There's a horrific mob rule climax where John Doe's fakery is used against him when he tries to betray his puppet master, and we see classic counter-revolutionary behaviors by police and instigators to seal his humiliation. Later, he has to show he's willing to actually sacrifice himself leading to final moments that are so optimistic and positive they unintentionally remind us what we've since lost in our cynical world since the film was made, including media freedoms and middle class power, as the vestiges of political democracy crumble in front of us. The villains that lose in MJD have won in real life many times since 1941. John Doe's transformation from sucker to leader is the biggest plot stretch in the film, but a change we would all like to believe some common man could achieve.Films wouldn't get this politically populist again until the 1970s, with Fist, High Velocity and Burn, and no film except Network offers such a scathing analysis of the major media and politics. Since the 70s, this kind of thing is covered rarely, and never thisClassic lines - I'm sorry, mayor, but we voted that no politicians could join the John Doe Club.Colonel - I already know the world's been shaved by a drunken barber. "},{"Title":"Another Capra fantasy about the everyman  vs. greedy businessmen....","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Once again GARY COOPER is everyman--a man who has to fight mob mentality and show that he has the stuff to win the girl over to his side at the last moment--in time for the usual happy ending. Only here the ending is the least convincing five minutes in the whole story.We've all seen this story before--usually under different Frank Capra titles. This time the heavy is EDWARD ARNOLD (instead of Claude Rains), the girl is BARBARA STANWYCK (instead of Jean Arthur), and for the finale we have a snowy winter scene reminiscent of some of the most dramatic moments from IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE...and it's New Year's Eve.Capra rounded up a fine supporting cast to surround his stars with their usual competent performances--people like SPRING BYINGTON, JAMES GLEASON, WALTER BRENNAN and GENE LOCKHART--but his story is overlong and heavy on the social commentary.The dramatic ending is spoiled by the dialog given Stanwyck as she tearfully pleads with Cooper not to take his life. Her speech is so full of wordy idealism and she plays it with such soap opera intensity that she had me cringing as I watched her clutching desperately at Cooper's sleeves before slipping to the floor. Stanwyck is an actress who never missed an opportunity to play a big scene with all she had, but it doesn't work here.I never have seen a good print of MEET JOHN DOE--and the one being shown on TCM is occasionally murky and marred by soft focus. But to be honest, I don't think it's a film that I'm keen about viewing again. "},{"Title":"Very engaging comedy","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well-made political/social comedy.  Cooper is positively iconic as John Doe, a character created as a publicity stunt by girl friday reporter Stanwyck.  He becomes a political tool of fascist capitalists (shades of Smedley Butler) and is saved by the faith of his loved ones.  Good story, good acting, great photography.  Stanwyck's role is great, but the later part of the film makes her character less believable and I think her crying jag on the rooftop was a mistake -- Capra took his sentimentality too far, as he often does.  Good film emerged, though.  High point is definately the performances of the two stars, especially the shining star Stanwyck, who never looked better. "}{"Title":"The Best!!","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just watched this film again last night and I get teared up everytime. I can not understand how this did not get placed on AFI's top 100 films of all time. It is just as wonderful if not MORE important than It's A Wonderful Life.This is a story that everyone should watch and learn. It's about a reporter who comes up with a made-up story about a man who had written her and says how the world has become so cold. How the world treats the everyman like dirt. How no one cares about anyone other than themselves. How neighbour has turned against neighbour. That there is no hope left for the John Does in this world and how he threatens to jump off the top of City Hall on Christmas Eve if nothing changes.Barbara Stanwyck is perfect as the reporter who comes up with the John Doe story using her late father's views and ideas. Gary Cooper is also perfect as the John Doe that she finds to portray the everyman for her stories. Together they help one another. He helps her to get her father's ideas out to the people and she helps him find that he IS worth something. Edward Arnold is very good as the evil head of the media, who uses John Doe(s) for his personal gain. The script is intelligent and poignant. The cinematography is fanastic. All this greatness and only nominated for ONE oscar(Best Original Screenplay)!!The message here is one that we can use everyday people. Put yourself out there and get to know your neighbours. Share a smile with others and see the results.  "},{"Title":"Propaganda at its best","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   This movie was made at a time in our history when the US was at war, and patriotism was high. A lot of movies were made at this time with the purpose of keeping spirits up, and presenting what the American ideal was all about.This movie is full of symbolism. Every scene and every utterance has a message.  A common man elevated-- being pulled in both directions.  On the one hand, by a beautiful woman, on the other hand, by his old life- represented by Walter Brennan.  Almost everyone in the movie praises the goodness of man, as long as man is on the right side and can be manipulated.  There is a scene of a crowd in one accord, praising their hero-- the reverse image of a Hitler rally, because these people were good.  Suddenly it starts to rain, and everyone has a large black umbrella.  As they sing God Bless America the overhead shot shows the tops of the umbrellas gently moving in unison-- huddled masses.  Then the mood of the crowd changes-- can anyone say Crucify him?  The same people who love him, suddenly hate him.  Later in the movie Barbara Stanwyck reminds him of the John Doe of 2000 years ago.  Christ. A beautiful tall building, glowing in the dark. A symbolism of capitalism. Anyone who wasn't around during the l940's, or have not read the history of that time.  will miss all the symbolism- but the symbols are very clear to those in the know.  All in all, a pretty good movie, if a bit long and drawn out, and very preachy, even if the preaching was well intended.  "},{"Title":"With Significant Editing, This Might Have Been a Much Better Movie","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Meet John Doe has in it some good performances. Walter Brennan played Gary Cooper's cynical hobo friend almost to perfection, at least as well as the role could be played given the flawed script. He saw the conventional world as one full of heelots (lots of heels) who were only after the other guy's money. Cooper, as John Doe, handed in a credible performance, as well, and Barbara Stanwick, when she wasn't overacting, was generally interesting to watch and easy on the eyes. The actors portraying the newspaper editor and the media magnate were also effective. But this story and this script, while reaching for greater meaning, had the unfortunate tendency to fall back on schmaltzy clichés and flag-waving propaganda and that kept the movie from realizing its full promise and potential. Director Capra, whose talents were greatly admired in the movie industry, didn't seem able to make up his mind if he wanted this thing to be a somewhat saccharine, albeit uplifting Christmas movie about people forgetting their petty differences and coming together, or something quite different, that being a cynical and gritty political statement about the rich and powerful's compelling need to use and abuse the common man. The movie tried to combine elements of both themes yet it only partly succeeded on either score. In contrast, It's a Wonderful Life, which attempted much the same thing, succeeded where Meet John Doe missed the mark. It was a far more effective Christmas movie, yet at the same time contained significant elements that examined dishonesty, cruelty, and greed. Still, Meet John Doe, a less admired, less focused, and less consistent effort featured some compelling scenes. I thought the argument between Doe and DB Norton, the fascist media magnate who was hoping to launch a presidential bid on the strength of the John Doe Clubs, was probably the best scene in the film, although Walter Brennan's speech about the heelots was also quite good. The mob scene, reminiscent of Christ's crucifixion, no doubt was intended to be the film's most powerful sequence, and on balance it was fairly gripping. Unfortunately, it contained obvious continuity errors that detracted seriously from its believability. For example, Norton's troopers grabbed Doe to stop him from speaking to the crowd and exposing Norton's evil scheme, then all of a sudden, they released him and stood back, allowing him to weakly defend himself in front of the mike. Whereas the mob seemed to sympathize with him even when disillusioned by the disturbing allegations leveled against him, suddenly they were out for his blood. It didn't really add up, at least not as it unfolded. The last scene in the movie, where Doe climbed City Hall intending to commit suicide, aspired to be a very moving moment but was even more flawed. The magnate and his fellow conspirators were on hand and they didn't want him to go through with it because it might spoil their attempts to salvage what was left of their meglomaniacal aims, but evidently they felt somewhat guilty for their part in his destruction. Doe simply brushed them aside, and in what was perhaps Coop's most convincing moment, he was just about to leap to his death when Barbara Stanwick dashed forward to stop him. Unfortunately, that's when the movie took a real nosedive. Her lines were painfully contrived and delivered in a thoroughly unconvincing manner. As such, the ending was like the rest of the flick, inching up on something quite good and then falling flat. Too bad; with more polishing, significant editing and re-shooting, it could have been a much better movie. "},{"Title":"As Current As Today","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the story of a fired newspaper reporter, Ann Mitchell, who make up a fake letter from an unemployed John Doe, who threatens suicide in protest of social ills. She manages to get the letter published in the paper and she is rehired. Ann must find a John Doe for her letter and hires John Willoughby to impersonate Doe. Ann and her bosses cynically milk the story for all it's worth, until the made-up John Doe philosophy starts a whole political movement. The bosses take the made up story and the hired John to the brink. At the last everyone, even Ann, takes her creation seriously...but publisher D.B. Norton has a secret plan.This movies shows us why Gary Cooper is the consummate actor that he came to be. Paired with legendary actress Barbara Stanwyck, this picture is a lesson on their acting techniques. Nominated for Best Writing Original Story in 1942, the story can't help but remind you of Citizen Kane or Mr. Smith Goes To Washington. Standing up to the bigger than life acting of these heros of the screen is Edward Arnold as publisher DB Norton. His performance as the old rich man in charge is sparked with realism and is a heartfelt but flawed character. The story has over tones ranging from the political to the religious. Though the story may be hokey at times it still can resonate with today's times and some of the subject matter seems to come straight from the headlines of some of today's newspapers. Directed by Frank Capra, the sets and visuals are what you want from a movie like this that can rip your heart wide open. Capra's skills are as apparent here as other Capra work. The movie gets so real at times that during the riot you'll wonder how Capra kept control on the set. "},{"Title":"Nobody Somebody","Date":"10 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As Captain Sisko in Star Trek Deep Space Nine put it in an episode Beyond the Stars You can take away the story, but you can't destroy the idea, it exists in my mind, it's ancient knowledge, it's real. That's how I feel about ideas, to me their as real as the air we breathe, they are what drive us, keep us alive, and are capable of making differences in a person, people, a small or big portion of the world. This believe or not is my favorite film from Frank Capera.Like in most of his films there the kind that really speak to me and just give me a good feeling inside which I don't get nearly enough of which is part of what makes them timeless. You can also say this film is also kinda a Christian film since like most of his films have themes on selflessness as well as a Christian like protagonist whom like most have to endure a lot of hardship before triumph.I like the story, it's true it's kinda far fetched but I just rolled with it. To me like with most of Capra's films what really drove it are the characters and what they do.I really like the protagonist John Doe played well by Gary Cooper. You really do feel a heavy sense of pathos for the guy, because of how human he feels. At first when he takes this job on, he doing it for survival which is the money. Though I wouldn't say it's a totally selfish reason since he wanted that money to also help his friend. But also just simply as an opportunity for another chance, the guy isn't a bum as he stated he use to be a star ball player but as time went on has ran into hard times. But of course as he goes along with the role of playing a guy that doesn't really exist, as things grow he begins to realize the importance of what has been created as well as feel a sense of guilt over having to lie in order to retain hope for everyone but is still willing to admit the truth about himself. That I personally feel makes him a true hero and the real deal, willingness to revoke his title which shows he's not selfish but truly selfless.When we see John go though that as corrupt corporations rear their ugly head to destroy his character which they do, it just made me feel all the more pathos for him and hope he wins. He wasn't harming anyone but to some ideas are a threat because they evoke certain changes their selfish ambitions don't agree with. One really profound moments with John are the speech he gives the corporates which I thought was great, it says that people with ideas exist and it doesn't matter how many are struck down their will always be another or many.I even like the chemistry between both John and Ann Mitchell(Barbra Standwick) so this film is another one of the romance stories I like because they actually work. I thought it was believable because both had genuine interaction time, one of my favorite scenes is when John tells a story about his family to Ann which I found very touching because it shows that John truly does have a soul and isn't nobody. I even like the Ann character who is also human and whom was the one that created the whole John Doe phenomenon; her character I don't feel is a bad guy her head at first is just in the wrong place. At first when she created it it was simply for survival since she was being let go of, she needed a hot story fast to retain her career. Though I wouldn't say it was totally selfish since the paper she works for was going under so it was a way to keep them in business. But as the phenomenon grows she also grows a conscious about the whole thing realizes it's importance as well as ethical boundaries broken to keep it alive but the effect it would have on John which makes her concerned for his life. This just all the more makes us hope she might find some redemption for herself but also hope John can forgive her.To me the message is about ideas and dreams can never be destroyed, as long as good people, belief, and hope exists, ideas will always be fruitful and multiply.John Doe isn't a nobody, he is a somebody because he is everybody.Rating 4 stars "},{"Title":"Lighthouses In a Foggy World","Date":"22 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Frank Capra classic about a homeless man (Gary Cooper) paid to pretend he is the fictional John Doe who threatens to commit suicide over social injustice. Before long he finds himself at the front of a grassroots movement and in love with the woman (Barbara Stanwyck) who created the myth. Then he finds that the entire movement is a scam to help a greedy politician (Edward Arnold) become governor. Brilliant social commentary done in the inimitable Capra-corn style, mixing hopeful optimism with healthy skepticism. The result is a meaningful story full of colorful characters who also have shades of grey.Full of memorable lines like I know the world's been shaved by a drunken barber, and I don't have to read it. If it was raining hundred dollar bills, you'd be out looking for a dime you lost someplace! Show me an American that can keep his mouth shut and I'll eat him. And that doesn't even cover the helots! Amazing cast, direction, writing, cinematography...the whole production is excellent. An idealistic, sentimental American classic from a legendary filmmaker and some of the best actors of their time. A must-see for everybody. "},{"Title":"That's a lot of HOOEY!","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The first time I ever saw this? I bought it at Fedco for one dollar back in 1985. I got this moovie and also, Stage Door Canteen and also Double Indemnity -For a dollar each, and they were great prints (well for BetaMax Video Tape) and I watched Meet John Doe and I fell in love with Barbara Stanwyck, and I had to watch Double Indemnity and fall in love some more. I had only previously known Stanwyck as the Matriarch of The Big Valley- So this was a big eye opener for me, and after I saw this, I found Ball of Fire - The Mad Miss Manton and most important... Double Indemnity... But then of course, The Coop was in this. I really did not know much about him at this point. I had seen The Westerner of course, and so I knew that Coop could be either very goofy or very serious.I assume this was a difficult film to make, dealing with deception to put over an idea that is the antitheses of deception. This is basically a retelling of The Gospel, in a way. But it is also the depiction of the way the wheels of a Rumour machine can feed and steer public opinion, so in a lot of ways this film is highly related to The Fountainhead which I have just seen again this afternoon.I never really did like the ending of this film, and after reading the accounts of the four various endings, I'm sure Capra really had a hard time making a believable ending. The ending that became the ending, is not perfect, but works well to resolve the conflict of the film And is summarized in James Gleason's last words in the film Hear that, DB? That's the voice of the people Now this tale was more suited for 1931 than 1941- We have a story set in depression times but shown in 1941... When the country was on the verge of falling in to World War II- How many people in May 1941 knew what was gonna happen in December 1941? In retrospect, maybe Capra was making his stab at National Socialism. As a matter of fact, we look at Norton's Thugs Black Uniforms, Motorcycles, Arrogance. And the whole part of the plot that Norton wants to use the idea that John Doe is sending to the hicks - The Hick Vote as it was put in All the Kings Men - The idea that all of the basic working class people could be united under a common cause that they think is good... But which DB Norton wished to pervert. Edward Arnold, who is a fantastic crook in most of his films, he even claims (As Norton) that it is time for The old corrupt parties to be smashed so that one party can take over - Or words to that effect.I think Capra makes several points with this film. On one level, he talks about the Depression Times, but on another level, he is making a statement about fascism. And throughout the whole thing he keeps a sense of Humour- And this colours the hard statements he is making.Also not to be ignored is the basic Snowball Effect - Barbara Stanwyck performs one act of desperation, and it is a basically selfish action designed to keep her employed. It works... Too Well.We do not even assign the role of the crook to Edward Arnold right away... In the film we the viewers are thinking that this is a swell guy. So, directly relating this film to events in Germany... It this the way it happened there... Is this how it started? Of all the points the film makes perhaps that is the main one, that freedom is usually taken away from us... By our giving it away. The role of a despot cannot thrive unless he is given permission by the people he is supposed to be representing.The only thing that really bothers me about Meet John Doe is how Stanwyck is behaving at the end. Poor girl, had a breakdown, but she does not sell it to us as well as she sold herself earlier in the film. What ultimately saves it is Gleason with his final comment.This film is worth watching... Oh at least three times, if not more. "},{"Title":"Frank Capra at his best","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is an absolute classic. Brave performances by everyone Gary Cooper, Barbara Stanwyck (wonderful here), James Gleason, Edward Arnold, Walter Brennan and so on. The script is excellent. We see the construction of the John Doe myth, since it's created in a reporter's imagination, to its complete success in achieving a great popularity. Then we see the forces behind such a phenomenon, and their own ideas in how to use properly this John Doe character. This was a very brave film in its time, as it shows Police Forces backing D. B. Norton in his corrupt ideals. The film is packed with unforgettable scenes The arrival of Gary Cooper, The Radio speech, James Gleason eye-opening talk to Gary Cooper, Gary Cooper facing Edward Arnold and his comrades, the raining convention scene (hugely impressive) and even the end of the movie, although many people think it could be better. For, me, at least, it was excellent, as the whole movie.If you're a Frank Capra fan, you simply can't miss this one.  "},{"Title":"One Species...","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" From THE PRESIDENTIAL PAPERS by Norman Mailer There are situations which belong more to the movies than to life... Mailer never made it THIS far. We live in an age when a rich kid suffering from affluenza (i.e.; being born with a silver spoon in his mouth) can get away with the vehicular homicide of four people while driving drunk (and, at last count, had fled the country- and possible prosecution); an age when the mass of Americans are not felt as a Political reality (as Mailer put it); an age of prefabricated politics; an age of industrial accidents and deregulation that have left all the food poisoned. And the waters of the sea we are told. (from CANNIBALS AND CHRISTIANS); an age when the sense of a long last night over civilization is back again...; an age when terror has us all quaking in our boots, although we had had a secret police organization and an invisible government large enough by now to occupy the moon... and we had not found that many, and had looked like Keystone cops.; an age when the country was (IS) taking a turn... the knives of the afternoon (are) out...; an age of hyper-surveillance, where (THE PRESIDENTIAL PAPERS) the great shadow is that there is a place for everybody in our country who is willing to live the way other people want him to, and talk the way others want him to; an age of America's tortured psychotic search for security; an age of a false security in the power and the panacea of organized religion, family, and the FBI... the stultifying techniques of the mass media; an age when misinformation is the order of the day; Sad. A nation as large as ours, blinded by the lies of the men who feed us our news. CANNIBALS AND CHRISTIANS For a time it had been an interesting history. We find out that the people of Flint, Michigan, have been poisoned by Lead in their drinking water, that the death toll of American troops in Iraq and Afghanistan has now come close to 7,000 (with far many more wounded and homeless, some kicked to the curb by the very people who sent them off to war) and on and on and on (in the past few weeks, the carcasses of a 12 foot shark and a 30 foot whale have washed up on local beaches; it doesn't bode well). America, wrote Mailer, has come to a point from which she will never return. And, finally No age of high ideals is close at hand. Like prostitutes (whose profession is, next to the Politician's, the Second-oldest), most of today's elected representatives have no memory. Of most it could be said He gave the sort of speech... which serves to clot the aisles of history. Their intentions are clear to steal the land. To milk the Earth of all its Resources, without regard for those who Have Not. One would do well to mind the words of physicist Neil Tyson There are a lot of Races, but only one Species. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies ever made","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen very few movies as moving and inspiring as Meet John Doe. I rank it up there with Spartacus as inspirational to the common person.The first speech, and the final speech by Stanwyck are compelling, especially in a world that was witnessing the deaths of 80 million people in World War II. If injustice and atrocities are to be overcome and averted, one needs to absorb the message so powerfully presented in this movie that the common men and women need to unite to struggle against the evils in our society, including greed, absolute power in the hands of a few, violence, discrimination, injustice, inequality, and crimes against humanity. Watch and share this movie and its message with your children, family, and friends. If we fail to adopt the philosophy of the John Doe Society, soon we all may be doomed to a world of totalitarianism, if not destruction. "}{"Title":"A problem with the ending hurts what is otherwise a great film","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" WARNING SPOILER INCLUDED!I love this film. It has all of the charms and social conscience of other Capra movies like Mr. Smith Goes to Town and It's a Wonderful Life, and some great performances. And I still enjoy watching it.It is great right up until the ending, where I'm afraid Capra painted himself into a corner. And as a result, it falls short of Capra's other classics.Capra has arranged the ending so that John Doe is caught in what appears to be a no-way-out dilemma If he doesn't kill himself, he looks like a fraud and a crook who betrayed the public's trust - shattering the faith of all the people who believed in the message he was preaching. On the other hand, If he DOES kill himself... well, not many people would enjoy watching Gary Cooper jump to his death at the end of the movie.Setting up that kind of impossible situation is a sure-fire way to build up tension as you approach a film's finale. But for it to work, you have to get the hero out of the fix you put him in.The problem is that Capra himself didn't really find a way to resolve the dilemma he created. So he cheats a little and opts for the lesser of two evils, giving the audience its happy ending. But for me, I can't help but see that as a minor failure on the part of the writer and/or the director, so the ending itself is always something of a letdown.No, I didn't want him to jump. I just wanted a more clever, more satisfying resolution to the problem the writers had created in the first place.But I still give the movie high marks. Even if the ending is less than brilliant, it's a nice trip getting to that point. "},{"Title":"Capra at his best","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Gary Cooper and Barbara Stanwyck star in Meet John Doe, a 1941 film directed by Frank Capra and also starring Edward Arnold, James Gleason, Walter Brennan and Spring Byington. Faced with a pink slip due to falling circulation, a newspaperwoman, Ann Mitchell (Stanwyck) publishes a fake letter from John Doe, complaining about the state of the world and announcing that in protest, he will commit suicide on Christmas Eve. As the rival paper insists the letter is phony, the paper has to come up with a John Doe real quick. They find him in the persona of Long John Willoughby (Cooper), an unemployed, hungry man who wants to earn some money. He agrees to be the face behind John Doe. Soon, a whole movement develops based on John Doe's principles of Love Thy Neighbor, and he becomes a great hero. Meanwhile, Ann Mitchell, who serves as John Doe's speechwriter, without realizing it has become a puppet for a ruthless, politically ambitious publisher (Edward Arnold) who wants to use John Doe's popularity to his advantage.Similar in format to many of Capra's fine films - the guileless all-American boy against a manipulative villain and corrupt values, Meet John Doe still has a powerful message, even today, about making reckless assumptions about people and becoming cynical and jaded. There's a dark quality about the movie, something almost other-worldly, and perhaps given Capra's philosophy, that's just what it is. Capra's great gift was being able to bring the audience into his world, his vision, and believe every word.Capra obviously loved both Gary Cooper and James Stewart as leading men. Both have an aw shucks quality, an innate gentleness, and both are all American boys, Stewart more a small-town kid and Cooper more one of the unpopulated west. And Capra liked to team them with strong, forceful women such as Stanwyck or Jean Arthur, so that she can soften once exposed to such an uncorrupted man. It's a good concept, and it worked for Capra every time. It seems that when he wanted histrionics, he chose Stewart, whose range was broader than Cooper's. Cooper, of course, never looks like he's doing a darn thing besides standing there looking gorgeous - and he doesn't seem aware of that either. Underneath the simplicity, however, there's an honest quality, a devastating masculinity and a sense of dignity. He was a very internalized actor but with a smile that could knock your socks off. As John Doe, though the entire thing starts out as a con, he becomes a symbol of hope for people and takes on the lofty concepts as his own, a perfect front man for the John Doe Movement.Barbara Stanwyck is wonderful as the money-hungry Ann who soon realizes there's more at stake than a few dollars. The look on her face when she sees John Willoughby is priceless - she's thoroughly disarmed; her face then changes to indicate that she's found her John Doe. Stanwyck was perfect for Capra's films, maybe a bit better than Arthur. There was always something vulnerable about Stanwyck underneath the all-business shell, so that when she falls, she falls hard.The word crucified is used more than once in Meet John Doe, and the comparison to Christ is obvious, particularly when Ann references him at the end of the film. Capra tells us that a message of love, belief in humanity and hope for the future is often met with derision, but in the end, there's not much else. If you don't have hope, you may as well jump off of a building. But why wait until Christmas Eve. "},{"Title":"Both inspirational and cynical  at the same time","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Frank Capra and Gary Cooper pretty much trod the same ground as they did with Mr. Deeds Goes To Town.Gary Cooper's John Doe character isn't so far removed from Longfellow Deeds.But this movie is also bit more darker and cynical.This was very much due to the events of WW II,which had its effect on the USA at the time.This was also the first teaming of Cooper and Barbara Stanwyck and the chemistry between the stars is beautiful to behold.Edward Arnold's fascist villain is really a terrifying creation.Arnold has probably never been better.There's also great support from veterans Walter Brennan and James Gleason.I enjoyed this movie very much,though I liked the similar Mr.Deeds Goes to Town better. "},{"Title":"excellent movie","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just bought this movie for a dollar and unlike others who have purchased the DVD copy, mine was very good, no scratches and the sound was perfect. The company is called Digiview Productions. They also have other DVD movies coming out advertised on their DVD movies. I loved the story of the fictional character that Cooper had to play fooling the general public, but in the end it was so hard to apologize to those same people that believed in him. Barbara Stanwick did a fine job as supporting actress. Walter Brennen, wow! what a character. His portrayal as Cooper's side kick, is really a touch of spice to this movie, as well of all the actors that make up the story. This is what makes a great movie. Last, but not least, James Gleason. At first, he was like all the rest of them cruel and not very nice to his people, firing the elderly and of course the one woman in his employ. I liked the fact that he told all and became the wonderful guy in the end. And Edward Arnold, most of his acting career (always the bad guy) he plays that part well no doubt about it. Good movie, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Nostalgic, and still excellent and amusing","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This afternoon I heard most of an interview in-progress on NPR, with a movie reviewer commenting on the best pictures, the best in recent years, etc. I was driving to a meeting, and didn't hear his name, but noted one particular comment he made. He said his personal favorite movies were usually those which had stories depicting the times in which they were filmed, rather than past times.This film is a perfect example of the period at the end of the 1930's and just prior to entry into WW II. Today, it also provides a nostalgic look at the period 65 years ago, the newspapers and politics as they were then, the era of soda jerks, as well as the filming and acting of this period.Barbara Stansyck was an actress who could gnaw the scenery like a horde of beavers - yet that always seemed more in-character than over-the-top with her. James Gleason, as the harried newspaper editor, was in a type of role from which he obviously made a good living in Hollywood.Edward Arnold could play the horse's ass with anyone before or since, all the more effective with his deep voice and Big Daddy physique. Regis Toomey, the soda-jerk and organizer and spokesman for the John Doe Clubs -- despite his menial profession and corny dialog, displayed the leadership attributes of a 4-star general.Walter Brennan cackled through a part better than most actors speaking normally.Finally, Gary Cooper provided an imposing figure -- as impressive as any, then or now. My only objection is his portrayal as a baseball player. While no major league scouts ever broke down my door, I played the game pretty well, from Little League through high school, legion and college ball. My two grandmothers were both physically able women. My maternal one was a super athlete, my dad's mom (although a great dancer) was no athlete at all, but even she could throw a baseball better than Gary. The other one looked like Sandy Koufax compared with him. How this macho, virile superstar could be so inept seemed inexplicable. Surely the studio head or director could at least have sent him for a weekend with, say, Bob Feller, for at least a bit of instruction of throwing a baseball. "},{"Title":"It's a Wonderful Surprise","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was put off from catching up with meet John Doe for a long time by the many adverse criticisms I had read. Frank Capra is not exactly in fashion at present, apart from It's a Wonderful Life, and John Doe seems to be particularly held in disdain by a variety of critics from David Thomson to the reviewer in Time Out. Imagine my delight and surprise when it turned out to be one of my most pleasurable viewing experiences of recent weeks. My reluctance to see John Doe I have to admit was partly due to disappointment with recent discoveries of The Bitter Tea of General Yen and Lost Horizon, both dating from the 'thirties when Capra was still finding his style. General Yen is notable for an impressively made opening sequence of warfare and mayhem in China directed with an almost Eisenstein-like frenzy but nothing much thereafter can disguise its status as pure hokum and if you can swallow Lost Horizon you can swallow almost anything. I should have known that a tale of the little guy standing up for decent living in a society dominated by the powerful and corrupt - a la Mr Deeds and Mr Smith - would in Capra's hands be a sure fire winner. That it has the merits of these is praise indeed. Somehow Gary Cooper was an actor who more than any other exuded goodness and honesty. To the best of my knowledge he never played a mean or moody character. Even those stars that ran him close equal second in these respects, Henry Fonda and Gregory Peck, had their saintly images tarnished by the unspeakably evil villainy of their roles in Once Upon a Time in the West and The Boys from Brazil while the other contender, James Stewart, often revealed a darkly unstable side as in Vertigo. Cooper however was never tested with parts such as these. I just don't think he could have managed evil or instability. Thus, of them all, he remains the personification of Mister Good Guy, the very character of the John Doe that the wily Barbara Stanwyck creates for him in this quite terrific Capra movie. As for Stanwyck, she was seldom better. Here she plays a tough cookie determined to get her own back on the newspaper that fires her, but, beneath that battling exterior, she is all woman. When things begin to go wrong for her John Doe she convincingly bursts into tears that pack a strong emotional punch. The last part of the film contains terrific set pieces, a convention to honour the hero that ends in an about turn of anger against him, the rain teeming down on a multitude of umbrellas, wonderful pathetic fallacy stuff but who cares when directed with such panache. This is followed by the closing sequence at the top of a skyscraper where the moral issues are fought out, torrential rain having turned to snow. Call me a sucker but I loved it! "},{"Title":"Excellent Film.  Made Me Cry.","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film came out before the US went into WWII, but at a time when many were awakening to what Hitler and other fascists were doing in Europe. So when the paper editor speaks of the dangers of a fifth column it was at a time in our nation when there were active fifth column operations attempting to align with Hitler. This is one undercurrent that was appreciated.The overwhelming story of how common folks can speak to and encourage other common folks and produce a powerful movement was touching. It was not far-fetched either, as it could very well happen with the help of the media. But unfortunately our media rarely promotes feel good causes. The power of words is shown, as people can be turned to corporate good or corporate evil by the use of a good spokesman and the right words.I love Gary Cooper, always believable and lovable in his roles. Barbara Stanwyck is also effective. Two great actors and a great plot. I was especially touched in the final scene when the work of Jesus on the cross was referenced as the ultimate story of a John Doe dying that others might live. Just a wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"Stanwyck and Cooper perfect for their roles","Date":"9 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Bulletin newspaper is being revamp with mass laid offs. Reporter Ann Mitchell (Barbara Stanwyck) is fired and as a final story, she hands in a fake letter from unemployed John Doe who threatens to commit suicide in protest. It picks up political heat and editor Henry Connell is forced to rehire Ann. Ann convinces them to hire somebody to impersonate John Doe. Many claim to be Doe and they pick former pitcher John Willoughby (Gary Cooper) who is just looking for work. His tramp friend The Colonel (Walter Brennan) isn't so sure about the newfound wealth. The newspaper's publisher D. B. Norton (Edward Arnold) has his own designs for Doe.Both leads are terrific and perfect for their roles. Stanwyck is a ballsy broad and Cooper is the everyman. It's a Frank Capra modern fairy tale. It takes on a lot of themes like media manipulation, modern fame, and a social commentary. However Norton's scheme is too grandiose. It does need some simplification. It's the only thing that I find problematic. "},{"Title":"John Doe = Big Bucks","Date":"24 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Capracorn it may be but it's still hard to resist this anti-fascist message simply because of the sheer professionalism on display from all departments beginning, of course, with the screenplay. Arguably Robert Riskin's finest hour was when - smarting from all the PR that spoke of the 'Capra touch' whilst completely ignoring the screenplays - he marched into Capra's office, tossed an unopened box of typing paper on the director's desk and said 'let's see you put the Capra touch on THAT', but this screenplay, like most of the others he supplied Capra with, is solidly constructed albeit manipulative, so that actors like Cooper, Stanwyck, Gleason, Brennan, Arnold, Byington, and the rest, could more or less have phoned it in. Working as an ensemble they add a high gloss to what boils down to little more than a sampler,love thy neighbour, but, as someone probably said, it's not the arrival, it's the journey, and this is a swell trip. "},{"Title":"Capra At His Best","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Meet John Doe would be the finest movie ever made, in my opinion, except for the ending. Director Frank Capra filmed several different endings, and probably chose the best one, but ultimately found them all lacking in some way. I share his view, but even without a satisfying climax, Meet John Doe represents the motion picture industry at its absolute best. Gary Cooper is perfect as Long John Willoughby, a homeless ex-baseball pitcher with a bum arm. Walter Brennan turns in perhaps his greatest role, as The Colonel, a grumpy fellow who calls people Healots and utters the memorable line, I know the world's been shaved by a drunken barber. Barbara Stanwyck, as always, turns in a compelling performance. Capra invariably supplied his movies with a wealth of strong background characters, and Meet John Doe is no exception. Regis Toomey, at one time a leading man in the early talkies, is particularly good as Bert the Soda Jerk. The script sets up one of the most intriguing premises imaginable; reporter Stanwyck, in a bid to save her job and build circulation, invents a character, John Doe, who threatens to jump off the roof of the highest building in town on Christmas Eve, if people don't start being nicer to each other. His column I Protest, becomes so popular that the newspaper has to produce an actual John Doe, and Cooper wins the part. Gradually, the naive, well meaning Cooper begins to believe in what John Doe is saying, and falls in love with Stanwyck, who has been co-opted by powerful forces, led by the dastardly Edward Arnold, playing the evil tycoon Norton. James Gleason is great here, as the drunken editor who tries to warn Cooper that Stanwyck is a phony. He's perfect for Capra's type of movie, so it's a surprise that this is the only one he ever appeared in. The drama in this film is everywhere; Cooper's affection for Stanwyck, whose hard boiled heart begins to melt, the burgeoning populist John Doe political movement, and the uncertain resolution to John Doe's dilemma. As it becomes obvious that people are not going to start treating each other better, the question becomes- will Cooper actually jump on Christmas Eve? Does he still believe in an ideology that Stanwyck created, for dishonest and cynical reasons? Meet John Doe features Capra's typical dark look at humanity, as exemplified by Stanwyck's deviousness, and the ugly mob mentality of the John Doe supporters as they turn on Cooper. However, again as always, Capra turns that pessimistic view into a fairy tale-like optimism, as Stanwyck comes to believe in Cooper and thus her own philosophy, and the mob realizes realizes the error of its ways. In Capra's films, no matter how extensive the corruption appears, justice always triumphs and the little guy always wins. Thus, it was predictable that Capra would choose the happiest ending possible, with Cooper being saved from jumping at the last minute, by an ill Stanwyck and the mob, represented by Toomis's soda jerk and his wife, as Gleason utters the line, There you go, Norton- the people! Try and lick that! I suppose there was really no adequate way to resolve a plot line like this, and Capra did the best he could. Regardless, Meet John Doe is head and shoulders above almost any other film Hollywood has ever produced. "}{"Title":"Cooper + Stanwyck = Awesome","Date":"15 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A man needing money (Gary Cooper) agrees to impersonate a nonexistent person who said he would be committing suicide as a protest, and a political movement begins.What a great story of the Great Depression, community, greed, politics, the newspaper business and helots. I especially love that even if I did not know it was Frank Capra's movie, I would still have figured it out... he just has such an optimistic worldview and a way of making the tragic seem like an opportunity...The film needs a good cleaning up. At least, the version I watched did. Somehow the film escaped Warner Brothers and made it into the public domain. Does a good version exist? Maybe. But it is far easier to find the other versions... and while they are not terrible, there is obviously some aging. "},{"Title":"A very good film from Frank Capra","Date":"2 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I like Frank Capra's films a lot, my favourites being It's a Wonderful Life and Mr Smith goes to Washington. Meet John Doe is not quite a classic for me, but it is still very good. Some of the characters could have done with more colour and the film's messages and warnings while appropriate and relevant do have a tendency to preach. That said, it is gorgeously filmed, Dmitri Tiomkin's score is outstanding, the dialogue is funny, touching and intelligent and the story is moving while having a dark centre to it. Capra does a solid job directing, while there is a divine cast with Gary Cooper, Barbara Stanwyk and Edward Arnold particularly outstanding. In conclusion, very good if not quite a classic. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"John Doe was here","Date":"21 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Reporter Ann Mitchell gets fired.As a parting shot she writes a fake letter from a unenomployed John Doe.This nonexistent John Doe threatens to take his own life on Christman Eve as a protest of social ills.The paper has to rehire Ann Mitchell and hire someone to impersonate John Doe.That someone is John Willoughby, also known as Long John, who used to be a baseball player and is now a tramp.He is in desperate need of money to repair his injured arm so that he can play again.So he becomes John Doe.He becomes a national hero, the hero of the common folks.He steps into a diner and the whole place goes all crazy when they find out John Doe is there.The Doe philosophy spreads across the country.It takes a whole new turn, to the worse, when it develops into a political movement.The newspaper's publisher D.B. Norton plans to use Doe as his way into the White House.Meet John Doe (1941) is a Frank Capra movie.Frank Capra's first choice to play John Doe was Gary Cooper, and he got the part.Hardly anybody could do the job better than him.Cooper took the job without even reading the script.He enjoyed his earlier collaboration with Capra five years earlier, and he also wanted to work with Barbara Stanwyck.Stanwyck is the perfect woman to play the role of Ann Mitchell.Edward Arnold is a perfect man to play the villain, Mr. Norton.You have to like Walter Brennan, who plays the tramp friend of John, The Colonel.Spring Byington is marvelous as Ann's mother.James Gleason is great as Henry Connell.Regis Toomey plays the soda jerk Bert Hansen and Ann Doran is Mrs. Hansen.They have been showing his pictures here for the past few weeks and just yesterday I saw this one. is the But This movie is a mixture of harsh realism and optimism.Frank Capra's movies are there to give hope.They are the perfect cure for the cynicism. "},{"Title":"Very different","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This a much different Frank Capra movie than LOST HORIZON or ARSENIC & OLD LACE.  It is part social comedy and part drama.  Stanwyck is an energetic news reporter who along with corrupt politician (Arnold) hires naive bum Cooper to take part in a suicide prank on Christmas eve, protesting common-day working conditions.  It is a very different kind of film for these stars to appear in, and can be long (even now after being cut) and complex at times.  Mostly watchable thanks to impressive cast, not really the plot.  3 out of 4.  "},{"Title":"Dark, Sweet and Powerful","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There's an Italianate cinema verite in Capra's work, perhaps genetic . . . I find this film so powerful, and its characters so sympathetic, that I can hardly watch the riot scene.  It's almost too terrifying.Cooper's performance at first seems wooden, but he's an actor whom you need to watch, like a pond, to see the emotions swimming beneath the surface.  Barbara Stanwyck is one of my favorite actresses--she never makes a false move and is beautiful to watch from any angle.I find some lines of dialogue chilling in this age of Patriot Acts I and II and corporate globalism/global corporatism The American people need an iron hand, declares D. B. Norton, whose sneer looks like Cheney's. "},{"Title":"Frank Capra teaching us soulless masses about the meaning of humanity...","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Gary Cooper is the pigeon set up by crooked politician Edward Arnold to embody the downtrodden Everyman friendless, out of work, suicidal; but after the public overwhelmingly responds to 'John Doe' and his wholesome pleas to love thy neighbor, Cooper realizes he's been duped and the politico threatens to expose him as a fraud. Preachy, though well-acted drama about the fickle heart of humanity leads to woebegone conclusion which no one behind the camera was quite satisfied with. The original story from Richard Connell and Robert Presnell was nominated for an Oscar, but only in the film's vibrant first-half do we get a sense of something fresh and exciting happening. Director Frank Capra once again settles for sentiment over substance. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Big problems","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Meet John Doe is a problematic film. It is best watched at superficial level, not asking any of the deeper questions it keeps glossing over. It's easy to get sidetracked wondering what Capra is saying about a dozen implied topics; socialism, communism, the American work ethic, human nature. This may be due to Capra being naïve and not even knowing he has invoked them, or it may be that he underestimated viewer intelligence. Ultimately Capra probably isn't saying a damned thing about most of the ideas he leaves in his wake.That these protagonists, cynical, smart, knowing, are oblivious to the scale of the powers they've involved... That the entire middle scale of the John Doe movement is absent... That the first time the movement encounters a major philosophical hurdle is as late and as singular as shown here... That a boob as inarticulate as Gary Cooper could persuade people he has a single idea in his head (let alone a coherent platform); all of these problems occur not with any real intent, but because it's inconvenient to answer them. which undermines any effort to construct a persuasive philosophy/movement.The films excesses come in the form of sequences that go on and on and on, long after they've made their point, or which fail to make a point after just as long. i.e. John mimes a baseball game in his hotel room (ugh.), John recounts a pointless dream ad nauseum, a soda jerk gives a gee whiz speech whose entire point is to show you how wholesome and earnest people are. But the Soda Jerk is gratingly unaware of the concept of 'summarizing,' that instead of liking him, I just want him to shut up.The biggest problem of all is the terrible, central performance of Gary Cooper, whose every scene is more insipid, irritating and objectionable than the previous one. How does the public imagine someone who can't get a single damned sentence out, is effusive enough to compose any of the films long ideological arguments? His cutesy mannerisms are way too much. I wanted to strangle him. Any time would have been a good time to stop the hard sell of John's irrelevant wholesomeness. The personal is hardly important in the face of major unanswered questions.Lastly, the thing that has always annoyed me about this movie is that they just don't have an ending. The last moments are the wrong time to finally acknowledge the dramatic & ethical dilemma apparent to a viewer six minutes into the movie. People come to movies not just to see dilemmas portrayed, but resolved. The film fails to work itself out of any of the traps it brings into existence. By the end of the movie Capra has lost control of everything; the dramatic arc, the ideological aspects and the entire scale of the endeavor. As long as it is, it feels imcomplete, like The Magnificent Ambersons, a bastardized remnant that was wrestled out of its creators hands, chopped up and defaced with an 'improved' ending.When I first saw this movie twenty years ago I absolutely detested it. This review actually represents fewer problems with it than I used to have. One can imagine any number of movies with which it would make an interesting double-bill; Citizen Kane, Nothing Sacred, All the Kings Men, Network, or the Fountainhead (It seems to borrow all the structuralist 'types' of Ayn Rand). The movie just ends up a bland call to activist citizenry, which is a small potatoes for all the ideas it puts in play. It persuades me that Americans aren't innocent in some general way, over time, but that they're newly ignorant constantly. I welcome that it asks more of viewers than most films, but it's a mess. "},{"Title":"Hobo, Hoax, Hero That's John Doe!","Date":"18 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Three Oscars and some successful films under his belt, socially-conscious auteur Frank Capra wanted critical acclaim. So, using a news article that's been in development hell since the 1920s as inspiration, he and scribe pal Bob Riskin composed Meet John Doe, a tale that's an earnest testament to the common man.A newspaper, the Bulletin, is bought by an oil company. People are sacked, including ambitious reporter Ann Mitchell (spunky, sweet Barbara Stanwyck). Worried about her mom and two kid sisters, Mitchell quickly gets her job back by writing a phony letter, by a John Doe who plans to kill himself on Christmas Eve because he's frustrated with the cold, cruel world, increasing the paper's profits. Derelicts flood the paper's officers, claiming to be the writer, after hearing prospects of getting food and a job. Only one man is picked for the role John Willoughby (lean, humble Gary Cooper of Mr. Deeds Goes to Town), an ex-bush league ballplayer, due to a bad arm.With Mitchell as his speech scribe, Willoughby becomes an icon of hope to American's common people and the hoax becomes a crusade, with the motto Love thy neighbor. However, the motto's ready to be twisted by ogre-like oil magnate, D.B. Norton (Edward Arnold of You Can't Take It With You and Mr. Smith Goes To Washington), who eyes the White House to be conquered by turning by the John Doe movement into a third party. Will Willoughby have the courage and decency to expose Norton while endangering himself? Like other Capra works, Doe has the conflict of the little guy fighting the big guy, but this work's deep and honest with that conflict. Capra, to avoid studio interference, formed a temporary studio to finance the film himself. Who could blame him, for the Norton persona is both obviously allegorical (news magnate William Randolph Hearst, Columbia Pictures's co-head Harry Cohn) and prophetic (Rupert Murdoch), with his tactics, politically ambitious and corporate shark-like.Riskin's script is crackerjack, and the actors give it life. Cooper's shy and earnest, matching Stanwyck's boldness and passion. Supporting players are noteworthy; James Gleason's hardboiled as Stanwyck's editor; Cooper's longtime chum Walter Brennan (The Real McCoys) is a hole-infested misanthropism sack as Willoughby's pal, the Colonel (his Heelots speech is funny, sad and thought-provoking); Irving Bacon (Deeds) provides goofiness as newspaper gopher Beany and Spring Brighton (Take It) is warm and wise as Ann's mom.Some people today have hijacked elements of Capra's work, emphasizing on moral values while crucifying those who aren't like them. They, like Norton, have forgotten a sense of humility. With humor and drama, Doe has that. "},{"Title":"Frank Capra Tries to Crucify Gary Cooper","Date":"21 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In a attempt to boost profits, publisher Edward Arnold (as D.B. Norton) changes his metropolitan newspaper from The Bulletin to The New Bulletin, and its motto from A free press for a free people, to A streamlined newspaper for a streamlined era. Unfortunately, for leggy columnist Barbara Stanwyck (as Ann Mitchell), streamlining means she loses her job. Managing editor James Gleason (as Henry Connell) explains Ms. Stanwyck's columns lack fireworks; so, she leaves the paper with an explosive last shot - in her final column, Stanwyck makes up a story about a man threatening to commit suicide due to the sad state of world affairs. The man, called John Doe, vows to jump from the roof of City Hall on Christmas Eve.Stanwyck's story is a sensational circulation booster, and she gets to keep her job. Good thing, as she is supporting an overspending mother (Spring Byington), two girls, and a dog. To keep the story going, Stanwyck and the Bulletin hire hobo Gary Cooper (as Long John Willoughby) to play the part of John Doe until December 26th; after which, he will be sent packing. A baseball player with a bum arm, Mr. Cooper has been sleeping under the bridge with bumming pal Walter Brennan (as Colonel). The two men move in to a swanky hotel room, and Mr. Brennan tries to get Mr. Cooper to return to life as his homeless companion. Struggling with the morality of his impersonation, Cooper shocks everyone by contemplating an actual suicidal jump.There are a lot of swell Frank Capra touches in the film - especially keep an eye on Brennan, who makes the most of his tramp costume. The film is very well directed, and features an outstanding cast of dependable performers. Stanwyck is Best Actress-worthy (many of her lead performances are). By the end of 1941, many of the actors herein were nominated for performances in other films - Stanwyck in Ball of Fire, Copper in Sergeant York, Brennan in The Westerner, and Mr. Gleason in Here Comes Mr. Jordan - each could have conceivably been nominated for Meet John Doe.The office boy signaling the opening layoffs (future Bowery Boy Benny Bartlett) also portends a wealth of small roles, walk-ons, and bit players. Watch for silent film star Rod La Rocque to shine for the last time, in his well-suited role as Mr. Arnold's nephew Ted Sheldon . Cinematographer George Barnes excels, particularly during the last act. The film ends up uneasily celebrating Christianity as the healer of its open, festering wounds. Meet John Doe falls in to a worthwhile second tier of Capra productions; he and writer Robert Riskin ended their string of successful collaborations with this one.******** Meet John Doe (5/3/41) Frank Capra ~ Gary Cooper, Barbara Stanwyck, Walter Brennan, James Gleason "},{"Title":"Sensitive and intelligent picture about triumphs and agonies of a good guy","Date":"16 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This classic movie written by Robert Riskin (Capra's usual) concerns about a fired journalist named Ann Mitchell (excellent Barbara Stanwyck , though first choice for the role was Anne Sheridan). She thinks up an original idea and prints a false letter from an unemployed , a down-and-out John Doe who threatens to commit suicide . The editor (James Gleason) hires John Willoughby (Gary Cooper in the title role playing with natural sincerity , as usual) to embodiment Doe. Willoughby is usually accompanied by his skeptical friend (Walter Brennan who steals the show) . John Doe protests against corrupts politicians , against the shutting doors at hospitals for needy and complains about abundant injustice . Doe founds 'John Doe clubs' along the cities and Democratic and Republic headquarters are worried because everybody join to John Doe . John starts a political movement but the publisher Norton (Edward Arnold) has a secret scheme. Doe eventually realizes who he's being used and takes on corruption and win , not without coming heart-rendingly close to failure.An enjoyable Frank Capra film that displays drama , a love story and biting social critical ; however , being a bit slow in part for overlong dialogs and speeches . Capra's touches of sensibility and intelligence in presenting characters had his spectators sharing triumphs and flops . Frank Capra was an expert in manipulating their emotions such as proved in his films of the 1930s and 1940s , as he influenced the lives and beliefs of people of the nation with movies as 'Mr Deeds goes to town' , 'You can't take it with you' , 'It's wonderful life' and 'Meet John Doe' . The film packs a good score by Dimitri Tiomkin and nice cinematography by George Barnes , though available in a horrible colorized versión . The motion picture was well realized with realism and cleverness and wonderfully well acted at the same time. Rating  Better than average , the movie will appeal to cinema classics lovers "}{"Title":"This is my favorite movie of all time!!!","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is so much greatness in this movie. It is definitely a Capra film. To me, it is his best. I think Gary Cooper WAS Long John Willoughby. He too transferred into John Doe almost seamlessly. Barbara Stanwyck was excellent, as well. Including the ending when she finally showed some true emotion. It was needed. If she would not have shown that side, then definitely the film would have not been so believable. She would not have been seen as a good sort at the end. She would have ended up being looked upon as being too callous. That would have ruined the premise of the movie, being she was the one writing the words behind the movement. I think all the supporting actors where phenomenal and played key parts in the storytelling. Every one of them, even the ones that seem insignificant. Every scene was significant, the movie would not be what it is without a single one. I read that someone felt the baseball scene was a waste of time. I love this scene, it is very well executed. Plus, it made me believe the story of the whole idea that Long John Willoughby was a baseball player. I remember when AMC aired it (before commercials were implemented and ruined the station) and the host, Bob (cannot recall his full name) spoke of the scene in such a way that made me love it even more. I love Walter Brennan's 'Heelot's' spiel all throughout. I can't tell you how much I loved it. Especially, when the other guys start to use the word towards each other. Perfect! Plus, who can't help but be sucked in by the 'Love thy neighbor' theme? That riot at the rally is somewhat difficult to watch, not that it's graphic or vile or anything in that manner. It's just you so want them to listen to John and they won't. You are sitting there watching it wishing you could stop the madness for him. It's kinda like when you're watching Jesus of Nazareth and they're yelling to free Barabus and someone punches Mary of Magdalene when she yells out Jesus' name. It's that type of feeling. Almost as if you're in that helpless situation, and that helps you to understand how the character of John must be feeling. That's what makes the ending so believable to me, because I can believe that's why everyone whom showed up did when they did and reacted as they did. Because they felt the helplessness that this man had felt and realized he may do whatever it took to take control and get things back on track, even if it meant taking his own life. I think Capra was a genius. This movie is more relevant for today than most people will ever allow themselves to believe. Most won't even give it a chance just because it's an 'old' movie. They did try to make a remake, a very loosely adapted remake, called 'Hero' with Andy Garcia and Dustin Hoffman. It was an alright movie, but they strayed too far, probably from fear that the people of the time would not 'get' it by doing it like the original. Plus, at that time, you would have had to get Harrison Ford to play the role of Long John Willoughby. He was the closest thing this generation has come to the great Gary Cooper. Unfortunately, even his time has past to be able to pick up that role if it was to ever be done, he's definitely not cynical enough to play the Colonel role convincingly, either. Too bad. Maybe the James Gleason role? Who would play Edward Arnold's overtly evil role? I don't like to use the word hate, but I hated that character. That's proves how well he played that role. I wish everyone would watch this movie at least once and while they are do so as if you'd never seen another movie, before. I think they'd all be surprised at how well they would appreciate it. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Meet John Doe (1941) *** (out of 4) Gary Cooper plays a tramp who agrees to be John Doe, a man who claims he'll kill himself on Christmas Eve to protest politics. A reporter (Barbara Stanwyck) begins writing all his speeches as Doe quickly becomes an icon in America but a dirty politician (Edward Arnold) has his own plans. I think overall this film was rather hit and miss but when the film hits it marks it is pretty powerful stuff. There are several connections to earlier Capra films but this one here gets is message across very loudly and I'm sure this must have struck a core when originally released due to what the country was facing at the time. I think the message of the film still holds very strong in today's world even though we're now facing a different set of issues. Cooper gives another very strong performance as the tramp who gets in over his head. His speech to the politicians at the end is very powerful and you can just look in Cooper's eyes and see his passion. Stanwyck is also good in her role but Arnold is terrific as the dirty politician. I think the film runs a tad bit too long and some of the long dialogue sequences didn't need to be as long but the film has its heart in the right place. "},{"Title":"Great satire about fame and the media","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a highly cynical movie that is also a movie about hope and goodness in America--hitting BOTH angles in the same film is quite an achievement. So, it manages BOTH to be cynical AND schmaltzy!!Barbara Stanwyck is a reporter who was just fired. So, for her last story she writes about a fictional person who is going to kill himself because no one cares. Well, the public is intrigued by the story and want to hear more, so her old boss is forced to rehire her! But, as the story is fake and they want more, Stanwyck is in a quandary and decides she needs to find a guy to impersonate this John Doe so she can do interviews and get pictures. She meets handsome Gary Cooper and decides he'd be perfect. But, as the story builds and more and more people get hooked, the ruse gets out of control and unexpected reactions by the public occur--showing real optimism and hope. Where the film goes from there, you'll have to see for yourself. Stanwyck and Cooper are in top form and the script is dynamite. A must-see for any true fan of classic cinema. My only reservations are that at a few points, the film gets a bit sticky with sentimentality--and some viewers may not be taken in by this.By the way, when you see the final scene, look closely at the cinematography. This is GREAT--you can see Gary Cooper's cold breath as he's outside on a snowy December night and the snow looks like snow. Rarely in older films do you ever see this. Off the top of my head, the only other film from the era that had people actually acting in the cold was THE MAGNIFICENT AMBERSONS. It's a lovely bit of filming and too often viewers don't notice these nice little artistic touches. "},{"Title":"Beware Heelots!","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the populist film to end all populist films. This is what 'everyman' means.One of the impressive things to me is how hilarious Gary Cooper is in this movie. His facial expressions, the bashfulness, the surprise, the innocence, it's all so very unexpected, natural and funny. As the plot progresses, the down on his luck ex-pitcher gains popularity and slowly realizes that he can make a difference.The plot is fascinating and the picture just zooms along even after all these years. Barbara Stanwyck is in top form, luminous and smart, although her shrill encouragement gets to be a bit much, especially at the end. Walter Brennan is bitterly funny and foreboding as Cooper's hobo buddy and the rest of the cast are pretty much pitch perfect as is the timeless script. Of course the howling mob scene looks like the real thing and is frightening.The only false note is the end. But how do you end a movie like this?? "},{"Title":"Bleakly Optimistic Capra","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Frank Capra has often been referred to as an idealist, a populist film-maker- and, yes his films do contain those elements. However, the overwhelming optimism (some would call it 'schmaltz', but Capra could get away with it) of 'It's A Wonderful Life' or 'You Can't Take It With You' is not really present in 'Meet John Doe'. Rather, we are presented with a more cynical, darker hero than Cooper's own Longfellow Deeds or James Stewart's George Bailey. John Willoughby/Doe is drawn into corrupt circumstances like Mr Smith, but he is a more shady, less likable character. He is the hero, but a bleak hero in what is a decidedly dark Capra effort.The critique of the lengths the media will go for a story and a buck is a common theme in Capra's films, as are deception and the battle of The Big Guy and The Little Guy. Here, Capra also satirizes politics (as in 'Mr Smith') and how truth and honesty is quickly lost when politicians hanker for a vote. Some may say Capra is also satirizing idealistic small-town 'Americana', with the citizens wholeheartedly believing in the words of a fraud, John Doe. However, I believe that Capra is making a deceptively sly comment here on the common person's need for a hero, for faith. They may be gullible, but everyone needs to believe in something, don't they?Cooper is great as Doe. A quiet, understated actor, Cooper worked well with Capra in their two films together. Stanwyck is even better as the smart, sassy news reporter Ann Mitchell. An incredibly consistent and versatile actress, Stanwyck gives it her all here with fantastic results. Trusty Walter Brennan is eye-catching in support.A great film with some truly wonderful scenes. Of special note are Cooper's radio address, his confession of love to Stanwyck through recounting a dream, and the final, tense sequence that occurs after Doe has been 'unmasked'. Will a sore, confused and disenchanted Cooper go through with Doe's original suicide plan? Wait for Stanwyck's last-gasp effort (a brilliantly acted scene) and find out.Very well directed from Capra. Perhaps it is slightly too long, as the middle does tend to drag a little. Watch out for dodgy DVD's of this one- my first viewing of the film was through an appalling DVD transfer. Very poor picture quality, and bad sound (the dialogue did not match with the print!) combine to make an average film experience. View a good quality print and it is a pure delight to see. Unfortunately, 'Meet John Doe' has slipped into the public domain so there are many dodgy copies around.9/10. "},{"Title":"The Familiar Capra Formula, But the Best Parts Still Work Well","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Much of this movie reflects the familiar formula that Frank Capra used for a number of his best-known movies of the era, from some of the cast members to the plot devices to the principles that it promotes. And while it is a cut below movies like It's A Wonderful Life and Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, the best parts of Meet John Doe still work well. Gary Cooper is probably the movie's main strength, along with a number of other worthwhile elements.The story uses many of the familiar Capra ideas, most particularly with its perspective that the common man and woman, John Doe and Jane Doe, are the ones on whom the rest of society truly depends. The wealthy and prominent characters are shown not only as manipulative and dishonest, but also as incapable of maintaining their position without exploiting John Doe and his kind. Although the story here reflects the specific social concerns of the late 1930s and early 1940s, the basic themes are of obvious significance in any era.The main character is an unemployed former ballplayer who agrees to be the front man for a popular movement in favor of community involvement, and Cooper gives this John Doe both a strong presence and a believable sincerity. He successfully takes the character from his initial skepticism and cynicism, to a belief in his purpose, to the realization that he is being used. Cooper is a good choice for the role, because he conveys strength of feeling in all these situations without over-emoting or forcing anything. The supporting cast is also a good one, headed by Barbara Stanwyck and Edward Arnold, himself well-cast as a master manipulator.There are perhaps a few awkward moments that likely seemed much less so at the time, and at any rate it's pretty hard to keep this kind of premise moving for over two hours of running time. Regardless of what one thinks of the details of his philosophy, Capra had a real belief in the principles that his movies promoted, and he had a good sense of how to reach his audience where they were. That most of his movies still remain worth seeing and worth thinking about is also a reminder that there are some constants of human nature that never change significantly. "},{"Title":"My favorite Christmas movie","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Technically, this film was released in March 1941. It was never marketed as an actual Christmas movie. It doesn't tell you to buy things or give gifts. There's no Santa Claus, elves or reindeer in it. It's never been in the public domain, nor has it been shown a million times on television during the month of December. However, I have always believed that this film is the best Christmas film ever. It conveys the true meaning of Christmas in the correct context. I always wondered why Christmas played such a large part in the film, yet it was not marketed as such. I suppose we'll never know. However, it is an excellent film. "},{"Title":"Why Norton was on the roof...","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The way I see it is that he suspected that John was going to try this and was telling him that it would not be worth it, because he claimed that he would destroy the letter. John told him he had already thought of that and was going to jump anyway and even threatened to take Norton w/ him. I thought it was a very moving touch in the ending.As far as the scene in the hotel room. I saw it as an attempt to show the everyman in Long John Willoghby and also as a bit of comedy (Capra seemed to be good at this)Capra was a Populist and was famous for the mundane details of his character's lives. "},{"Title":"Frank Capra's darkest film...","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw Meet John Doe, I was surprised at how dark it really was. It's often light-hearted, funny and a great story with likeable well-rounded characters. That was really surprising to me given the rather weighty subject matter of suicide. Frank Capra has had the little guy go up against crooked politicians and millionaires before but never with such high consequences. It's one of my favorite Capra movies. "},{"Title":"Overly sappy and religious ending spoiled it for me.","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" WARNING SPOILERSI was enjoying the film's message - fighting back against fascism, corruption and propaganda in the media (just relevant in today's times- i.e. Rupert Murdoch/FOX News) was very nice to see. The idea that newspapers only care about profit, and function as tools to promote a message decided by the people in power is an important one. Showing the effects of poverty in America in little vignettes (her mom feeding people, how many men showed up as John Doe, the stories from the town w/ the first john doe club) The message that people should take care of their neighbors was also a good message to promote.I was enjoying how the film was both dark and realistic and also so idealistic in proposing we could change things.Suddenly though, John Doe becomes Jesus being lynched by a mob and offering to take his life for the people? I could have lived with that allusion, but the final rooftop scene where Ann explains to John that he is Jesus was just too much for me! I can stand a certain amount of sappy idealism- I thought Ann's quote if it's good enough to die for, it's good enough to live for was a great line. Is it so impossible for people to be good people and care about their neighbors without religion having to be thrown in?Gary Cooper & Barbara Stanwyck were fantastic as usual, but I'm not sure I'd recommend it to anyone other than a die-hard Cooper/Stanwyck/Capra fan.I was pleased to read in others comments that there were alternate endings (if they still exist, please add them to the DVD!!), too bad they picked this one. "}{"Title":"Heavy-handed schmaltz","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A film intended to serve an explicitly political purpose needs a very light touch.Say what you like about Frank Capra, he cannot be accused of having a light touch. What we have here is a ham-handed propaganda film intended to warn America about the imminent fall of America to the forces of fascism. It might be easier for me to take the film's purpose seriously if America had not gone to war against the European fascists barely seven months after the film's release, with the lusty support of virtually the entire American people. Makes you think we weren't so close to a fascist takeover after all, doesn't it?Capra previewed five different endings for this film to find the one the audience liked best (and ended up with sentimental bilge, because that's what John Doe wanted). To me, that says a lot about Capra's artistic vision.5/10, because I like Gary Cooper and Walter Brennan, and Barbara Stanwyck is hot. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Yes, this is an amazing movieI've of course seen Capra films many times, especially It's a Wonderful Life - but only recently saw this one. It is truly amazing and shows how a corrupt corporate mogul tries to take advantage of American populism in order to seize control of the American nation. Sort of 1984ish when you think about it.The acting is great and the themes are covered with subtlety and sympathy. Watching the characters transform as the movie progresses is especially poignant. And The Colonel is a funny character that lightens the mood while offering social commentary. Very clever and very funny!I also agree that Barbara Stanwyck gave an excellent performance, although a bit over the top at the end. Truly though, she is an amazingly passionate actress! "},{"Title":"Top 40's","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Stanwyck was at her best in the 40's when the IRS reported that she was also the highest-paid woman in the country, and it's easy to understand why, if Barabara Stanwyck was anything like Ann Mitchell, the character she played in MEET JOHN DOE.  It was during this decade that she made three of the four movies that got her nominated for an Oscar, and I'm really surprised that this Capra gem did not also get her another best actress nomination if not the Oscar itself. At the end of the day, both this movie and Stanwyck have been largely underrated and overlooked, and only in the going back and reviewing of it does one realized what a fantastic injustice has been done to them both over the years. The Academy Awards made their amends in 1981 when they presented Barbara a Lifetime Achievement Oscar, and each time I look at MEET JOHN DOE I realize how really wonderful it is.  Without repeating what the previous reviewers have said, because I agree with them all, I would simply say that Stanwyck and Cooper are so evenly matched here that if he is John Doe, then she of course is Jane Doe. He is invented by her after she has just been laid off as a newspaper columnist but she has to write one last story. That story turns into a publicity stunt that not only saves her job but also promotes her and then elevates his status too. Next, she molds him into the image of her deceased father while she in turn becomes the girl of his dreams and his Joan of Arc rolled into one. At the end, she rescues him once more and then he saves her and they are even again and go off into the snowfall together. It's truly a wonderful love story (both personal and agape) with lots of moral fortitude to hold it together. "},{"Title":"A Christmas favorite","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Frank Capra is wonderful. This movie is second only to Its a Wonderful Life for telling a beautiful story about the value of the little guy. The moving speech that Gary Cooper delivers as John Doe is true and something we need to be reminded of regularly even today! The characters in the movie are also one of a kind. Walter Brennan as John Does' sidekick is hilarious. Look for a great scene were Walter Brennan gives his opinion of mankind or healots as he calls them. All of the other characters are great as well! My favorites by far are the little old couple in the small town John Doe visits. (I can't remember their names...we save this movie for special viewing at Christmas) If you have not seen it go out and watch it!  "},{"Title":"A common man is the hero of the day.","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The common man can be noble and wise. Thus a Frank Capra classic not to be missed. Survival, greed and hope. Ann Mitchell(Barbara Stanwyck)is pressed hard to keep her job with the newspaper; so in order to catch the attention of the public she creates a nonexistent man named John Doe that proclaims he will jump from a building in protest of political climate. Along comes Long John Willoughby(Gary Cooper)a down-and-out former baseball player that is wandering the country with another homeless man know as The Colonel(Walter Brennan). For the money, Long John is talked into taking on the roll of John Doe and ends up starting a movement that sweeps the nation giving the common man hope and faith in himself. Edward Norton plays D.B. Norton a politician that is intent on using John Doe to further his own corrupt career. Cooper is at his finest. Brennan is likable as he is humorous. Stanwyck evokes poise and determination. Also in this all-star cast James Gleason, Regis Toomey, Harry Holman, Spring Byington and Gene Lockhart. This is a classic to be enjoyed over and over again. "},{"Title":"Vintage Capra & Cooper","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  MEET JOHN DOE (1941) ***1/2 Gary Cooper, Barbara Stanwyck, Walter Brennan, Edward Arnold.  Cooper is at his low-key best as a homeless man whose declaration to kill himself causes a media frenzy and unwanted celebritihood with some life affirming moments only Frank Capra could get away with. **this film has several endings; this one is the happy ending, natch. "},{"Title":"Really meet John Doe!!!","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Absolutely terrific! You know! after more than 60 years its new, magnificent and make us believe that there is still hope for the future and for all people of the world to finally see what is going on in this mechanical world. I really hope to find such movies for reminding me of hope and love, not just for me but for all human beings. About the movie should add, that there is a problem for me! and that is how Frank Capra and all his prestigious stars in this movie can act like this in 1941! They were magnificent, hilarious in their roles. But more than anything I should emphasize on its dialog and screen play! It is unbelievable. Go, find and watch this movie. It really, really worth to see. "},{"Title":"A fine film.","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is a social drama with much talk and it is very long still the superb acting and the good story makes this film good. Gary Cooper and Barbara Stanwyck are doing two great performance's. It is a bit long but I think it has inspired many new films and still it is a good film. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Probably Capra's best film","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Meet John Doe is one of Gary Cooper's greatest movies and probably the best movie Frank Capra ever made. Like other Capra gems such as Mr. Deeds & You Can't Take it With You, it has been overshadowed by Mr. Smith & It's A Wonderful Life.Meet John Doe is a wonderful film. It stars Gary Cooper and Barbara Stanwyck. Stanwyck is a reporter who saves her job by creating a story that a homeless John Doe will commit suicide as a form of political protest. Soon every bum in town shows up at the paper claiming to be John Doe. Stanwyck chooses Cooper to represent the John Doe. He quickly becomes a national celebrity, gaining sympathy from all over. A corrupt man running for office decides to take advantage of it. If you've seen any Capra films, you can guess how everything turns out, but i found this film to be very moving.Walter Brennan, the great supporting actor who co-starred in several films with Cooper, is wonderful here as The Colonel, a fellow bum who is Cooper's traveling companion. This is an under-appreciated classic from one of Hollywood's greatest filmmakers.  "},{"Title":"Forced","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Average drama movie that could have been better if the script and screenplay was done better.The script was too condescending and childish while the screenplay was too slow and forcefuly depressing.The story was very good and so was the directing.Frank Capra learned from the mistakes of this movie to later on help him create the masterpiece It's A Wonderfull Life.Stanwyk was over acting here a bit for some reason.I know she could do better than what she did here.And Cooper was misscast.I did not buy the illusion that somebody who looks like Cooper could be a John Doe off the streets.He looked too much like a movie star who was kidnapped straight out of some Hollywood movie studio.Also his acting here was as stiff as his body movements.The movie was also done in too dark of an atmosphere for it's own good as the story was supposed to inject into us fresh air and sunshine idealism.More humor could have done that (see It's A Wonderfull Life hehehe).Only for big drama fans and fans of the lead actors.....   "}{"Title":"Fun to watch","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a good movie, almost a great one. It's very watchable for the performance of Barbara Stanwyck, who steals just about every scene she's in - so intense, right from the opening scenes. Although she's a looker, she doesn't need to be and doesn't use it, like most other truly talented career actresses. She comes across very natural, & happy with the role she's been given. You get the feeling she's the outstanding drama student that's been pulled in for the job, and now you're standing on the set sidelines watching a star being born. By comparison Gary Cooper isn't as convincing, and seems more hesitant than necessary. Walter Brennan is great in the villain's role, quite despicable. Overall a very entertaining movie, though some scenes drag a little by today's standards. Easy to forgive this in a 60-year old movie. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"If you appreciate It's a Wonderful Life, you should like this","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Even though I'm one of those geeks that loves old classic movies, this movie rises above the norm.  Anyone who enjoys It's a Wonderful Life should give this film a chance.  It's definitely not as good, but the storyline itself is worth your attention.  Yes, Gary Cooper is a bit too pretty to be an average Joe, but that's Hollywood for you.  I think him being easy on the eyes helps the film.  He does a wonderful performance.  Disagreeing with most other critics, I think Stanwyk's acting was excellent.  She had a very dramatic part which called for dramatic acting. I admit that sometimes the scenery or atmosphere made it seem like she was overacting, but she really nailed her part.  This is the kind of film that would make it REALLY big if it were remade.  Minor mistakes, awkward screenplay, and the fact that it is so old keeps this film from being known as one of the greatest classics ever-like It's a Wonderful Life.  Still, Capra's work is up to par and although only old movie buffs would like it, it's worth watching. Honestly, this is my favorite movie ever; mostly because of its underlying Christian message.     "},{"Title":"CAUTION America!!  This is warning for all of us to be watchful for Home Grown Fascistsin  our internal affairs, THEN, NOW and ALWAYS!","Date":"5 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Frank Capra, Italian immigrant, Proud American Citizen and a man who fibbed a little to get his first job as a Film Director. Mr. Capra's story is one of the American Dream, a Classic example. That such a fine mind and decent a man as he became a Director in Hollywood is an occurrence that we should that we should get on our knees and thank God for every day! The 'Common Man', Political Manipulation was a topic that was at least partially touched on in so many of a story that he brought to the Silver Screen in the 1930's and 40's. In his films what has come to be known as Capra-Corn was an application of bad, almost impossible situations for the protagonist, which the hero is able to find redemption through prayer, decency and the help the good commoners in the World.After some truly great Films,which remain treasures today, he moved his Liberty Films Company to the Warner Brothers' Studios Lot. This was 1940-41 and the Second World War had been raging in Europe and the Japanese Empire's Greater East Asian Co-Prosperity Sphere being propagated with conquests of Manchuria and other parts of China.And we had been through about a dozen years of The Great Depression. So Frank Capra's next project would have to deal with all of these situations. All of these and yet because of the film's release on May 3, 1941 it did not concern itself with the ongoing War as such.Instead Mr. Capra examined the possibility of a Group of American Fascists getting their foothold in the Political Life and Fabric of the Nation, a scary and even nightmarish thought. But it is one that we must remember all of the time, especially in trying times like then, in 1941 or today in 2007.In another proverbial nutshell, in an un-named metropolis, the story opens as a workman uses an electric hammer/drill to chisel an old name placard reading The Bulletin off the cornerstone of a Newspaper's Building, only to be replaced with a new one reading The New Bulletin. This is an event that fortells of dark happenings as a sadistic young man is shown informing various employees in the Newsroom that they were getting the 'pink slip'. He would motion with his hand under his chin, as if he were slitting his throat and making a guttural cutting sound and he was pointing to the next employee to go, to 'get the ax, so to peak.The new Publisher, Multi-Billionaire, D.B. Norton (Edward Arnold) has purchased the paper as part of his desire to crash Politics, Big Time. He has employed a veteran High Pressure Editor, Henry Cannell (James Gleason) to trim the 'dead wood' and breathe some life into the paper by raising its circulation. Present is Reporter/Columnist Ann Mitchell(Barbara Stanwyck) who writes on last column containing a made-up letter from a fictitious desperate soul, threatening to jump off the roof of city hall in protest to the terrible state of civilization.The false letter starts a wave moving through all parts of society, from the working stiffs (the John Does) to the Governor's Office. Thinking it to be a great circulation stunt, they eventually do Meet their John Doe in the person of Long John Willoughby, an intinerant Minor League Baseball Pitcher, with a damaged wing(an arm gone bad).Through the use of the mass media of Newspapers and Radio, a John Doe movement is founded. With Mr. D.B. Norton's 'generousity', a National tour is arranged and there are John Doe Clubs forming coast to coast. The rest of the story involves Norton's attempt to turn the movement into a Political Party, with D.B. Norton named as their Presidential Standard Bearer and Champion of the little guy.Mr.Capra has taken several of his favourite topics and revisited them here. He looks at the effects of Mass Media and misuse of same. He reminds us of how lucky we are to be citizens of the USA, and of all the perils we face at the hands of internal enemies, not the foreign. As many of our prominent patriots of our past warned us that a defeat for America would come from in, not from a foreign power. (Ben Franklin and Abe Lincoln were 2 of them!) One other occurrence of recent times may have contributed to the story and that is the Rise & Fall of Louisiana Gov. & Sen. Hughey Long, who at one point was organizing a 3rd Party for the Little People until his assassination in 1935.And what are the sort of Names do we hear these Totalitarian Politicals called and sub-titled? Well, the full name of the Nazi Party was The National Socialist German Workers' Party. The Communist Party calls itself Scientific Socialismand The Vanguard of the People. Well, how many 'German Workers' met their fate in the Nazi Death Camps? And the Soviet Commuinists killed about 100 Million people ion the 20th Century. Lord, what would we ever do without them? "},{"Title":"Really excellent.","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is one star who truly empitomizes the kind of man against the world mentality, and that will forever be Gary Cooper. In this film he is a man set up to be something more, a hero. It's an idea that has people often wondering. What is a hero? A movie with references to a Jesus Christ-like divinity in a man gets us all thinking. "},{"Title":"Meet John Doe is every bit as good as It's A Wonderful Life which is from the same director, Frank Capra.","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ***** Very Mild Spoilers Ahead  *****Meet John Doe is an amazing movie!  Barbara Stanwyck plays a writer for a newspaper that is trimming the dead wood, and she gets axed.  Before she goes, she writes her last column which she fabricates about a man who is going to commit suicide on Christmas Eve by jumping off a building.  Her last column stirs up a huge public reaction, and in order to get her job back she concocts a scheme to produce the real John Doe and continue writing about him.  She interviews homeless men and picks out one (Gary Cooper) to use as part of her John Doe publicity stunt.  In the process, John Doe Clubs start springing up all over the U.S. and the owner of the newspaper (Edward Arnold) schemes to use the clubs for his personal political gain.Meet John Doe is a warm, witty and briskly paced romp.  Every scene seems to have  received loving attention to detail from the director.  Some of the scenes are simply breathtaking, such as the one atop the building on Christmas Eve and the scene at the political rally.  This movie also has too many comic moments to count.  Barbara Stanwyck is perfectly cast as the fireball reporter.  This is one of her finest performances, and that is saying a lot (she was in Billy Wilder's Double Indemnity)!  Gary Cooper has never been better either, not even in his Academy Award winning role in High Noon.  Walter Brennan, John Doe's hobo friend, is one of the best screen sidekicks ever to grace the movie screen.  The screen crackles with energy every time he makes an appearance.  There's also an amazing collection of fascinating minor characters interspersed throughout Meet John Doe.  Wow!  What a movie.  It is every bit as good as the other classic film by the same director, It's A Wonderful Life.  I wish they would show this one every year at Christmas, too.  Meet John Doe is one of the all time greatest classic movies.  I rate it 91/100 points!  "},{"Title":"Meet John Doe is a Rare Movie","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Meet John Doe is the second best movie Frank Capra every made.  The first is Mr. Smith Goes To Washington.  It is an inspirational tale about a man posing as a suicide victim because of the depression (Gary Cooper). This is Gary Cooper's and Barbara Stanwyck's best performance.  Ms. Stanwyck is a unsavory reporter trying to save her job and force Mr. Cooper to support the John Doe political party sponsored by a corrupt entrepreneur (Edward Arnold).  This is Mr. Arnold's second best role; the first was in Mr. Smith Goes To Washington.  Mr. Arnold was the best villain in the movies. Meet John Doe is Frank Capra's most serious movie. It is an original story about an out-of-work ballplayer posing as a suicide victim and getting entangled with Facist-like people, who want to rule the world, and fighting them back.   "},{"Title":"Top Stars in second rate Capra","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Typical Capra is a rather heavy-handed message movie about politics and the common man. Capra has covered these themes better before (Mr. Smith Goes to Washington) and since (It's a Wonderful Life). It would have benefited from tighter editing, as some scenes drag on too long. Stanwyck is terrific and has never looked more attractive. Cooper is well cast but the transformation of his character from a simple ball player to a passionate believer in the cause of the common man is not totally convincing. Arnold and Brennan head the fine supporting cast. My low rating may be a reflection of the poor quality of the DVD from Netflix, with the picture hazy and the contrast very low. "},{"Title":"Capra must be the epitome of bathos","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Capra's movies are so either 1) poor; or 2) dumbed down to an 8th-grade level. I can't know which.In John Doe especially it was bad direction. Cooper was one of the good actors. Hanging Tree and High Noon alone show that. Pride of the Yankees was OK. Stanwyck could be OK. And even Walter Brennan could be decent in small doses. But Capra can't even make Cooper shine - he just lathers it on until you want to hurl.And his technique is silent-movie era In A-list movies Hollywood had moved away synecdoche 20 years earlier but there it is with Capra, not once but many times. And the double takes, slapstick falls, contrived scenes, long moralizing speeches - Wha? It's embarrassing.Even if you take our the sugar & sentiment, you've got a bad script and horrible acting. When I see a movie like this I just can't even guess why Capra was so popular. The entire movie was a shuffle of 3-4 stock scenes some slapstick; one character makes a long speech to one/ more others; more slapstick; another long speech; someone bursts in through a door; another long speech; repeat again and again and again.You have Stanwyck jumping around and saying things like golly, gee, well wait a minute mr conning just hold your horses right there. Walter Brennan playing Walter Brennan for the 100th time. And a huge cache of stock characters the young reporter who trips over things; the helpful girl Friday; the assistant who walks in, does a double take, goes to the door, walks back, 2nd double take, says now wait a daggone minute. A makes a comment; B says OK yeah great, then a trumpet plays and B looks back again with hey now, uh and looks around.I came away from John Doe feeling as if I was trapped in some 1930s farmer's living room Golly gee Mabel it sure is hot out there. Well Elmer, you just set and have a nice glass of sweet tea and then we'll sit in the shade and pet the dog. A living Normal Rockwell print.Oh, and then there's the plot Stanwyck's character writes a fake letter. The newspaper editor jumps on it with glee. All the talk is about how they might get caught. Where's the holier-than-thou attitude about how newspapers are special in the 4th estate? (Kirk Douglas did a nice job of disabusing that in Ace in the Hole. Which is Billy Wilder, one of the few decent things he's done - and which could have been brilliant in a good director's hands). "},{"Title":"Lighthouses John,Lighthouses in a foggy world","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film however viewed will provide a worthwhile movie-going experience.The very mis-leading assumption someone can make about a time ago is to suggest that it is dated in the purport of its message.We can learn something about why if movies provide any value it is probably best at allowing the public to know just what kind of a guy that drunken barber really is.This is to suggest that this is a film that provides a political underpinning that is designed to perhaps entertain but as well to make aware what kind of a world we live in.The idea of some fifth column activity is chock full of propaganda and as well the placing of that abuse in the hands of a media conglomerate is very real now isn't it.Here we have a veiled attempt to over-ride a democratically elected public domain issue with the heavy hand of a power not derived through due process but by the coercive as well as deceitful abilities had by vested power brokers in both the press and unions of the 1940s.How dangerous is this challenge?The trouble with this as well as other satirical presentations is that where this is just a movie,what was occurring in the world at that point in time could not be ignored.It is also worth noting that though the reader may believe naively something or other, more times than not these films represent a desire for importance that is often why there are films that have such a underpinning as to suggest that we are not so stable a practice now are we?The token gesture here is had when John Doe gets pelted with tomatoes and garbage and is carried from the stage as if there was represented in the event the Crucifixion of Christ.I mention this because I had the pleasure of watching a documentary in which film Directors like Raoul Walsh,Vincent Manelli,Frank Capra were all talked of in light of there work as directors.There is very much in that scene exactly that an attempt to portray John Doe as a scapegoat for the shameful purpose had by these blow hard characters which by the way are lead by Ann Mitchell,played by Barbara Stanwyck.There is certainly the allure of power that is present but it isn't simply the allure that is difficult it is the inability that it ultimately provides for to such an extent that there is the concept of the little fish being devoured by bigger fish and the bigger fish being devoured by even bigger fish until it is believed that one will ultimately devour all of reality and conquer the world,such is the conceit of this politically motivated satire.That does not happen in this film because they chose to end it that way and that is John Doe with some help from Ann Mitchell comes in from the cold.However,it would be more interesting to here Frank Capra talk about this film because there are many instances where there are unmistakable references to Nazi as well Fascist undertones and the juxtaposition of Hitlers rise to power and the attempt being subverted by this media conglomerate.Though it is not outwardly as dangerous,it is perhaps very naive because it did happen now didn't it.When I refer to references I mean that DB Nortons nephew is involved in a motor cycle corp of a quasi police state and it is DB Norton who ultimately wishes to be the biggest one of them all,veiled as it is.It is DB Norton played by Edward Arnold who owns the newspapers and the radio stations and so on.The time in history is worth noting that though there was in the European community a grave danger through the rise of Nazism and Fascism,there was equally as unsettling here as we were still in the midst of a recovery out of the Dust Bowl years and the Great Depression.The underpinning of the John Doe club provided a Christian precept to our understanding of our neighbor that is to love your neighbor as thyself and indeed there is both of that in the poverty of the John Doe club members and as well the encouragement to love your neighbor as thyself which made for the political undertow that these worthy attributes exemplified.However as is stated in the picture just prior to the convention Connell,newspaper editor employed by DB Norton played by James Gleason says to DB Norton Im a sucker if I can put two and two together but where do you come inthis was in reference to the fact that it was DB Nortons Money and influence that created the John Doe clubs and now he was going to try and make them into a political party.There some excellent scenes which you will not forget and there are excellent all around performances from Gary Cooper and Barbara Stanwyck and on in this portrayal of a time ago.Is this all there is,it would be better to not know anything than to know so much as to have established a prejudice before even having seen this film.I enjoyed this film very much when I initially viewed it on channel 13 in the year 1971.It was seen very near the same time that the aforementioned documentary was and was an intelligent look see at the problems and abuses of this world that we live in.It seemed not to be so long ago and even with a glance as to the very time and place of this review.It is not entirely unfamiliar and all the more remarkable in light of the fact that this film was made in 1941.What does that say or mean,Thats up to you! "},{"Title":"Good!","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Definitely not Capra's best, but you can still feel the Capra magic. Beautifully shot, very humane and, well, yes realistic, in the way the actors play. Gary Cooper played very good, especially when held his first speech, I think he captured exactly the way a normal man would have behaved and talked in the same situation. Barbara Stanwyck was very beautiful. I also loved the acting of Ann Doran in the scene where the John is being greeted by the soda/ice cream man and his wife from the John Doe Club, she acted very natural and realistic, the way she looked around, great! John (Cooper), despite his mature age, is just like an innocent good-hearted small boy, and that is a recurring feature of many Capra films. The story-line is somewhat a little silly and childish... Some may say it's too sentimental, well I like the atmosphere; it's beautiful, makes me feel good and makes tears flow down my cheeks. Yep, Frank Capra's still one of my favorite directors. I wonder why no one has accused him for being a communist, perhaps someone has.8/10 "}{"Title":"MEET JOHN DOE (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Frank Capra was one of the first directors who was aware that you can kick the society an attitude if necessary, even a political one. Since It's a wonderful life and with Orson Welles, Capra is one of the rare directors who could make Hollywoodblockbusters that were a pure critism towards the current society. Meet John Doe is another picture like that but it's a bit too sweet, a bit too utopian as first of all Gary Cooper comes over as as some dumb baseballplayer who can preach (love thy neighbor) but to make it so that a whole nation would want to have him in the White House sounds a bit too Leninesque... Quite a good movie but not good enough for Capra's standards. "}]