[{"Title":"this is hitchcock?","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"51 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As a long-time Hitchcock fan, I avoided this as I would some of his silent dramas, as not typical of his work.  However, I just watched one of the funniest, smartest, and sweetest screwball comedies I have ever seen, ranking for me with My Man Godfrey and Miracle of Morgan's Creek.  Carole Lombard is absolutely radiant and I found myself laughing out loud many times, something I don't do usually when watching a movie alone.  I adored it and I can't see why its rating isn't higher here.  Hitchcock excelled as much at comedy as suspense and this one proves it. "},{"Title":"Carole and Hitch","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"47 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" According to the Films of Alfred Hitchcock, Carole Lombard prevailed upon Alfred Hitchcock to direct one her comedy films as a favor. Since Hitchcock admired her talent he did so.It's important to remember that this is a Carole Lombard film and view it that way. Viewed as such it's not a bad marital comedy though if one is expecting certain Hitchcock touches they won't be there. Robert Montgomery and Carole Lombard are a constantly spatting married couple. They love each other, but to them arguing is like exercise. In a moment of oneupsmanship Montgomery answers in the affirmative to a question by Lombard as to whether he'd marry her if he had to do it all over again.His words come back to haunt him when Charles Halton from Lombard's hometown in Idaho and says that because of a technicality they're not legally married. Montgomery spends the rest of the film trying to win Lombard back. Some of the best movie comedies have been made on a premise flimsier than this one. Mr.&Mrs. Smith is not the best of comedies, but it is far from the worst.I have a feeling that Alfred Hitchcock may have had Lombard in mind for future projects more of his own taste. I can see her easily in some of his later films. Lombard was only 32 when she died. Pity we'll never know. "},{"Title":"With the Right Expectations, It Works Well Enough","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"38 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a good example of a movie that could be quite disappointing for anyone who had too many or too specific expectations for it. It's an Alfred Hitchcock movie, but it's not at all like any of his better-known films. The offbeat premise leads you to expect a 1930s-style screwball comedy, but instead it has a different brand of humor altogether.The tone of the film blends together the screwball plot idea with Hitchcock's dry sense of humor and the upbeat charm of Carole Lombard. It's something of an odd combination, but it works all right as long as you don't have too many preconceptions.Lombard and Robert Montgomery work well as Mr. & Mrs. Smith, who find out at the beginning of the movie that they are not really married. Most of the story that follows moves at a decent pace, and although there are never any big laughs, there is some good material. It never really hits high gear, but once you get used to the pace, most of it works well enough.It does slow down quite a bit towards the end, as things run out of steam, and this keeps the movie from being better. A grand climax in the screwball tradition might have made it a very good movie. Instead, as it is, Mr. & Mrs. Smith is a pleasant, generally amusing, slightly above-average romantic comedy.  "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"44 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's unfair to look over this film because it is not a true Hitchcock film. It's still a great film, and a great screwball comedy. It is very funny and contains at least two of the funniest scenes I've ever seen, the one where Robert Montgomery plans to have premarital sex with Lombard, thinking she doesn't know that they aren't married, and the restaurant scene, where Montgomery pretends to talk to a really pretty girl who's sitting next to him. You can just barely see Hitchcock in this film - there are a few marvelous camera movements and angles that seem like Hitchcock was sighing, saying, God, I'm bored! The two leads, Carole Lombard and Robert Montgomery, are wonderful. Everyone else, Gene Raymond as Jeff and Jack Carson as Chuck (he's especially hilarious; I wish he had had even more scenes!), and everyone else, too, is constantly hitting bullseyes.Unfortunately, in the last 20 or 30 minutes of the film, it begins to fall apart, after the plot moves to Lake Placid. First off, it's begins to grow tiresome. Lombard is starting to come off as unnecessarily cruel. The faux drunken mumblings of Montgomery aren't as funny as they're supposed to be. Jeff's parents are getting in the way. At least the final scene makes up for some of that! 8/10.  "},{"Title":"I do, I do","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"32 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film has nothing to do with the current film of the same title. Thank goodness for that! Mr. and Mrs. Smith is a rarity in that it was directed by that master of suspense, Alfred Hitchcock. The film pays in ways that only a crafty Hitchcock would know how. The director takes Norman Krasna's screen play and gives it an elegant treatment.The idea of a technicality annulling a marriage is at the center of the story. When David Smith is told about it, he sees the possibility of not telling his wife. Ann and David have a strange marriage life. They love each other dearly and they seem to work at maintaining their union as a fun enterprise where they are playful and do unexpected things to please one another. David miscalculates Ann's reaction to his playing a joke and not telling her about their new status.The revelation at the beginning of the film is made known to Ann, who goes along with the joke expecting to be asked that same day to run to a justice of the peace to get married again. When David doesn't act on what for Ann seems to be essential, she flies into a rage and vows to get even with David. This is the basic premise of the comedy. Things get complicated, but we know all will be right at the end as Ann will come to her senses. David also is expected to legalize their status.The film is a joy to watch because of the two stars. Carole Lombard and Robert Montgomery were two charismatic performers that had an uncanny sense of timing. They make a delicious couple that deserve to be happy, even at the expense of making each other crazy in the process. Just to see a playful Carole Lombard giving a razor shave to Robert Montgomery is well worth the prize of admission!The rest of the cast is outstanding. Gene Raymond plays David's partner, Jefferson Custer, an upright man who admires Ann from a distance. Their scene when they get stuck in the rain at Coney Island's parachute, has to be one of the highlights of the movie. That whole sequence after they return to Jeff's apartment and he gets the liquor medicine from Ann is hilarious.There is a cameo from the director that passes by too quickly and if the viewer is not paying attention, it will be missed. Jack Carson is excellent as the bad influence for David. Philip Mervale and Lucile Watson are seen as Jeff's parents.This film proves Alfred Hitchcock could have tried his hand at more comedies because he seems to be a natural to the genre. Of course, any director was going to excel with Carol Lombard and Robert Montgomery playing the lead roles of any movie! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable fluff from Hitch","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"30 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mr. Surif was wrong when he calls this Hitch's only venture into comedy, for The Trouble With Harry falls into that category as well. Not having seen all of Hitch's films, there could be others, for all I know.Unlike Harry, in which the peripatetic corpse gives the otherwise bucolic goings-on a zanily ghoulish air, Mr. & Mrs. Smith is an exercise in pure romantic comedy. Montgomery and Lombard work beautifully against each other, and the script is elegantly and effervescently witty. The opening scene, in which Hitchcock suggests the aftermath of a protracted and clearly energetic sexual romp, is surprisingly risque for its time, and far more erotically suggestive than some of the blatant stuff we see nowadays.My only quibble is what I feel to be a rather unsatisfactory and hasty conclusion.   "},{"Title":"Lombard and Montgomery are a great team....","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I put this movie on I was drowsy, and depressed.  It did two things for me after I put it on.  It kept me awake, thus entertaining me, and it put a smile on my face.  There are some genuine laughs in this movie, and the comedy is spread between all the characters.  Robert Montgomery is extremely funny, with both excellent physical comedy, and great comedic timing with his dialogue.  What surprised me most was the excellent comedic timing of Carole Lombard.  She is extremely funny, but her chemistry with Montgomery in their scenes together is fantastic.The direction, of course, is excellent.  Not standard Hitchcock suspense, but classic Hitchcock comedy and romance, elements of his film making that a lot of people overlook.  Honestly, this is a fun movie.  The humor is intelligent and never sinks to an infantile level.  I had never heard of this movie until about two days ago, and I watched it and I was pleasantly surprised.  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Lombard + Montgomery + Hitchcock = Mediocrity","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"23 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Because it is somewhat unique in Hitchcock's works, there has been a continuous attempt in recent years to upgrade public opinion about MR. AND MRS. SMITH. Hitchcock explained to Francois Truffault in HITCHCOCK/TRUFFAULT that he always wanted to work with Carole Lombard, and she prevailed on him to do this film with her. But that does not really explain the choice of material.Lombard, of course, is best recalled for her wonderful daffiness in screwball comedies like NOTHING SACRED, TRUE CONFESSIONS, and MY MAN GODFREY. Her co-star, Robert Montgomery, had been in many delightful comedies (PETTICOAT FEVER, PICADILLY JIM) too. But both performers had been in dramatic films. In this period Montgomery (fresh from his great performance as Danny in NIGHT MUST FALL) had made RAGE IN HEAVEN with Ingrid Bergman and George Sanders, and Lombard did VIGIL IN THE NIGHT with Brian Ahearn. They were both highly capable of dramatic performances.So why couldn't they have sought a more typical Hitchcock screenplay? My suspicion is that Hitchcock chose to make a screwball comedy as an experiment. He did that frequently when he felt like stretching his abilities, and sometimes the results were not too good. When it was a technical experiment like ROPE or DIAL M FOR MURDER he still had the strength of the film script to fall back on if his nine minute shots or his use of three dimensional film did not quite work wonders with the audience. But when he tried humor, he had less success.Hitch's sense of humor is not bad - but it works best when he uses it sparingly. In THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH (1956), Hitch sets up a delayed joke involving Hillary Brooke and another actor coming to visit their friends Jimmy Stewart and Doris Day in London. Stewart and Day leave their flat because they are going to try to rescue their son (in the hands of the kidnappers). They apologize and tell Brooke and her husband they'll be back presently with their son. Brooke and her husband look confused as they leave. The remainder of the film, and the melodrama in the embassy is played out. Final scene shows Brooke and her husband have fallen asleep waiting for them. Day, Stewart and their son come in, wake up Brooke and her husband, and proceed to act as though nothing has happened for three or four hours.That is an example of when the Hitchcock humor works. But then comes his full scale black comedy THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY, and the viewer has mixed feelings. Individual moments work, like the manipulation of the dull sheriff Royal Dano. But one finds most of the humor about moving a dead body fairly unimaginative...surprisingly so from Hitch.MR. AND MRS. SMITH is not a black comedy, but it's type of bedroom farce situation would have been better handled by Ernst Lubitsch or Leo McCarey or Preston Sturgis. The joke is that the surface-warring Smiths are really in love, but discover that their marriage was illegal. Montgomery had said he'd marry Lombard again if he had to (prior to the discovery of the illegal marriage), but instead of rushing Lombard off to any nearby church or justice of the peace he hesitates. And Lombard wonders what kind of man she has been illegally married to. So she turns to his partner Gene Raymond, who is interested in her.There are some interesting moments in the film (Hitchcock has to be of interest always). The scene where Montgomery pretends to be talking to the pretty woman sitting next to him (incurring the ire of her date) is good, culminating in Jack Carson trying to stop a bleeding nose on Montgomery by using a cold knife as a cauterizing instrument. There is also a funny moment when Lombard and Raymond, on a trip to an amusement park, get stuck on a ferris wheel on top of it during a heavy thunder storm. But these moments are far and few. As a romantic comedy it is mediocre, despite it's stars and (unfortunately) because of it's director. Hitchcock must have realized it too - until THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY he never attempted a straight comedy again, and (as mentioned before) THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY was not a romantic comedy but a black comedy. "},{"Title":"Wildly uneven, disappointing with flashes of genius","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There seems to be little consensus on this movie; most people love it or hate it. I can see why. The movie has its golden gleaming moments, and then it has its moments that fall flat with a hollow thud. Unfortunately, the ending of the movie is the hollowest thud of all, and smacks almost of soap opera.Also, Lombard hardly seems herself in this movie; she plays the foil to Montgomery's gleefully devilish protagonist, and only occasionally does she steal a scene. Hitchcock (or perhaps the screenplay) seems almost determined to keep her locked down. A pity.Still, Montgomery's leering eyes and wicked yet boyish half-smile are by themselves reason enough to watch this movie. The whole issue of forbidden, illicit sex is handled beautifully, because, after all, the two are man and wife in everything but legal technicality. It seems odd that Lombard's character reacts with such savage anger about the whole thing. Considering the way she plays fast and loose with the affections of her husband's partner, even though she can't deny that she has been a common law wife of three years standing, one wouldn't expect such a prudish attitude from her. More likely, she would have joined her erstwhile husband in enjoying the hint of illicit passion. But it's best, in movies like this, not to examine the logic behind the story too closely.Although Montgomery is the heart of the movie, nevertheless, perhaps the best scene in the movie is when the strait-laced genteel Gene Raymond proceeds from tipsy directly to dead-drunk and delivers possibly the funniest (because the most realistic) rendering of inebriation ever filmed. There's a point where he plants a foot on a step in front of him, a very low step, and one would think that in so doing he had just climbed Mount Everest. Priceless.Others have noted, and I agree, that outside of Lombard, Montgomery and Raymond, the other characters are mere cardboard props and simply not funny. One can see that Hitchcock himself recognized this. When Raymond is closeted with his concerned parents in the bathroom at his office, the director is reduced to using gurgling plumbing sounds to punctuate the dialog--and for no apparent reason other than for some kind of comedic effect, because the dialog so clearly lacks any. When plumbing steals the show, you know you're in trouble.One might see, in the trip to the rustic resort, an echo of Shakespeare's comedies, in which the scene always changed from the banal to the fantastical to underscore or even effect the transformation of the characters. But that doesn't happen here. Everyone continues to act the way they did before. That's not surprising, for in Shakespeare, the change in scene always happened at the beginning, not the end. You can't teach an old dog new tricks, and the personalities of the characters are engraved in marble by this point.These scenes mark the final transition of a movie that was already verging on stage-bound into more or less just another play on celluloid. That isn't necessarily a bad thing, but it does little to revive the movie's already fainting comedic momentum. It attempts the usual farce, door-slamming, rushing to-and-fro, characters affecting dramatic poses, but it doesn't really work, and that devilish grin of Montgomery's seems long, long in the past. He becomes a cipher for the last part of the movie, Raymond's character was a cipher to begin with, and that leaves only Lombard, whose character was hemmed into a cage of shrewishness by the script (or the director) from the very beginning. The ending, therefore, is arbitrary and unsatisfying, and worst of all, not the least bit funny. The movie turns too late to pratfall comedy, and the image of Lombard tangled in skis simply doesn't work. She's been far too efficient and capable until now to be believable as the hapless, helpless, love-lorn buffoon.Nevertheless, the movie was well worth watching. I'll never forget those gleaming eyes and that almost forward-leaning stride of Montgomery, as if he just couldn't wait to barrel into the next scene. One is almost tempted to forgive him his chumminess with the House Un-American Activities Committee.Almost. "},{"Title":"lesser Hitchcock","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"22 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Hitch claimed he only directed the script as written as he had no feel for the material. It's an OK comedy but did anyone else notice how annoying Carole Lombard's character is? Even the people around her are a bit offbeat. She is so annoying shrill and dreary one wonders why Robert Montgomery is working so hard to get her back. Alright for your Hitch collection but not really a fantastic film. It's a look back into the social mores of yesterday as Montgomery exposes Carole as a married woman so the store she's employed at fires her as it's the store's policy not to employ married women. One wishes the characters could have been played a little more warmly instead of the tart,sharp way they were directed by Hitchcock. Since he wasn't crazy about the project,he might have injected a bit more cynicism than he thought. "}{"Title":"Weirdly Sadistic","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The big problem I had with this movie was that Lombard's character is, as another user put it, unnecessarily cruel. Lombard plays the role of Ann Krausheimer Smith, who believes she is married to David Smith, played well by the sharply dressed yet appropriately bumbling Robert Montgomery. The movie has some funny moments, especially when Montgomery's character goes to great lengths to try to get his wife back. Understandably, she is upset because the marriage is technically not legal, but she only finds out three years into it.Lombard's character seems quite cold to her husband's sincere attempts to woo her back. While not being highly adept in that effort, Montgomery is nevertheless visibly loving, and yet Lombard is as cool as a pillar of ice. There are almost no clues suggesting any sort of reconciliation between the warring couple for much of the movie, and it is hard to see any sort of comedy- even dark comedy- in that aspect. To some extent, the movie almost suggests a sadistic undertone, with Lombard's character getting a kick out of her husband's feeble efforts. While one might consider this another 'Battle of the Sexes' type of movie, the reality is that it is a highly lopsided battle, if that Montgomery's character, while certainly flawed, is not flawed enough to make it a typical exemplar of the masculine chauvinist/misogynist (an excellent example of that is Michael Douglas in 'War of the Roses'). In fact, the character is largely effeminate, as revealed by not only the sharp dress of Montgomery (which probably owes largely to the perennially sharply dressed actor himself), but also to his discomfort in attempting-but failing- to play the role of a womanizing bachelor. His only major flaw is his vanity, but that fault does not balance out with his partner's excessive cruelty. And there is no suggestion that she is trying to instill any jealousy out of subconscious love. This is what makes it so cruel, and sad. Montgomery's character simply looks weak. In reality, no wife would want a man so weak unless she wears the pants in the marriage. But then again, a woman who wears the pants in a marriage would never seek to be so cruel because she has already affirmed that role early on. Hence, the whole theme seems weird. This movie is neither a champion of feminism (Lombard's character does show some signs of the sort of independent-oriented woman of the 60s, but that idea is soon quashed and the character falls back into the 1940s), nor an even-sided battle of the sexes (as Montgomery's character is truly a cipher of masculinity and therefore a lost cause).This movie is, on the surface, a slapstick, but beneath that veneer it is really much darker, with sadistic undertones. All of which makes its resolution appear, well, odd. (Maybe that oddity was the whole point?). In any case, slapstick this movie is not. "},{"Title":"The Funny Side of Hitch","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In this comedy, a couple married for three years discovers that its marriage is not legal due to a technicality. A curiosity in Hitchcock's filmography, but the Master of Suspense shows a fine sense of comedy, not surprising given the effective use of comic elements in his suspense films. Montgomery shows a nice comedic flair while Lombard, in her penultimate role, once again demonstrates why she was the premier comedienne of her era. A highlight is the dinner scene where Montgomery tries to make Lombard jealous by pretending to be talking to an attractive woman seated next to him. The script runs out of steam towards the end, but it's generally enjoyable. "},{"Title":"By the numbers","Date":"23 September 2008","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" First a warning.I recently saw this movie on DVD in the Universal 'Hitchcock Collection' series. The source print looks to be in immaculate condition, but the image is a bit soft, suggesting it might be a second generation copy straight from video. The framing is far too tight, so all the compositions are terrible. Even the title of the movie is cropped. I gather from other IMDb reviews that there is a much better version available.Mr and Mrs Smith is just a footnote to Hitchcock's career.In his lengthy interviews with Francois Truffaut in the Sixties, Hitchcock gave a comprehensive overview of his whole body of work, but all he could say about this picture is that he did it as a favour to Carole Lombard and that he didn't understand the characters so just photographed Norman Krasna's screenplay.In truth, there is not much more that needs to be said.It is a screwball comedy out of the same mould as It Happened One Night, His Girl Friday and Philapdelphia Story. Carole Lombard is a typically feisty wife who learns that her marriage is technically invalid, falls out with with her husband on the flimsiest of pretexts and spends most of the picture being 'adorably' unreasonable.Robert Montgomery does well enough as the put upon husband, but it is hard not to lose patience with him. Long before the end of the movie the audience is saying dump the silly cow, she's not worth it.Gene Raymond plays the best friend with whom she becomes engaged. He is supposed to be a courtly, 'old family' Southerner, although this is not obvious from his accent and only really becomes apparent in the drunk scene (which he otherwise plays very well). He is an honourable, generous, teetotal gentleman, so of course he is bullied and patronised by Robert Montgomery and made the butt of many of the jokes - although he is not as badly treated as the similar Ralph Bellamy character in His Girl Friday.This movie feels like it was made by people who only knew of screwball comedies by reputation, but hadn't actually seen one. For example, a good screwball comedy has a strong central idea with a number of on-going comic threads that continually intertwine and overlap. Here, all the comedy elements are just strung out, like beads on a necklace. This is screwball comedy by the numbers.It is the same with the direction. Typically, these comedies race along at an ever increasing pace that rises to near hysteria by the end. Hitchcock doesn't get this. His direction is somewhat lethargic and the picture becomes a stately succession of scenes that all seem slightly over-written (but under-nourished) and slightly too long. He was never a particularly good director of actors so he just lets the cast get on with it. They do OK.Hitchcock had a good sense of humour, which he frequently used in his thrillers, but he had no feel for comedy as a genre. His later Trouble with Harry was also a misfire, for similar reasons to this movie, but at least he was involved in that picture. Here he is just going through the motions.All the people connected with this movie were good solid professionals so it is not especially bad. It just feels a bit derivative, over-familiar, over-long and ultimately rather flat.Mr and Mrs Smith is one for Carole Lombard fans and Hitchcock completists only. "},{"Title":"I'd give five bucks to see that cat take a sip of that soup.","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Robert Montgomery and Carole Lombard play a quarrelsome married couple. One day they discover they're not actually married after all due to a legal technicality. Montgomery hesitates about getting remarried right away, which sets Lombard off and she leaves him. He spends the rest of the movie trying to get her back, even after she's started dating his law partner.A rare foray into a full-on comedy, this is one of Alfred Hitchcock's most divisive movies. People seem to have strong opinions about it one way or the other. The first time I saw it I hated it. It took repeated viewings over the years before I began to appreciate it more, though I still think it's flawed. I just recently watched it with a friend who had never seen it before and knew nothing of its reputation. She hated it like I did the first time and for the same reason it's hard to buy the two lead characters as in love or care about them getting back together due to how they treat each other. Carole's character is annoyingly childish. She does little in her performance to soften that. Montgomery is better, getting most of the funny scenes in the movie. The scene in the restaurant with the cat and the soup was my favorite. It's an enjoyable movie but not for all tastes. Try to lower your expectations going in, particularly if you have high expectations due to it being a Hitchcock film. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable But Lightweight Hitchcock Comedy Of Feuding Husband And Wife","Date":"5 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" David and Ann Smith live in New York and have a tempestuous but loving marriage. When the registrar of the remote county they were married in reveals to David that their union is not technically legal, he must decide whether he wants to marry Ann again ...This RKO screwball comedy is an interesting curio in Hitchcock's back catalogue if only because it's probably his one out-and-out comedy. Almost all of his films contain humour and some (like The Trouble With Harry) are overtly comic, but they all retain macabre or thriller elements. This on the other hand is in the classic style of the time - you can almost see Hepburn and Tracy in the roles - and as such it seems a little contrived in Hitchcock's hands. It's a lot of fun though, with good dialogue, and fine performances from all three leads; Montgomery (the father of Bewitched TV star Elizabeth) is agreeably resigned to his life's complications, Lombard is terrific as always as the needy, sulky, over-analysing shrew, and Raymond is wonderfully patient and strait-laced as the third point of an extremely grating love triangle. There are plenty of funny moments to keep it going, like the dialogue about the cat or the scene in the bathroom with the noisy plumbing, but it doesn't have the tension or objective sweep we are accustomed to with Hitch's films. All in all, a pleasant flick to catch on a slow evening but not the kind of movie we'd expect from the master of suspense. Written by Norman Krasna and not to be confused with the unrelated 2005 Angelina Jolie / Brad Pitt thriller with the same name. "},{"Title":"Hitch doing screwball comedy?","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Yes, this is an Alfred Hitchcock film, albeit a very different one. The Master of Suspense crosses over to the screwball comedy genre in the 1941 film 'Mr and Mrs Smith'. It's an interesting, yet ultimately flawed exercise.Hitch filmed 'Mr and Mrs Smith' primarily because of his desire to work with the lovely Carole Lombard. She herself desperately wanted to work with Hitch, though not in a suspense film. He obliged with this piece, also starring comedy regular Robert Montgomery.The somewhat convoluted plot has Montgomery and Lombard as husband-and-wife David and Ann Smith. One fine day Lombard questions Montgomery over the dinner table with the line 'If you had it all to do over again, would you still have married me?' His reply of 'Honestly, no' is not what she had been expecting. Coincedentally, on the same day David and Ann discover that, due to a technical glitch, they aren't really married after all. Like all, screwball set-ups, havoc quickly ensues.The problem with Mr and Mrs Smith is that too many jokes simply fall flat on their face. The film does not have enough gags that truly work, with only a few moments that gain a genuine smile. Also, Lombard's character is also portrayed at many times as being unnecessarily cruel. Overall, Lombard and Montgomery play their roles very well, Lombard shines as usual, but the magic just isn't there. There a few good scenes, and probably the funniest is when Montgomery tries to make Lombard jealous in a restaurant.It's remarkable that this is a Hitchcock film- it feels so American in style. A fun side point to note is that this film contains possibly the first Italian 'Pizza-Pasta' joint in America ever to be put on film.It's a tragedy that Carole died the following year in a plane crash. She was a great comedic actress who may have blossomed into one of Hitchcock's 'cool blondes' in a suspense film. She certainly had the potential.6/10 "},{"Title":"Mediocre Screwball","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This screwball comedy is notable not for Alfred Hitchcock; his presence is virtually invisible. The film has any merit at all because of the fine acting of Carol Lombard and Robert Montgomery. They do about all anyone could with a mediocre script by Norman Krasna. The film just isn't very funny. The quarreling couple bit wears thin very quickly, especially when you know that the two major characters will reconcile at the end. Perhaps the film needed an amusing subplot, featuring a comic sidekick or two. Gene Raymond has to play the Ralph Bellamy part as the third man, and it is far from amusing. Lombard, a great screwball comedienne and a first-rate actress, deserved a better film. She had only one more to make before her tragic death. "},{"Title":"The great unknown screwball comedy","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Well, who would have guess Hitch could hold his own with Howard Hawks? I've seen just about every Hitchock film he ever made but for some reason, Mr. and Mrs. Smith evaded my viewing. Well, I was shocked when I finally saw it. It is sheer perfection, with both Lombard and Montgomery at the peaks of their careers. An absolutely delight. Classic scenes of he said/she said comedy. Why the shot of Montgomery hitting himself with the salt shaker or Lombard stuck in the rain on an amusement park ride are worth the viewing alone. You would never know it was a Hitchcock flick. But it is the unseen gem of his masterful oeuvre. Highly recommend for any fans of Hitch or screwball comedy. "},{"Title":"Elegant and Empty","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What more can be said about any Hitchcock movie? He's been interviewed, reviewed, and analyzed possibly more than any other director and more will surely follow.This peculiar entry stars two performers I don't much like Robert Montgomery and Carole Lombard. Nevertheless, watching it for the first time in at least ten years, I tried to keep an open mind, and did, really.It's a romantic comedy -- not quite a screwball comedy -- like many that preceded and came after it. Myrna Loy and William Powell did a lot of them. This one is beautifully filmed and is directed in a precise fashion It may be too precise. Nothing seems left to chance, which is not always ideal for a comedy.The plot is a trifle improbable. If these two people are so madly, zanily ion love when we meet them, why would a casual interchange followed by the circumstance of a technicality in their marriage vows rend them so far asunder? It's cite but not worth a lot of time and I doubt I will ever need to see it again. "},{"Title":"Some golden moments but just doesn't work as a film","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Even the talents of Lombard, Montgomery and Raymond can't really save this Hitchcock screwball comedy-curio. Some scenes are priceless - the scene in the Florida Bar where Robert Montgomery tries to make Carole Lombard jealous, and the scene where Carole Lombard gets Gene Raymond drunk are of the first rank - but more often than not the comedy falls flat. Whilst the plot of a comedy shouldn't have to bear too much scrutiny it should have its basis in truth, and unfortunately, here the characters fail to convince; in fact they become rather irritating and dislike-able. With Hitchcock directing and such a stunning ensemble of actors on show this has all the feel of a missed opportunity - its sum never fulfilling the promise of its parts. Shame. Though maybe worth watching just to see Lombard et al, strut their stuff. "}{"Title":"A comedy of errors and airs","Date":"12 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Mr. and Mrs. Smith is a good comedy about a couple who learn that they haven't been legally married the past three years as they thought they were. The un-marriage is based on an absurd notion, but it sets the stage for what follows. And what follows is a comedy of errors and airs in which the groom pursues his bride all over again, while she plays hard to get.Robert Montgomery and Carole Lombard are the leads as David and Ann Smith. She reverts to her maiden name, Ann Krausheimer when they split up. This isn't one of Carole Lombard's funnier roles, but Montgomery is funny as he jumps through hoops to try to win his wife back. His law firm partner, Jeff Custer, also wants to woo Ann. Gene Raymond plays his part superbly as a real male wallflower. He's straight faced, overly considerate, and straightforward about a relationship with the one-time wife of his best friend and partner. It makes it that much funnier &#x96; and frustrating for David.Some of the funniest scenes are with Jeff's parents. Lucille Watson plays Mrs. Custer, Jeff's mother. She was one of the consummate Hollywood supporting cast who played superbly the role of a shocked mother, or mother-in-law, or snobbish, Puritanical society dame. Philip Merivale is equally aghast as Jeff's father, Ashley Custer. An uproarious scene occurs when Jeff introduces them to Ann. Just as they think she is a sweet, young thing, David enters the office and talks about their coffee together over the morning breakfast table the past three years. The crunch comes when he asks about his laundry, and says he doesn't have any more clean shorts. A type of this scene replays toward the end of the film &#x96; with hilarious portrayals of the dumbfounded and astonished Custers.It's a good thing that David and Jeff owned their own law firm. No one else would have been able to take so much time away from work as David did to pursue Ann. Some reviewers are surprised that this film was directed by Alfred Hitchcock. Hitch was well established as a versatile director before he came to the U.S. just before the start of World War II. He became known for his mastery at mystery films. But he had done a number of comedies, romances and dramas before, and even did one successful musical drama.This film came out at the end of January 1941. A year later Carole Lombard would be dead. She was killed in a plane crash in Nevada while returning home to California from a war bond drive. She was only 34 years old, but she is remembered today from some of the wonderful films she was in, especially her comedy roles. She was in 80 films in a 16-year career.On the other hand, Robert Montgomery isn't as well known today. He played a variety of roles in more than 60 films, but ended his silver screen career at age 46 in 1950. He spent the rest of his career in television. His last acting was in 1950-51 in his long-running TV series, Robert Montgomery Presents. After that, he continued to produce that show until 1957 and did some more TV production until 1960. He continued to work in the theater in the 1950s and won the 1955 Tony Award as best director for The Desperate Hours. In 1968, Montgomery wrote a book entitled An Open Letter from a Television Viewer in which he lambasted the TV industry for its programming of violence.A favorite scene of mine in Mr. and Mrs. Smith has Jeff and Ann riding in a sleigh to the cottages they have booked at Lake Placid in the Adirondacks. Ann says, I love the smell of snow. Jeff says, No one can smell snow. And Ann responds, I can. Jeff looks around as though he's sniffing, then looks down at the horses pulling the sleigh and says, That isn't snow. "},{"Title":"A good film that loses its way in the last half-hour","Date":"13 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Not Hitchcock at his best, but even when Hitchcock wasn't at his best he still did some good films. Mr. and Mrs. Smith will never be a personal favourite, but it is a good film, much better than the rating here and not one to be immediately discarded. Though it is understandable as to why people won't warm to this film mainly because the characters here are quite unpleasant. Where Mr. and Mrs. Smith falls down is in the last thirty minutes, where the pace slackens, the humour is rather tiresome and narratively it's here where the film runs out of ideas. As almost always with Hitchcock, Mr. and Mrs. Smith is a well made and directed film, not the most audacious of films visually but appropriate to the type of film it is. The script is elegant and witty, with razor-sharp interplay between the leads and many moments that will make you smile or laugh out loud(if it's not your cup of tea at the day, it's not a problem, Hitchcock's few ventures into comedy have all brought divisive opinions). It is a shame though that it is also one of those scripts that runs out of steam too early. There are also some great scenes that carry the slightly flimsy premise afloat, Robert Montgomery has the best moments, though Gene Raymond's tipsy to drunk scene is a joy and the razor shave moment is a nice example of the chemistry between the two leads. The two leads are wonderful and are thoroughly convincing together. Carole Lombard relishes her very showy role with great comic timing, not the most pleasant of characters mind you especially towards the end of the film, and looks radiant on screen. Robert Montgomery is much more subtle(no offence at all to Lombard) and has a more likable character, his comic timing is also spot on. The supporting roles are all solid, with Jack Carson and especially Gene Raymond the standouts. In conclusion, a good film with great leads, unfortunately the ending doesn't match the rest of the film in quality. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Laughed from beginning to end","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If this movie had been directed by Leo McCarey or W.S. Van Dyke or any director other than Alfred Hitchcock, who herein strayed from his customary suspense genre, this film would be considered a superb achievement in sophisticated comedy.Carole Lombard is at her best, her performance here equaled only in 'To Be Or Not To Be', her next (and final) film. In this and To Be we see a mature comedy talent in its full manifestation. It's likely that this New and Improved Carole was what she would have continued to give her audiences had her career not ended as it did. The dizzy daffy dopey blonde of the superb 'My Man Godrey' in 1936 has finally grown up and stopped throwing temper tantrums. As a result, she's now, at last, fabulous. And some of the credit for this happy transformation must be due to Hitchcock's input. And Robert Montgomery is Carole's equally fabulous partner in this witty story of a husband who tells his wife that No, if he had it to do over again, he would not have married her,(You want me to be honest, don't you? Because we have a marriage where we respect each other.) and then proceeds to regret saying this. Montgomery was perfect, his performance stunning. Who could have bettered him? Not Gable, probably not Grant, but perhaps Melvyn Douglas or Willian Powell could have done as well, though both are a bit too slickly urbane.Every scene was hilariously wonderful. Carole putting on the suit she was wearing when proposed to, and saying I don't understand how it could have shrunk just hanging in the closet. Or Montgomery's meeting in his office with the little man from Idaho who doesn't get to the point of his visit right off, and while he rambles, RM flips through his mail and nods, until the little man drops the bombshell and RM says, What's that? Or at Mama Lucy's when he says, That cat knows something. I want a stomach pump. Here we are watching a master comedic actor in action.Supposedly Hitchcock later said he didn't have a high opinion of his work in this film, that he didn't understand Mr and Mrs Smith. Just goes to show that when you're a master director, you don't have to understand the characters. Just point the camera and let the actors do their stuff. "},{"Title":"An Unexpected Comedy Gem from Hitchcock","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I did not expect to like this one at all for a couple of reasons. For one, I usually hate romantic comedies a lot and two, I didn't think Hitchcock, the master of suspense, would know what he was doing in this area. I was pleasantly surprised that I was totally and completely wrong and had a fantastic time watching every second of it.The acting is awesome and I really enjoyed the two main characters. The story is interesting and intriguing. And as alway, the shots and direction are wonderfully brilliant but I've come to expect nothing less from Alfred Hitchcock. I really was surprised by this one and I think I'll go out and add it to my collection.I can't wait to see another Hitchcock film because they almost always take me by surprise. I hope you like this one too. "},{"Title":"Suspense in a comedy?","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When the master of suspense decides to make a comedy, it is not unusual that he brings in a cat that is trying to eat the meal of a guest and a few scenes later shows total disinterest in a plate of soup within easy reach. It is therefore not surprising that Mr. Smith observes The cat knows something! adding menace to otherwise clean comedy without a sinister streak.But why are the hungry children staring at a couple eating outside a ramshackle restaurant? How does this bit of social criticism fit in the Hitchcock film? This scene seems somehow to be out of place in this frothy comedy.This film resembles Shakespeare's comedies in many ways&#151;structurally and content-wise--and not surprisingly you find a picture of Shakespeare in Mr. Smith's office.Two scenes in the film were quite amusing the comment of the cab driver Say where does my wife go in the afternoons? and Mr Smith pretending to speak in the club without saying a word aloud and being caught in the act.The final shot of the heroine helpless with the skis inside the room seemed too contrived to be real, even if it was supposed to be visual sexual imagery. "},{"Title":"Right when you think you know someone.","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a madcap comedy...the first and only directed by Alfred Hichcock. Leading lady Carole Lombard picked the cast, crew and director. You will not see any of the usual Hichcock touches, because there is none. Lombard and Robert Montgomery play Mr. and Mrs. David Smith. Ann(Lombard)has their three year marriage running to her rules. This bickering, but loving couple find out that their marriage certificate was not filed properly making their marriage null and void. Thus David tries to mount another courtship, but the Mrs. is playing hard to get. This is a return to her typical comedy for Lombard after doing several dramas. Montgomery seems wooden, but usually has a comeback to Lombard's wisecracks. Rounding out the cast are Gene Raymond, Philip Merivale, Patricia Farr, William Tracy and Emma Dunn. "},{"Title":"Domestic Miss","Date":"10 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Perhaps the wildest outlier in Alfred Hitchcock's career is this straight-out comedy vehicle by the director, pairing Carole Lombard with Robert Montgomery as a couple who discover a mistake has invalidated their marriage. Where do they really stand with each other?Contrary to what others say, there IS an element of suspense here The idea that these two miserable people might escape each other, free to inflict their awfulness on some other, undeserving mate.It's funny reading comments here about how miserable Lombard's Ann Smith plays out in this film, because Montgomery's role is as much of a heel. He manhandles Ann, snaps at witnesses, short-shrifts clients - just the kind of lawyer who gives his profession a bad name. Ann is overbearing, too, of course, the kind of wife who holds her husband hostage from work for six days over a petty squabble, bringing up things like what he did in Paris when he was 20 and hadn't even met her yet. I forgave you that! she says, as if it was big of her.For David, a revoked marriage is an opportunity to have a little illicit pleasure with his mistress before tying the knot for good. For Ann, it's an attempt at premarital sex that must be repelled with a bottle of champagne to the head, followed by expulsion from their apartment and her life.The acorn doesn't seem to fall far from the tree, as Ann's mother is scandalized into apoplexy when she learns what David tried to pull Oh my poor baby! Thank Heaven your father is dead!That's a rare good line in this laughless, unlikeable comedy.You can call this an example of the remarriage comedy, in which the bonds of matrimony are challenged in order to be reaffirmed. You can also call this an example of what Roger Ebert calls the idiot plot, in which the storyline depends on the main characters acting like idiots. Hitchcock seems to have a laugh at uptight American morality, but can't really do much more with it than a jokeless scene where an older couple is scandalized by the sound of loud plumbing.Lombard died within a year of this film's release; it was the last film of hers she lived to see. What a shame it couldn't have been something better! She was overbearing in My Man Godfrey, too, but in such a likable way you didn't just have to go with her, you wanted to. Here she plays for laughs that aren't there while sadistically breaking David's chops again and again. Montgomery rolls his eyes a lot like Groucho, a study in smugitude.The only really decent thing in this movie that lasts more than a few seconds is Gene Raymond as David's law partner Jeff Custer, who makes a play for Ann and acts with honor and decency. Raymond underplays his many reaction shots, and even a drunk scene, all to good effect.***SPOILER***So decent a guy is Jeff that Ann ends up rejecting him for not fighting David after she goads him into a confrontation, calling Custer a lump of jelly. Jeff exits the scene, leaving Ann and David together for their future murder-suicide. Here's one Custer that managed to escape a massacre!***SPOILER END*** "},{"Title":"The Master of Suspense but, on this evidence, an apprentice of comedy","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think most film fans approach this film desperately wanting to like it. With Hitchcock directing and Carole Lombard and Robert Montgomery taking the leading roles it has a wonderful pedigree and should be hugely entertaining; but, I'm sad to say, this is not a great film. It has some fine comic moments in it, and it has glamour and style, but unfortunately the story and characters are basically unappealing. By the end of the film, instead of being charmed and entertained by their antics, the two main characters have become very, very annoying. One could even describe Carole Lombard's character as sadistic, so awful and callous is her behaviour; but we are meant to like her and her husband; we are meant to want them to be reconciled, and so as a concept it just doesn't work. Here style and wise-cracks win out over believable human emotion, and any dramatic work is doomed when you stop believing in its characters. The script (by Norman Krasner) is definitely where the problems lie and I doubt there was much Hitchcock could have done to make it work without major rewrites. As a rare Hitchcock foray into pure comedy this is a curio - a disappointing film but definitely not proof that he didn't have a talent for the genre; after all he did have a great (if dark) sense of humour, and comic touches abound in many of his successful suspense films. Taken in isolation there are a number of funny scenes in Mr and Mrs Smith, but unfortunately they don't meld to make a coherent and entertaining whole. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, delightful comedy","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was incredibly anxious to watch this, seeing as it's the only full-out comedy from my favorite director of all-time. I honestly was not expecting it to be as good as it was.One thing I can say, Alfred Hitchcock had a wonderful sense of humor. The comedy you find in his other films is always delightfully original and true, and the comedy in this film is coming from someone with a wonderful eye for the comedy of life.Robert Montgomery and Carole Lombard are both amazing in this film. Gene Raymond also does well(especially in the drunk scene, one of the funniest scenes I've seen on the subject). There were so many scenes in this movie that just had me laughing out loud. It is generally rare for a movie, unless exceptionally funny, to do that too me.'Mr. and Mrs. Smith' is one of the most pleasant comedies I've seen in a long time. Will be watching this one when I feel like a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock does comedy","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a movie I really enjoy and I'm very happy that it's out on DVD finally. A romantic comedy with some screwball elements --- Carole Lombard and Robert Montgomery have great chemistry and the script is filled with great lines.Even though this is very much a departure from anything else Hitchcock did, he really left his mark on this. For example, the first scene when we first see Lombard's eye peek out from under the covers. And the moment when Montgomery flings his hat just past Lombard's nose during the legal discussion with Gene Raymond on common law marriage (watch for it --- it almost hits her in the face as it zips by).Overall, an underrated gem. Not quite as much physical comedy as you'd expect from a screwball comedy and certainly a long way from typical Hitchcock, but still a very entertaining little movie. Watch it and wonder what great performances Carole Lombard would have given us if she hadn't died at 33. "}{"Title":"HILARIOUS!","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Despite the immature review previously posted, this flick is fabulous! Hitchcock shoulda done more comedies. And the tragedy is, of course, that we lost Ms. Lombard to death and Mr. Montgomery to behind the scenes. Having seen a lot of older films -- especially thanks to TCM -- we've seldom seen motion pictures with a comedic intent in which the humor endures.It is also quite fascinating to glimpse the world of 1941 prior to the entry of the United States of America into World War Two -- albeit the elite world of upper east side Manhattan. Looking back from the post 9-11 world, we derive insight into the value of comedy across eras. "},{"Title":"Uneven Hitchcock trifle.","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As you have probably already understood by reading other reviews, this relatively little-known Hitchcock entry is an uncharacteristic - and trifling - marital comedy. It's an uneven movie offbeat and enjoyable at first, then increasingly predictable; by the time the characters arrive at the ski resort, you might just as well fast-forward to the closing scene (and you know exactly what that will be like all the way through). Definitely not the movie to start your Hitchcock education with. (**1/2)  "},{"Title":"Top class!","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Mr. and Mrs. Smith is Hitchcock's only addition to the genre of screwball comedy.  The plot revolves around the couple of the title, who are informed that their marriage is no longer legal, and that they must re-wed.  This is my own personal favourite of the director's films funny and well-shot, with Montgomery in a league of his own.  The movie's only real flaw is Jack Carson, surprisingly poor in a well-written role.That aside, the film is fantastic! **** out of **** "},{"Title":"Sophisticated and breezy, what fun!","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is an early U.S. directorial effort by Alfred Hitchcock, but don't look for spine chilling suspense here.  Instead, look for a surprisingly deft comedy, a sophisticated comedy of the same genre as THE PHILADELPHIA STORY, released about the same year.The plot goes something like this; Mr. and Mrs. Smith (Robert Montgomery and Carol Lombard) are this evidently well to do couple (he's a lawyer who apparently can take days away from the office to resolve marital battles), who live on Park Avenue.  They have no children, and I bring this up only to say that the presence of kids would wreck the feel of the movie.  Well, all is well with the Smiths, who have always held that when a fight has erupted in the bedroom, neither can leave the bedroom until their dispute has been resolved and they are in each other's arms again.  Trouble comes in the form of an agent from the state where they were married, someplace like Colorado, who has the unpleasant task of notify some folks, the Smith's among them, that their marriages are not legal due to some mish-mash about county and state lines, etc.  The stage is now set, do either want to get married again?The situations that face the Smith's are so funny and droll, that I find myself giggling at them, even after many viewings.  For example,  Robert Montgomery takes Carol Lombard to the old bistro that they used to go to when they were dating.  She has all kinds of expectations that he'll take this opportunity to re-pop the question.  She jams herself into the same chic suit she wore on her wedding day, only to find out that the few pounds she had put over the years causes her skirt to split at the seams, solved by carefully placed safety pins tucked from view.  When they get to the old neighborhood, they find that the trendy bistro they used to frequent has fallen on evil days, the whole neighborhood has, in fact, turned into a sort of slum.  They walk into the establishment...... a solitary man sitting at the counter with a cigarette hanging out of his mouth hails the cook by yelling customers!  The place has a cat hanging around begging for food. They ask to move the table out to the sidewalk as in the old days, and they are accommodated but only to have homeless children stand by staring at them with hunger and want.The match-up of Montgomery and Lombard works well.  He is at his best as the sleek, well groomed, Park Avenue type.  He had plenty of practice at these types of roles going back to PRIVATE LIVES.  Carol Lombard is glamorous, high-strung, and hot tempered.  A good supporting cast including Gene Raymond and a young Jack Carson are on hand.This is a delightful movie, and I wonder when watching it how nice it would be to be free of any money cares, and be able to spend my time involved in madcap romantic schemes.  There's a lot of fun to be had during this show.  "},{"Title":"I won't I won't","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am astounded that so many people find this film even close to good. Let me make it clear that I am a HUGE Hitchcock fan and went out of my way to own as many of his films on video as I could but this one I felt was so below par not only for Hitch's films - aw heck, I'm being far too nice here. This pictured really sucked. I don't care that Hitch did a favor for the very talented Carole Lombard, but I have seen 50s sitcoms with more cleverness and style than this boring turkey. Chemistry between Lombard and Robert Montgomery? Listne I like mashed potatoes and ice cream but I wouldn't want to taste them together. I have seen better chemistry in chemical spills on th highway than here.If you really love Hitchcock, avoid this film and see any one of his better ones. For crying out loud, the bits Hitch did on the old TV show were funnier than anything this film fails miserably to deliver. "},{"Title":"One of Hitchcock's worst films","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock made this comedy of mis-marriage in 1941 but his heart doesn't appear to be in it. Carole Lombard and Robert Montgomery are the couple who discover they were never legally married and spend the movie bickering their way back to true love. It doesn't have much of a reputation and it is easy to see why. The jokes are familiar from better films but here they don't gel. And the leads are uncharismatic. Lombard's performance is clipped and starchy and it's doubly sad to think she was dead only a year later. Robert Montgomery seems to know he's in a sow's ear and tries his damnest to make a silk purse out of it without much success. The best performance comes from Gene Raymond as 'the other man', (he has a lovely drunk scene). This is one of the few really bad Hitchcock films. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock isn't the master of screwball comedies.","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Mr. and Mrs. Smith is one of the not too well known early American Hitchcock's movie. But if Lifeboat (wich unfortunately also belongs to this category) is an underrated masterpiece, not all the movies signed by the master of suspense in that time (the early 40's) are really worth seeing. And to tell the truth, not discovering this film isn't really a lost.Mr. and Mrs. Smith is an average and conventional screwball comedy, where it's rather hard to find the Hitchcock's touch. Maybe you can catch a glimpse of his shadow (wich isn't much) in the cruelty that Carole Lombard is sometime capable of (but it's well hidden in an impersonal package), in a vertigo scene where two of the characters are trapped on top of a trade fair attraction, and maybe in the character of the mother. And that's about it ! Even for the Hitchcock fan, there is little to connect with.And for the screwball comedies amateur, there isn't very much more none of the situation are exaggerated enough for being really funny, and we're far from the masterpieces of Hawks for instance. And if one or two scene are quite amusing, there're not even the funniest in Hitchcock's filmography, who created comical situations in almost all his movies (even Psycho could be considered full of very dark humor). So, there is really little to save in this movie, that can without annoying anyone (or maybe only both hardcore fans of Hitchcock and screwball comedy, who are in love with Carole Lombard), stays one of the not too well known early American Hitchcock's movie. "},{"Title":"A Crime Called Marriage","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Comedy and romance have always been an integral part of Alfred Hitchcock's oeuvre. His humor is usually distinctly black but always essential and associated with the context of the story. However, one of Hitchcock's most hated pictures Mr. & Mrs. Smith is an exception in this, as comedy isn't a mere subtext, for the film is style-wise a pure screwball comedy. In the hands of any other director, the story would have gathered warm romantic tone but in Hitchcock's grip it reveals its cynic nature. This is partially due to Hitchcock's moral honesty. His uncompromising reluctance to embellish cruelty. Hitchcock is always celebrated as the master of suspense and as the great teller of crime stories. But the crimes committed in Mr. & Mrs. Smith are of different nature. For they are precisely crimes of passion because they are aimed at pride, dignity and, in the worst case, love. In the 1960's, Hitchcock told Truffaut that he only made the film as a favor to Carole Lombard. In his own words, he only filmed what was said in the screenplay. In reality, however, the film has a lot of characteristic elements of Hitchcock's distinct style, wit and world view. The first scene, for example, is a brilliant expression of personal anguish in dysfunctional married life, introducing the film's satirical nature.Although the film is a lightweight comical comment on modern marriage, a dark variant beats beneath the surface. A constant emotion of the decomposition of love reigns. For its personal portrayal of marriage Mr. & Mrs. Smith is related to Hitchcock's other works, such as Rich and Strange, in which the illusion of money and the silence of love are dominant themes, and Suspicion where marriage includes a strong shadow of doubt and distrust. For Hitchcock, marriage seems to be a normative institution, controlled by money and monitored by the community, which leaves no room for real emotions. It is as if all marital action was based on cheat, deceit and oppression. The Smiths, for example, are instantly ready to divorce after hearing about a legal error -- their marriage was never verified -- because there had been no real feelings whatsoever for years. A mere technicality held the unsteady edifice of love together. Later on, the film warms up a little as the cool cynicism of the beginning settles. However, the pessimistically realist mood remains as an echo, a subtext, until the very end.In the field of narrative, Hitchcock continues to develop the sensation of anxiety, presented in the opening tracking shot, by using poignant identification. In American comedy, objective observation is often used by filmmakers (screwball is a report of madness, so to speak) but Hitchcock prefers to stick to the subjective perspective. It's crucial that he never alienates events, gags nor characters. As a consequence of this, the jokes never amuse the people to whom they are aimed at. "},{"Title":"Best Carole Lombard film","Date":"14 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is the best Carole Lombard film I've seen. She shows a range of talent. Her timing and delivery are excellent.The male lead is a bit weaker, he doesn't seem like good romantic lead really. No real sex appeal, he didn't phone in his performance but he didn't bring his best performance either. He was pretty much a cardboard cutout. He was badly miscast with Lombard.Lombard's character has that brilliance, vivaciousness to have any man yet she's stuck with a mediocre character actor.The dialogue is good and flows well.Hitchcock doesn't do comedy very well so Lombard saves this movie.The supporting cast was OK.Production values were typical mid-budget studio.The cinematography was adequate.Overall, I'll watch this film again just to watch Carole Lombard give a really good performance. She is better here than in My Man Godfrey. "},{"Title":"What would Ernst Lubitsch have done?","Date":"20 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you are looking for a silly, high speed, comedy with artificial acting, you're in the wrong place. Try Bringing Up Baby or some of the other over the top screwball comedies of the period.Frankly, I think Hitchcock was wise to avoid some of these excesses. The acting is fairly natural, and the pace relaxed. Yet there are still some laugh out loud funny moments.Why did Hitch make this? Why does a serious actor like Jack Nicholson make a comedy like Going South? It's not that they want to become comedians, but that they need to be able to add a comic touch to serious roles when appropriate.I think Hitch made Mr. and Mrs. Smith for the same reason to master comic timing and nuance, so he could apply to other films. We see a wide palette of comedy in this movie, from subtle to slapstick. And I think Hitch demonstrated an understanding of how to move an audience to laughter without becoming hammy.The problem is mainly in he script. It is difficult to keep this premise going for 95 minutes. The 1952 Fred Allen movie We're Not Married took 86 minutes to apply the same premise to five couples.This would have been a pleasant enough flick to watch on a Saturday afternoon in the days before DVDs, VHS, or even TV. Studios needed to crank them out, and this would have been a satisfactory product. And remember, Alfred Hitchcock was not the household name in America he was to become.I think people here are being way too hard on Hitch. A good director doesn't want to always be making the same movie, even if audiences do. I think Hitch succeeded in what he set out to do. And then he moved on to make the classy movies he is famous for today.What made the Hitch thrillers distinctive was their precisely nuanced wry humor even in the most dramatic scenes, like Cary Grant driving drunk as a skunk down the hill to Glen Cove in North by Northwest. Hitch's style sparked a whole crime caper genre from other directors that included Charade, Gambit, Mirage and Goldfinger.And it all started with an exercise in comedy called Mr. and Mrs. Smith. "}{"Title":"Better a mistress than a wife","Date":"6 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This screwball comedy has a naughty little premise behind it. A man discovers he isn't legally married and decides not to tell his wife. He'd rather be with her as if she were his mistress and have sex without the benefit of marriage. He finds the idea to be thrilling and exciting. Why he does isn't addressed. Perhaps the idea of defying society's conventions, or maybe the idea of gaining more power over his wife; a man can easily dump a mistress at any time; a wife, there's a long, messy divorce to deal with. Also, there's the sexual element behind it too; presumably sex with a mistress is more thrilling than sex with a wife.The wife finds out and dumps the husband for trying to turn her into that kind of woman. She dates his law partner, a true Southern gentleman who's entirely prim and proper and would never think of touching a woman before marriage. In the end, the wife finds their relationship unfulfilling, especially when he does not resort to violence to protect her honor. She dumps him and turns back to her hubby, a real man. It's interesting that the movie ends with the husband getting exactly what he wants, sex with his wife before marriage. In effect, despite his wife's long protest, he wins; he now takes her as his mistress. This is a sex comedy where the man entirely gets his way; his sex dream is realized.Questions this film asks does one really have to wait for marriage to have sex? Is it better to have a wife or a mistress? The film also offers insight into the different social standards of the higher and lower class, especially in the scene at the upscale nightclub where Montgomery is embarrassed to be with low-brow Jack Carson and the two low-brow dames Carson brings with him.Overall, the cast is good, though the three principles all show signs of premature aging. It's interesting to watch movies of the early 40s and see what's become of stars from the late 20s and early 30s. Some are still stars, like Montgomery and Lombard. Others are fading to character status like Gene Raymond. He's almost unrecognizable in dyed black hair as the type of character Ralph Bellamy plays so well in films like The Awful Truth and His Girl Friday; it's a far cry from Raymond's leading man days of the early 1930s. Saddest of all is to see what happened to another leading lady of the late 20s, Betty Compson. A star from the great 1928 film The Docks of New York, she's truly unrecognizable here as the beat-up, low-class hag Gertie.Norman Krasna's script is serviceable, with a number of truly funny lines and scenes, mostly avoiding the sort of clich-riddled, unfunny, idiotic cuteness that makes the 1943 film Princess O'Rourke so intolerable, a film for which Krasna inexplicably won the Academy Award for best screenplay. The first half of the film is the best half, before the focus shifts to Lombard and the boring Raymond. Hitchcock is serviceable too, though anyone could have directed this film. Obviously, Hitch didn't have the gift of an Ernst Lubitsch when it came to sex comedies. Neither did anyone else, and at least Hitch here makes no pretense as to having the Lubitsch touch, unlike Billy Wilder, who failed numerous times in trying to recreate it, in movies like Sabrina(1954). Mr. and Mrs. Smith does deal with some domestic themes that Hitch is particularly fond of though, namely the battle of the sexes and the husband getting his way in the end. "},{"Title":"Minor Hitchcock","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There are very few Hitchcock films that I have not seen, and until this afternoon Mr. and Mrs. Smith was one of them. I'd put off watching it for a couple of reasons a) On general principles I want to delay the day when there'll be no new Hitchcock film out there with potential to surprise and delight me; and b) Having read about this one I thought I probably wouldn't be particularly impressed. I was right about b).It wasn't a bad movie exactly. My problem with it was that I expect Hitchcock films to be at least a cut above ordinary, and this one didn't make the grade. It was a romantic comedy reminiscent of The Awful Truth, but lacking that movie's wit and charm. Sure, I half-heartedly chuckled a few times, but only at incidental jokes, never at the main premise, which I found tiresome.Robert Montgomery and Carole Lombard were still battling and making up after three years of marriage when they discovered their marriage license was invalid. As they struggled with the question of whether to make their marriage official or go their separate ways, I just sat there wishing they'd get on with the story. The ending was a foregone conclusion and the semi-amusing journey to it began to seem interminable after a while.As we watched, my companion suggested the ending might involve the revelation that the whole thing had been a misunderstanding and they had been legally married all along. I think her idea might have actually have made the conclusion marginally more interesting. She also noticed a scar on Lombard's cheek, which I had no idea existed. I went Googling and sure enough, the scar was the result of an auto accident when Lombard was 19. For me, that discovery was the most interesting part of the viewing experience.Mr. and Mrs. Smith is a minor Hitchcock in which the touch of the master is little in evidence. This one could have been churned out by any decent director. "},{"Title":"Predictable Marital Farce Showcases Lombard at Her Most Luminous","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's impossible to take your eyes off Carole Lombard. Not only was she among the most effervescent of screen comediennes during Hollywood's golden age, at 32, she was simply that beautiful in this 1941 film strikingly transferred onto DVD. This was her penultimate film, released less than a year before her tragic death in a plane crash, but it provides a nice, if not spectacular, showcase for her skills in both screwball and drawing room comedy. As Ann and David Smith, a volatile married couple who find out that their marriage is not legal due to a jurisdiction technicality, Lombard co-stars with Robert Montgomery, who excelled in light comedy but remains relatively forgotten today compared to his peers, Cary Grant and William Powell.At first glance, it is amazing to believe that Alfred Hithcock directed this confection given the master of suspense was between two classics, Rebecca and Shadow of a Doubt, but if you look closely enough, you will likely notice quite a few of his touches, including his cameo walk-on appearance in front of the Smiths' 72nd Street apartment building. There is an occasional odd close-up, for instance, of a lamp cord that Ann trips over, or subtly threatening scenes, such as when Ann shaves David with an open razor or when Ann and her suitor get stuck high above a crowd in a parachute ride - all these moments seem Hitchcokian in hindsight. However, it's really the clever though predictable script by Norman Krasna and the romantic sparring of the leads that dominates the film.The bulk of the story is how David tries to win back Ann, who is smarting from the fact that David did not let her know they were not legally married. She finds out from the clerk who was assigned to inform the married couple of their illegal status since he is from her hometown. In the meantime, David is forced to stay at his men's club (the norm for thirties comedies), while Ann is courted by his law partner Jefferson, who is the epitome of Southern gentility. Plenty of shenanigans ensue until the inevitable ending, though the pacing of the film feels sluggish at times, which is a shame given its relatively short 95-minute running time. At the same time, I think this may have been intentional since it seems ultimately more a character-driven comedy than a situation-derived farce.Montgomery lacks Grant's erudite manner and physical dexterity, but he has an easy, pugnacious charm. Playing the stock Ralph Bellamy, third-wheel role, Gene Raymond - perhaps best known for romancing Dolores Del Rio in the first Astaire-Rogers musical, Flying Down to Rio - is a surprisingly sturdy comic foil as Jefferson. Along with the original trailer, the DVD package includes an informative sixteen-minute documentary, Mr. Hitchcock Meets the Smiths, produced just in 2004. It includes comments from directors Peter Bogdanovich and Richard Franklin; film historians Robert Osborne and Richard Schickel; Hitchcock's daughter Pat; and his granddaughter Mary. They all wax fondly on the master director's dry, sometimes caustic sense of humor and how it came in handy making this film. This comedy is not in the same league as other screwball comedies such as Bringing Up Baby or Lombard's cherished My Man Godfrey. However, any time Lombard shows up, the screen simply lights up. What a tragedy that she didn't have a longer career. "},{"Title":"i love Carole Lombard","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" so far i have loved her in very film she has been in(that i've seen).those have all been comedies.i think she's hysterical,with amazing comedic timing.Alfred Hitchcock directs this movie,his only comedy that i'm aware of.anyway,it's fast paced, as brilliant dialogue and is very funny.Lombard is great,and Robert Montgomery is also great,as is Gene Raymond.the rest of the cast is great,as well.if you're feeling down this movie should definitely cheer you up.it's too bad they don't make movies like this anymore.sure,there are still some good character driven dramas and comedies,but mostly all we get is special effects bombast.there isn't necessarily anything wrong with that.i mean i liked the the X-Men series and i thought the recent Star Trek movie was outstanding,but they all had character and story.most of the movies today don't and that's a shame.there are a lot of classic movies out there waiting to be discovered.unfortunately,most people under thirty and most teenagers won't go near them.anyway,for a great pick me up and to see the great Carole Lombard in action,check this movie out.for me,Mr.& Mrs. Smith is a 9/10 "},{"Title":"a different kind of film for the master of suspense","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A married couple discover that technically, they're not really married in Mr. and Mrs. Smith, a foray into comedy directed by, of all people, Alfred Hitchcock. It stars Robert Montgomery, Carole Lombard, and Gene Raymond.The script has a level of sophistication to it with its sexual undertones. This is one married couple who likes to fight and make up, and when it's discovered that they need to remarry and Mr. Smith doesn't rush into it, Mrs. Smith becomes Miss Krausheimer again in a hurry and starts dating her pseudo-husband's business partner, Gene Raymond, a southern gent.There are some very funny scenes and good performances, but I agree with the other posters that Mrs. Smith is one unforgiving woman, while Mr. Smith is quite a sympathetic character in his attempts to woo her back. Nevertheless, for fans of the actors and as a genuine Hitchcock artifact, it's worth seeing. Hard to believe that the beautiful Lombard would die after making just one more film.I thought Robert Montgomery was great in his role, and I particularly enjoyed the scene at the restaurant where he says, That cat knows something, when the cat wouldn't eat any of his soup. He had a wonderful sense of comedy. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A light-hearted Hitchcok comedy with some good performances and an interesting idea, but one which fails to stay in the memory. Hitchcocks most notorious and memorable comedic scenes are those which appear in his most tense and thrilling films, working best because of the dark and sexually charged situations his characters find themselves in. In Mr and Mrs Smith Hitchcock spends the entire film dissecting the flaws and perks of married life- becoming overly accustomed to one another, yet knowing that no-one else could put up with them.After playing their usual, monthly truth telling game in which husband and wife ask each other a question which the other must answer truthfully, a game which will naturally lead to problems, Annie becomes annoyed with her husband David. She asks if he had to do it all over again, would he still have married her. He answers know as he misses his freedom, but says he does not regret anything he has done, and loves her. In an odd coincidence both David and Annie hear that their marriage is void and they simply must remarry. However, both decide to play with the rule unknown to the other, and soon all hell breaks loose.The two leads are good, and the best moments, aside from the dialogue, are Hitchock deliberately showing the monotony of both married life, and the singles game, and the last few scenes in the log cabins involving husband and wife trying to make each other guilty. Unfortunately this is too soft, and does not have enough funny parts to deserve many watches, but is an interesting film nonetheless as it is a change of pace from what we would expect.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"If you had to do it all over again&#x85;","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This was Hitchcock's third Hollywood feature, and it appears he was yet to settle into a pattern of consistency, turning from faithful adaptation of classic novel in Rebecca, to espionage thriller in Foreign Correspondent, and now this romantic comedy in the mould of the screwball pictures of the 1930s.Hitchcock's formal method, on the other hand, had by now settled into something consistent, so much so that he was unable (or at least unwilling) to deviate from it. It was unwise then for him to step outside his usual genre, and a romantic comedy was particularly inappropriate. In Rebecca it was actually great to see Hitchcock constrained by his producer and the source text, forced to turn his technique to heavy Gothic drama, but for Mr and Mrs Smith there is a huge mismatch between form and content. In other words, Hitchcock was no Ernst Lubitsch.First, let's look at the romantic angle. The best love scenes in Hitchcock films were wild, passionate and slightly dangerous &#x96; the ever fallen in love with someone you shouldn't have? situation, and he was great at depicting that. This is something that makes a much earlier film, Rich and Strange, one of the few Hitchcock non-thrillers that really works. Hitch is not so good however when it comes to a more gentle and familiar love story. A light, tender touch is required and Hitch doesn't have it.Secondly, take the comedy. Of course, Hitchcock films could be funny &#x96; The Lady Vanishes is probably the best example &#x96; but only when the jokes were sprinkled throughout the story. The master of suspense simply isn't enough of a comedy director to create a film that has funny bones. He cuts up scenes as he would in a thriller &#x96; snappy opposing angles of people talking, inserted close-ups of hands and feet, point-of-view shots &#x96; but doesn't allow for comic timing or focus on gags. For example, the business with Carole Lombard's dress bursting at the seems is shown to us with a couple of close-ups, but these are timed more as if he were revealing some crucial plot point, and have no comedic impact. Occasionally Hitchcock's style does roughly coincide with the comedy &#x96; for example the arrangement of characters in the scene at the club, where Robert Montgomery tries to make it look as if he is with the attractive, sophisticated woman at the next table &#x96; but such moments are few and far between.Even the cast of Mr and Mrs Smith are not up to standard. I'm not sure this was Robert Montgomery's strength lay, and he is boring here. This was of course exactly where Queen of Screwball Carole Lombard's strength lay, and yet while she is clearly acting well the scenes are simply not geared to capturing comedy performances. Even Jack Carson, who could be hilarious when he was really allowed to let go before the camera, fails to perk things up at all. Of course, neither of these fine comedy actors is helped by the screenplay, which isn't exactly bursting with laughs in the first place, even if the basic story is a fairly good premise.The only full-on comedy Hitchcock made after this was the Trouble with Harry, and that sort of worked because it played upon his familiar suspensefulness. However it was only when the story could exist independently of the humour, when the basic framework was suspense &#x96; as it is in The Lady Vanishes or Family Plot &#x96; that Hitchcock was capable of doing comedy well. "},{"Title":"not very funny","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was the first film i saw carole lumbard in. It stars robert montgomery but you probably already knew that. This was hitchcock's first and only screwball comedy, unless you want to include The Trouble With Harry in 1955 but that was more of a black comedy than slapstick.  "},{"Title":"Romantic Comedy","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not the quintessential Hitchcock that we associate with Hitch's American films. However, it does show his diversity as a director directing romantic comedy as well as thrillers. He also went on to direct two government propoganda films in French as his contribution to the war effort in 1944. Clearly Hitchcock was trying to say that he was a diverse director in the 40's rather than a one dimensional director. "},{"Title":"A Plot Worthy Of A Half Hour Sitcom","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I watched this as a curiosity - a Hitchcock film I'd never heard of. And, indeed, it was curious. Risqu for 1941, clearly. But in our more sophisticated (or should that be crude) era, it's just light-weight in the extreme.The premise of the film is that, due to a technicality, the married couple are not married and, when the husband tries to trick his wife in to one night of illicit passion, she takes umbrage and spends the next hour and fifteen minutes of the movie having a long, drawn out hissy fit. The punishment hardly fits the crime. It's like Oh, get over it, girl!To say the plot is thin is an understatement. It might have worked as a single half hour episode of a sitcom but stretched to a full-length movie you can almost hear it groan under the strain.Still the leads are charming and make it bearable. It's just an unremarkable outing for some first-rate talent. "}{"Title":"A couple of good laughs in a poorly paced would-be screwball comedy","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The trouble with Mr and Mrs Smith is that screwball comedy doesn't blend well in Mr Hitchcock's sense of humor. His sense is rather subtle, expressed through ironical situations built up to give a light background to the main story. Screwball comedy is a whole genre where the comic situations make the plot go forward.That's why here the Hitchcock humor works way better than the screwball comic simply because that's what he knows best. As a screwball comedy it lacks rhythm, a major problem all the good acting in the world will never make up for. Hitch fails to unleash his directing out of the serious concern about married life and the storyline constantly hesitates between the stiff Robert Montgomery and the whimsical Carole Lombard. Thus the best things come along the way visual ideas to depict this weird couple in the beginning and a couple of good gags afterwards.The best gag is certainly that one, halfway through the movie, at the the Florida Club -- not too dissimilar to the unknitting pullover gag in the beginning of The 1934 Man who Knew too Much -- where Mr Smith tries to make his 'illegal' wife jealous. The last 30 minutes are emblematic of the major failure. Out of the blank the set moves to Lake Placid where it lags till one last good but classical scene, making the reuniting of the couple merely incidental in the course of the movie while it should have been a climax.Hence Mr & Mrs Smith is not a great Hitchcock which shows us the sense of humor is rather different than the sense of comedy. Yet most Hitchcock movies display a very effective sense of humor... provided he feels at ease with the subject matter. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock Comedy","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock directed this comedy(unusual for him) that stars Robert Montgomery and Carole Lombard as David & Ann Smith, who have been happily married for three years until they one day have an argument about their marriage, then(by one of those standard movie coincidences) learn that day that, because of a dispute between local and state jurisdictions, their marriage license is invalid, meaning they are no longer legally married! This causes them to separate for a time, dating other people, until they realize the obvious about each other... Despite the cast and director, this is a contrived and predictable film, and not especially funny, though well made. A trifle. "},{"Title":"The Smith's-Love & Marriage-Mr.& Mrs. Smith **1/2","Date":"29 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Routine fanfare with famed director Alfred Hitchcock, who attempts to make a comedy in this 1941 farce.Robert Montgomery and Carole Lombard play a couple, who have a spat and later learn that their marriage is invalid.When Montgomery hesitates to marry Lombard, the fun starts with her throwing him out of the house, as he spends the rest of the film trying to win her back. Things become complicated when his partner,played by a lively Gene Raymond, attempts to take advantage of the situation and get Lombard for himself. Raymond is highly effective here and is memorable is his drunken scene.A fine supporting cast enriches the film with Jack Carson, a buddy of Montgomery, always at the health spa, attempting to give advice, as well as Philip Merivale and Lucile Watson, as Raymond's ultra- conservative parents from the south, both of whom are caught up in the various situations.With it all, it's pretty much routine. "},{"Title":"Screwball Comedy","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Carole Lombard, in spite of a too short life, was the queen & creator of these type of movies. This one relies upon old values somewhat but still has it's funny moments. Alfred Hitchcock directing here is not his typical film, but in Hollywood social circles, the Hitchcocks & Lombard & Gable (who were married when this was filmed) were friends.While the film is not a typical one for Hitch, it is a good one for Lombard & Robert Montgomery. They have a pretty good chemistry here. One thing that is a touch of Hitchcock is the sequence at the ski lodge where without explanation, Mongomery suddenly appears at the lodge with no explanation. This is exactly the same way that Jimmy Stewarts character appears in ROPE, suddenly & with no explanation.This is an RKO picture made just as the war is about to start and on a shoestring which shows as the locales are not real exotic. In fact the ski lodge where Lombard is at near the end of the film looks very much like the INN used in the films Holiday Inn & White Christmas by Paramont. This shows just how tight the shoestring was.Lombard was Lucille Ball's idol, as Carol did the same kind of comedy as Lucy would copy later. Considering this was done at RKO, it is possible that stone face Buster Keaton was tutoring Carole Lombard the way he would Lucy later. The plot is very thin, but just being able to watch Lombard ply her craft is worth the viewing.Two things that were ahead of their time here - another trademark of Hitchcock films- the first film appearance of a Pizzeria. Second, an nice angle of Lombards back-side years before Babs Streisand made that part of the anatomy popular in her films. "},{"Title":"Overcooked!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yes, the movie is quite amusing and in it you can recognize the kind of humor Hitch enjoys even in his thrillers. But ,approaching the end, the slapstick becomes a little meaningless  It's what happens when,cooking a dish,you realize you need to add some more water to cook it properly,and so Hitch adds some too many gags to arrive somehow to the end.Just a pity  such a pretty movie ending with a sprinkle of bore! "},{"Title":"Alfred Hitchcock Kills Comedy","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Wealthy lawyer Robert Montgomery (as David Smith) and beautiful Carole Lombard (as Ann Annie Krausheimer) frequently battle, but are nonetheless happily married. Then, due to some mistake concerning county ordinances, they are informed their marriage wasn't legal. Initially, this is taken as a chance to become newlyweds again - but misunderstandings lead to bickering and the couple wonder if they should really be Mr. & Mrs. Smith. Ms. Lombard dates his law partner Gene Raymond (Jefferson Jeff Custer) and Mr. Montgomery jealously follows them to Lake Placid...While not listed as a re-make of anything in particular, this is an old plot. With Lombard and Montgomery co-starring, you would expect much more. Having Alfred Hitchcock direct Montgomery giving himself a nosebleed wasn't exactly good comedy. Betty Compson (as Gertie) has a funny cameo, though, and the crossed ski end clicks. Thankfully, Mr. Hitchcock decided to concentrate on suspense thrillers. This was Lombard's penultimate performance; she manages to stay above the material here, and gets another fine film done before leaving this world in a plane crash.***** Mr. & Mrs. Smith (1/31/41) Alfred Hitchcock ~ Carole Lombard, Robert Montgomery, Gene Raymond, Betty Compson "},{"Title":"for Hitchcock lovers only...a weak film","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Mr. and Mrs. Smith (Robert Montgomery and Carole Lombard) find out that after 3 years of living together their marriage isn't legal. Carole Lombard gets mad at Montgomery when he gives the wrong answer about whether he would marry her again. She throws him out of the apartment and he spends the rest of the movie trying to get her back. This is advertised as a screwball comedy and there are some funny lines. But Lombard's Mrs. Smith plays so hard to get and is so manipulative in trying to make Montgomery jealous that you end up wishing he would just give up on her and tell her to get lost.Hitchcock didn't have anything to do with the movie except direct it. His direction is impeccable but this is for Hitchcock lovers only and is a pretty weak film. "},{"Title":"Silly, Naive and Completely Dated","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am a great fan of the master of suspense Alfred Hitchcock, but the comedy Mr. and Mrs. Smith is not a good movie, indeed it is a great deception. In 2006, it is silly, naive and completely dated. The characters are simply awful Mrs. Ann Krausheimer Smith (Carole Lombard) is a ridiculous bitch; Mr. David Smith (Robert Montgomery) is a sucker cheated husband without any self-respect and without knowing his wife and his own partner (his friend since elementary or high-school); and Jeff Custer (Gene Raymond) is a scum, betraying his old friend in a very sordid way. Therefore, the three lead characters have extremely unpleasant personalities. The motive for the separation of Mr. and Mrs. Smith is horrible. The best scene in the movie is when Mr. Smith is in the club pretending to be speaking with a beautiful woman, it is really very hilarious. I saw this terrible movie on DVD on 31 January 2006 and I have no intention to see it again, but I respect other opinions. Unfortunately, the opposite does not happen with a silly fan of this movie. My vote is five.Title (Brazil) Sr. e Sra. Smith (Mr. And Mrs. Smith) "},{"Title":"Unlock Smiths","Date":"19 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Despite some neat touches, this Carole Lombard feature proves that Alfred Hitchcock was right to stay in the suspense thriller rather than screwball comedy genre. Not that some of his best films don't feature some arch humour (think The 39 Steps or The Lady Vanishes but a Hitchcock film devoid of thrills is like a bird without wings, in other words it won't fly.The storyline is typical of its type, a married couple learn that by a fluke they aren't actually married and before you know it are frantically competing to make the other jealous, Lombard even threatening to marry husband Montgomery's best pal and business partner, played by Gene Raymond, before it all unsurprisingly resolves itself happily ever after for the would-be warring couple. There are some likable things in the movie, the nice use of locations such as a pizzeria, funfair and snow lodge, some typically coarse directorial humour over the dining table, Miss Lombard's effervescent performance and some minor directorial flourishes from Hitchcock, like the on-high shot on the fun-fair's big-wheel ride or the last scene when Lombard surrenders back to Montgomery, oddly prescient of Grace Kelly's murder scene in the years later Dial M For Murder, but on the whole the movie lacks sparkle or even a spark.Montgomery just moons about and Raymond's character for all he's trying to steal his best friend's girl is very bland,a mummy and daddy's boy, leaving Lombard to try to carry the movie on her own, but it's beyond both her and Hitchcock's talents and more or less plods along to its predicable conclusion.As a Hitchcock fan, I was intrigued to see a film of his I'd not seen before, but in truth, there was little to identify it as one by the Master and it's not one I'll be returning to anytime soon. "},{"Title":"Where was the murder?","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A Hitchcock film without a murder, or a great chase developing into a chiller - not possible I hear you say!Actually, were this made today this is what would be called a rom-com, a Romantic Comedy.  In fact, this is exactly the sort of plot that is crying out to be remade in the modern day, and it could be a great success.Mr and Mrs Smith, through a freak of badly drawn up county lines, find that they are not actually married at all.  Mr Smith Robert Montgomery then fails as first opportunity to propose again to his wife Carole Lombard and she doesn't make him forget it, as he chases her from pillar to post in order to convince here of his genuineness.Well acted and directed, this was short of a classic in that it wasn't a real gripping tale, it was just a fun and enjoyable film without being too deep. "}{"Title":"Pathetic Comedy from Hitchcock","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I only voted it 2/10 mainly because Hitchcock agreed to direct it.He certainly had an off-day with predictable plot lines, stupid childish characters who are desperately trying to be funny.There were twee hygenic, sanitised, emasculated sex scenes at a time when the Hollywood Production code was in full force.Lazy male characters in the film who like soap characters never do a stroke of work for which they are paid.It always irritates me when food is usually never eaten by actors (one exception was in the eating scene in Tom Jones (1963); although copious amounts of drink are consumed - actors have to leave their mouths free for the next line! Carole Lombard certainly fitted Hitchcock's cool blond idealised image of a heroine, but what ever possessed him to direct this worthless unfunny script, he should have stuck to his thrillers.It certainly has not worn well over the last 69 years.I couldn't wait for it to end as it gradually irritated me no end. "},{"Title":"More Krasna's than Hitchcock's but still a fine, amusing comedy","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After three years of marriage David and Ann Smith are still very much in love. However, when they discover that a legal technicality means they were never actually married, things change for the worse. Waiting for David to make a romantic gesture that never comes, Ann stubbornly decides she no longer wants to be married to him &#150; and David decides that he shouldn't chase her and she'll change her mind. This continues as both of them try to move on while still wanting the other back, spilling over into a battle of nerves between them.Although many reviews debate how good a Hitchcock film this is, I must confess that to me, aside from the cameo and the sexual reference in the final image, this is not really a Hitchcock film so much as it is Norman Krasna's. It is his story and script that makes the whole thing work and it is a type of film he seemed to do well with. The concept is a bit forced early on but the majority of it moves with such wit and sparkle that I really didn't mind too much. The script has plenty of nice scenarios that are amusing and, although I didn't roar with laughter, I did really enjoy it. The characters aren't deep enough to get into, but luckily the performances are strong enough to carry that side of things and keep us with the characters.Lombard in particular is good and she has the showier role &#150; or at least the louder one. Montgomery is as good but in a different way, being much more subtle and drawing many funny moments out of little things. Support from Raymond and others is all good enough and matches the general humour of the piece but really it is the lead two who make the film work well.Overall an enjoyable and amusing comedy that is witty and sparky throughout. The director may not make it his own but Krasna does and he is helped by Montgomery and Lombard delivering the goods in a fine double act. "},{"Title":"Comedy never takes off","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This predictable comedy starts rather slowly and gains some speed, but it never really takes off - I had a couple of laughs and a few chuckles. Carole Lombard has appeal, but she is no Katharine Hepburn. I found that Jeff (Gene Raymond) got most of the laughs playing the straight man - he has a great drunk scene.So, it's no great shakes as a comedy, but it has interest in other categories. For one thing it is interesting to get a take on the times from when the film was made. When Ann (Lombard) and David (Montgomery) find out that their marriage of three years was never legal, they pause to reevaluate. Although we know how things will end up, the very idea of marriage not being the ideal living arrangement comes close to violating the Production Code in force at the time. Also, if Jeff were to appear in a recent film, he would probably be assumed to be gay - a successful, handsome, intelligent, unmarried man in his 30s who takes great pride in having decorated his own apartment.Ann strikes out on her own and gets a job (in an early foreshadowing of the women's movement), but when David clouds the issue of her marital status with her boss, the boss says that the company is not allowed to hire married women due to job shortages.There are some Hitchcock directorial touches like the scenes at the fair - the parachute ride in particular. I had trouble with Ann and David's relationship. I could never see what it was about Ann that had David so much in thrall, particularly the way she treated him during their separation. And they never seemed to have any great chemistry between them on screen.I suppose seeing Hitchcock's one stab at comedy is of some historic interest, but he wisely turned his efforts elsewhere, as a potential viewer of this movie might as well. "},{"Title":"For Hitchcockians only.....","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Quite a feat, to make Carole Lombard in her prime come across as dull and whiney!The problems start with Krasna`s script. No one expects a striking storyline with this sort of comedy - the pleasure (if any) comes in the treatment.There needs to be wit - woefully lacking here - but also real sympathy between the leads. Here, the set-up - Lombard`s &#145;rules of marriage', and not leaving the bedroom before settling a quarrel - comes across as pettifogging, not romantic. Montgomery keeps quiet about the marriage being null, but gets (or gives) no pleasure from the deception. And, when Lombard finally decides he's not going to tell her, she behaves like an outraged nun.The delight of this sort of film, when well done, is the combination of worldweariness and genuine affection and zest for life - &#145;The Philadelphia Story' immediately springs to mind. Here, the couple seem at the start to be going through the motions of love (why else the need for rules?); and their separation is equally devoid of real passion.Any amount of one-liners won't compensate for this basic lack of heart - and there aren't too many of those anyway. And a film like this needs solid performances from the second bananas - here, from the steam-bath Lothario to Montgomery's vulgar blind date, they all disappear without trace. (Compare the &#145;Philadelphia Story''s Virginia Weidler (&#145;Lydia') and Ruth Hussey (hurting, but seeing the silver lining for her in her inexperienced lover straying with Hepburn).)Hitchcock seems all at sea with Hollywood budgets and conventions in a genre with which he was unfamiliar. There is a bloated feel to the piece quite alien to his best English work. In &#145;39 Steps', just six years earlier, with much slenderer means, he produces stunning performances from the three main actresses. And scenes between his leads Carroll and Donat where humour and mutual affection arise organically. He uses conventions from the silent era freely, and is comfortable with his way of working.Essentially a transitional - almost an apprentice - piece for Hitchcock scholars only. (Except the first shot of Lombard in bed, dollying in just for her right eye and nose to emerge from beneath the covers - the most adorable of her that I've seen. But scarcely worth renting the video for!)(Lombard joined a long line of actresses who didn't do much in films after working with Hitchcock - pity this had to be her penultimate feature.) "},{"Title":"Uglier than usual 40s war between the sexes","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The good things first I agree with another viewer who said that Gene Raymond has a marvelous drunk scene. He does -- I was tickled to finally get a chance to laugh. And there were other moments I found amusing -- Raymond's parents in the bathroom with the defective plumbing, and the scene in the restaurant with Robert Montgomery trying to make Carole Lombard jealous by mouthing sweet nothings to a stranger. But overall, I was dismayed. I love Carol Lombard and most of Hitchcock. And I understand the restrictions laid on productions by the Hays Code. But this was embarrassing and awful to watch. Of course I knew they'd end up together, this is a romantic comedy after all. But it made no sense, it happened too fast. Plus I can't believe the professions of love when confronted with such hurtful behavior, both physical and confrontational. "},{"Title":"Very uneven romantic comedy","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is by far one of the most uneven romantic comedies ever made. One can tell that Hitchcock had little interest in directing it. Make note of one of he worse track shots in the history of movies, it appears as it they had strapped the camera to a bucking horse. And what is with Carol Lombard's performance? The character seems to change in every scene! She's sweet, she's mean, she's indifferent and so on. It makes her and her character very annoying....very. Robert Montgomery does a good job at taking a poor script and giving it his best...it is him and not Lombard who you like making Lombard nothing more than cruel and a true b*tch. Jack Carson does a great job playing the Jack Carson type character. I didn't know until after seeing it the it had been directed by Hitchcock. Frankly given Lombard character I think the movie could have been made better if Hitchcock had added a scene where Carol Lombard is in the shower and Robert Montgomery comes in and stabs her to death! "},{"Title":"Too bad Hitchcock didn't do more films like this one!","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is apparently Alfred Hitchcock's only foray into directing comedy and it's a darn shame, as for this type of film, it's terrific. In fact, because it is such a good film, I was very surprised to see that it had an IMDb score of only about 6.5! That's odd considering to many this film is considered a classic.In many ways, this film is reminiscent of the wonderful Cary Grant/Irene Dunne film THE AWFUL TRUTH. Both concern married couples who do love each other but have a real hard time showing it--and most of the movie is spent waiting for them to stop being so hard-headed and just kiss and make up! In the case of MR. AND MRS. SMITH have both learned that their three year marriage wasn't legal and they are not in fact married! Along with Hitchcock's direction, the film is really made by the wonderful acting of both Robert Montgomery and Carole Lombard. They both are in fine form in the movie and it is just a lot of fun from start to finish. This movie is a cute romantic comedy--well worth your time and charming from start to finish. "},{"Title":"After 60 years of being made, I picked up the film and laughed.","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am 19, and as such Comedy flicks I have seen from over 60 years ago usually fail to make me laugh. This film however was different. While some things may have seemed a little unbelievable (its a Hitchcock film after all), I didn't find it hurt this movie what so ever and whole heartedly enjoyed it from beginning to end.There were many very funny scenes, but without spoiling the movie, Mr.Smith's interaction with the cat stood out above all. I thought Carole Lombard and Robert Montgomery worked perfectly together and most impressively of all I felt the film held up overtime. Pick it up along with the excellent Hitchcock Signature Collection. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's domestic comedy--Lombard's good, not much else is","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A domestic/romantic comedy, not a mystery, though with some rewriting it could have become a mystery. Carole Lombard and Robert Montgomery are the Smiths, a loving but eccentric married couple; they have a rule that they won't leave a room after an argument until they've made it up. and sometimes it takes days. Mr. Smith makes the stupid mistake of answering the question If you had it all to do over again, would you marry me? He says no, he rather misses his liberty. She's mad, not unreasonably. Then he learns that due to a minor detail they aren't really married, and she finds out too, and is surprised he doesn't tell her&#151;and then she gets mad and leaves him, taking up with Mr. Smith's partner, Jefferson Custer (Gene Raymond). The rest of the movie involves Montgomery's pursuit of Lombard, and though some of it's amusing enough, the story is too pat, and the acting is uneven. Lombard is overqualified for this movie; she glows and gets angry and acts unpredictably. She outclasses Montgomery by leagues; he's merely perky while she's all there. Raymond has a nice drunken scene. Otherwise, despite the laughs here and there, this one isn't much to write home about. "}]