[{"Title":"Restrained, But Emotionally Jarring Film","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"46 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Film-making at its best is what describes THE LITTLE FOXES, directed by William Wyler, shot by Gregg Toland -- he of deep focus fame -- adapted from a Lillian Hellman play and with Bette Davis playing a ruthless matriarch with a velvet glove.How far can greed take a person? This seems to be the question lingering over anyone who witnesses the story of the Hubbard's plot to secure money for a cotton mill they plan to run to expand their wealth even more. It's certainly a question that doesn't faze any of the Hubbard siblings -- they need 75,000 dollars to complete it and will get it one way or another --, certainly not Regina Giddens, who also intends to use her estranged husband's bonds for this purpose. That she effectively manipulates her daughter Alexandra into bringing him back to the house proves just what she can do to get what she wants, and an easy proof is the way she lazily relaxes over the sofa, regarding everything with semi-droopy eyes, knowing full well the extent of what she owns, and that it won't take long for her to own even more. That even when he shows signs of failing health she doesn't back down -- she will hound him for every penny he's got, even if it means letting him die without his medication, as she calmly does after a scene of verbal recriminations.A cruel story that never feels preachy, THE LITTLE FOXES translates better on the screen than on the page much like THE CHILDREN'S HOUR, much to the respect of those who admire Lillian Hellman's plays, there are many flaws throughout that seem a little forced in either resolution or non-resolution. The film version goes much deeper in establishing the moral decay of a family while adding another -- that of David Hewitt, played by Richard Carlson -- to give some contrast to the amount of unlikeable characters that populate Hellman's view of 1900's America. Having Toland take full charge of his particular way of composition in service of the story as opposed to style over substance is the key to making this movie and its performances work; otherwise it would be just another chamber drama in three acts. His and Wyler's direction allow for every minute detail in Davis' top-notch performance to come through the chilling scene with her sitting in the sofa, looking dead ahead, as her husband crawls to his death up the stairs, is one of remarkable power -- more so due to its restraint of emotion, as is the final scene when she watches Alexandra leave and retreats from the windows into shadows.There's an interesting similarity in this film and Ingmar Bergman's CRIES AND WHISPERS. Both films had a virtuous person who was near death, both films had characters who were essentially monsters flaunting their ugliness to each other, each movie had one sympathetic female who walks away from the claustrophobic household and into a better future. Obviously the similarity is thematic; siblings as monsters have been seen since Shakespeare, but in a time where period dramas relied more on romance and less on the underlying yet savage cruelty people inflict on each other, THE LITTLE FOXES is definitely one who has dated well. The only scene which lacks a little punch is the final scene in which Alexandra confronts Regina. It diminishes Alexandra's character somewhat, makes her weak, but I think also it's the choice Teresa Wright took when applying herself to this role; plus, it was her first film appearance against none other than Bette Davis in full command of Who she was. Aside from that, this is a somewhat difficult yet absorbing drama to watch, and after seeing Davis as Regina Giddens, it would be hard to see Tallulah conveying Regina's cold cruelty. A great film. "},{"Title":"Magnificent adaptation of Hellman's hit play","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"37 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As the greedy, conniving Regina Giddons, Bette Davis gives a fascinating performance which ranks with her very finest. Tallulah Bankhead had her greatest stage success playing Regina on Broadway in 1939. Wyler wanted Davis to portray Regina with a more sympathetic hot house flavour, but Bette was adamant that the character was a witch in spades the resulting performance is striking.  Regina Giddons is a classic example of a character movie viewers love to hate.  Carl Benton Reid is great as the equally greedy brother and Dan Duryea is fine as Leo the crumb.  As Alexandra, Teresa Wright is almost annoyingly innocent in the beginning, but she wisens up considerably towards the end of the film Why, Alexandra, you have spirit after all. I used to think you were all sugar-water says a frankly impressed Regina.   As the alcoholic flibbertigibbet Birdie, Patricia Collinge is perfection personified a truly memorable portrait brilliantly enacted.  Herbert Marshall is fine as the tragically deceived Horace who shouldn't depend on his lovely wife to fetch his heart medicine for him. A magnificent example of a great play transferred to film, Wyler's guiding hand is patent throughout they definitely don't make films like this anymore - no matter what the cost. "},{"Title":"Want to know what greed means?","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"43 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the several masterpieces made by master William Wyler, and definetely one of the best movies of all times. As he did in The Letter, Mr. Wyler counted on Bette Davis and Herbert Marshall to play the leading roles in Little Foxes; and the choice worked out perfectly again. I'm sure that some of the others reviewers will have written about the story of Little Foxes (greed, betrayal, hate... against honesty and loyalty), so I won't. I'll talk about some other things-Bette Davis for me there're no more than 5 actresses which would deserve the title of best actress ever Katharine Hepburn, Ingrid Bergman, Audrey Hepburn, Barbra Stanwyck, and of course Bette. She was the best playing evil women, heartless, unmerciful ones. And there's no doubt that the character of Reggina Gibbens gathers all those characteristics together. The performing of Bette Davis is memorable (as expected), and the way she says things such as I don't hate you, I just feel contempt for you... that are just like a punch in your face. There should be a picture of Mrs. Davis in the dictionaries next to that sentence that says look that kills. Bette Davis was the look that killed. -The Film Millimetric it would be a nice word to define the script. Some of the dialogues of Little Foxes are part of the history of cinema, especially the ones between Reggina and her husband. The scene in which she watches him have a heartattack is simply devastating. There are lots of long shot-sequences that intensify the tension, and Wyler's sense of rhythm is something to be shown in Cinema School even nowadays (especially nowadays).We got the Gioconda, the Basílica of San Pedro in Vatican, the Guernica... and we got movies such as The Little Foxes. My rate 10/10 "},{"Title":"Davis is unforgettable","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film fully deserves its reputation as one of the most scorching dramas of greed and corruption ever placed on celluloid. A deceptively slow start soon draws into the machinations of the Hubbard clan whose brazen backstabbings and betrayals even today make our jaws drop. Davis' stunning portrayal of the supremely grasping Regina Giddens leads a stellar cast which does a superb job of delineating a finely drawn group of characters. Charles Dingle's deceptively warm smile masks the cooly intelligent deviousness of Ben Hubbard. Carl Reid's Oscar Hubbard is just as malicious but his inferior intelligence makes him yield to his brother's and sister's lead. Dan Duryea nicely portrays the imbecilic and immature Leo Hubbard, a characterization which borders on but never crosses over into comedy. Patricia Collinge breaks our hearts as the broken-spirited and alcoholic Birdie, Oscar's wife. Herbert Marshall's performance as the doomed Horace, Regina's husband, delineates the pain, anger, and sense of betrayal burning beneath his deathly illness. The star of the proceedings, however, is clearly Davis. Wyler's superb direction blends all these characters into a masterful whole.Hellman's skill as a dramatist must be credited for much of this, but her Marxist inclinations clearly peep through the seams of the dialogue.I'm glad I finally had a chance to see this undoubted classic. Thanks again to that great channel, American Movie Classics. "},{"Title":"NOBODY'S AS GOOD AS BETTE WHEN SHE'S BAD!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bette is an absolute knockout in this adaptation of Lilliam Hellman's play about greed and corruption in the old south, at the turn of the century. Bette plays Regina Giddens, the formidable matriarch of a powerful southern clan, who will stop at nothing in order to secure wealth and social status. Director William Wyler and cinematographer Gregg Toland succeeded in creating a visually exciting film instead of just a filmed stage play. Nominated for ten Academy Awards, this is an unforgettable and still timeless film. A must! "},{"Title":"I hope you die! I've been waiting for you to die!","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"22 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Little Foxes is as entertaining today as it was in 1941. Lillian Hellman's theatrical hit with Tallulah Bankhead is magnificently brought to the screen by William Wyler with Bette Davis in the TB role. Davis received her fourth straight Oscar nomination (her sixth over all at that point in her career) for portraying Regina Giddons. It is a performance that rates among the best ever created by Davis, or any other actress for that matter. Greg Toland's deep focus photography rivals that of his work on Citizen Kane. It's nine Oscar nominations include Teresa Wright's for best supporting actress.This was the third and last time Davis and Wyler worked together. During the shoot the two did not get along -- Davis even walked off the set and was almost replaced by Goldwyn. She was loaned to Goldwyn as part of a trade out for Warner Bros to have Gary Cooper for Sgt. York -- he took home the Oscar for best actor.Dorothy Parker translated the theatrical script for the screen adding more location scenes for Wright. "},{"Title":"1941 Bette Davis is Lillian Hellman's Shrewd Protagonist  (2001 DVD)","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"23 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Superb playwright, Lillian Hellman (1905-84) wrote this screenplay for The Little Foxes, saying that she wrote her 'angry comedy' based on her own family's biannual dinner at which people drew lots for a diamond that had been left in her great-grandmother's estate. Hellman's first play for Samuel Goldwyn was The Children's Hour. She was in lover with & influenced by author & screenplay writer, Dashiel Hammett. This later became a hit book, script & film based upon a 19th century case of two girls' school mistresses whose reputations were ruined when one of their pupils accused them of lesbianism. Hellman was not afraid to be controversial or write about the unspeakable truths of the day.After a poor showing of Hellman's Days to Come in 1936, about labor struggles in an Ohio town, Hellman said she was so scared that she wrote Little Foxes, 1939, nine times. This is the script that made her reputation as a playwright famous. (Jane Fonda plays Lillian Hellman in the movie Julia a true story about her best friend, played by Vanessa Redgrave; Jason Robards plays Dashiel).The Little Foxes is a vivid portrayal of sibling rivalry, Southern plantation slavery & most of all, greed in the Hubbard family of Alabama. The story takes place at the turn of the 19th-20th century, in the deep South of Alabama where the Hubbard siblings are involved in their own brand of a power-hungry uncivil war. Who better to play the reigning schemer Regina than Bette Davis, the Hubbard sibling who commands ownership of a cotton mill that exploits slaves while yielding millions of dollars on their bent backs? Davis gives another Oscar worthy performance, leading a near perfect cast through a major screen achievement that is a page in US history.The DVD is almost 2 hours long & in black and white, with English, French & Spanish subtitles. The story is a bone chilling indictment of Alabaman slave plantation white corruption & greed.No one should ever say that Lillian Hellman wasn't a controversial & highly political playwright! The film is not rated probably because anyone could watch it. Though I imagine it would bore little children since the play's basic themes are quite complex for adults. "},{"Title":"Crisp Dialog, Great Acting & Photography","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"22 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a surprisingly good movie - for me, not people who like Bette Davis and melodramas. They got what they hoped for, another solid film with her starring in it. I don't particularly care for Davis or soaps, but I liked this film and see it more of a straight drama, anyway, especially because of the crisp dialog.It's a story about money and how to use it or how to acquire more of it through deceit and greed. Davis, as Regina Gidden, is the most greedy of the Gidden clan, vying for more money with her brothers who aren't exactly trustworthy people themselves. Among the three, there wasn't anyone to root for since the family shared in their lust for money. Davis does her normal excellent acting job but I enjoyed Charles Dingle as (Uncle) Ben Hubbard best. I liked his lines more than anyone's and the way he delivered them. Carl Benton Reid played the other greedy Hubbard brother, Oscar and Dan Duryea was interesting as Oscar's dumb son, 'Leo.Herbert Marshall was good, too, as Regina's husband Horace. He was an honest, principled man and thus, the black sheep in that household. Unfortunately, he was dying and his death played a big part in this story.The sub-plot in this tale is the coming-of-age of Hubbard daughter Alexandra played by Teresa Wright. Her coming of age translates to finally standing up to her domineering mother. Richard Carlson plays her reluctant boyfriend David Hewitt who, in the end, is won over when Alexandra grows up. So, this excellent cast, complemented by an outstanding director in William Wyler and world-class cinematographer Gregg Toland all adds up to a solid, memorable film. "},{"Title":"Watchable study of greed...Davis at her best...","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"25 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The only other film I can think of that matches this one for its study of greed is TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE. Both have a rather downbeat and moralistic ending, but here the sudden end to the story comes as a bit of a disappointment. Too bad that William Wyler didn't stress the loneliness theme of Bette's character to give more strength to the ending that merely shows her watching her daughter walking away from her in the rain with a young man.But aside from the abrupt and rather weak ending, this is a magnificent version of the Lillian Hellman stage play. I saw Elizabeth Taylor in a Broadway revival of the show years ago and she left none of the impact that BETTE DAVIS does here. Davis had the benefit of William Wyler's direction, as did all other members of the cast.HERBERT MARSHALL is excellent as the only truly decent main character in the story. His performance here is reminiscent of the work he did as Bette's weak husband in THE LETTER--but the scene where she denies him his medicine is as brilliantly played and filmed as any scene in the entire film.TERESA WRIGHT is a bit sugary as the sweet daughter but rises to the final moments--although I thought her last confrontation with her mother could have been even more harsh than Wyler permitted it to be. She and Davis were both Oscar nominated but lost to others. This scene loses some of its vitality due to Wright's low-key playing.All the other performers are more than equal to their tasks and the beautiful deep focus B&W photography of Gregg Toland is remarkable and deepens the tone of the story. Charles Dingle stands out particularly in the supporting cast, as Bette's conniving brother who is left, in the end, with nothing but a sense of humor about the outcome. Dan Duryea is convincing as the dumb Leo and Richard Carlson does nicely as Wright's boyfriend who realizes that she has a lot of learning to do about the household before she grows up.Most chilling aspect of the whole film is Bette Davis' towering performance as Regina--perhaps the most realistic of all of her bad roles.But for an even more powerful study of greed, I suggest you watch TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE.  "},{"Title":"One of Bette Davis' Best Performances","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Bette Davis stars as Regina Giddens in this film version of Lillian Hellman's smash hit play (which starred Tallulah Bankhead). This tale of the pre-industrial south of 1900 pits Regina against her greedy brothers as they scheme to open a textile mill that will make them rich. Great performances here from Davis, Herbert Marshall, Teresa Wright, Richard Carlson, Charles Dingle, Patricia Collinge, Dan Duryea, Jessie Grayson, and Carl Benton Reid. Sort of a modern King Lear, but Hellman had a wicked ear for acid dialog and her characters each have moments of grandeur as they spit and snarl. Collinge is very good as pitiable Birdie. Wright and Carlson are especially good as the young lovers, and Duryea gives a wonderfully slimy performance. Dingle has his best role as the smart brother, and Marshall--always underrated in Hollywood--is splendid as Horace. Bette Davis gives a controlled and icy performance as the woman who never gets what she wants. Her final scene from the window as she watches her daughter leave in the rain is a classic. Great film about a dysfunctional family before there even WAS such a thing! "}{"Title":"What if?","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Little Foxes is a very good movie that stands up well today.  I enjoyed it very much.As someone else noted, the director wanted Regina played more sympathetically but Bette Davis insisted on making her a total witch.  The movie is fine but I think the director was right.  Regina isn't a total witch, witness the cook giving food to children who showed up at the house and the cook saying Miss Regina wasn't one to count everything.  She wasn't stingy.  That was a telling comment that the film didn't follow up.Regina wasn't hardhearted towards her daughter, either.  She had a view of her daughter's opportunities in life; she wasn't going to allow her daughter to marry the ne'er do well cousin.  She felt disappointed, even deceived, by her husband and she has a point.  Why would her husband have thought she should want to hang around Podunk all her life and be happy?  Regina wanted to travel; she wanted to live in Chicago; she wanted her daughter to have more choices.  When the husband falls, Regina is not so much calculating as she is frozen.  She thought he was selfish and sanctimonious but she didn't plot his death.Regina was written as a complex character but Bette Davis made her a simple character. "},{"Title":"Turn To Stone","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"20 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like a fine locomotive, this film picks up steam with each passing scene. Each building upon the next, gaining speed until it culminates in a cinematic masterpiece, and the expression Betty Davis Eyes is born!Not having seen the entire movie until recently, I knew about the staircase scene, and everyone knows which one I'm referring to, my heart raced as I kept waiting for it to happen. It's a superb, disturbing moment, with Bette giving a look that could turn Medusa to stone!Theresa Wright has long been a favorite of mine. Some people have said her character was too nice and sweet. Perhaps, but Xan was probably supposed to be around the age of 16, but she holds her own against Bette. Patricia Collinge was incredible, giving a controlled yet brittle performance of an abused wife who turns to alcohol. In fact the entire ensemble works so well together that there is no weak link in the production. "},{"Title":"..bravo for The Little Foxes..","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ....I've read every comment, and am wondering why there aren't more....the only answer that is plausible is so few people know about it.Davis, Hellman and Wyler - what a magic combination. There may never again be a combination of such talent to produce another film so riveting. I am old enough to have seen it when it was first released; it has never left my mind, and I am a big movie-buff. As so many users wrote, the movie never drags - I don't understand why a few say it is slow in the beginning. Don't you first have to set the scene to give the viewers an idea to build upon? Ms. Regina ain't one to be kept waiting' is a potent message there are going to be fireworks.Several commentators mentioned what a huge success the stage-production had been - with none other than La Bankhead, how could it have been otherwise ? No matter how electrifying live performances can be, there is nothing like the camera to catch close-up expressions, especially for drama. Was Davis not the all-time queen of the eyes? Ms. Bankhead did her magic in Lifeboat - Pure Heaven ! Had I had my druthers, there would be two identical movies, one with Davis, one with Bankhead - I would watch the marathon with awe.Davis had to be a bitch during the filming to make certain her character-interpretation would be filmed as she saw it - after all, she would inevitably be compared to the Queen of the Stage who originated it. She was masterful and forceful in every scene - the closing one reminiscent of The Corn is Green - a window and eyes.Hellman no doubt was determined her brilliant stage-play would not be maligned. She COULD have taken the money and run. Wouldn't you agree she intended to see this masterpiece recorded as it should have been? Film is forever. There were no wasted lines in this movie.Wyler drilled his actors/actresses until they got it right - so right, the other interpretations fell far short.As some users have written, Patricia Collinge was brilliant in the pathetic role of Birdie. How perfect she was, because so many aristocratic, young ladies of The South lost their belle status - just as she did - after convenient marriages to not-so-aristocratic gentlemen. They were used as chattel, just as the young ladies of nobility were used - be brilliant, then get lost and run the house.Dan Duryea was as insipid as Wyler wanted him to be. This role was one that helped his longevity in movies. Mr. Giddens was perfect, showing that gentle men are just as vulnerable to heartbreak as women are. Richard Carlson gave us a glimpse of sincere gentility. Ms. Wright was the epitome of young ladies of that era - she grew with her role. All of the other players gave fabulous performances, no matter how important or supporting.Younger viewers most probably couldn't get into the film, because there were no explosions nor violence...only those that occur in every-day life. This film is to be celebrated - don't miss the celebration. "},{"Title":"Suffer Us The Little Foxes","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It is 1905 (or so). Ben Hubbard is still (apparently) head of the Hubbard family. He certainly is the stronger of the two brothers (Oscar is now a sullen cypher due to his marriage to chatterbox, delicate lady Birdie Bagtry - we later learn that Oscar does not hesitate to slap his poor wife around). Oscar does have a son, Leo, but Leo has inherited all of his father's youthful stupidity, and has none of the smarts that grandfather Marcus and Uncle Ben (or even daddy Oscar) have. Regina is still in third position - but Ben is aware that if it were a matter of brains she might replace him (as she wants to, badly). She is married to Horace Giddens, the president of the town bank, and they have a daughter Alexandra. Unlike the socially challenged (and viciously stupid) Leo, Alexandra has managed to pick up her father's gentle personality, and is (when he is around) quite happy. She also has a boyfriend, the local newspaper reporter David Hewlitt (Richard Carlson).A northerner (Russell Hicks) is interested in a scheme the Hubbards have in which they supply him the grown, picked, and processed cotton in their mills, ship them to him, and he turns them into cotton clothing and goods. Hicks is really interested, but he needs financial reassurance (on their parts) in a couple of weeks. Ben and Oscar are ready with their money - but Regina is stalling. She explains that she is waiting for Horace (who is in poor health - he has a heart condition) to return home before she gives their share. For Ben and Oscar figure that it is Horace who will be their partner.This is the beginning of THE LITTLE FOXES. Ben and Oscar (Charles Dingle and Carl Benton Reid - both from the Broadway cast) are surprised when Horace shows total hostility to the scheme (he detests his greedy in-laws, and hates the thought of assisting them in anything). Regina tries to reassure them, but Ben is not trusting her.The marriage of Horace and Regina is quite dead. We know that Regina loved another (John Bagtry) but Horace made the mistake of falling for Regina, and then marrying her. He has found her icy and unloving and as greedy as her two brothers. The only good thing to come out of the marriage is the birth of his daughter Alexandra, who fortunately takes after him. Leo (Dan Duryea - also from the original cast) turns out to have the key to saving the business deal. He knows that Horace has a set of bearer bonds in his safety deposit box that are meant for Alexandra when she marries. He tells Oscar about these bonds, and Oscar relates the news to Ben. The good thing about these bonds is anyone can use them. And it's not difficult to replace them. So Leo (after he is shown that he is definitely not going to be a partner in this business deal) steals the bonds. Horace should not ask for the bonds soon - shouldn't he?Of course, Horace does. But he springs a surprise on Regina which displeases her, and leads to their final confrontation a painful and fatal one. Horace hates Ben and Oscar for their opportunistic economics to get to the top on the shoulders of everyone else. He wouldn't help them because he hates their kind, who may threaten the country. But he does loathe his wife - and that might change his mind.The film is one of the best filmed plays from Hollywood's Golden Age. Bette Davis' evil Regina has been called a woman in an unearthly mask, covering all her emotions to the highpoint of the story - but letting her eyes tell what is in her mind. This film may also be the best dramatic performance by Herbert Marshall (although his wronged husband opposite Davis in THE LETTER is close). The four pros from Broadway do wonderfully, particularly Dingle (who occasionally reveals a playful streak - like a panther toying with it's victims), and Duryea as an opportunist who otherwise is quite stupid and vicious. Dingle even boasts that one day he and his type will rule this country (in answer, in a way to Horace's fears). Reid looks soulless and vindictive, and Pauline Collinge (as Birdie) arouses the audience's sympathy. As for the young lovers, Wright gained her first Academy Award nomination in her confrontation scene with Davis, and Carlson gains our general approval by demonstrating what should have been done to Leo years earlier.As for the title, it comes out of the Old Testament. Oddly enough the actual quote includes the title of another film of the 1940s, for our vines have tender grapes. "},{"Title":"The Lady Macbeth Of Mobile","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I hope you die.... I hope you die soon... I'll be waiting for you to die.... La Davis could have been invented to deliver Hellmans vicious lines as they pour forth venomously from her over-made up face. However, upon close scrutiny of Lillan Hellman's original stage-play Regina has a stage direction to smile as she delivers these lines to her husband Horace. And, later on, in the movie, big brother Ben (Charles Dingle) reminds Regina (Bette Davis) to smile as mama always said a good looking woman should never frown. And this smile, coupled with Reginas evil chuckle throughout the movie makes me wonder just why the Davis Diva didn't deliver the 'money moment' accompanied by this deliciously evil smile. Wyler and Davis' fights over the interpretation of the character of Regina Giddens are legendary, and indeed the reason they never worked together again. Could this be a result of one such spate? And if so, just who won out? But I'm being pedantic. I'm also digressing and off on a tangent, which I shall come back from now. Lillian Hellman and her writings have come under much scrutiny, and too often for her outspoken political comment and left-of-centre lifestyle. But two academic comparisons of her dramatic (and subsequent film) scripts that spring to mind are those of parallels to that master of morals and realism, Henrik Ibsen; another with Classic Greek Tragedy. Both Mr Ibsen and Mr Aristophanes were concerned with the greater common good and of mans inhumanity to man. And Hellman does not let us down on this one. Davis and cast deliver one of the most spectacular ensemble performances in cinematic history with a tale of avarice and greed that can apply to any of the so called Globalized corporations of today. Davis and her colleagues can be seen as early prophets of todays greed and selfishness in society, and we could easily lose the period costumes and transpose this story into modern times. Hellman could easily have been predicting the horrors and terrors of the current global drug companies and their willingness to let millions of Africans die of AIDS due to lack of much needed medicines....just as Regina Giddens sits quietly by and watches her husband Horace die of a heart attack rather than climb the stairs to get his drugs for him. I wonder how much, if at all, Davis, Wyler and Hellman knew that this masterpiece was to represent a portent of the global doom of corporate greed that our world has become today? CGJOB 30th August 2006 "},{"Title":"A Classic  (Spoilers)","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Regardless of any inconsistencies between this and the play The Little Foxes is a cinematic triumph. This film also achieves greatness due in part to the fact that in the early days of cinema film and plays were much more similar mediums. Now it is the plays that are trying to catch up and be more visually involving and trying to compete with what film can do. Upon finding out that the title came from the Song of Solomon my first instinct was that they should have quoted it to start the film. And they did that and the title card insert weren't intrusive at all and helped get the story rolling. 	The piano reciting and the counting of time (one and two and three and four) were moved from the end of the play. We do get an immediate feel for all of the characters and I don't think the role of Regina could've been better cast on the other hand the only role in this film that I found miscast was that of Leo. In the play he gave off an aura of quite conniving and nervousness only in the end in the film he's just a bumbling buffoon. He was minor, however, the creation of the David character seemed to be sort of one man chorus in the beginning lifting from Greek Dramatic tradition it fits well within the context of a small town and we get a sense of who the Hubbard's are without the necessity for a major expository scene. What we get throughout this film aside from brilliant acting is breathtaking cinematography. The set was used to perfection and the combination not only of deep focus photography but of crowded frames with many people in the made it a very involving experience. A sense of depth through the use of obstruction and open doors leading into other areas of the house being visible made the film seem very immediate. 	Wyler's brilliant directorial effort shines through not only in his framing and photography but in the acting. In one particular scene Birdie (Patricia Collinge) was sitting in the background through an extensive conversation and she was so still I thought she was a painting. Bette Davis is absolutely fantastic in this film there isn't enough that can be said about her. She's not on screen all the time but her presence is tremendous. Wyler also made sure that she was the one who turned off lights more than once so that she'd be in shadow while the others were in the lights to show that her evil supercedes all other characters in this play. She's also in the shadows at the end, when she hears about Zan and Leo and one of the characters only appears as a shadow in a scene. David comes in later and he is used for many things. He's going to be the love interest though he's very underplayed and he will be who Zan runs off with. Due to the fact that there was talk of Leo and Zan being married David also allowed for the audience to breath easier and thinks that he was the only option. 	The role of the African-Americans is enlarged in this film version. In the beginning there is a scene with the servants by themselves which is not in the play and this is used to represent the Hubbard's evil rather than to do anything to with equality. The African-Americans in this film give very stereotypical performances even though there were some progressive aspects to their characters in this film. First, there was the gradation between Cal and the man at the bank and also the fact that Addie got involved in family discussions along with the singing of Negro spirituals. 	The screenplay is excellent for many reasons. The film also added the use of simultaneous dialogue which is not indicated in the play at all and it was tremendously affective. We also see that Zan has been selected to be the heroine of the film which was the absolute correct choice and she was quite aptly played by Teresa Wright. The use of Leo and Ben shaving to discuss the safety deposit box is a great touch and adds for more interesting photography. There was the use of the medicine bottle cracking to foreshadow Horace's death.  	I also found that much of the dialogue that I thought sounded awful when I read it sounded excellent when it was performed. A prime example of this was Birdie's 'Hiccups' speech and Regina saying she didn't want her and Zan to be 'Bad Friends.' And some things that should've been dropped were such as the whole scene where Leo is screaming and that whole the bow is in the house thing was very repetitive and the film cut to the chase. There are also great lines that I think were added for the film like 'ain't the facts that are hazy its Leo,' and Horace saying to Leo 'Thank you for being so solicitous.' 	The music was minimal but perfect it was used to underscore the fact that Birdie didn't like Leo. While we don't like any of the characters and when we read it, it is kind of flat it gets some emotional value through the music. We also get a great amount of tension when we get the first close up of the film very near the end we see Regina saying, What kind of joke are you playing, now? when she and Horace are fighting. Then we also get the wonderful scene where we see Better Davis biding her time waiting to cause a scene as her husband stumbles to his death. It's also chilling the way Regina talks business again right after Horace's death.Why mama are you afraid? this line had no impact in the text but works wonderfully in the film we see the standoff and they walk away from each other. Zan and David run off together.   "},{"Title":"A fine coming-of-age drama with an instructive moral struggle at its center&#x97;but we remember Bette Davis","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The ruthless, moneyed Hubbard clan lives in, and poisons, their part of the deep South at the turn of the 20th century. Regina Giddens née Hubbard (Bette Davis) has her daughter (Teresa Wright) under her thumb. Mrs. Giddens is estranged from her husband (Herbert Marshall), who lives in Chicago and suffers from a terminal illness. But she needs him home, and will manipulate her daughter to help bring him back. She has a sneaky business deal that she's cooking up with her two elder brothers, Oscar and Ben (Carl Benton Reid and Charles Dingle). Oscar has a flighty, unhappy wife (Patricia Collinge) and a dishonest worm of a son (Dan Duryea). Will the daughter have to marry this contemptible cousin? Who will she grow up to be&#x97;her mother or her aunt? Or can she escape the fate of both?This is the daughter's coming-of-age story, and Teresa Wright gives a good performance. But the commanding role is, of course, Bette Davis's; she dominates our memory of the film, with her fiery but subtle portrait of an evil woman. Collinge as Aunt Birdie gives a performance equal in merit to Davis's. She gives this woman a crushed soul and breaks our hearts. Marshall, with his fine voice and dignified manners, is typically appealing, understated yet impressive. Duryea is enjoyably hissable.Gregg Toland's deep-focus, black-and-white photography is intensely satisfying throughout, no more so than in all those shots of people walking up the staircase, with the camera at the top of the stairs. The director, William Wyler, demonstrates his usual ability to bring cinematic life to stage plays. Lillian Hellman has adapted her own play, which is too heavy-handed in its leftist sentiments about money and power; but her points about greedy, selfish people are nevertheless well taken. This is a fine drama, with an instructive moral struggle at its center. "},{"Title":"Family of Snakes","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1900, in the Southern town of Linnet, the notorious Hubbard family is hated by the residents since they explore the poor and the black people in their business. Regina Giddens (Bette Davis), née Hubbard, is married with Horace Giddens (Herbert Marshall), who is a good man that is interned in a hospital in Baltimore due to a heart condition. They are estranged and they have a daughter, the naive Alexandra Giddens (Teresa Wright) that has a crush on the local David Hewitt (Richard Carlson) but she is controlled by her merciless mother. Regina's brothers are the exploitative Ben Hubbard (Charles Dingle), who is single, and Oscar Hubbard (Carl Benton Reid), who is married with the wounded Birdie (Patricia Collinge), and they have a son, the scum Leo (Dan Duryea) that works in a bank. Oscar and Regina have made arrangements to marry Leo with Alexandra. When Ben and Oscar invite the wealthy businessman William Marshall (Russell Hicks) to come to Linnet to build a mill to improve their business and pay low wages to the locals, they need US$ 75,000.00 from Regina. She manipulates Alexandra to bring Horace back home to convince him to lend the money. However, Horace does not accept the business and Leo steals his railroad bonds from the safe in the bank to invest in the business with Marshall, expecting to return the money without Horace noticing. Bur Horace goes to the bank and finds the embezzlement. What will Horace and Alexandra do?The Little Foxes is a movie directed by William Wyler and based on a play that shows a Southern family of snakes in the turn of the Twentieth Century. The unpleasant story is supported by magnificent performances and had nine nominations to the Oscar. Bette Davis and William Wyler had relationship problems along the production and they never worked together again. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Pérfida (Perfidy) "},{"Title":"Could be known as The Little Jackals","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have been a fan of Bette Davis since I was a young child.  Her riveting performance in this movie made me conscious of what a truly good actor can do.  Regina (Bette) and her covetous brothers made the biblical passage the love of money is the root of all evil come to life.The Little Foxes is an apt name.  As animals Regina, Horace and Oscar not only would tear others to pieces to get what they want; they would eventually turn on each other to gain satisfaction.The performance of Herbert Marshall made me immediately search for his other movies to view; I've not been disappointed. I am thankful his character was included to offset the viciousness of Regina and her brothers.  "},{"Title":"Carefully-Crafted Drama With Many Subtleties","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Besides a very strong cast and an interesting story, this carefully crafted drama also has many subtleties that make it satisfying to watch, and even more so on repeat viewings. It is still among the better movie depictions of the effects of greed and materialism, and it has lost none of its effectiveness or believability.Several things work together to make The Little Foxes a worthwhile classic. The cast could hardly be improved upon, with the great Bette Davis taking center stage with a role that has her in her element, Herbert Marshall in a role ideal for him, and the supporting roles filled by talented performers who are themselves, in most cases, very well-cast.The script, likewise, is a well-conceived and well-paced adaptation of the Lillian Hellman play. Finally, William Wyler and his crew piece everything together effectively. Wyler might not be the kind of director who draws a lot of raves for innovation or experimentation, but when he has a good cast and good material, he knows how to make it work.One of the movie's several noteworthy features is the pace. Much of the first half seems to move quite slowly, and much later the pace of events begins to build steadily. The first part contains many less obvious touches that fit together well, so it is worth watching carefully, even if parts of it seem slow. In the second part, the characters' cat-and-mouse games and attempts to outwit each other come to a head, resulting in some compelling moments.It might be even more satisfying to watch after you have already seen the movie once, because the numerous subtle points that help to establish the characters then come out more clearly, and the way that things fit together is also easier to see. In any case, it is a classic that has held up well. "}{"Title":"William Wyler, Bette Davis, Teresa Wright, Particia Collinge, perfect!","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Synopsis In the South, circa 1900, Regina Giddens, (Bette Davis), and her two scheming brothers, Ben, (Charles Dingle), and Oscar, (Carl Benton Reid), are working on a get-rich-quick scheme and all they need is about $75,000 from Regina's ailing husband, Horace Giddens, (Herbert Marshall), to make it happen. The conniving Regina decides to send her daughter Alexandra, (Teresa Wright), to fetch her father from a hospital in Baltimore, so that she, (Regina), can convince him to invest in her brothers' scheme. Upon his return, Horace is very ill, but not too ill to refuse to participate in his in-law's plans. Finally Regina, with her back against the wall, decides to stop at nothing to get her way, resulting in a tragic conclusion for all involved.Recommendations Perfectly directed by William Wyler, this film is brilliant from beginning to end. The beautiful black and white Art Direction, the crisp/clean editing and the wonderful score, all help to make this movie pitch perfect. Of course it helps that the play's original author adapts her own blistering screenplay to wondrous results. All that said, it is the performances of Bette Davis, Teresa Wright and Patricia Collinge, as the heartbreaking Aunt Birdie, that make this film soar. Herbert Marshall, Charles Dingle and Carl Benton Reid all give strong supporting performances. Also, Richard Carlson, as David Hewitt, (the man who loves Alexandra), Dan Duryea as Leo Hubbard, (the no good nephew of Regina and Horace) and Jessica Grayson as Addie, (the faithful house servant), all make their secondary roles utterly memorable. Still it is the talents of Bette, Teresa and Patricia, being direct by the brilliant Mr. Wyler, that makes this film a classic. Beautiful. "},{"Title":"Davis at Her Evil Best","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A gleefully macabre and intensely suspenseful movie based on the Lillian Hellman play. Bette Davis sinks her teeth into the role of icy bitch Regina Giddens with such relish that you can practically hear her sighing with satisfaction at getting away from the noble sufferer roles that had so recently made her famous in films like Jezebel and Dark Victory. She's monstrous here as the frigid wife of Herbert Marshall, waiting impatiently for him to die so that she can get her talons on his inheritance. A group of conniving brothers are trying to outsmart her and claim the inheritance for themselves, but they have no idea who they're dealing with. We ultimately can forgive Davis for her reptilian selfishness, because she's driven to it out of survival. If you want to play with the big boys, the movie seems to say, you have to learn to be one yourself.This is a lesson her sister-in-law, Birdie, hasn't learned, and as a result is a fluttering, neurotic mess of a woman, bulldozed by her husband and supreme example of exactly the kind of woman Regina refuses to be. Birdie is played by Patricia Collinge in a devastatingly heartbreaking performance. Just watch her in the scene where her husband slaps her; you can almost literally see the life drain out of her as she accepts her misery as a cage from which she doesn't ever really hope, or feels she deserves, to escape.And as the moral conscience of the film, Teresa Wright plays Regina's daughter, Alexandra, slow to pick up on the treacherous games her own mother is playing.The classic scene in this film is the one in which Regina's husband actually dies. She's sitting feet away from him, watching him gasp for breath while refusing to get the medication that could save his life, and Davis's creepy, empty expression shows us just how little compassion or sympathy, or even any emotion other than greed and vengeance, remains in this grotesque, twisted creature. Marvelous! Grade A+ "},{"Title":"Quite simply this is a masterpiece","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Exceptional filming of Lillian Hellman's play about an evil Southern family falling to pieces. It's all overseen by cold cruel Regina (Bette Davis) who will do anything to get what she wants.Just simply this is great. I was never bored once during the entire 2 hours this ran. I literally couldn't stop watching. The script (very close to the play) is wonderful--one great line after another. It's also well-directed by William Wyler--just his composition of shots was incredible. Purportedly he put his actors through hell with take after take--but it works. This is a rare movie where ALL the acting is great--not one bad performance up there. Teresa Wright is a little too whiny--but this was her first film. Even Richard Carlson is good! Who ever knew he was so handsome and could act? He was wasted in all those action and sci-fi pics he did. Davis, of course, gives the best performance. She obviously relishes playing a totally evil character.This movie has many great moments but, for me, there are two highlights--Carlson has a GREAT moment where he casually tells off Davis (how many actors can stand up to Davis--and live?) and the last talk between Davis and Herbert Marshall (playing her husband). This isn't for everybody--with the exceptions of Carlson, Marshall and Wright there isn't one sympathetic character. This may be too cold and cruel for some viewers, but I was fascinated throughout. One of Davis' best performances. Don't miss this one! A 10. "},{"Title":"One of Bette's Best","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Bette, Bette, Bette, cold as ice and hard as nails in this Lillian Hellman story of the despicable Regina, grand matriarch of the oily Giddens clan. Set at the turn of the last century in the Old South of happy darkies and their benevolent white masters, an image redolent with the putrid smell of decaying fiction, Regina and her white trash relatives try to lure an investor into building a cotton mill near their land. With the Giddens family able to reap enormous rewards from such an arrangement, the greed becomes rampant as Regina and her two brothers scramble to try and raise their portion of the money. Hellman's story, with additional dialogue from Dorothy Parker and Alan Campbell, becomes incendiary when Regina's ailing husband, Horace (played by Mr. Gloria Swanson, Herbert Marshall) refuses to ante up the third required for his and Regina's portion. As she rails at him to put up the money, her brothers are scheming to come up with the additional money themselves and cut Regina out of the deal. Regina's nephew, Leo, played to annoying perfection by Dan Duryea, works at the bank where Horace keeps his safety deposit box, and a plan is engineered to borrow $75,000 in railroad bonds that Horace keeps there (He won't miss them. Besides, people *ought* to help other people.). The formidable Bette, as Regina, is looking stylish and intimidating in her Orry-Kelly wardrobe, is masterfully lit, and the camera work is expert. During her tirade, Horace suffers a heart attack, and this piece of business is one of the most magnificently planned shots in all of movie history, with the camera trained on Regina's harshly lit face, and all we see is the staggering and collapsing shadow of her stricken husband in the background. Though he rallies only slightly, Horace discovers the bonds are missing, and his ill-health makes his death imminent, he extracts his revenge on Regina, telling her that he will claim the bonds were a loan, and *not* stolen, thereby removing Regina's leverage against her brothers and losing any possibility of profiting from the sordid arrangement. But he dies before this can happen and Regina winds up triumphantly, blackmailing her brothers, and acquiring 75% of the business. Ideally, this will bring solace to her, as she loses everything else &#150; her husband is dead, her daughter has abandoned her, and she is, figuratively speaking, left being the biggest shark in a pool infested with them. Dazzling and chilling, and a monument of storytelling, film-making and acting. "},{"Title":"Excellent battle-of-values drama","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Superb, brooding Southern family melodrama about tension between greed and integrity, revolving around coming-of-age Alexandra Giddens (Teresa Wright), torn between corrupt, cruel and manipulative mother (Davis) and honest, loving, but infirm father (Marshall). Final realization of Davis' cruelty forces her to leave for lover, who embodies personality and values of Marshall. Pivotal scene - impromptu gathering of the honest characters where Marshall reads 'Little Foxes' text from the 'Song of Solomon'. Absorbing character studies, gets better with each viewing. "},{"Title":"Bette Davis puts Herbert Marshall on a Stairway to Heaven","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Samuel Goldwyn's handling of Lillian Hellman's turn-of-the-century scheming play among a Southern family put RKO on par with MGM&#x85; at least temporarily. The Little Foxes is a shimmering production in every respect; and, it is absolutely a lesson in how to bring a stage play to the screen successfully. Although it lost all of nine Academy Award nominations, a look at the list reveals why; it was an eligibility year for classics. The missing nod to Foxes cinematographer Gregg Toland can be explained for the notice he received for Citizen Kane - but, the lack of even a supporting nomination for Herbert Marshall (as Horace Giddens) is a grievous error. As you might expect, everyone herein is marvelous, dominated by the best of Bette Davis (as Regina Hubbard Giddens), whose backstage war with director William Wyler and the suits resulted in a great characterization that lifted all.********** The Little Foxes (8/20/41) William Wyler ~ Bette Davis, Herbert Marshall, Teresa Wright, Patricia Collinge "},{"Title":"The masterful Wyler presents a masterful study of the greedy rich","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Great Bette Davis drama, with the great lady giving a fascinating performance. And the rest of the film is just as good. Davis is matriarch of a rich, greedy Southern clan. The Hubbards and the Gidden spend their time scheming new ways to make money and being horrible to each other. Davis is married to Herbert Marshall, who she feels only contempt for and lets him die so she can make a business deal. Such a famous scene, and Davis' face is like a mask. Charles Dingle really impressed me as Sam Hubbard, who is probably the only person Regina really appreciates, even if she doesn't necessarily like him either. They are both as greedy and calculating as each other. Patrcia Collinge is excellent as poor Birdie, and Teresa Wright, while at first annoyingly sugared as Davis' daughter, grows in stature as her character does. Dan Duryea steals every scene he is in, and Richard Carlson is just plain cute! "},{"Title":"It doesn't get any better than this","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Little Foxes is near perfection from the the casting of Bette Davis and especially Patricia Collinge to the sets,cinematography and direction. Last but not least is the dialogue that stays with you for days afterward. Dysfunctional southern family drama dipped in acid. Lovely. "},{"Title":"Superb film version of Broadway stage hit","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Arguably, Bette Davis' finest performance, The Little Foxes remains a compelling, well-realized adaptation of Lillian Hellman's bitter study of greed and destructive family relations.Producer Samuel Goldwyn brought his usual care and attention to this film, supervising the excellent expansion of Hellman's play into a more three-dimensional work for the screen.  The playwright herself praised it, saying that director Wyler and his cameramen achieved effects through their artistry that she was unable to reach on stage.  Davis has sometimes been faulted over the years for too closely copying (or, alternately, not copying closely enough) Tallulah Bankhead's legendary stage performance in the role of the cold-hearted Regina, but today her performance stands up well, very carefully thought-out and astonishingly modern in its lack of pity and single minded obsession to achieve her greedy goals.Most of the Broadway cast was imported to Hollywood to repeat their roles as the rest of the avaricious Giddens and Hubbard families, and all went onto long, successful careers as supporting players in films based on their wonderful performances here.  The only flaw in this film, if there is one, is the lamentable racial humor directed at one of the minor black characters.  Fortunately, this is balanced by the warm and sympathetic portrait of Belle, Regina's housekeeper, and the other black servants.All in all, a memorable and stirring film about the darker side of human nature. "},{"Title":"the classic Bette","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Once again Bette Davis turns in a wonderful performance as a strong willed woman who will do anything to get what she wants even if it means getting rid of her husband.  This film holds your attention from beginning to end. Nobody does it like Bette.  "}{"Title":"Worth a Closer Look","Date":"23 June 2009","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Davis's Regina may have the commanding role, but it's Birdie (Collinge) who stands at the movie's center. For it's through her we come to situate the others and their conflicts. When Birdie confesses to disliking her son Leo (Duryea), she's not just passing judgment on his warped personal development, she's passing judgment on a family history that resonates throughout the post-Civil War South. For, Birdie stands as a remnant of the pre-war planter class who owned the plantations and the slave force to operate them. To impress Marshall (Hicks), a prospective business partner at a formal dinner, she is recognized as having belonged to that Southern aristocracy . Thus, even in casual conversation the calculating Hubbards make use of the talkative Birdie and her innocent desire to be nothing more than friends.By 1900, however, Birdie and her class have been reduced to appendages of the merchant class represented in aggressive, even virulent, form by the four Hubbards. For it is the shrewd independent tradesmen like the Hubbard family who perfected business skills, while the planters were luxuriating in their colonial mansions, having grown dependent on slave labor. Thus, once the War overturned planter supremacy, the merchant class was positioned to share power, which the Hubbards did by outmaneuvering Birdie's family for control of local cotton production. Now the Hubbards sit atop the economic pile and look to expand by bringing cotton mills south to the fields themselves. It's a prospect that will raise their wealth to a national scale, which is why the social-climbing Regina wants to move to big city Chicago.Now, if Birdie is the hub, young Alexandra or Zan (Wright) is the prize. For, it is Zan who represents future possibility. And though the contest is not overt, Birdie in her own way is contesting Regina for Zan's allegiance. Clearly the older Birdie sees in her niece the girl she once was, fresh, innocent and trusting. And seeing the corruptive effect of the Hubbards on son Leo, Birdie defies plans for the two first cousins to marry. In short, Zan must not make the same mistake that Birdie did. Moreover, when Birdie and Zan perform together on the piano, they unite at a symbolic deeper level in the finer things. It would seem the competition between Birdie and Regina is highly unequal given Regina's ruthless, domineering nature, at the same time the pixilated Birdie retreats to her room in an a wine- induced haze&#x97;her way of coping.However, Birdie has allies of which she's only dimly aware. That's conveyed in one of the key scenes where the good people gather at a little outdoor table&#x97;Father (Marshall), David (Carlson), Zan, Birdie, and loyal retainer Addie (Grayson). As the kindred souls gather, it's one of the movie's few scenes of unforced gaiety, that is, until the emotional Birdie begins to tearfully unburden herself. Then we find out that her life has been one frustrated search for kindness. She married the grasping Oscar Hubbard because at first he was kind-- now he strikes her when she angers him. And when she asks if kindness is indeed a very good thing, the general reaction is revealing. At first, the good folks look startled that such an obvious question would be posed. Then they realize that Birdie in her own naïve way has raised a sublime point. Thus, the opposition between the good people and the Hubbards is ultimately a contest between two paramount values&#x97;kindness vs. greed. Life can be lived in pursuit of either.It's at that point that the prologue about little foxes becomes clear. For, it is tender grapes like Birdie and dad Horace who are spoiled by little foxes like the greedy Hubbards. And that will be Zan's lot too unless she can free herself from her mother's domineering grasp. Moreover, the Hubbard family's ruthless pursuit of wealth also poisons the vine of community on which others must grow. Thus, the community itself will be affected when we learn of plans to depress wages by playing working men off against one another. The problem is that others stand by and do nothing while the foxes gnaw away. This, of course, is the social message. The foxes will have their way unless others stop standing by and allowing it to happen. The question is what any of the good folks will now do.The exception to the tender grape metaphor is David. Tellingly, he's lived outside the region, and, as Zan bemoans, he's brought back foreign notions like rights that even women have. He's clearly a man of independent judgment, and the fact that he writes for the newspaper suggests he may be a stand-in for playwright Hellman herself. Then too, he's wise enough to know that Zan must learn about her mother and the Hubbards by herself. Trying to tell her, as long as she remains emotionally repressed, will do no good. Because of all this, Zan does in fact finally rebel, rejecting the life of wealth and privilege that Regina's successful greed holds out to the daughter. Thus, in the crushing final scene, Zan at last runs away with David, rejecting not only her mother, but the values that the Hubbards represent. More importantly, Regina will not get to live the life she always wanted through that of her daughter. She has lost the future. Ultimately, then, greed proves not enough. And when Regina draws the darkening shade across her face, we know that Birdie has prevailed after all.The movie itself is an all-around triumph, from picture- perfect casting to expert direction to provocative scripting to atmospheric art direction. And, yes, Davis is superb-- a part, I expect, she could do in her sleep. My point here is not only to get at the movie's subtext, but also to help bring out Birdie's central role in that subtext. And as a plain-looking middle- age lady, faced with conflicts greater than she can unfortunately comprehend, Collinge is more than superb. "},{"Title":"A complicated film","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is complex. The characters do not nicely fall into the avaricious foxes vs the sweet innocent lambs. Hellman shows that the the weakness of Aunt Birdie, Alexander ad even Horace is a result of patterns of the avoidance of the political and social problems facing the south. They believed that if the treated their darkies well all would be well and each would know their place and all could carry out their decent Christian lives. I.E. They were living in la la land. But the aristocratic structures had crumbled and were replaced by venture capitalism, which was helping to pull the south out if its severe depression and help it once again to compete with the north. Regina was the New Woman, a feminist hero. She had escaped the domination of the men that surrounded her and held on the positions of power. And through her own skills and planning she was able to punish her brothers and rise to the top. She did not do anything dishonest herself, but she was not willing to let her brothers get away from the crime that they committed and used the knowledge of that to her own advantage. Horaces deliberate blocking of Regina's plans were weakly defended through Hellman's socialism, but this was contradicted with the news that the new mill would be paying the employees eight dollars a week compared to their usual three. So the town and the employees would benefit from this development. There is a lost world nostalgia in the film that serves no one. I suppose that I would put my money on David, Alexandras love interest, who seems to have a perceptive sense of what is really going on. Yes, Bette Davis plays Regina as cold and business like and in those days if a woman wasn't warm and maternal she was condemned because women could not have a stake in business and were seen as monsters if they did. So I say, hurray for Regina! "},{"Title":"Excellent flick.  Bette Davis' best flick.  The Hellman play is outstanding.","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are a number of outstanding performances in this film. Bette Davis, Herbert Marshall lead a terrific cast.  A very dark, but frank look at such issues as the exploitation inherent in unchecked capitalism, greed and the ability to make choices in our relations with other humans.  This is a film that should be categorized don't miss.  "},{"Title":"A timeless story of greed and decency.","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is as important, and pertinent as it was when it was made. The theme of greed and how destructive it can be is timeless. Bette is absolutely spellbinding as the cool, and calculating Regina. She dominates the screen and mesmerizes you with her power and restraint. The movie is paced wonderfully and directed with artistry by William Wyler. Herbert Marshall & Teresa Wright are particularly wonderful in there supporting roles. This movie is about the little foxes that spoil the vine the people who eat up the earth and others that sit around and watch 'em do it. Are you gonna just sit around and watch? That's the question this movie ultimately asks. "},{"Title":"Great Study of People Vs people; Masterpiece!","Date":"11 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When we take into account both the most significant and the most popular movies of the silver screen Hollywood, 1941 clearly saw its heyday. Orson Welles's CITIZEN KANE as the year's Best Motion Picture needs no more justification of the viewpoint. And since no one doubts its significance in cinematic history, more film scholars tend to prefer another 1941 pearl that has brilliantly stood a test of time - THE LITTLE FOXES based on the socially insightful Broadway play by Lilian Hellman. One of William Wyler's and Bette Davis' milestones!Notably, among the very best films in Bette Davis' career there are most significantly the ones directed by William Wyler. And though THE LITTLE FOXES is predominantly analyzed in terms of her performance alone and 'her performance' as the major reason why the movie is still worth seeing, let me first highlight some aspects of the theme handled specifically by the director.The plot line appears to underline certain characteristics of the society, not only the American society, which could have its resemblance only in limited places and periods but the society in general. That is what Hellman intended in 1939 and that is what William Wyler manages to explore. The title 'little foxes' derived from the Bible and present in every society, in every community, even family make the division between 'People and people' more appealing and timeless. While the title of the movie is misleading and tends to call our attention to villains only, the screenplay brilliantly underlines the contrast depicted, the difference between People who keep the flame of honesty, understanding, sacrifice and love (sort of 'lambs') and people driven by greed, deceit, fury, wretchedness and selfish desires (sort of 'foxes'). The task to highlight this difference memorably on the screen could only be achieved through director's extraordinary skills and his fruitful collaboration with the cast and crew. That is the difference that marks the very gist of the plot line, which appears to rely strongly on opera-like stuff where most things are either black or white and rarely is there anything in between.The cinematographer Gregg Toland, the costume designer Orry-Kelly, the art director Stephen Goosson add a great degree of aesthetic feelings to the whole story. There is, above all, a particular harmony where all single details and lighting, camera angles and many other factors indicate the undertones of the plot. Some scenes are worth viewing for a few times because they appear as true milestones in the film and are usually remarked during the second and consecutive viewings of the film. With reference to many scenes played by Bette Davis and Teresa Wright, the final moments are true pearls where....let me spoil this little...even the staircase and objects around seem to be 'alive' to convey some meaning proving to be placed there for some reason that each single viewer interprets for himself/herself.And indeed, the most eye-catching aspect of THE LITTLE FOXES are the performances and the performance by Bette Davis. Preceded by Tallulah Bankhead's Regina Giddens on the stage, Ms Davis does something which leaves all other roles with pure facts and facts alone, nothing more. No comparison works because the masterpiece cannot be replaced by another masterpiece. That highest rank is bound to stay on its own. The way Bette Davis portrays a villainess is overwhelming to such extent that viewers are left with anger but a little compassion in the end. Her greatest 'success' is not the fact she deceives all people around her but she also succeeds deceiving us, viewers, in a way. It is a gem of performances, something undeniably worthy all awards and attention of each viewer. No words can describe her effect on us sufficiently, you must see her. With the supporting cast, the awards occurred as just as hardly elsewhere. A newcomer Teresa Wright and Patricia Collinge deserve most attention apart from Ms Davis and they were rightly awarded as Best Supporting Actresses. Alexandra Giddens and Auntie Birdie... two characters who are similar souls, seemingly weak and ignored by the strongest; yet the ones who live similar values and whose artistic sensitivity broadens their inner ways of spirit. Ms Wright as young, beautiful Alexandra gives a charming performance appearing to us as the total opposite of her mother, an honest girl more ready for a marriage of love than a marriage of convenience, a good daughter ready for compassion, a coming of age teenager who makes her own decision and, at last, proves to 'have spirit after all' to her mother. A dreamlike image of a young girl manifested so nicely in the silver production like this. Ms Collinge portrays brilliantly a spontaneous, frank, genuine person made unhappy by people around her, the little materialistic foxes who ignore feelings and heart. There are moments when you shed a tear or two and do not be ashamed to do so. In between comes Herbert Marshall as the ailing husband/father with a decent performance but nothing extraordinary. That's for the supporting goodies and the baddies?Since the wretched characters of Regina's brothers are not worth analyzing, the performances by Charles Dingle and Carl Benton Reid need a special attention, particularly in the scenes dominated yet generously led by Bette Davis. They are Regina's souls alike and her strong performance seems to stir theirs to some extent (similarly to the scheme in the plot). Bette is a generous performer among them and they occur to be skillful enough to use that chance correctly.Not to make my review go endlessly, there would be much more to say about the film. Each scene has so many aspects, is so well calculated but... I leave it to you as a viewer and as a movie fan. Discover the enormous potential of this movie on your own and enjoy one of the gems of Wyler's career, of Davis' career and of the silver screen heyday. 10/10 Masterpiece "},{"Title":"Hollywoodized, but in a good way","Date":"29 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lillian Hellman's famous stage melodrama is opened up for the screen and provided with, heaven help us, a young-love subplot. But in this case, the tampering with the original material works It gives Alexandra (Teresa Wright, and she's excellent) more of a moral journey, and a real reason for maturing into the right interesting young lady her uncle deems her in the end. And the additional dialog, by no less than Dorothy Parker and her then-husband Alan Campbell, is perfectly in keeping with Hellman's epigram-rich original. It's an A team effort throughout, what with William Wyler's direction, Gregg Toland's deep-focus yet subtle photography, music by Meredith Willson, of all people, and much of the original Broadway cast, most notably an unforgettable Patricia Collinge (watch her big scene and marvel at the craftsmanship, both in front of and behind the camera). Ms. Davis famously fought with Mr. Wyler, as he wanted a different interpretation of Regina from Tallulah Bankhead's and she felt there was really no other way to play it. However close she is to Tallulah, she's superb, her emotions playing subtly across her face. The plot mechanics are smart and enormously satisfying This is one good-vs.-evil study where good persuasively, and in a non-contrived way, triumphs. I've seen stage versions with Elizabeth Taylor and Stockard Channing, and a 1950s TV version with Greer Garson; all brought different characteristics to Regina, belying Davis' opinion that there was only one way to play her. But I think I like her lively, complex characterization best. helped as it is by the marvelous craftsmanship all around her. "},{"Title":"Hurricane Regina","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Here's a thought. What if your spouse was not your best friend but your worst enemy? What if she was on the take and would not hesitate to do you harm? Let me introduce you to Regina, played by Bette Davis, scheming and badgering her sick and invalid husband, Horace (Herbert Marshall) to get her hands on $75,000. It's for a partnership with her two wealthier brothers in a cotton mill, an enterprise which, by the way, will garner huge profits by using exploited labour. The situation is grotesque.And it doesn't stop there. One of the brothers, Oscar, is married to Birdie (Patricia Collinge, in a heartbreaking performance) a kind and gentle, but alcoholic, chatterbox constantly subject to her husband's contempt and cruelty. In an early scene he slaps her face in public, an act of such wanton brutality that I involuntarily cried out. Oscar's son (Dan Duryea), a meek and sycophantic ne'er-do-well bank clerk (his name, Leo, is comically inappropriate), is given a task by his dad - borrow the $75,000 in bonds from Horace's safety deposit box. Imagine, if you can, a father shamelessly advising his son to steal, not directly, mind you, just in so many words. This conversation takes place in a bathroom where both men are shaving. Their backs are toward each other - they can't look at each other face-to-face - and they see only parts of each other through mirrors, reflecting, if you will, the elliptical nature of the conversation. It's a wonderful, if sickening, scene with inspired direction by William Wyler.Teresa Wright plays Regina and Horace's innocent daughter, Alexandra, a work in progress. Her boyfriend, David, is a newspaperman, and he loves her with the best kind of love possible - he wants her to become a fully realized person. More specifically, he wants her to grow a backbone and stand up to her mother and the rank immorality that she represents (her mother has wedding plans for her, and they don't include David). Alexandra already knows that she could end up like Birdie. There's a scene where all of the good people in the story - Alexandra, David, Horace and Birdie - are huddled in a circle around a table on the patio, as if they are taking comfort in each other, and Birdie admits that she drinks alone in her room. I can imagine that. And I can imagine her unspoken alcoholic fantasies and daydreams, just from Collinge's performance alone. Bette Davis' Regina is the lightning rod of the entire movie. To say that she is driven is like saying that a hurricane is windy. I happened to catch a few minutes of The Little Foxes several years ago and I concluded that its feminist slant meant that, in a room filled with posturing, powerful men she needed to be even more ruthless and cunning than they were in order to survive. I was only partially right. There's a moment when Regina compares the soft, feminine curves of her face in a photograph of her as a young woman to her hardened, angular features in a mirror. In fact, she has to sacrifice her womanhood on the altar of expediency. She will never love again, if in fact, she ever loved at all, for to love is to be vulnerable. The turning point in the movie is the scene when, alone in the house with her husband, who has discovered that the bonds are missing, and is having a heart attack, she does the unthinkable. Actually, she doesn't do anything at all, and there is a word for what she doesn't do. Bette Davis' eyes reveal a chilling determination on the part of Regina, but something else, as well - genuine surprise at what she's capable of. This is the moment, in a horror movie, when the creature sheds its final skin and morphs into what it was meant to be, in all its hideous glory. From this moment on there is no stopping Regina. A couple of scenes later, within hearing range of the grieving Alexandra, even the two brothers cautiously suggest that they discuss business elsewhere. However Regina, power-tripping, has the two men right where she wants them and pursues the topic out loud, with a megalomaniac's careless abandon. This is her triumph...and will be her downfall. There's no way that she's likable, but she IS magnificent, and you can't stop watching her. She may be a monster, but Bette Davis reveals her human origins.This movie held me captive until the final fade-out. The scene when the boyfriend, David, slaps Leo's face, not once but several times, swiftly, elicited a cheer from me. I read that the boyfriend was not in Lillian Hellman's original play but was added to the film version, and I think that was a wise decision. The romance between Alexandra and David was, perhaps, necessary to give this morbid tale of pernicious greed some balance and hope and the wonderful Teresa Wright an expanded part. The Little Foxes is a Southern Gothic melodrama set at the turn of the 20th century, and at this writing, is seventy years old, yet it remains as modern, relevant and vivid today as it must have been in 1941. It's one of the great ones. "},{"Title":"Masterfully done--MANY great performances","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A breathtakingly well done movie.Herbert Marshall is terrific in his understated way with his extremely subtle acting, including minute changes in his facial expression and his use of his hands. Notice how his face, mainly on the left side, turns into a tiny smile when he gets the Richard Carlson character to admit that he is in love with Alexandra.Marshall's evoking of the persona of an extremely ill man is masterful.I see the final talk between Regina and her brother Ben as follows Ben asks the question---What was a man in a wheelchair doing on the stairs? and comments with a smile that Things may change.When Regina tries to pin him down, he will give no specifics.I think what he is saying is that while Regina has controlled the brothers into giving her the 75% because of their crime with the bonds, that Ben will do the same to Regina, i.e. exert similar leverage over her, in the future over the fact that she appears to have killed her husband.Charles Dingle's evocation of Ben, an evil but intelligent man who NEVER stops thinking, even for a moment, of what will work to his advantage, is another breathtaking performance. Of course in his case he had the top level dialogue already written for him.Marshall's extremely understated performance, accomplished almost entirely by what he evokes without dialogue, is a virtuoso performance. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Wyler","Date":"31 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hellman play about greed within a dysfunctional family in the South at the turn of the 20th century becomes an absorbing screen drama. In arguably her best film, Davis has a field day playing a woman who is evil personified. Wyler extracts excellent performances from the entire cast, including Marshall, Dingle, Carlson, Grayson, and three making their film debuts Wright, Duryea, and Collinge. Like Davis, Dingle and Duryea are deliciously slimy as members of an inbred family. Wyler masterfully unfolds the fascinating story with his customary visual elegance, helped by Toland's cinematography, while juggling a multitude of interesting characters. "},{"Title":"Lots of Great Talent At Work","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The focus is on a Southern aristocrat played by Bette Davis, thus making it a perfect role for her. She blasts a powerhouse performance in the function of a classic presence-driven scene-stealer that, due to being distinctly tough and exceptionally intimidating, appeals to our more unruly sensibilities. It is hard to say whether she creates a character who you love to hate or hate to love At the same time she is greedy and conniving, she thrashes about for fortune and independence surrounded by the restrictions of an early 20th century social order when a father took into account only his sons as inheritors. Therefore, her greedy brothers, played with convincing coldheartedness by Charles Dingle and Carl Benton Reid, are wealthy, as she must depend on her ailing husband played by Herbert Marshall for financial support. Though Dingle and Marshall hold their own in becoming renditions around her, they are not and could hardly be any match to her.That is not to say it is without other performances that do match hers, though the equivalent performances do not quite tone with her propane tank presence. Reid is in effect hateful and loathsome as the brother who has married his wife solely to acquire her family's plantation and cotton fields, showing her cruel disdain, his slandering having ostensibly led to her alcoholism. The wife, Patricia Collinge, is a staggeringly tender and lingering performance. Another deep-cutting performance emanates from another wonderful actress from the era, Teresa Wright, playing Bette's daughter, whirring with inner emotion and love and equally capable of an inimitable quiet disavowed resistance due to her character's obligation to marry her first cousin, the ever-sniveling Dan Duryea, as a means of Dingle getting her father's money!This is an early effort by the great director William Wyler, who adapts the righteous and noteworthy Lillian Hellmann's somber play into a film in and of itself, employing fascinating visual descriptions and subterranean language without ever intruding. In one tremendous scene in which Collinge breaks down, Wyler films the setting's ensemble in a flat, endwise master shot with the various characters prearranged in slanted angles at a variety of distances from the camera's level surface. Establishing an appearance and thus a feeling of depth, this deep-focus image augments the sincerity of the illustration while intensifying the feeling of the scene. As well, Hellmann's script gushes with humanity. "}{"Title":"Terrific Movie","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Little Foxes is a disciplined, focused drama. Davis' acting in other movies has often struck me as overdone and silly. In this film, good direction and a tight script contribute to one of Ms. Davis' best performances with superb acting from the rest of the cast as well. "},{"Title":"Even those who don't like Bette can admire this","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I find it hard to appreciate Bette Davis; for some reason I just don't seem to warm to her characters, however accomplished, when she is playing the heroine, and this has an unfortunate tendency to pull at right-angles to the plot. But in this film at least, that's not a problem. As played by Bette Davis, Regina in The Little Foxes is a monster, a woman without scruple or tender feeling -- save for her own advancement -- and we are not only allowed but encouraged to dislike her. In fact, we are supposed to hate her.But this isn't a one-woman show like some of Miss Davis' other films, but an ensemble piece with a large, well-characterised cast; in practice, for long periods of time Regina is not actually on the screen. (Bette allegedly walked off the set for three weeks with a nervous breakdown after quarrelling with her director, during which time filming continued successfully without her.) Herbert Marshall has brief but memorable screen-time as the absent Horace, displaying the strength of the gentle, and we really get to like him. Patricia Collinge gives an equally memorable performance as drab and persecuted Birdie playing an unattractive, unassertive middle-aged woman, she nevertheless holds our interest from the start in a role that's rare on film. The Three Bears, the crooked Hubbards -- jovial Ben, bullying Oscar and the weak and lazy Leo -- are well-differentiated and vividly portrayed. The girl Xan is basically the central pivot of a story that begins and ends on her and shows us her growing-up, and Teresa Wright depicts both her initial innocence and her maturing determination as she cares for her father. Meanwhile, Richard Carlson is merry and spirited as her love-interest and conscience, the young reporter David, although the character (an addition to the original plot) is not used as much as one might otherwise have expected from his nominal profession and proclaimed interest in fighting corruption. He has no part to play in detecting cover-ups or in their threatened exposure.The script sparkles with genuine laughs as well as put-downs and insinuations a-plenty, and the direction is fluid despite the film's evident origins in what is basically a one-set play. And Bette Davis -- like her or loathe her -- is ice-cold and magnificent, rapacious and calculating and murderously hard when she plays off her femininity to disclaim any understanding of business, like her brothers we know better than to believe her for a minute. She wanted Regina as pure bitch; she got her.At the end of the film, on the pinnacle of her ambition, Regina gets the fortune she wants... but the audience is on the side of those who will work all their lives to pull her down. And it was Birdie who brought tears to my eyes. "},{"Title":"Hubbard Family Values","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lillian Hellman's The Little Foxes went from Broadway to Hollywood after it ran 410 performances in the 1939-1940 season through the good offices of Sam Goldwyn. Five members of the Broadway cast came west and repeated their roles, Patricia Collinge, Carl Benton Reid, Charles Dingle, Dan Duryea, and John Marriott. But the lead part of Regina Giddens which gave Tallulah Bankhead her career role on Broadway went to a proved movie name, Bette Davis. Bette then made the part all her own.Davis is the sister of Ben and Oscar Hubbard, Charles Dingle and Carl Benton Reid. They are a family of trades people, poor white trash in those halcyon years in the South before the Civil War. When the war laid the genteel planter class low, these are the people who prospered and became what was euphemistically entitled 'the new South.' They're a tough and ruthless family, but they are survivors though the next generation shows little promise because Dan Duryea who is the son of Reid and Patricia Collinge is an idiot and Teresa Wright, the daughter of Davis and Herbert Marshall will be rejecting the values of the previous Hubbard generation.I don't think Lillian Hellman's Marxist leanings were ever more prominently on display in her writing as in The Little Foxes. Though the characters she creates are brilliant, the elder Hubbards are a rather heavy handed symbols for greedy capitalism. It's not quite clear where Teresa Wright and her suitor Richard Carlson will be on the political spectrum having rejected Hubbard family values. The plot of the play itself is that Dingle and Reid are ready to invest in a cotton mill with northern businessman Russell Hicks. But they need more money which they're hoping Marshall and Davis will provide. That leads to all kinds of complications, legal and moral for the family.Hellman left it open as to what will happen. My guess is that she honestly didn't know. Like most Marxists of the day, especially American Marxists, they sat and waited for the great come and get it revolution like fervent Pentacostals waiting for the Judgement Day. Wright in fact wishes for a society where people like her mother and uncles don't run things.Sadly and this is the weakness of The Little Foxes is that Hellman drew her characters too well. I'd be willing to bet that Ben and Oscar would find a way to wind up Commisars if they had been transplanted into Russia during the revolution. Idealists had a short life span in the early days of the Soviet Union, never more so than after Joseph Stalin took over. Whatever else they are, the Hubbards ain't idealists.Still The Little Foxes is a riveting drama that will keep your interest through the whole film even if you don't buy the message totally. "},{"Title":"Little Foxes","Date":"14 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A great film, it makes me wonder how classics seem to outdo most of our modern productions. Herbert Marshall's character Horace, was the one who stands out the most in terms of performance, and feels like he made the most lasting impression, even though he doesn't come in for quite some time in the film. The film draws you in so much that you will genuinely feel outrage at what Horace's relatives do to him, and in general, just for money and power. This films shows exactly what is wrong with many people to day, all they do is want more and more for themselves, and do not care what it does to the people and the world around them. This film could easily be reproduced in a modern setting without losing any of it's message, perhaps it would be even more relevant today. "},{"Title":"Little Foxes","Date":"6 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Overall, this film was pretty good. Bette Davis did an absolutely stunning job playing Regina, a cold, mean, money-oriented kind of woman. This whole movie was about gaining more money, no matter what the outcome would be in the end. It was kind of disheartening to see how little she cared about her husband, and how she only cared about business and such. She did after all trick her daughter into going on a trip to get her father to come home, only so Regina could present her business plan to him. On a different note, this film had wonderful camera work. There were many fascinating shots of the scenery throughout the movie, and the scenes moved at a constant steady pace. The whole movie was a nice pace the whole time, in fact. The acting was absolutely superb in this film. All in all, it was a good film on many different levels. "},{"Title":"Great acting, great story!","Date":"5 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was really interesting. I enjoyed getting to watch the parts and schemes all unfold. Although at some parts, the scenes seemed to really dragged out and dry. The story kept it interesting though. In this film, we meet the Hubbards, a very wealthy and prosperous family. The ailing father, Horace, returns home after undergoing procedures in attempts to make him better. Almost immediately upon his return, his wife, Regina, and her two conniving brothers are already trying to get him to sign on a deal, so that all parties involved will make more money- which is what a majority of the characters are concerned about. The story unwinds and takes the viewers on a roller-coaster, you never really know what's going to come next.The cast for this film was perfect. Bette Davis plays Regina, the antagonist who loves having money and accomplishments to have over others. Davis was absolutely perfect for this role with her snooty attitude and harsh delivery of lines. My favorite characters throughout the film, whom also broke my heart, were Birdie, Alexandria, and David. These actors really delivered with their emotions and, with Birdie especially, kept me interested and involved in the story. I also really enjoyed the use of mirrors throughout the film-I thought that it acted as a great way to see things in a new perspective. The presence of the mirrors throughout kept me on the lookout for more whenever I could. I also liked how the stairs were incorporated throughout the entire film and some of the most important scenes take place on them. The stairs really acted as a staple throughout the film. "},{"Title":"Great Performances by Actors!","Date":"22 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed the cast of characters in this movie! I was able to distinguish all of them when they came up, which is good for me because I can't for every black and white film. I was never confused about who was supposed to be whom and what they did.Bette Davis's character Regina Giddens was really something. I hated her, but I loved to hate her. While I just plain hated Oscar Hubbard (Carl Reid) from the beginning. Birdie Hubbard (Patricia Collinge), David Hewitt (Richard Carlson) and Horace Giddens (Herbert Marshall) were my favorites. They were genuinely nice and knowledgeable people. More so than others, this movie almost forced me into liking or disliking each character. I think that could possibly be due to how much information was given about their personalities through what they said or did. It was all about the characters for me. "},{"Title":"One of the worst families in Film History","Date":"10 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I grew up in the south and never knew any family that was like these people. Whew...what a relief.The play this film was based on was written by Lillian Hellman and was supposedly based on her mother's side of the family back in her childhood. I can't imagine growing up in a house like that. What she wrote and what this film shows is highly relevant today. It's all about greed and carin' about 1 thing....yourself.I won't go into too much detail but the basics are this... The family of 2 brothers and 1 sister have decided they wanna open a cotton mill in town but the only way to get into this venture is invest some money with a Chicago businessman. They'll need a certain amount of money but they can't quite make it so they have her daughter go and fetch her estranged husband from out of town to convince him to invest what he has cause it will cover what they need. He says no and the fun ensues....or the sliminess.This is just a sick and greedy family all the way through. I honestly stopped watching it half way through just because I couldn't believe this had happened. This was no made up Hollywood schlock fest...this was based on on Lillian Hellmans childhood growing up. It's true 99% of the time that reality is worse than fiction. There's no blood and no guts in this one. Just backstabbing and conniving till the end.This is just a superbly made film. It has to be seen to be believed. "},{"Title":"Rusalka's seventh film review A taste of what's to come","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bette Davis was always quite good at playing despicable women, and here is no exception.  In William Wyler's adaptation of Lillian Hellman's great American drama, Davis plays Regina Giddens, a shrewd, manipulative woman who is willing to go to any lengths whatsoever to achieve her goal.  In this case, it's outwitting her brothers in order to be able to control the family's cotton mill (the story takes place in the south at the turn of the century mind you)--- even if it means sacrificing the health of her already ailing husband, Horace or the love of her young daughter Alexandra.The Little Foxes was nominated for nine Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Actress, two nominations for Best Supporting Actress, Best Direction, Best Score, Best Screenplay, Best Film Editing and Best Set Decoration.  The film lost to John Ford's How Green Was My Valley and Bette Davis lost out to Joan Fontaine in Suspicion.Bette Davis gives a cunning performance in this film, but the seeds are sown here for greatness in what's to come, most notably films like Now, Voyager and All About Eve.  She commands the screen in every scene that she appears in and proves here for the first time that she is a force to be reckoned with.My rating 2 stars "},{"Title":"best of evil","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you feel cold, it's not the open door of your fridge - it's just her, Bette, sorry Regina, the personified evil. So, after this you will know the difference between acting and - acting... "}{"Title":"An ending with a twist","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie alone late at night and thought it had a brilliant, twisted ending. When I watched it again the next night with my husband, I realized I was wrong. I thought the last shot was of Xan and her Father hurrying away from the house in the rain. Why did I think this? -The brothers were motivated to keep Horace alive so the bonds would only be borrowed and then returned to Horace, which was better than Regina owning most of the company -When the brothers insisted on bringing a second doctor to the house I thought it was because they had a plan; Horace, Xan, the brothers, and the new doctor were in cahoots to fake Horace's death -It was mentioned twice (by Leo and someone else) that Horace had pulled out of the attacks before, so I thought he had regained consciousness and was now faking his illness and his escape -Horace was motivated to escape because he know knew exactly how evil and greedy Regina was, and wanted to escape the marriage, change his will, and leave Regina with absolutely nothingI thought I saw subtleties leading to this conclusion -the nod of the new doctor to Dr. Sloane before Dr. Sloane went over to Horace in the scene where Horace made his last breath -the way Horace took his last breath (I thought this was fake; that the hand squeeze was a clue to Xan that they would be OK) -that Dr. SLoane did not pronounce Horace as dead, he just nodded to Regina. No sheets over his face, or prayers, or anything like that -that Xan wanted to stay in the room for a few minutes alone with her father before coming downstairs (to get him dressed, ready to escape) -the final comments from David to Regina, about how one person may think they won today, and another will have won tomorrow -the blackmailish comments questioning why Horace was lying on the stairs , which could be used later to keep Regina quiet about the whole situationThe realization that I was wrong came when I played the last scene over again - the suit and gait matched that of the boyfriend. I was really disappointed! I would have preferred to have seen Xan helping Horace escape, hobbling off towards a better life, and rejoining with the boyfriend. "},{"Title":"I can't believe this movie isn't more famous","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't understand why this film isn't more famous than it is. Sure, THE LETTER, ALL ABOUT EVE and JEZEBEL are really good Bette Davis movies, but this one is every bit as good and perhaps better than some of these other films. Perhaps some of the reason it isn't more famous is because in many ways this certainly is an unpleasant film. However, the unpleasantness is important to the story of a family filled with evil vipers--you just can't make these people cute or endearing! Bette heads a marvelous cast of miscreants that are counter-balanced by the decent members of the family. This juxtaposition of good and evil is amazing to watch and up until the latter portion of the film you are really unsure which will win out in the end. However, the ending of this movie is probably one of the greatest moments in film history. Once you see it, you won't forget it. I don't want to say more, as it could ruin the film.The bottom line is that this movie taken from the Lillian Hellman play is exquisitely written with marvelous characters, great plot twists and savagery within a family that make them seem more like a family of badgers than human beings! And, combining this with the exquisite direction of William Wyler and the terrific acting, this is a movie that is a must-see for all cinephiles. It just doesn't get much better than this. "},{"Title":"a bette beauty","Date":"28 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ms. davis says this is her worst performance on screen. don't you just love great actors. you all probably know the story being told. bette wants more and gets it. the direction by Wyler is really superb. it's interesting to see what he had to do to stop ms. davis from flinging her arms around, which she often did with abandon. she has doilies sewn to her cuffs and her hands are almost always wrapped around each other when she has to react to the other actors. Wyler must have said the arms ms. davis....the arms. most of the cast came from Broadway, including patricia collinge as bertie. I have wondered what they were thinking on the train from nyc to warner brothers. they really don't make movies like this anymore. that's too bad. "},{"Title":"Biologically analogous individuals","Date":"22 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Little Foxes is the tale of the Giddens family, who are less a family and more a conglomerate of biologically analogous individuals. They're the kind of people to whom love is merely the imperative fine-print to an otherwise sound negotiation between parties.The film is an ensemble piece, but as the poster suggests, Bette Davis is the foundation. She is Regina Giddens, the most cunning of her family; whereas being a woman of her time period was usually a crummy deal, it actually allows her to creep in the shadows unnoticed by the equally greedy--but more visible--men. Regina's husband, Horace (Herbert Marshall), a man of incredible wealth, is dying with no male heirs--a scent no fox can resist. Unfortunately for the foxes, Horace feels their hot breath, and repels; for, as is typical of the dying, life begins to become clearer the farther one is away from it. And seeing as how there's more than one family member interested in the money, the snakes get themselves all knotted up.Davis is phenomenal in her cold, specter-like way. At moments, she's almost perceivable as a malevolent porcelain doll--or maybe it's my own fear of such things talking. She berates her helpless husband, firing insults from all cylinders into a downed man, and all with such ease, like one might say good morning. Her venomous ways culminate in one hell of a scene, in which she doesn't say a word, but merely sits and says nothing, slowly tightening as if feeling a rope around her neck. One would be remiss to fail to mention some of the side players. Marshall as Davis's husband is aptly empathetic and relates the character's realizations in a way that makes them feel grown and not instant. I could go through each and every featured actor in the film and bestow kind words, but I have only so many words myself, so I won't. Just know they deliver.The Little Foxes is a dark, brooding look at greed, and its effect on something as seemingly sacred as family. The film even suggests broader implications, with lines from the foxes like we'll own the country one day. Look into that what you will. "},{"Title":"Great film about greed from American playwright","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Los Angeles Times review of this film said At once timeless, yet timelier than ever in its indictment of greed. That was in the late summer of 1941. Seventy-five years later, the face of greed may have changed and taken on many more looks, but it still is prevalent and ugly as ever in the world today. It is likely to be so until the end of time. So, The Little Foxes remains a powerful story of how greed ruins lives, tears families apart, and destroys love. The stage play of The Little Foxes must be the most performed of Lillian Hellman's works. It surely is the finest. I was in a college production of it in 1960. This RKO film of the story was a wonderful adaptation &#x96; more an embellishment of the stage play. Hellman wrote the screenplay for the film herself. What the stage lacks, this film makes up for wonderfully. In just a few scenes outdoors &#x96; with a carriage and small southern town, seeing the African Americans working (darkies was a general term of the culture that wasn't derogatory then, but today is taken as offensive), the movie lifts the story out of the strictures of the stage and makes it seem more real. In invites the viewer into the story with some recognition of the time and place. A few versions of the story have been put on film. None can equal this 1941 movie by RKO. The cast seems perfect, and every performance, from the smallest to the largest is flawless. One can't imagine anyone playing Regina better than Bette Davis. Or playing Horace better than Herbert Marshall. Charles Dingle is excellent as Ben Hubbard. Carl Benton Reid is very good as Oscar Hubbard. Patricia Collinge is superb as Birdie Hubbard. And Teresa Wright and Dan Duryea play their roles of Alexandra and Leo perfectly. Alexandra is the daughter of Regina and Horace. Leo is the son of Oscar and Birdie. The screenplay has some characters added that weren't in the original stage play. One of those is David Hewitt played by Richard Carlson. Another is Manders, played by Lucien Littlefield. The supporting cast of actors in the Black roles is excellent. Jessie Greyson plays Addie, and John Marriott plays Cal. There isn't a stereotyped role among them, likely because of Hellman's southern background. This is a wonderful production of a timeless play and morality tale. The film adds a nice touch at the end that the stage play doesn't have. It drives the point home more obviously of the bed of bitterness and loss of love and happiness that Regina has made for herself. She watches out the window as Alexandra leaves, meets David in the rain, and walks out of her mother's life. "},{"Title":"Worth Dozens of Viewings","Date":"1 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I know this film backwards and, like 'The Heiress,' it's testimony to the greatness sometimes achieved in yesterday's Hollywood. The screenplay is faithful to Hellman, and the opening-up scenes have no forced feeling. However - and as melodramatically wonderful as the story is - it's mostly about Davis. Her Regina is exquisitely perfect, with a lifetime of bitterness as subtext always. The climax in which she sits as her husband dies is breathtaking, time after time; she becomes a fixated, horrified and horrifying, porcelain doll. But do NOT fail to appreciate the beauty of Patricia Collinge's Birdie. In fact, keep your eye on her as the vile Hubbards scheme and she occupies a background corner. I honestly can't think of a supporting performance as brilliant, with the possible exception of Hopkins in 'Heiress.' "},{"Title":"A William Wyler near classic, with a towering performance from Bette Davis","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While not quite one of my favourite William Wyler films like Roman Holiday, Ben-Hur, The Best Years of Our Lives, Wuthering Heights, Mrs. Miniver and Dodsworth (also remember great things about The Heiress), The Little Foxes is an excellent film and another one of his near-classics).The Little Foxes, as always with Wyler's films, looks great with photography that is both sumptuous and clever (like Jezebel, one does feel like they are not just surveying the action but are being part of it), atmospherically shadowy lighting and elegant costuming and sets. Meredith Wilson's score is effectively haunting and induces some suspense that adds a lot to the atmosphere of the story, while never overbearing the drama. The Little Foxes is superlatively directed by Wyler, his use of the camera is relentless, he keeps the drama taut and does such a great job engrossing the audience into the story and its atmosphere to the extent it's like being there.Incredibly powerful writing, with razor sharp and chillingly vicious dialogue, and a story that's paced smoothly, darkly cruel, acutely dramatic without being melodramatic or ham-fisted but still entertaining and very compelling in its realism are also great assets, and there are scenes that stay with you for a long time like Regina and Alexandra's climactic scene on the staircase, the interaction between the characters and especially Horace's death scene (and that was mostly because of some chilling acting from Davis). The characters are interesting and well-written if mostly unsympathetic apart from Alexandra, David and Horace, and like the story compellingly realistic.Herbert Marshall is on excellent form, bringing poignant tragedy to the role, while Patricia Collinge is heart-breaking, Teresa Wright is radiant and touching with a touch of feisty spirit in her later scenes and Richard Carlson makes for a sympathetic boyfriend. On the other end of the spectrum, there is also Carl Benton Reid and Dan Duryea is greedily calculating brothers and Charles Dingle is entertainingly devious and intelligently deceptive as a scheming character. Best of all is the towering portrayal by Bette Davis, playing one of the most monstrous characters of her career along with Whatever Happened to Baby Jane and The Anniversary, even her appearance is enough to give you the creeps.Only the somewhat abrupt and not quite resolved enough ending isn't so good, other than that The Little Foxes is an excellent film, that while not among Wyler's best it does deserve to be seen more. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"What Irony-A Communist Quotes The Bible","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lillian Hellman may or may not have been an actual member of the Communist Party, but she was definitely a sympathizer, and did not criticize Stalinism when other leftists did. However, the events in the play were reportedly based on events in Hellman's own family.The title comes from a Bible verse mentioned in the movie about little foxes (probably a mistranslation) threatening tender grapevines, and the story itself is about three siblings of a wealthy Southern family who contrive to become even richer by building a cotton mill in the town, paying their workers poorly while reaping all the profits. One brother owns the local bank, which he runs with his dense son, another brother has married a woman solely to gain ownership of her cotton fields, and Regina, the sister, has married a sickly man who is away being treated for heart troubles. Trouble is, time is running short and everyone's funds are required to ensure that the deal goes through- and besides that, Regina's husband must be home before his money can be accessed, so Regina details her daughter to bring her father home on the train.But further troubles develop when Regina decides she wants a bigger share than the third originally offered to her, and furthermore, when the husband makes it home, he refuses to go along with the plan. Can the brothers find another way to get the money-illegally- and get away with it? The story grows in unpleasantness as the ill intentions of all the siblings are brought out, and the daughter comes to learn just how terrible things in her family have been.Good performances by all involved carry the initially-confusing story through, though the end is too ambiguous. What is Regina thinking when we she her face in the final frame? It can only be guessed. "},{"Title":"Family woe.","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A depressing tale of family woe in the old American south, with a tiny ray of light at the end. It doesn't surprise me at all to learn that this film was based on a play. But, given the performances and the intriguing and relentless build-up of the story, it never feels as such. So, it's not just 'wordy', but also a worthy and complete cinematic feat, thanks to William Wyler's more than apt direction.There's terrific acting by pretty much the whole cast, though Bette Davis and Dan Duryea were my personal favorites. The ray of light in the story comes in the form of daughter Alexandra Giddens (well played played by Teresa Wright). She struggles to untangle the family webs and more so to actually face the facts that are becoming clearer and clearer. In the end, she makes the right choice. And a courageous one.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A great story!","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Bette Davis gives an incredible performance as Regina Giddons in William Wyler's The Little Foxes. Greedy and conniving, Regina Giddons is a perhaps one of the easiest to hate characters I've ever encountered in a film. However, in contrast, Teresa Wright's Alexandra is one of the easiest characters to love. A seemingly innocent character at first, Alexandra quickly wises up to her mother's ways as the film progresses. Perhaps one of the best lines to demonstrate this would be when Alexandra finally starts standing up to her mother, to which Regina responds, Why, Alexandra, you have spirit after all. I used to think you were all sugar-water Unfortunately, it all goes wrong when Regina's husband, Horace (Herbert Marshall) starts to catch on to his greedy wife's ways. Unfortunately, it's just when he stands up to her that his heart medication is out of reach and Regina is left to decide between what she wants and what is right. "}{"Title":"Stunning performances","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Incomparable in the cinematography, the lighting effects, the close-ups, the work of a true master. It's hard to imagine how long ago this film was made, yet has managed to keep its integrity. Intelligent, sardonic, with a brilliant performance by Bette Davis, I for one consider this one of the greatest films ever made.I think that Herbert Marshall underplayed his role to give more stage to Ms. Davis, which may not have been his choosing. He didn't seem to be as sick as he was supposed to be, and seemed distant at times, as if acknowledging to be second fiddle. Even so, as a drama, as a story about a dysfunctional wealthy family, no cast today could outshine this one. Could any actress have done better to capture the moment when she refuses to give him his medicine as he lay on the staircase begging, and the close-up of her eyes, dark and cold, yet uncertain. Amazing. "},{"Title":"Cunning As A Fox","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Little Foxes was a shocking story of betrayal and manipulation within family bloodlines. The greed and corruption that runs rampant in the Hubbards is stunning, even from today's perspective. There is something heart-breaking about family turning on family in order to reach a financial goal. Regina is clearly the star of the film, even though she is the antagonist. Her daughter, Alexandra, is who the audience truly identifies with. Watching Alexandra overcome the evil she's been brought up around is inspiring. Try as she might, Regina could not bring her daughter down to the level she was at. Watching an innocent, naive young girl grow up and realize what her family is was as sad as it was happy. Alexandra was dealt a terrible card in life, but she rose above it. "},{"Title":"True drama","Date":"15 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was the perfect drama! I am not going to lie though, I was pretty bored throughout the movie. I guess the only thing that kept me interested was the romance between Zan and David. It was very dramatic though, the story was pretty interesting. Bette Davis did an amazing job, I was actually a little scared of her. I think the one thing that i just really did not like was the ending. It left me wondering what happens. I guess that was the point but I just like to know every single detail that happens and what happens after. I think that I would have liked the movie a lot more if the ending was a little different. Also, I wish I knew why Regina hated her husband. "},{"Title":"The little foxes, that spoil the vines....","Date":"15 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The actors and actresses in the film played there characters very well. Right from the beginning i despised Regina, Betty Davis's character and her money hungry siblings. Wyler makes it very easy to see which characters have a good heart and those who have a heart of stone. There's great use of camera angles and use of mirrors in this film. The most clever use of mirrors is the scene when Regina's brother Oscar and his son Leo are shaving in the wash-room. The staircase plays a crucial roll in this film. Many scenes are shot on the stairs or with the stairs in the background. At some points the stairs are like a podium of power, at other times it's like a balcony to spy from. I was very exciting to discover that the original play The Little Foxes was written By Lillian Hellman, a women in the late 1930. That's a pretty big deal for that time period. "},{"Title":"OK, this was a fantastic movie.","Date":"14 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I truly admire this film. It was beautiful and practically perfect in nearly every possible way. About half way through the movie I started to doubt whether I would end up liking it or not, but when the end came, and everything just tied together, I fell in love with it. This movie was just so intense, and the acting was incredible. The symbolic positioning of characters in the most dramatic scenes, with those deep/shallow focus shots, really pulls you inside the story, and that ending, just wow, very well done. I would recommend this to anyone with an appreciation for dramatic films, or just anyone looking for a good story with twists and turns along the way. "},{"Title":"Corruption in the South","Date":"14 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Little Foxes is a movie that espouses a moral code that almost overshadows the drama underneath. The importance of this film is not found in its actors, though they are strong. It is found in the dialogue and writing of this rather amazing screenplay. The Little Foxes is coming of age film as much as it is a drama. At first everything seems well in this southern town, chipper as could be. Then we are shown pieces, this overbearing mother, scared daughter and soon the business deal. Then Regina's true motive and the depths of her greed, her callous disregard for anything beyond money and revealed. Zan on the other hand develops her compassion and finally sparks her own flame, abandoning her mother. The ending at least gives some satisfaction, the Regina left alone to her wealth as Zan searches for ways to defend the world from the corruption of people like her mother. "},{"Title":"An excellent work of cinema","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film has a little bit of something for everyone. Part of why this film impressed me so much was because it had elements of comedy, suspense, and especially, drama. There wasn't a portion of this film that didn't capture me and leave me wanting more. The plot twists in this movie were unexpected and kept the movie exciting, as well as an incredibly superb level of character development that really allowed you to get a sense of who the characters really were. The best scene that exemplifies this is the famous scene when Regina Giddens leaves her husband Horace to die from a heart attack on the staircase of their house by refusing to get him his medicine out of spite for him. This movie is a must see and can be watched again and again. "},{"Title":"The Little Foxes","Date":"12 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I actually liked this film. It wasn't as predictable as I thought it out to be. The plot of the story was a good one. Thinking about the way this movie was put together, makes me believe that this was an example film. Meaning all the other films like this compared themselves to this film to make it better or to make it somewhat the same. The beginning of the movie drags, but towards the middle of the movie everything starts to make sense and starts coming together. The mother and daughter in the film are very powerful characters in this film and i can see why they'd be an example to other filmmakers or perhaps a short-film/TV show. "},{"Title":"Betrayal and Greed in the House of Giddens","Date":"11 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" William Wyler's The Little Foxes is one of the most powerful black-and- white films I have seen. This is mostly due to Gregg Toland's cinematography which makes the enormous house in which most of the action takes place, seem all the more menacing. Shadows are elongated and darkened to make the characters' faces stand out, and smooth pans capture the lavish furniture and decorations in the house's many rooms. Toland makes brilliant use of how the foreground and background can juxtapose one another during the climactic scene in which Bette Davis' character commits a truly awful act against someone close to her. The Little Foxes is a fantastic example of 1940s Hollywood drama that will keep the audience on the edge of its seat. "},{"Title":"a very well made, and very dry, gem of the golden age.","Date":"28 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Little Foxes (1941, William Wyler) is a drama centered around southern nobles at the turn of the last century, who get just as much enjoyment out of playing with other peoples lives as they do making vast sums of money. I personally feel that the directing of the golden age is overrated. I have nothing but respect for there attention to detail and technical mastery, but it typically makes for a dry movie (probably because i'm more inclined to the Tarantino or Scorsese style of filming). Directing without a style feels like cooking without seasoning. It wont ruin the dish, but you can't make a special one without it. This was the first movie i've seen in this class that actually bored me, i actually zoned out for the first time in a long time. The movie wasn't all bad though, Bettie Davis plays a fantastic anti-hero, and the later scenes of drama in the movie do, in part, make up for the slow beginning. There was one thing that threw me off about the movie though, i wasn't sure what the point of the black servants were (if their was any). It seemed like they were simply their to bring a sense of realism to the movie, but it felt as if there was a deeper meaning to their presence and depiction that i didn't pick up on (probably because i was bored out of my mind). On a final note, i don't think i would recommend this movie to anyone. There's better movies from the golden age than this to watch if you're a beginner, and the only reason i'm giving it this high of a score is because it was incredibly well made. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Welcome to Hell. Toll Booth Ahead. Fare Greed.","Date":"25 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Hubbard family feeds on greed. Greed instead of cream in their coffee. Greed instead of dressing on their salad. And be careful of when they kiss you or shake your hands. They could be wearing poisoned lipstick or be carrying a razor blade inside their palm. Horrace Giddens (Herbert Marshall) has discovered this the hard way. He's married to the biggest little fox of them all-Regina (Bette Davis), a selfish, vicious, vain Southern Belle who makes Scarlett O'Hara look like Little Bo Peep. It's 35 years after the end of the civil war, but this family is living as if Dixie was still the land of cotton and you never had to look far to find happy slaves singing in the field or a relative whose back to stab. The siblings of this family hate each other and Horace and the other in-law, the frail Birdie (Patricia Collinge), one of those old dears that a hug for makes her day complete. She's actually crying behind those smiles, shocked by her own admission that she actually doesn't like her husband or her own son.The best theater has always surrounded the family, from Greek tragedy through Shakespeare, Abie's Irish Rose through the more recent August Osage County. Secrets, scandals, lies, divided loyalties, varying degrees of the thin line between love and hate, and sometimes murder. This has not only one of the greatest playwrights of the 20th Century (Lillian Hellman) as its author, it also has one of the greatest directors and an ensemble cast to die for. Davis adds another classic portrayal to her already full gallery, and she still had more than a decade to go as a sustainable leading lady and almost 50 more years in acting period. Herbert Marshall, always dependable, goes beyond that to give a performance that surpasses practically any of Davis's leading men. As a character suffering from a heart condition, you know he'd rather die and be free of these soldiers of Satan. Teresa Wright is excellent as their noble daughter, the only decent blood relative in the family, with Charles Dingle and Carl Benton Reid as Davis's conniving brothers (who somehow seem so much older) and future film noir heavy Dan Duryea perfectly smarmy as the son that Collinge can't stand. What is ironic that the siblings all seem to enjoy their game with each other, whether being beaten or winning. After all, it's all in the game. "},{"Title":"Bette Davis in one of her defining roles","Date":"23 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 'The Little Foxes' (1941) is a drama directed by William Wyler. Set in the deep south during the1900's, the movie's storyline centers on Regina Giddens (Bette Davis) &#x96; a selfish, aging southern belle, who is determined to improve her life. Saddled with a husband in poor health and a spineless daughter, Regina is offered an opportunity to become rich by joining her two brothers in an investment to build a cotton mill in their town. While her brothers are prosperous, Regina's wealth is controlled by her husband and only he can obtain the money from the bank for this investment. With her husband convalescing in Baltimore for a heart condition, Regina compels her only child, Alexandra (Teresa Wright), to visit her father and convince him to return to the South. Even with all their bickering, these siblings are determined to succeed in their business plan, regardless of who they may hurt.Noteworthy of this film is the cinematography by Gregg Toland. Toland uses the camera as if it were another cast member in the scenes. At the dinner party, the camera point-of-view provides the audience with a seat at the table. When Regina's brother Oscar Hubbard (Carl Benton Reid) is in the bathroom shaving with his son, Leo (Dan Duryea), the camera provides a unique viewpoint of father and son facing each other through opposing mirrors. With a run time of 115 minutes, Bette Davis fans will enjoy her characteristic portrayal of a controlling, unsympathetic woman, who is ruthless in her ambition to be wealthy. Davis garnered an Oscar nomination for her lead role in the film. 'The Little Foxes' earned a total of nine academy nominations in 1941. "},{"Title":"Great plot and fluid movement","Date":"20 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Overall I thought this movie was very good and had a very interesting plot. From the beginning i thought the mother, Regina, was a Cruella De Vil kind of character. The entire time you could tell she was up to no good and planning something cruel. I also thought it was very sad how she used her daughter as a tool to get her husband home and how she abused him by demanding he get himself involved in her and her brothers investment plot to make more money when she knew he was very sick and on the verge of dying. It was even more sad when she told him that she couldn't wait for him to die and even sadder when he had his final episode and lost his life. She saw him struggle to get upstairs to his medicine and just sat there and let him struggle but the strange thing was after he finally collapsed on the stairwell I couldn't tell if she really was upset or if she were just faking it. I honestly Don;t believe she really did care after the way she'd been acting throughout the entire movie. The part I found most funny was when she was talking about David courting Alexandra and when she confronted him about it he said but if and when I do I shouldn't care whether you like it or not. That to me was hilarious because it showed how upset she got when things didn't go her way. That's also what made the ending so great because in the end she got what she wanted but still ended up alone but I was glad to see that because her daughter finally put her foot down and stopped doing what she wanted. Overall this was a good movie to watch and on top of that the camera movement was very fluid and smooth. There were also many angles too that really put the audience right in the scene it felt like and it seemed that a lot of the camera angles were focused on the stairwell; pointing up and down and zooming in on faces during dramatic conversations. Overall this was a great movie and I'd recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"14 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" William Wyler's excellent film version of Lillian Hellman's play stars Bette Davis as Regina, a southern belle way past her prime who'll do pretty much anything to stay wealthy. This includes blackmail & murder. Though the shenanigans that take place are indeed melodramatic, this is no soap opera. It's closer to Greek tragedy, with one unpleasant character after another making their selfish motives clear. The supporting cast, including Dan Duryea, Herbert Marshall and Teresa Wright is very memorable. Wright, in her star making role, is a standout as Davis's deceptively silly daughter. Wyler's direction is first rate & there's a real feel for a decaying deep American south. Gregg Toland provided the cinematography, the same year he revolutionized the art form with CITIZEN KANE. Davis gives a masterful performance as a cold as ice faded beauty who finds out she's lost a lot more after she thinks she's won it all. Richard Carlson and Patricia Collinge (excellent as flighty Aunt Birdie) are in it too. "},{"Title":"Stellar All Round","Date":"2 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Little Foxes is a tour de force of superb acting. Bette Davis, Teresa Wright and Charles Dingle amongst others use their talents to draw us into a captivating story of greed and deceit which despite its setting in the turn of the last century the foundations of the story is still relevant today.All the main characters consist of the Giddens clan who have a reputation for being successful in big business at the expense of others in weaker positions. In this particular case Regina, played sublimely by Davis who uses her daughter as folly to lure back her disabled husband in an attempt to gain his money for a business proposal. Whilst this plot point is the core of the narrative The Little Foxes is very diverse and dynamic changing its tone from drama to comic relief. Both these elements are acted to great precision which is one factor to the stellar feel of The Little Foxes. From the ice coldness in Davis's delivery of I'll be waiting for you to die striking a dramatic chord to the light hearted childishness of Teresa Wright's jealously for a love rival, it's easy to see why The Little Foxes has great strength in its characterisation and storytelling.Applause also has to be given to the micro elements of The Little Foxes. The mise en scene of every scene puts us easily with the time period of the narrative and the choices of framing the camera seem to have been well planned for excellent dramatic effects when particular scenes called for it. The attention given to detail makes The Little Foxes a pleasing experience for those who have a keen eye for technical sophistication. If you appreciate films for this reason along for their stylish elegance and graceful acting then The Little Foxes has to be a must see. "},{"Title":"If you like great movies, then this movie is for you.","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you like great movies, then this movie is for you. This movie successfully combines all the facets of movie-making, direction, cast, plot, cinematography, sets, and costumes, to produce one of the great movies. Bette Davis is superb as a ruthless woman who will stop at nothing to get what she wants. The other cast members are outstanding too, especially Herbert Marshall who plays Ms. Davis' husband. Although Ms. Davis got top billing, Mr. Marshall is really the star. But the strongest feature of the movie is the story itself, which is based on the play of the name by Lillian Hellman. This movie succeeds in capturing and portraying the nest of deceit that is the Hubbard family. This movie offers an excellent portrayals of the dysfunctional family driven by sibling rivalry of the most craven variety. The movie contains great drama as the dynamics of the inter-family relationships are revealed. It's a wonderful movie and one which is worth watching. "},{"Title":"I'll die my own way and I'll do it without making the world worse.","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A conniving woman (Bette Davis) and her loathsome brothers try to force her estranged dying husband (Herbert Marshall) into a business scheme that will exploit the poor people of their town. A tale of greed and corruption in the Deep South at the turn of the last century. Lillian Hellman adapted her own stage play. Well directed by William Wyler. Bette naturally owns the movie. Also fine performances from Herbert Marshall and Teresa Wright. Nice support, particularly from Charles Dingle and Patricia Collinge. Not a lot of likable characters in this one. It's a powerful drama, well crafted for sure, but you'll probably need antidepressants after. "},{"Title":"Why isn't this one of my favorites?","Date":"27 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" By all my usual standards, this film ought to be sitting on my DVD shelf. It has who I feel is the finest American actress of all time -- Bette Davis. It has an actor whom I have always had deep admiration for -- Herbert Marshall. It has another actress I admire, in her debut film for which she earned an Oscar nomination -- Teresa Wright. It has an unusually good performance by Dan Duryea, perhaps so good because it was beyond his norm. And there's a fine performance by actress Patricia Collinge, also her film debut, and also a Best Supporting Actress Oscar nomination...another stunning actress. Not to mention a number of other fine supporting performances, a story by the wonderful Lillian Hellman (another Oscar nominee here), and direction by the esteemed William Wyler.But this film is not on my DVD shelf, and while watching it this time around on TCM I was wondering why. I think what it comes down to in this film is that -- particularly in the early stages of the movie -- it talks you to death. Yack, yack, yack, yack, yack. I'm not saying it's not good acting; it's very fine acting. But acting feels claustrophobic when it's constantly yacking in a parlor. Another thing that bothers me -- I never noticed Bette Davis having huge bazooms before. I'm not joking. She doesn't even walk right in this film.So there you have it. A fine movie, but something short of a great movie. "},{"Title":"so-so","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie would not be my first choice if I was to pick a movie to watch on a Friday night. I think for what it was about, content wise, the movie was pretty interesting. It started getting old though, and movies that just shine light on how greedy people can be gets disappointing after a while. I think the camera work was ordinary, nothing too special happening. I think the actors and actresses did a good job though, and credit should be given to the leading actress for being so cold and evil. I think this movie has a very important deep message that it was trying to convey, which in the end love triumphs all. This movie pertained to social-cultural issues of that time, but those issues still apply to today. "},{"Title":"Hmm...","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I liked this movie and I didn't at the same time. Is that even possible?? Well, here goes. I loved the overall plot of the movie, it is very wicked! That is intriguing to an audience...a plot that makes you raise a brow. I liked the character that was played by Davis. Davis lights an extremely stern kind of evil spirit into her character. The costume and lighting came to aid in this evil persona. The music also caused a dramatization for the overall movie. The hairstyles really portrayed the personalities of the characters quite well. Regina's(Davis)hair was never out of line. It was always kept tight and put together. Not a single strand was out of place. The styles were very rigid, like her character. Facial expressions were key in this film. Davis' expressions were nothing but chilling and cold. This I believe was exactly what the film needed. The downside was, in my opinion, the movie was a bit too drawn out for my liking. However, this is just my opinion. The overall production of the film was great though. "}{"Title":"Shrewd and complex","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this two years ago. Having generally positive thoughts about it, I bought the DVD last year. Only after I watched it several more times did I really come to respect this movie. It's about a greedy family full of antagonists, who haven't quite lost all their humanity yet, but who are setting the stage for American business excesses that will follow (which we now struggle with). When does American capitalism become a force for destruction? It is squarely in the Tennessee Williams / Eugene O'Neill* tradition of dysfunctional Southern family dramas from the 40s and 50s. But it's so much better. For once, the story has implications outside the scale of the characters lives. The histrionics are only part of the reason to watch. I throw this movie on when I want to watch something but can't put my finger on what type of movie I'm in the mood for. And that alone is a testimony to how varied it is. It's definitely a drama, but it's also funny in parts, and nasty. I always appreciate when those making a drama don't cheat the audience by only showing dramatic moments. Life is far more varied and richer than that. This movie is richer for it.It's the movie that convinced me that Bette Davis had talent, and that William Wyler was unusually thoughtful behind the camera. You may need to remind yourself as you watch, that this is about the South, as only Ray Collins attempts an accent. Patricia Collinge assays a pathetic remnant of a woman, past her prime and tending to blather on just as men would have indulged in her youthful beauty. Birdie isn't convincingly inserted into things, but the movie would be lesser without her. Teresa Wright is 2-dimensional and whiny as Bette Davis daughter. Herbert Marshall is here doing his thing with a vague continental accent; he's never inept but he never really astonishes either. (* Mourning Becomes Electra with Rosalind Russell was made later and is quite good; despite having much shabbier production values and very naive ideas what's passable on film.) "},{"Title":"I thought you'd get the world for me--Regina Giddens","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Apparently, according to playwright\screenwriter Lillian Hellman, hell hath no fury like a woman disappointed. Whereas dirt-poor aristocrat Birdie Hubbard (Oscar-nominated Patricia Collinge) turns to alcohol when scorned by the husband who married her for her pedigree and cotton fields, Birdie's sister-in-law Regina Giddens (Oscar-nominated Bette Davis) lashes out to the point of manslaughter against the husband who failed to deliver the world to her. For movie-watchers with a preference for seeing the evil and greedy getting their just desserts on this earth, THE LITTLE FOXES may disappoint. On the other hand, those with the patience for nuanced family conflict spread out over two hours on a screen essentially as claustrophobic as a stage set (most of the scenes outside of Regina's home are fairly inconsequential), FOXES may supply an evening of sly entertainment, including an Oscar-nominated score by THE MUSIC MAN himself, Meredith Willson.P.S.--Since 1940's THE GREAT DICTATOR is the only other available theater movie Willson scored (besides THE LITTLE FOXES and 1962's film version of THE MUSIC MAN), keep one ear on the music (you wouldn't want to lament I never heard it at all). "},{"Title":"There's nothing little about it!  Stong performances and production values abound.","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Debates have raged on for years about whether Tallulah Bankhead on Broadway or Davis in this film gave the better interpretation of the character of Regina Giddons while playwright Lillian Hellman didn't approve of either one! Davis has the advantage of her performance being captured on film, thus being seen by countless many more viewers than Ms. Bankhead's. Though she gives a memorable and vivid performance, it isn't likely the most appropriate inhabitation of the character. She plays a determined and manipulative southern belle who is trapped in a world of decay and duplicity and who longs to get out, at virtually any cost. Her greedy brothers, Dingle and Reid, have hatched a plot to build a cotton mill near their fields, thus allowing them to get more out of their product than just the selling of the cotton, but at the expense of the poorly paid laborers who will work in the place. They require the capital that Davis' absentee husband can provide and rely on her to bring in the money. However, things take a sharp turn when the sickly husband (Marshall) returns home and decides he doesn't want to invest in the project. The family members manipulate each other and back-stab all they can in order to seal the deal and get the mill underway. Reid's numb-skull son Duryea becomes a key participant in this development. However, Davis has no intention of being left out of the equation, even if it means forsaking members of her immediate family. During all this, Davis' daughter Wright begins to see the world around her as one of hurt and mean-spiritedness with the aid of Reid's fragile wife Collinge and the ever-observant maid Grayson. Carlson (in a role that didn't exist in the original play) adds delicate humor and romance to the film as Wright's suitor. Davis gives a highly stylized, some might say mannered, performance. Fans of hers will likely enjoy her steely, assured portrayal. However, she missed a chance to play a far more complicated and multifaceted character when she fought with director Wyler over the interpretation. This also led to the disintegration of their compelling partnership in screen storytelling. Marshall is well cast as her beaten down spouse who holds on to his one last drop of power. Wright makes an impressive debut here and would go on to several other strong roles in the 40's. Dingle and Reid, repeating their roles from Broadway, are excellent in their alternately seamy and threatening roles with Dingle laying on a smooth coat of sickening charm to his part while Reid is darker and more subdued. Broadway original Duryea is remarkable as the clueless lug who is used for the others' ends. He and Carlson have a memorable confrontation consisting of some unusual little slaps across the face. One real treat is the solid, endearing work of Collinge (also repeating her Broadway role) who is consistently stifled by her husband and retreats to a world long gone. Opened up for the cinema by Hellman herself, this is an interesting, though not entirely faithful, presentation of one of her most famous works. It offers some terrific black and white photography and some imaginative staging under the sure hand of Wyler. The role of Regina remains a highly coveted one with actresses as diverse as Elizabeth Taylor, Elizabeth Ashley and Stockard Channing taking it on in various revivals over the years. "},{"Title":"Another brilliant Wyler-Davis collaboration","Date":"9 June 2009","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Bette Davis is Regina Giddens, one of The Little Foxes in this adaptation of Lillian Hellman's play directed by William Wyler. The film also stars Herbert Marshall, Teresa Wright, Patricia Collinge, Dan Duryea, and Richard Carlson. The story of a greedy southern family at the turn of the century starred Tallulah Bankhead on Broadway and won the actress great acclaim. I saw Elizabeth Taylor do the role on Broadway surrounded by an excellent cast including Maureen Stapleton as Birdie, Robert Lansing and Anthony Zerbe as her brothers, and the great Tom Aldredge as Horace. Elizabeth Taylor was no Bette Davis, though she wasn't terrible.Wyler gets another wonderful performance out of Davis as the crafty Regina, who uses her husband's heart problems as an opportunity to maneuver a deal he wouldn't approve of involving her brothers and a gentleman from Chicago. Regina's family capitalizes on cheap labor and exploitation in order to accumulate wealth. The banker Horace, his and Regina's daughter Zan and Regina's sister-in-law, the alcoholic Birdie, are the vines in The Little Foxes who, each in his own way, go up against the little foxes that spoil the vines for our vines have tender grapes ... from The Song of Solomon in the Bible.The most powerful and famous scene occurs when Horace has an attack and asks Regina for his medicine. It is here, as in the lawyer-client confrontation scene in The Letter, where you can see every one of Davis' thoughts as she sits there, her eyes narrowed and her mouth stubbornly set. The other scene - I hope you die. I hope you die real soon. I'll be waiting' for you to die. - doesn't have the impact that it has in the play, when it's staged so that Regina has to yell these lines at Horace.When I was in acting class, our teacher did not allow scenes from this play to be performed. He thought the character construction was awful - pure evil, with no redeeming qualities and no subtlety. It's true - Regina and her brothers haven't got one thing to recommend them. And strangely, they probably are more understandable in today's society than they were in 1941. Today, there are lots of little foxes running around.The Little Foxes was made into the opera Regina and the play is still done quite a bit in regional theaters. The beautifully directed, acted, and photographed film is a magnificent adaptation and a great example of Bette Davis in her prime, working with her best director. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Case study of Republicans?","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The film is rather timeless, you could almost set this film in anytime as greed is (unfortunately) ageless. Just think of what got us to our current economic crisis in the US.For the Hubbards, greed is stronger than family ties or anything else for that matter. They steal from everyone (including each other) and take advantage of the working poor and the disadvantaged minorities. They think only of themselves. They form companies with other rich men and display the graft and corruption in securing water rights and keeping workers salaries low.Bette Davis is superb (of course) and her character Regina Giddons (nee Hubbard) is fascinating in its repulsiveness and sheer selfishness. For those who believe the clichéd stereotypes that woman are naturally loving, nurturing, & selfless -- here's a good example otherwise. Her contempt for those who are soft, her refusal to aid her husband (unless there was something in it for her) is possibly even more chilling than if she had made a direct attempt to end his life.It was refreshing to see (esp. in an old film) a young woman Zan being encouraged by the men who love her to think for herself and to question authority. She's being taught to think about the greater good, to break her family's mold and to care about others.Definitely worth seeing for the dialogue and the case studies of human character. "},{"Title":"Captain Bligh with Windmill Gestures, GaG","Date":"28 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Bette needed the ghost white makeup to further insure we comprehend her icy cold character? Giveth thy viewer a primal break!! She constantly twirled both arms in a windmill fashion to show evil hummingbird motion? I was very confused as to why she played this character so over the top. In preparation for Whatever Happened to Baby Jane? I could at least appreciate the Toland Touch, the swampy location shots in LA as well as the sumptuous sets. The saccharine Zan and David were not anywhere near enough to offset the tortuous scene after scene of scheming death, destruction and desolation.This was extremely difficult to watch as it became a horror film and was just waiting for the zigzag lightning streaks to suddenly appear on her hair. Yikes!Can only recommend for Toland's work and sets. Bette be damned for this! "},{"Title":"Original","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Little Foxes was definitely a movie hard to forget with the great but cringing acting of Bette Davis known in the movie as Regina Giddens. I must admit the storyline was very thought out and well done but also could be a little dragged and boring at times. Regina was definitely portrayed as a bad person in the movie, she only wanted to do things for herself and have what every person thinks will make their life, money. Her selfish attitude only left her with nothing, nothing but herself. It was crazy to think the things she would do and go through with to get what she wanted, she had a loving daughter that cared for her until she was evil and selfish. I thought it was very clever at how the mothers face went into complete darkness at the end, it explains to you that she is now alone because of her actions and thats what she deserves. Overall I personally thought this particular movie was OK, the acting by Davis definitely made it in a good but bad way. "},{"Title":"Didn't enjoy this movie","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The only thing that I really liked about this film was Bette Davis. Her acting was amazing which is not really surprising. She was very good at playing an evil woman. Other than that though I just did not like this movie. The majority of the time I was very bored. In part I think the bored came from the confusion because I had absolutely no idea what was going on. The entire plot of the film was just overly complicated. There was way too much going on between all the characters, and none of them were even likable. I felt no connection to any of the characters. I didn't want to root for any of them and I did not feel bad for any of them. I'm not sure if the acting was to blame or if the writing was to blame but either way I still didn't like it. "},{"Title":"Bette Davis is Magnificent","Date":"30 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was sort of expecting a period piece. The film's IMDb poster certainly makes it look like one. But what we have here is a film about power struggles between power-hungry people, and it's definitely not a film that would be a great example of the shining spots of human beings. The entire cast does some great work, but it's Davis who shines the brightest. By this point she's already established herself as a force to be reckoned with, but by this point I think she's surprised many to the depths she was willing to go, seeing as how this is probably one of her absolutely most despicable characters, if not the most (well, discounting Baby Jane of course). She's amazing here and it's definitely an all-time great performance. "},{"Title":"Based on a play, feels like a play","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on a play, feels like a play. Slow-moving, overly melodramatic, overly scheme-filled, overwrought. Not entirely dull, but it is very difficult to stay focused it moves so slowly. The excessive malevolence and greed on display is also very off-putting.On the plus side, it is a mildly interesting morality tale. It is just that the immorality/amorality is so overdone that the movie doesn't feel balanced. There are glimpses of goodness, but these are often extinguished quickly, and/or are always fighting a losing battle.Bette Davis is evil personified as Regina Giddens. While her character is incredibly unsavoury, Davis' performance is spot-on. Good support from Herbert Marshall and Teresa Wright. "}{"Title":"Pay your respects","Date":"3 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" By the dawn of the 1940s the talking picture had grown up, as it were, and lengthy dramas with their origins in literature or the stage became viable for the medium. The Little Foxes, an adaptation of a Lillian Helmann play that was probably made more to cash in on the post-Gone with the Wind conniving-southern-woman fad than on its own merits, is nevertheless quite an achievement a two hour movie with almost continual dialogue and very little action besides.Thankfully The Little Foxes has William Wyler as its director, a man who was very skilled at making stories function cinematically. Here we can see how he regulates the pacing of each scene with a careful management of actors. In the opening scenes, you can see he has encouraged very agitated performances from everyone, people walking as the talk and generally moving like they've got ants in their pants. Not only that, but people in the background keep the whole screen animated. About ten minutes in there is a formal dinner scene, which ought to be fairly subdued, but as people talk there are servants going back and forth around the table in almost every shot. Later the performances and the camera start to slow down, the movie becoming visually simplified as the drama intensifies, culminating in sequences of long takes and stark close-ups.Leading lady Bette Davis was a perfect actress for Wyler's style. Wyler might often have the camera to a character's back or show them only in silhouette, but such is Davis's dominating presence that she simply oozes character whichever way we see her. An equally absorbing turn comes from Patricia Collinge, playing a timid, flighty woman whose whole performance seems a build up to her hysterical crescendo two-thirds of the way through, after which she seems to fade forlornly from the narrative. Dan Duryea's odd face and nasal voice makes him seem like some creepy criminal (which he was almost invariably cast as after this, his film debut), but he proves here he can turn himself to playing the dim-witted son without slipping into stereotype. Theresa Wright starts off as what is almost a caricature of girlish innocence, but she matures the part brilliantly and it is she more than Davis that gives the final scene its potency. Finally Herbert Marshall gives an excellent performance which conveys so much feeling and temperament even though he really does very little, putting everything into tiny, tired gestures.But despite the intensity of its acting and confidence of its direction, The Little Foxes has a problem and that is simply one of dullness. The story may be compellingly told but it is still overlong and wordy, making the dealings hard to follow and even the more sympathetic characters hard to care about. The acting and direction are enough to give several key scenes a powerful dramatic weight, but as a whole it is rather a hollow thing. A motion picture can certainly be perfectly made in every way, but that does not necessarily make it a perfect motion picture. "},{"Title":"Marvelous moments of 'angry comedy', though it fails to pack the dramatic wallop Wyler was obviously aiming for...","Date":"14 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lillian Hellman adapted her 1939 play (with some assist from Arthur Kober, Dorothy Parker, and Alan Campbell) about an unsympathetic and mercenary Southern aristocrat in post-Civil War days who must rely on her husband for financial support (which she detests). Taking advantage of her spouse's sickly condition, she conspires behind his back with her two brothers to invest $75,000 of his money in the construction of a cotton mill, but her husband--physically weak yet sharp of mind--is onto her. These little foxes, who spoil the grape vines, are an amusingly contemptible lot, though Bette Davis' Oscar-nominated lead performance was said not to be a shadow of Tallulah Bankhead's work on Broadway (in which Bankhead portrayed Regina as a victim of circumstance rather than as a ruthless matriarch). Still, in many ways, this could be the archetypal Davis performance clipped, curt, dry, and fierce; her eyes seethe with anticipation. On the set, Davis and director William Wyler were at loggerheads over everything from her 'death mask' makeup to the art direction, and indeed the mansion in which these money-grubbing people reside is a tad opulent. However, Wyler has made this wholly-theatrical material cinematic in surprising ways, and the Hubbard household becomes a memorably suffocating cocoon. Supporting work from Herbert Marshall and Teresa Wright is top-notch, though Wyler allows some of his other actors to get carried away, and the third act has too many peaks and valleys for the final summation to hold the great power expected. The movie-adaptation of Hellman's 1946 prequel, Another Part of the Forest, was made in 1948. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Patricia Collinge","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While I agree with everyone who thinks this is a great movie, I've noticed almost no comment on Patricia Collinge's performance. To me, she is the highlight of this picture. The scene where she reminisces about her meeting Oscar Hubbard for the first time breaks my heart. She is such a sad character. Stuck in a loveless marriage, and the mother of a son she doesn't like. Birdie Hubbard; one of my all time favorite movie characters.And I've wondered about the character of Ben Hubbard. By any chance is he gay? It seems to me that it was very unusual for a man to be single in his 40's or 50's in that era. "},{"Title":"Take us the foxes, the little foxes, that spoil the vines for our vines have tender grapes. Song of Solomon","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" William Wyler was the right choice to direct this film. Mr. Wyler was one of the most distinguished directors of the times. He clearly demonstrates he was at the top of the profession when one watches this satisfying drama unfolds on the screen. Mr.Wyler was greatly helped by the amazing cinematography by Gregg Toland. Working basically on a one set, the movie doesn't feel claustrophobic.The Little Foxes was based on a Lillian Hellman's play that was popular on the Broadway stage. The film version was cleverly adapted to the screen where the magnificent production is seen in glorious detail thanks to the director and the cast that was assembled.Bette Davis was born to play Regina Giddens. At the time this film was made, she was, perhaps, one of the best actress working in these melodramas so popular in Hollywood. Ms. Davis makes this sly fox of a woman seem repulsive with small gestures that conveyed all that was going through her head at the time. Greed is at the root of what was wrong with Regina. She would do anything in order to get as much money as she could, then get away from her Southern charmed life for a more exciting life in Chicago. Herbert Marshall, the distinguished actor, portrays Horace, the sick man that Regina and her brothers are manipulating into the business they all want to get their hands in. Horace realizes how he is being swindled by his brothers in law and his nephew, who has stolen his bonds from the safety box at the bank.The most chilling scene in the American cinema involves Regina and Horace. Horace, who has to take strong medicine, is seen telling his wife how he has found about the bonds disappearance, when he becomes sick. He knocks the medicine bottle and asks Regina to go for the other one upstairs. Regina remains bolted to her seat. Horace, walking slowly begins to go up, when he collapses. Then, and only then, when Regina realizes Horace will not die soon, does she scream for help.Teresa Wright brought a youthful presence to the film. Her Alexandra is the epitome of kindness. She is a sheltered girl of privilege, but she awakens because she realizes what a monster her own mother is. Richard Carlson plays David, the man that loves Alexandra. Patricia Collinge is seen as the sweet Birdie. Charles Dinger and Carl Benton Reid give fine performances as the greedy brothers in law. Dan Duryea is the idiotic Leo. This film shows Hollywood at its best. William Wyler is owed a tremendous debt for making this film work the way it did and for guiding Bette Davis in one of her finest film appearances ever. "},{"Title":"Luckily, Lillian Hellman's Leninism...","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Luckily, Lillian Hellman's Leninism did not derail the dark, dark comedy of this tale in which evil always triumphs over good.  The liberals are ineffectual; the radicals irrelevant; the sentimental semi-Christianity touched on here and there never intrudes on the action.  It is easy to miss the fact that the Yankee industrialist, who comes across in an oddly sympathetic light, is merely stating openly what everybody else assumes the only motive for anything is greed.  Bette Davis of course is superb; and, as the worst of her family she is destined to be the most successful.I give points because the schematic Marxist alternative is given short shrift; I subtract points because the Hollywood sentimental alternative is substituted. "},{"Title":"Little entertainment","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film goes on for nearly two hours. Thankfully, I didn't suffer that long and had it out of the DVD player after 30 minutes. It was still 30 minutes of complete disinterest, though. By all means, watch it if you need a Bette Davis fix. Dan Duryea pops up in a rather drippy kind of role while Teresa Wright is so saccharine that it makes you want to vomit. And the amount of black people polishing, cleaning and shining things is hilarious. So, after 30 minutes of this trash I fast forwarded to the end to see if there was light at the end of the tunnel. From what I could see, there isn't. Someone gets sick. Oh my! The drama! This film has left the building. "},{"Title":"A Bit of Southern Discomfort......","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    Now..now.. don't get me wrong.  By discomfort, I could only mean that I was greatly disappointed that this movie ended so abruptly.  I was just getting comfortable with this well written little masterpiece when it ended.  Indeed,  I was just about to ring for a Mint Julep or something else completely indigenous of the South when the credits started to roll. Bette Davis gave an incredible performance as Regina Giddens.  She was superbly fiendish and at her best.  There was a remarkably well put together cast that played wonderfully off of each other and the writing was delicious.  This movie was immensely entertaining and as stated previously, I only wish I could have seen more.  This was truly an enchanting piece of work.  By all means, put it on your list of things to do. "},{"Title":"A very fine film which survives one marginal performance","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would make the rating a 9 if it were not for Herbert Marshall's stilted style.  He was o.k. as A Man Called X, not much at anything else. Wyler's direction forces the good/bad contrast a bit much when compared to the original play script but it works for the movie.   "},{"Title":"Scheming Southerners","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This fascinating film is about a trio of money hungry, manipulating siblings and the lengths to which they are prepared to go in order to achieve what they want. William Wyler shows a strong hand for directing the material. He creates a lot of intensity through the use of long, unbroken shots, such as when Ben and Oscar are talking to each other about the bonds, with Leo standing in between them. The framing reflects how uncomfortable Leo feels to be right in the middle, literally too, of their discussion.Another excellently framed unbroken shot has Regina at a rainy window in the background, with her ailing husband, seen head only and from a low camera angle, in the foreground, with his sickness contrasted against the whether outside, and the close-up on his face showing his lack of comfort. Also, there's the part where Horace mentions the little foxes, which has Addie, Xan and Horace all in the one frame, all completely visible, but at different distances to each other. Plus there's the camera angles used with the staircase in the house, and how Davis is seen from sharp angles looking down at her brothers. The visuals in this film are magnificent.Bette Davis plays Regina, a cold, insensitive woman who is only in it for herself. She does think that she cares for her daughter, but in reality, everything that she provides for her is only what she herself wanted as a girl. Teresa Wright, playing her daughter, gives the film's most powerful performance, playing a character stuck between childhood and adulthood, who does not really fit in either way. The coldness that Davis gives her character is admirable, but since she does not show any warmth or human side it becomes a bit of a two dimensional performance, not nearly as impressive as the acting by Wright or Herbert Marshall as her estranged husband.The lack of humanity in the greedy siblings is a bit problematic (they seem almost unrealistic) as is the fact that Wright's passage through life is more fascinating than the siblings' business deals since she is playing a more likable character than any of them - but overall, it is quite compelling stuff. Some bits ring false, such as slapping Leo's face, and the music is too maudlin to be effective, but in general there is a lot to admire here and a lot to make it good viewing, with a special mention to the amount of detail put into the set decoration. "},{"Title":"Southern discomfort","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There is much to enjoy in this film. Most of the actors do a fine job, the story is certainly dramatic, and the direction is wonderful. William Wyler and Gregg Toland, director and cameraman, work very well together. One scene seems to be in all the film texts it's the one with Dan Duryea and Carl Benton Reid shaving as they discuss how to steal Herbert Marshall's money. The deep focus composition allows the director to eliminate cutting back and forth between the men; this encourages the viewer to form his own opinions of the characters. Andre Bazin hailed this film as a breakthrough in the attempt to transfer a play into film.A wonderful cinematic achievement, therefore, but not much fun to watch when we have morose Patricia Collinge and stricken (morally as well as cardiac-aly) Herbert Marshall emitting clouds of left-wing gas, regarding how treacherous their relatives are. I actually heard Richard Carlson say, to the lovely Teresa Wright, that the white folks may have all the money, but the black folks sure have the fine voices. I almost choked on the sandwich I was eating. This script has too much opining and whining, not enough really tough observation.The best saved for last Bette Davis cuts through all of Lillian Hellman's sentimental hokum with a beautifully vicious performance as Regina, with a great supporting turn from Charles Dingle as Ben, the one man who enjoys finagling others out of their money. "}{"Title":"A Real Betty Davis Film","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My grandparents enjoyed this film when it first appeared on the screen and never stopped raving about the great performance that Betty Davis portrayed as Regina Giddens. Regina Giddens was married to Horace Giddens, (Herbert Marshall) who loved Regina very much but when he was dying, Regina could not wait until he breathed his last breath and she told him so on his death bed. Teresa Wright,(Alexandra Giddens) gave a great supporting role as the sweet easy going girl along with Dan Duryea, (Leo Hubbard) who portrayed a crafty greedy guy. This is truly a great Classic Masterpiece produced and directed by great talent and also a well written story. If you really like Betty Davis, don't miss this picture, you will grow to hate her in this picture I guarantee. "},{"Title":"Bette is Outfoxed at the End in Memorable Film****","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Bette Davis as still another southern belle in the memorable The Little Foxes.Bette was at her brutal best as scheming, vicious Regina Gittens who wants status and wealth at any cost.Herbert Marshall portrays her banker husband. As Regina so adequately stated in the film, Go know that you would develop heart trouble so early. She loathed him as he could never elevate himself to her standards. She represents moral decay as a ruthless vixen among her nasty brothers.While Marshall recuperates away, Bette schemes with her brothers. When he returns, she argues with him and when he suffers a major heart attack, she does nothing to aid him. Who can ever forget him gasping for air and pleading with her to get his pills? Unforgettable and unforgivable that she sat there with her lip drooping and a mean expression depicted like Madame De Farge at an execution, as Marshall's life slipped away.Bette was nominated for an Academy award along with Patricia Collinge, memorable as the unhappy alcoholic Aunt Birdie as well as Teresa Wright, who as Alexandra Gittens, was the antithesis of Regina in every respect.With her husband dead and the ability to checkmate her brothers, Regina seems to have it all only to lose it when Alexandra, suspicious of her father's death, tells her off and runs away with her beau portrayed by a young Richard Carlson.Note how Bette's beauty fades as the picture ends. It is the realization of loneliness and a grim way of life ahead. We saw a similar happening at the end of Olivia De Havilland's The Heiress. "},{"Title":"My favorite character is Leo","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!The best thing about this film is when Charles Dingle tells Bette Davis Such a greedy girl! One thing that could be done to really improve this film In the final scene, when Bette Davis is looking out the window at her daughter's fleeing with her boyfriend, they should insert a voice-over of a line Bette delivered earlier in the movie while explaining her marrying Herbert Marshall. Lonely....... for all the things I wasn't going to have. Of course, a slight echo should be used. Also, the character Birdie should not comment that she doesn't like her son Leo. She is a lovable character, and should not be portrayed in a negative light. Instead, she should say something like I know other people don't like Leo, but I do! I guess you have to indulge me because he's my son then the servant who pushes the wheelchair standing behind her at the time, should pipe in with The problem with Mr. Leo is, He wants so many things but he don't know how to get themAlso, you should not show Richard Carlson's character slapping Leo around. It makes him look small. Instead, they should roll around on the ground wrestling and then both quit and get up when they realize the fight is fruitless. At this point, Richard should apologize slightly but still bring Leo to task about Teresa Wright. You must understand that men will find Leo likable; he was weak and dishonest, but not malicious. Insert these changes the next time you see the movie and you will see the vast improvement over Ms. Hellman's badly botched effort. And no reruns on the scene in which Leo gets slapped.  "},{"Title":"Subtle attack on capitalism by a life-long Soviet supporter","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There is no question this is a superbly made movie. (I really enjoyed Charles Dingle's sly performance.) But I cannot leave unanswered the many understated attacks on the capitalist system made by the author of both the play and screenplay, Lillian Hellman.One example There must be better ways of getting rich than building sweatshops and pounding the bones of the town to make dividends for you to spend. You'll wreck the town, you and your brothers. You'll wreck the country, you and your kind, if they let you.This is how Hellman, and all good Marxists, view capitalism. To them capitalism is a system of exploitation and despoliation (not a system of freedom and prosperity) which is eventually doomed to fail. So she depicts this family of despicable people (plus a few good ones for dramatic contrast) and implies that these repulsive characters represent the dismal future awaiting this country if they and their kind are not stopped. (How? By armed revolt maybe?)Hellman was famous for her life-long pro-Soviet loyalty. Some say that her sympathies were merely anti-fascist. Well, Stalin was anti-fascist as well, and while many Hollywood leftists turned against the Soviet Union after Stalin's show trials in the late 30's, Hellman never had anything bad to say about the Soviets.Much has been made about black-listing and witch-hunting. It is true that the major studios had a long list of people to be boycotted, and why shouldn't they? Many of the studio heads were immigrants who came from poverty to rise to high status in a system that the communists and their sympathizers wanted to pull down. As for witch-hunts, the critical point is that there is no such thing as witches, while there were indeed communists in Hollywood (and Broadway, and the State Department, and the Army, and the Manhattan Project) whose hope was for eventual totalitarian rule of America.Some people commented that they detect no leftist leanings in this film. Perhaps that is because that has been the main intellectual trend in the U.S. since the 30's (at least until lately), so they cannot see the trees for the forest. As for the person who claims that this is not Communism but Christianity, you are absolutely right. Both are united in the view that your moral duty is sacrifice to others; they just differ on details.As well-done as this movie is, I simply cannot watch it and ignore the part, however small, it plays in the struggle between capitalism and communism. (If any of you are not clear about exactly what I mean by capitalism, read Ayn Rand's Capitalism, the Unknown Ideal.) "},{"Title":"Like Being Hit in the Head with a Boring Hammer","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Little Foxes is a classic ... and it bored me silly. I can't imagine recommending it to anyone. I know it has its fans, and I don't understand them.Watching it was like being hit in the head with a boring hammer, alternating with an irritating hammer, over and over, thud, thud thud.Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's supposed to be a well-crafted expose of greed and evil.Look -- I've been to family reunions on Thanksgiving Day that intimidated me more than the crowd in this movie. And any production involving Donald Trump will teach you more about greed.If you are going to make a film in which virtually every character is unlikeable and evil (except Teresa Wright, whom I normally adore, but who is sachharine here and all too obvious as a plot foil and decency relief), then at least make them interestingly evil.Yeah, I know -- there is the famous scene where Bette Davis as Regina does something naughty regarding her husband, Horace, played by the long-suffering Herbert Marshall (who was also her husband in the much more interesting The Letter.) But, you know, that famous scene has been replayed in so many retrospectives, documentaries, and Davis salutes -- I think I've seen it a few times without ever seeing this whole movie -- that it has lost its punch.And Bette Davis had been to the I'm an evil woman well too many times at this point, and Herbert Marshall had played long-suffering husband to so many divas he could have phoned in his long suffering-ness.So, even in that Mount-Rushmore-famous scene, there is nothing that surprises or piques one's interest. You just sit through it, as you have sat through many another stately performance, like the recitation of the pledge of allegiance or a stewardess telling you where your life jacket is.Script writer Lillian Hellman is always so affected; how can anyone stand her work? I don't hear a single character in The Little Foxes or Watch on the Rhine or even in Julia or anything written by or associated with Lillian Hellman. I just hear, in every alleged character's every affected utterance I'm Lillian Hellman! Aren't I clever? Aren't I oh so Politically Correct? Am I not superior to you in every way? Dash, fix me a drink. Some reviewers have related this movie to Hellman's leftist pretensions, the Red Scare, and the Hollywood Blacklist. All I can say is, even Stalinist propaganda was more interesting than this film.Yeah, yeah, yeah, evil should be depicted on screen -- but only if you can make it interesting. This film is entirely too one-note. Since I didn't like or care about a single character, since the affected dialogue never let me forget I was watching a Lillian Hellman screenplay, I didn't care about anything on screen. "},{"Title":"Interminable","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I remembered this as an excellent movie with a brilliant performance by Bette Davis.To my surprise, on watching it a second time, ten years after the first, it seemed turgid, stagy, and even more predictable than the play. As to Ms. Davis, whom I of course love as much as the next guy, this seems like one of her worst performances. It is as much a self-parody as The Anniversary, several decades later, is.The play is a creaky melodrama but it can be effective. Perhaps not in such a reverential reading, though. William Wyler, disdained by the auteur critics, has always seemed to me to be gar underrated. Watching this tonight, I am inclined to agree with the auteur theory. This is like a filmed version of a community theater productionThe constant climbing up and down of stairs, the being shot from a lower level, from an upper level. We aren't talking Orson Welles here. We're talking no-personality.Theresa Wright is, as always, appealing. But she's not interesting. Herbert Marshall is more convincing here as a very sick man than he ever has seemed to me ion other movies as a romantic lead.The most nuanced role has always seemed to me to be that of Birdie and Patricia Collinge rises above the mediocrity in her playing of that part.Generally, though, I expected to be gaping and ended up yawning.The contant climbing up and down of stairs, the being shot from a lower level, from an upper level. We aren't talking Orson Welles here. We're talking no-personality.Theresa Wrightis, as always, appealing. But she's not interesting. Herbert Marshall is more convincing here as a very sick man than he ever has seemed to me ion other movies as a romantic lead.The most nuanced role has always seemed to me to be that of Birdie and Patrica Coillinge rises above the mediocrity in her playing of that part.Generally, though, I expected to be gaping and ended up yawning. "}]