[{"Title":"A John Ford Masterpiece","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"55 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  John Ford's film of social and familial change details the chilling effects hard economic times have on a large, but tight-knit Welsh coal mining family around the turn of the last century.  Told in narrative flashback by the youngest of seven children (5 young men and a young lady) it begins when the coalmines are new, the valley still green, and the village cohesive and close-knit.  As economic times worsen, the family and community fray and slowly disintegrate.  The backdrop village becomes darker and smokier as the family fights valiantly to remain together.  But unlike the treatment the story would probably get today, the family does not lose its dignity.There is not much, if anything, to criticize in this movie, it's one of the best ever.  "},{"Title":"A Family Film In Every Sense Of The Word.","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"55 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" There has been a tendency to downgrade How Green Was My Valley recently because it beat out Citizen Kane for Best Picture of 1941. It turned out to be John Ford's only win in that department. Because Citizen Kane now is lauded as the best film EVER, How Green Was My Valley lost a bit of luster. Yet on its own merits it's a fine film and can be seen again and again without any boredom.It's like Ford's Liberty Valance in that it shows the progress that the world's first industrial society, 19th century Great Britain as reflected in that Welsh valley, just like the settling of the American West in The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance. It's the reverse here, the valley is a place people leave, or at least a lot of the good ones. Nearly all the Morgan children and Walter Pidgeon who plays the minister.1941 and 1942 marked the high point in the career of Walter Pidgeon. He never quite made the top rung of actors at his home studio of MGM. Yet in those two years he happened to star in both the films the Academy designated as Best Picture, this one and Mrs. Miniver in 1942. He's an outsider, arriving full of ideals and then forced to leave to stop gossip about him and Maureen O'Hara.Maureen O'Hara made her John Ford debut in How Green Was My valley as the lovely and fetching Angharad. She and Pidgeon are in love, but Pidgeon does not want to inflict is life of denial on her. They give each other up and later their relationship is the cause of gossip.Arthur Shields the lesser known brother of Barry Fitzgerald is the head of the deacons at Pidgeon's church. A narrow, bitter man he's one of a string of religious hypocrite characters that Ford has in his films. Offhand I can think of Willis Bouchey in The Last Hurrah and Grant Withers in Fort Apache. Barry's in this too, playing the comical Cynfartha.The center of the film is the Morgan family headed by Donald Crisp and Sara Allgood. Playing Morgan patriarch Gwyllym Morgan, Crisp gets the Best Supporting Actor for this wonderful portrayal of strength and dignity. Sara Allgood matches him every step of the way. Besides Pidgeon and O'Hara, the rest of the film revolves around the generational conflicts between the conservative father and his more broadminded sons who want to get a union started. In 1941 America that was a timely theme as our American Labor movement got its first backing from a friendly government in the New Deal. The labor troubles that the Morgans and the other Welsh coalminers in the valley deal with was a very relevant. One of the great things about this is that Ford never takes sides here. Donald Crisp is never shown as a reactionary fool for his opposition to unionization. Indeed Ford puts him on a pedestal for sticking to his beliefs.All this is seen through the eyes of young Hugh Morgan, played by Roddy McDowall in his first major part as a juvenile and narrated in flashback by British actor Irving Pichel as the adult Hugh. McDowell has his own troubles here, he and Sara Allgood fall in a freezing river and both have health problems afterward. McDowell is the first of the Morgans to go to school and he's bullied by both pupils and a snobbish teacher. Young McDowell is taught to box by Rhys Williams to take care of the kids and later Rhys Williams as Dai Bando, an ex-pugilist takes matters in his own hands with the teacher in the films most hilarious scene.As we move into the post industrial age, the labor themes of How Green Was My Valley seem quaint. But the family travails, and heartaches, and triumphs with that 19th Century Welsh Coalmining family are timeless. This is the real genius of John Ford. "},{"Title":"How Green was my Valley was the greatest film of all time.","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"60 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Greatest movie of all time. I saw this first during World War II, and it made such an impression upon me that I had to go back time after time. Now 60 years later it lingers in my memory over any other movie I have ever seen. No movie before or since has left such a lasting impression upon me.It could easily be brought back to the modern screen as a classic film that will never die. I wish I could own it on DVD, but I have no idea where I can obtain it. It would be at the top of classic films of all time as an asset in my library. It appeared at a time in our history when the world was being torn asunder and we did not know what tomorrow would bring. It was so uplifting at a time when we needed that uplift. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable Film","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"50 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  This moving film has become part of the all-time American classics,  and rightly so.  It is a beautifully conceived and executed adaptation of a beloved novel. One of John Ford's finest hours, it is magnificently staged and shot, with a lovely score (by Alfred Newman) and rich performances, headed by Walter Pidgeon, Maureen O'Hara and Roddy McDowall. That it was made on a fairly limited budget and filmed entirely on the 20th Century back lot is little short of amazing.  Its truly great, sprawling set seems to be the real thing a actual coal mining town. Ford's attention to careful group blocking and staging of tableau adds to the artistry of the work.  Its political subtext corresponds with America's stance regarding European policy at the time.  Other issues such as women's rights and religious bigotry help to likewise bolster the tale. I agree that How Green Was My Valley is a fine achievement, now gloriously restored to dvd for many future viewers to enjoy.  "},{"Title":"A Welch valley","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"36 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  John Ford was a director with a vision bigger than life, as demonstrated by his films. Richard Lewellyn's novel must have been one source of inspiration for bringing to life this story about a small town in Wales. The director had the good fortune to have Arthur Miller as his cinematographer for this tale about the stark conditions about the miners' lives. The small town comes alive by the vivid account one sees on the screen. At times, what we are witnessing before our eyes, remind us of the work of great photographers such as Margaret Bourke-White, whose pictures for the old Life magazine parallel Mr. Miller's stark photography in the film.Mr. Ford uses songs in most of his films. In this movie as well as in The Quiet Man, this device enhances what we are watching. The songs are diversions for the stark reality in the miners' lives. Their every day misery is somehow eased when they sing with clear voices ancient folk melodies they, and their forefathers, have always known.The Morgan family is at the center of the story. We hear the narration from Huw, the youngest member of this family. All the men work in the mine; they are all disillusioned by the working conditions and meager wages that they give without hesitation to the matriarch when they are paid. They appear content at the beginning of the film, but we watch them gradually abandon their village in search of a better life; who can blame them?The cast assembled by Mr. Ford is first rate. Donald Crisp, as the patriarch of the Morgan family outdoes himself in this film. Walter Pidgeon as the local church pastor is excellent. The young and radiant beauty of Maureen O'Hara was so powerful, we can't stop watching her for a moment when she is on screen. Roddy McDowall as the youngest child of the clan in his first appearance is also a magnetic presence that holds the viewer's attention all the time.The rest of the actors do incredible ensemble work to support the principals. Anna Lee, John Loder, Barry Fitzgerald, Anne Todd make us believe they are the characters they are playing. Ultimately this is a John Ford's triumph. He is the force that welds everything together and in spite of all the bad things that happen to the family and the town, he seems to be telling us there still is hope and life will continue. "},{"Title":"What a Magnificent Movie!","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"30 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" In Wales, Huw Morgan recalls his childhood fifty years ago, in the end of Nineteenth Century. In a green valley, where the colliery is the unique economical activity, Huw (Roddy McDowall), his brothers and his sister are raised by his beloved parents, Mr. Gwilym Morgan Sr. (Donald Crisp) and Mrs. Beth Morgan (Sara Allgood). In times of changes and exploitations of the worker class, the young workers try to gather their power in a labor union and fight against the unemployed reserve army with a strike, while Mr. Morgan is against their movement. Along the years, the situation of the dwellers gets worse and worse, with poverty, while the coal mine blackens the hills of the valley with the slag.What a magnificent movie How Green Was My Valley is! This is the first time I see this movie, and I am really excited with such masterpiece. The outstanding and awesome direction of John Ford certainly deserved the Oscar he won in 1942. The story is excellent, with drama and romance in a period of economical and political changes in the world. There are many important and strong characters, built with heart by the cast, and I was particularly impressed with the touching performance of Roddy McDowall, in the role of a boy with strong personality and moral qualities. The awarded black and white cinematography is also remarkable. The wonderful metaphoric title completes this classic. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) Como Era Verde Meu Vale (How Green Was My Valley) "},{"Title":"Very moving","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This movie tugged at my heart strings like few others. I was thoroughly immersed in the lives of the Morgans and found myself especially drawn to young Huw's trials, tribulations, and triumphs. The scene where he taps his fork twice and sneezes before he is acknowledged by his father was poignant beyond belief. Despite the hardships and tragedies there is also warmth and humor such as when family friends of the Morgans visit the schoolmaster after he had been especially harsh with Huw. The romantic aspect of the film is also well done by its primary principles, Angharad and the pastor. All in all the films does a magnificent job of capturing the lives of a family in a bygone time and place. There is no doubt that this is a great film and the fact that it beat out the likes of Citizen Kane for Best Picture is a testament to that fact. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Lost paradise?","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" The story is told by an adult who remembers his childhoodRoddy McDowall gives a very sensitive performance in this part,he's simply the best actor of a topflight cast (to think that nowadays McDowall is remembered by the young generations mainly for his part of Cornelius the ape)All the scenes which involve the boy are simply wonderful,particularly the one with the daffodils (it 'd have been shot in color!),and the one with his father in his arms at the end.John Ford ,as usual , is a master when it comes to depict a small community who's got to stand together to survive.And he does not spare us the tragedies ,the bigotry ,the slander,but he adds humor,joie de vivre (the men,turning their nose on tea and wanting beer).But sometimes it seems too good to be truethe boss's offspring marrying a miner's daughter,even when she's a beauty like Maureen O'Hara?The boss asking the poor father's permission?We are far from Emile Zola's Germinal both stories happen about during the same era ,both with the miners' life both are radically different.Zola's world is a bleak,desperate world ,his depiction of the families' houses and meals (when there is food) and the pictures of Ford's movie are worlds apart.But the biggest difference is the omnipresence of the Lord's willin how green the minister is a cool young handsome man (Pidgeon),in Germinal ,the priest's only a silhouette,but a selfish cruel one,unconcerned to man's plightZola's miners do not put their trust in a God anymore .Wales and the east of France ,were they that much different?You can only say they were novels and movies,and reality is probably somewhere between them. "},{"Title":"Every time I hear the lines","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Every time I hear the lines Men like my father cannot die.They are with me still, real in memory as they were in flesh. near last scene,I cannot help from my tears flood out. Huw's two teachers of his life,Mr.Gruffydd and his father are both very attractive.Despite his position ,I move Mr.Gruffydd's indirect expression of his passion for Angharad.I also like the scene when Mr. Gwilym Morgan says Call Dai Bando! and following the scene Dai Bando teaches Huw how to fight. The scene Sara Allgood's speech protecting her husband reminds me (not actually saw)John Ford's famous speech in the middle of the McCarthy era Communist witch-hunt My name is John Ford.I direct films.... "},{"Title":"Yes, You Can Almost Feel The Grime","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This movie is a little long at times, but this is still a powerful story about the many stories that came out of the coal mining families in Wales, Great Britain. One of the top aspects of the movie is the cinematography, under the direction of John Ford. It is very effective. You can just feel the grime and dirt of the mines and cobblestone town. It looks really good now that's it out on DVD.Walter Pigeon is the likable minister, and lead character, Mr. Gruffydd. He's likable because he doesn't judge people as the head deacon does. The latter is portrayed ludicrously by Barry Fitzgerald, much to the delight of secular-minded film critics, who loved his performance. Nonetheless, there is a lot of religion pictured positively in this film, a lot of spiritual scenes and most were done well.Roddy McDowell plays the most memorable character, I thought Huw, a young boy who went through some really tough times, as did most of the townsfolk. If you are used to modern films, be warned this film does drag in spots. It is a fine movie, to be sure, and a powerful and emotional story. "}{"Title":"The best and the worst is the music","Date":"26 October 2010","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" It's hard for me to separate this movie from the story, to talk about the qualities of the movie as separate from those of the book.For me, the best and the worst of this movie lies in the music. The male choruses, often sung in Welsh, are truly beautiful. The story - there is no plot - is at best episodic. The only thing that gives it any coherence is the choral music, and that is very beautiful.On the other hand, a lot of the background music is far too sentimental, and takes the movie over the edge. Had there been no music whatsoever, some of those scenes would have been far more powerful. The music, frankly, trivializes them.The thing that most struck me with this movie, however, were the differences from Germinal, Zola's novel about miners not far from Wales, in northeastern France. Zola could find no nobility in their suffering; he depicted them over and over as bestial animals. This movie gives their suffering a nobility that no amount of sentimental music can lessen.Men and women such as these are not perfect. Who among us is? But their suffering deserves respectful treatment. Zola did not believe that; John Ford, the director of this movie, did. The difference is telling, and it is what makes this such a moving movie.Postscript written after having read the novelI read the novel after writing the above review and then watched the movie again. Frankly, I don't recommend that to anyone. The novel is long, 500 pages, and the movie, of necessity, condenses some of it and simply omits other parts. After you have read the novel, you see just how hastily some things are condensed and what is left out or, in some few instances, changed. I would not say it is a particularly good condensation.The most striking change is the end. In the movie there is another mine cave-in and a party of miners, led by the preacher, finds the elder Morgan, who dies in the still very young Huw's arms. It is, of course, moving, but since the movie closes on the images from his past that Huw subsequently recollects we are left, at the end, not with the dying father but with Maureen O'Hara smiling and waiving at a smiling Walter Pidgeon. A romantic end.The novel's end is far more somber. During a particularly bitter strike Huw's father goes down in the mines to see if they are starting to flood. Cyfartha is also down there working. Both men get caught in a cave-in. Dai Bando, almost blind, goes down with Huw to find them. (The preacher has by then left for South America and is no longer in the picture, so to speak.) After much digging they first find Cyfartha, whom Dai Bando, weeping, carries to the surface. (We are left to wonder if the very deep bond between these two men had been more than just a deep friendship, but the text never says more.) Then Huw finds his father, and holds him until he, too, dies. It is a very painful scene.Other than that, the chronology is sometimes changed from the novel to the movie, prompted in part, perhaps, by the fact that since Huw is always played by the young Roddy McDowall, he never grows into the very adult man that Huw becomes in the novel. The two brothers who leave for America do so much earlier in the movie than in the novel, for example.Huw's one sexual encounter, with Ceinwein up on the mountain, never takes place in the movie, perhaps because Roddy McDowall doesn't look old enough for sex, perhaps just for the morals code of the time. In the same sense, Huw's subsequent unrealized desires for Bron are never introduced.The preacher never leaves for South America, probably because he is played by the lead actor. It is also hard to understand why the town condemns him and Angharad, as in the movie he does not visit her every evening at her home. More morals code, no doubt.The disputes between the minors and the owners are played down in the movie, perhaps because, during the war, unions were expected not to strike for the war effort. Llewellyn's efforts to convey the Welsh his characters are speaking by using a similar syntax in English are almost completely erased in the movie. Indeed, the very fact that these characters are usually speaking Welsh and not English is largely ignored. It's a very important part of the novel and the world that Llewellyn described, which saw itself very much put upon by outsiders=Englishmen, so it is a shame all that is lost. Some of the Celtic folklore is also lost. Beth's claim that Ivor came to speak to her, very much a part of the Celtic belief in visitations from spirits of the dead (présignes, in French) is completely changed in the movie.A movie should be not judged on how well it adapts the material from which it derives, unless it is some sort of documentary. Taken as is, this is a good movie. But once you have read the novel, you see that its story is more somber, and it is hard not to regret that some of that was lost in the conversion. "},{"Title":"Don't bother with this movie if you've read the book","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" I'm sure this is a very fine movie for people coming to the story for the first time, but those of us who have read and enjoyed How Green Was My Valley in book form will find the movie so superficial that it's hardly worth it. As lewis-51 points out in his review, the movie skims the various aspects of the plot, leaving many of them a mystery. As a single example, the movie reveals that Huw Morgan decided to join his father in the coal mine rather than becoming a solicitor, but there's no obvious reason for that, and the sight of what looks like an eight-year-old Roddy McDowell going off to work with grown men is absurd-looking.The book explains that, by this point, Huw has grown to his mid-teens, had become a VERY good boxer, and had beaten up the sadistic teacher who tormented Welsh children at his school. The school authorities pardoned him for that, but he was later expelled from school when he saw the same teacher tormenting another Welsh child and beat him up again -- so savagely that he nearly killed him. Thus, Huw's decision to join his father in the coal mine was partly because continuing at school was no longer an option for him, and when he did so, he was old enough to do such work.The book gives the same comprehensive detail for many of the other areas barely skimmed in the movie, including union/management issues in the mines, the lives and fates of the various brothers, Huw's love for his brother's widow, Dai Bando's blindness, and many other areas. Using Roddy McDowell as the only actor playing Huw meant that other parts of the book had to be excluded entirely, such as Huw's own romantic adventures in his teens (including his near-lynching after an affair on the mountain with a local girl).Nowadays, a book as complicated as How Green Was My Valley might have been made into a series of films, the way Peter Jackson did with The Lord of the Rings. Ford did not have that option, but he could have treated a small part of the book in detail, the way Kazan did with East of Eden. Instead, he decided to skim the highlights of this enormously complicated story, and the public apparently liked it. Maybe they never read the book either, but if you loved this movie, you should. "},{"Title":"Get it right! It's God Save THE Queen","Date":"5 February 2013","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" The only film reviewer I have any faith in is Halliwell, 7th edition or earlier (lesliehalliwell.com). I'm collecting Blu-rays of the movies he rated as 4-star (153 attained that rating), but when my partner suggested the three-star, How Green Was My Valley, I purchased the DVD without bothering to read Halliwell's review. Upon receiving the DVD, I noted with interest a quote on the back cover this Hollywood milestone (Halliwell's Film Guide), and thought We're in for a treat tonight!I should have read Halliwell's full review before buying this disappointing tearjerker. Halliwell states Prettified and unconvincing, but dramatically very effective tearjerker&#x85; a Hollywood milestone despite its intrinsic inadequacies.Halliwell was being kind. Or maybe he just made a mistake. On Halliwell's scale (0-4 stars), and comparing it to other movies he has reviewed, this movie might rate 2-stars. He doesn't explain why he considered it a milestone, and on a critical second and third viewings, I couldn't find any qualities that would elevate this movie to milestone status. But it has plenty of intrinsic inadequacies. Hereafter I'm referring to the Studio Classics DVD, NTSC Region 1, with Walter Pidgeon and Maureen O'Hara in sepia tones on the cover.1. Soppish voice over, which on the DVD is occasionally muffled and smothered by the music.2. Overpowering, mawkish, virtually non-stop score.3. Blurry image quality. Contrast is quite poor, with shadows almost totally blocked. The image constantly flickers in brightness and has a very pale magenta cast. The cast is not because of my setup Saturday Night and Sunday Morning, for example, plays in perfect grayscale.4. Too many cutesy, inane feel-good moments litter the beginning wife pouring water over the husband while he washes off coal dust and smokes a pipe (6.10); a boy taking a slice of bread at the dinner table while his father makes a corny frown &#x96; then grins at the naughty boy (6.30); likewise, a son in his twenties is rapped on the knuckles when he also makes a grab (6.55). This type of nonsense is repeated at 11.10 (son pushed towards wife-to-be), 11.50 (groom slapped by father), and 46.00 (son pushed forward by mother). This first part of the movie sees the director going out of his way to put the audience in a happy mood. Everyone has smiling faces with plenty of teeth. The lowpoint is the first appearance of a new wife-to-be of one of the sons. She stands at the gate with a prolonged, forced, artificial smile (9.30) &#x96; audience manipulation at is most blatant.5. All the jollity comes to a sudden end at 16.50. The music darkens and nobody smiles for the next 11 minutes except for one lone smile at 22.00. This section lurches from one drama to the next a brick thrown through a window, a menacing crowd, the wife berating the coal miners, and then she and son fall in an icy pool of water and are bedridden for several months.6. Sentimental Section (27.40) &#x96; replete with birds that fly into the boy's bedroom at the start of spring (Spring? asks the boy).7. The preacher never wears a dog collar, probably because as daring as this film tries to be in raising moral issues, it can't bring itself to show a preacher who has a love interest, as a preacher. Was it going too far in 1941 to offend the church? Equally as jarring (for a movie set in Wales) is the preacher's American accent. Regarding accents, I will leave that to others to criticise (see How bad were our accents, 24 December 2009 and An epic deception!, 3 April 2011).8. Unbelievable sequences. A dorky son and his choir mates are invited to sing before the Queen. Really? Then follows a rendition of God Save The Queen &#x96; with the wrong closing lyric (49.07). The choir sings God save our Queen. The real lyric is God save THE Queen. Mr Ford, you forgot to check the words of a National Anthem.The above critique only covers the first 50 minutes or so. There are, of course, some quality scenes where the director stops pandering to his audience (or backers) and concentrates on honest human interactions, but those scenes of integrity are a rarity.For me, this film is a disappointment. Where did it go wrong? It had a first class director (John Ford made the classic western, Stagecoach, only two years before). It had a quality cast, and money available to be to spent. But something went awry. What could have been a decent movie became lost in a mire of cheap laughs, forced drama, false accents, bloated music, and jerking of tears. Amidst the pandering to a variety of forces (including, I assume, monetary constraints and audience satisfaction), Ford lost sight of the goal of excellence.Several days after watching this movie I watched the Blu-ray of Saturday Night and Sunday Morning, a 4-star Halliwell film, as a check of my criticisms. I saw no magenta cast, no blocked shadow detail, and no falsity of any kind &#x96; just film making at its finest. In comparison, the DVD of How Green Was My Valley was a disappointment. "},{"Title":"A Superb Classic Film","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" I rented this movie yesterday on DVD. Although I had seen it many years ago, I have a new-found favorite film. The story is excellent and believable and what really holds the piece together is the non-stop beautiful music backing up many to most of the scenes. It is a haunting melody that continues to repeat itself in my head today...and if any of you readers watch this film I forewarn you to have a box of tissues handy as the end of the picture nears. The final scene of Beth Morgan's close-up shot and brief dialogue - along with the often-repeated compelling melody throughout the film will absolutely tear your heart out. A guaranteed good cry if any of you need one! This classic is a must see for any emotional sappy suckers who love old movies as much as I do. If you're a guy - like me - be sure to watch this movie ALONE - to avoid your otherwise sure-to-be tear-stained embarrassment! "},{"Title":"An epic deception!","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" I live in Liverpool, England, a 40 minute drive from the Welsh border. Over the years I have spent quite a lot of time exploring Wales and I still take my family there five or six times throughout the year. I think I've seen pretty much most of the picturesque beauty that Wales has to offer. As a child growing up in the 1970's I never really watched many films, even kids movies bored me. I much preferred to be out with my friends doing stuff and having my own real life adventures. So it was not until recently that I saw this movie on TV. Having read the book at school I thought it would be nice to see how they had pieced this epic story together as a film.Shock, horror, disbelief, are just a few of the words I could use to describe my confused feelings towards this film. Could this possibly be a movie based upon the same book that I read all those years ago? I called up the info text on my TV expecting to see Mel Brookes mentioned somewhere in the description, but no, it claimed to be the very same story I had read.It was obvious to me that this movie was made by people who had never set foot in Wales, for people who were never likely to set foot there either! The mostly American actors were all speaking at best with some kind of soft Irish accent, and at worst what can only be described as some kind of pseudo Swedish dialect. Wales is NOT Ireland and Welsh people do NOT speak with an Irish accent, as well as their own language they have their own accent, its called Welsh!Ford makes a lot of effort trying to make the movie NOT look like a western, yet while watching I kept getting the impression that the whole Sioux nation was about to chase John Wayne over the hills in the background before they all promptly fall into the mine!I am sorry if my review has offended any of the Americans who love this movie, I know you have probably grown up with it and every time its on TV it takes you to your happy place, which I am sure is very nice and comfy, but for people who have read the book and know Wales inside out it gives us the same feeling that I can imagine Americans would have if they were to watch remakes of 'The Waltons' filmed in South Africa with a Canadian cast all speaking with Australian accents!Its strange to think that Fox lied, even back then!I have scored this film with 3 stars because of its awful transition from book to film, but if I had never read the book or even heard of a place called Wales I would have given it 7 stars for its blind entertainment value.Put that remote down and go to the library. You'll find it quite an experience! "},{"Title":"A classic is it.","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Ford's lyrical masterpiece of Welsh mining life will forever be regarded as the film that robbed Citizen Kane of its deserved Oscars. This is understandable but unfortunate, for How Green Was My Valley is such a joy in so many ways. From the impossibly moving opening voice-over - one of the finest beginnings in cinema history - to the closing montage, it's pure poetry.Like the director's later masterpiece, Liberty Valance, How Green Was My Valley is the story of a vanishing world. We see the world that was through the memory of Huw Morgan, departing his hometown. In the present the soot-scarred landscape no longer holds his family, nor his heart. In his memory, though, his childhood remains. Strange that the mind will forget so much of what only this moment has passed, and yet hold clear and bright the memory of what happened years ago; of men and women long since dead, he says unforgettably, There is no fence nor hedge around time that is gone. You can go back and have what you like of it, if you can remember.How Green Was My Valley is a film about memory, loyalty, love and loss, reconciliation, honour and family. It is a timeless, flawless story - perfectly presented. Thank you, John Ford. "},{"Title":"Says much about America during WWII","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  Even for 1941, this film is flawed.   It's depiction of social and psychological reality is distorted to fit the story.  The home of the coal miner family- large, bright, clean and cheerful....Nah.  It was a mean existence for unskilled laborers in that time and place.  The cheerful workers singing as they went off to work, come on, were these the seven dwarfs?  And then there is the lovely daughter who married the stuff shirt scion without a scintilla of humanity.   If the father was so loving and supportive, why would he have allowed it.This film has great significance as a reflection of America during the War. Its artistic and mass acclaim, affirmed by academy awards and the results of this boards votes, says something about the American people's desire for something that has been lost.  When this misty, dreamworld is depicted in any manner, and with any number of defects, it is still embraced by many. Perhaps, with the great depression just ending and the mass slaughter of the great war about to begin reality was not too popular.  "},{"Title":"Earliest case of Oscar baiting I've seen. Not bad though.","Date":"17 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" How Green Was My Valley. The film infamous for beating Citizen Kane at the Oscars. Not only that but The Maltese Falcon and Sergeant York too. Although it's known that it this was due to a public affairs issue at the time, How Green Was My Valley is one of the earliest cases of Oscar baiting I've ever seen. Perhaps this was the film that shaped the mould? It has everything the Oscars dream of and in the most sentimental doses too. As all Oscar baited films, it feels like it skims the surface of its story and its sequences feel more like a checklist rather than organic storytelling. Singing, disability, kindness, hardships. Even today, it feels forced, especially the character archetypes. That said, the performances are pretty good given the contrived platform to work with. The overall drama about the strikes and the family conflict is quite interesting and engaging, but the depth of the film is rather laughable. Its triumphs and tragedies are just too romanticised to be convincing, especially the depiction of Wales which is just far from the truth. That said, the cinematography is really great and definitely the best part. Its story can be trite, but it's very watchable and entertaining. But that's all its trying to be anyway. That and a good cry from sensitive hearts.6/10 "},{"Title":"Not Llewellyn, Not Wales, Definitely John Ford","Date":"13 April 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This film has received many positive reviews here at IMDb and I thought it was worthwhile adding a few comments on authenticity. This is a powerful story thanks to the writer Richard Llewellyn and it is beautifully filmed thanks to John Ford. However, this is not Wales.None of the principle actors are Welsh and they make no attempt to speak with a Welsh accent. Instead we get a mixture of Irish, Scottish, American and unspecified rural. The external scenes were filmed on a ranch in Malibu Canyon, California - not in a village in South Wales. The interior sets owe more to American shaker than Victorian domestic and could well be reused from Ford's cowboy movies. The little Welsh cottages look remarkably spacious when you get inside them. The mine owner's house is American colonial - better suited for Scarlett O'Hara than the Evans family and the women's costumes are pure Southern Gothic.Does this lack of authenticity matter? Well - only to those people who notice and are aware of it. For me it is a constant distraction whereas to most Americans it probably wouldn't be. However, the maudlin music by Alfred Newman would get on anyone's nerves and is only relieved by some excellent Welsh choral singing. Individual scenes are stylishly framed, atmospherically lit and tightly directed but the non-authentic Yoda-like speech patterns just ruin the effect for me. "},{"Title":"Interesting look at life in a Welsh coal-mining town","Date":"15 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Interesting look at life in Welsh coal-mining town in the early- 1900s.The story of a family, the Morgans, who live in a Welsh coal-mining town, told through the eyes of the youngest son, Huw (played by a 12-year old Roddy MacDowall). The father and four oldest sons all work in the colliery. Pretty much everything centres around the colliery - it is the life blood of the town, and the source of pain, ill-will and death. In addition, we see the relationships between the people in the town, how they develop and change. An interesting drama, showing the social impact on a town when it is dependent entirely on a single industry. The relationship side is interesting too. However, in trying to cover as much of what happens in the town as possible, there is a lack of focus. While the ending is reasonably profound, a much greater point could have been made. The landing is a bit soft.Great performances all round.How Green Was My Valley went on to win the 1942 Best Picture Oscar, beating out Citizen Kane (amongst others) to the award. Not that it is better it can probably thank William Randolph Hearst's campaign against Citizen Kane for the award. "}{"Title":"beautifully made film by a master","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Lovingly put together by John Ford, How Green Was My Valley was released in 1941 and remains a classic today, despite its today frowned-upon win as Best Picture over Citizen Kane. That year, Ford's film swept the Oscars. Citizen Kane, like Brokeback Mountain, was probably too controversial for the Academy to award it Best Picture. The great films, however, survive. And both Kane and How Green Was My Valley have survived to be remembered as classics.The story of a Welsh coal mining town based on the novel by Richard Llewellyn was intended to be as big and as long as Gone with the Wind, but Darryl Zanuck modified these ideas. Because of the war, they could not film in Wales, and the film wasn't made in color because the flowers in California didn't match those found in Wales. Originally, Huw as an adult, to be played by Tyrone Power, was to be in the longer movie. William Wyler was to direct but left to do The Little Foxes. John Ford was a perfect match for this Philip Dunne script. His images and silhouettes are perfectly framed and stunning. He did very few takes and gave the studio pretty much what we see on the screen; he was going off to war and didn't want a hatchet job in editing.The film focuses on one family, the Morgans, and narrated by the adult Huw Morgan, an adult now and about to leave the valley, who is never seen but as a child is played brilliantly by Roddy McDowall. The family consists of the father (Donald Crisp, Oscar winner) and mother (Sara Allgood, nominee), their beautiful daughter Angharad (Maureen O'Hara), and their six sons. The father and sons all work in the mine.Angharad falls for the town preacher, Mr. Gruffydds (Walter Pidgeon), but is married off to someone else. The wedding scene is one of the loveliest in the film, with Angharad's veil blowing straight up in the air. Ford apparently said this was a fortunate accident, but Ms. O'Hara claims there were fans to make it rise! Huw goes off to school and is bullied, but is taught to fight; there are mine accidents, a strike, and tragedy.What the narration gives us is Llewellyn's gorgeous prose Men like my father cannot die. They are with me still, real in memory as they were in flesh, loving and beloved forever. How green was my valley then and so many other beautiful words. And the music - no wonder the story was adapted as a musical, it practically is one already, there is so much singing among the miners and townspeople.In the year of The Maltese Falcon, Sgt. York, and Kane, the film garnered 10 Oscar nominations and five Oscars. Was it deserved? The unsentimental will tell you no. People who see this film for the work of art that it is will tell you yes. It's slow-moving and on the long side, but it's about the lives and emotions of people long ago, in a small mining town in Wales, made with a great deal of warmth and humanity by John Ford. "},{"Title":"Mispicked","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" While this film does so obviously deserve Oscar nominations, it is a well known fact that Citizen Kane should have won the 1941 award for best picture, whereas this won instead. But if Citizen Kane was not chosen for other reasons than the quality of the film, then this did deserve the award. Of the ten films nominated, Citizen Kane surpasses them all, but when looking at the other nine, they all ran a very close race. Sergeant York being my personal number three of 1941 (of the ten), How Green Was My Valley being my number 2. But, on to this film.Who knew Roddy McDowall would look the same throughout his whole life? Who knew his talent came at such an early age? Certainly not the viewers of Planet of the Apes. With a twelve year old child in a major motion picture, and a drama no less, I was reluctant at first until I saw the entire cast. Although the Welsh accent can get a bit tiring, it doesn't take away from the magnificent performances. In spite of the fact that it only had 2 nominations for acting (and one win), I think each individual actor/tress delivered a performance that would make Kristen Stewart convey emotions in something other than a lip bite.John Ford had won the Oscar for Best Director the previous year with Grapes of Wrath. His win for this film proved to the public his talent, and today he has the most Oscars for Best Director (4), only having lost once. If you watch the film carefully (and look at the goofs list on this film's IMDb page) you will find little to no mistakes.One of the hardest thing a writer can do is adapt something. Today, you'll see film adaptations of your favorite books. Sometimes, they're just so poorly done. It is clear that the screenwriter did not understand the book at all. But in 1941, reading was much more common, so Richard Llewellyn's novel was well known. Phillip Dunne was clearly aware that no mistakes could be made, and while some are noticeable, they are nowhere near atrocious. In fact, saying it's forgivable is the wrong thing to say. I would say it's welcome.So, without further ado, see this film. Although you know the story well, you don't know it as in depth. "},{"Title":"Beautifully crafted saga set in a Disneyland version of a Welsh valley.","Date":"31 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Not for a moment did I believe in the Disneyland Welsh mining village as presented in this sweet old family saga. But the pictures are beautifully manipulated by one of Hollywood's most expert storytellers. John Ford always seems to place the camera and his characters in ways, which say far more than any dialogue could. In fact, this is the kind of film which may well work better with the sound muted, because the dialogue is old-fashioned and the characters' accents peculiar. (The most prevalent accents were Irish, and a kind of mid- Atlantic rural) I was particularly impressed by Maureen O'Hara's performance in the first half of the film. I don't think I've ever seen her better, or better photographed. If you're looking for a stirring, authentic story of miners' struggles in the days before the unions, this isn't it; but if you want to see some masterly direction photography, montage, and mise en scene, this is well worth the trouble. "},{"Title":"Will make you feel nostalgic even if you don't know why","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Even if you try to resist a bit, the strong performances and austere photography will draw you into the universe of this little Welsh mining valley and a big family who make their living off the land in the hardest way, with women sending their husbands and children into a gaping deadly hole in the earth. Roddy McDowall stars as the youngest of a half dozen sons of a headstrong mining headman (Donald Crisp) and his nurturing and humorously anti-intellectual wife (Sara Allgood). His sister Angharad (Maureen O'Hara) is in love with the local minister (Walter Pidgeon), an understanding man who unfortunately decides that she will be happier married to a wealthier man. Did this kind of thing happen in real life, or just in melodrama? What with heavy elements like this forbidden love and the inevitable search for father in the coal mining accident, the movie should feel more contrived than it does. Great credit is due to John Ford's directing. This film has just such an incredibly leisurely and yet deliberate pace. Never does the audience feel as though the conclusions or ideas of the drama are being pushed too hard on us, and yet I also never felt like the film is being obtuse or deliberately slow and studied. I was never hugely interested in the story or even the characters but I never really felt bored. It was kind of an idyll I think is the word, like a dream state. Never more so than in the scenes where Pidgeon takes McDowall up to the hilltop and helps him learn to walk again.One of Ford's most impressive films from what I've seen so far, right up there with The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence and The Long Voyage Home. The drama is kept low key and the characters feel very real. The acting is all very good, especially McDowall in the lead. It's a bit hard to assess Pidgeon's performance. Like in the famous wedding scene, he's in the background and almost literally a shadow. Finally he takes a stand and denounces the hypocritical congregation when they threaten to reprimand his innocent beloved, but he took no stand earlier when they threatened a pregnant unmarried woman. I guess he learned from the earlier experience? I feel I'm missing something there. And that scene where he talked about an army of truth... very good writing but I have to give Pidgeon a lot of credit for being able to pull it off as if it was part of the conversation. The character is in grave danger of coming off as too pompous not just in that scene but in general. So I give Pidgeon credit but he's one character in the movie who's fascinating but not totally believable.There's a striking scene about halfway through that sort of sums up how I feel about the movie's themes. It's when the second pair of brothers has to leave because the mine won't pay their high wages any more, and one son asks the father to read a verse of the Bible. While Crisp is reading, the two sons caress and relax their mother on her chair and there's a tangible feeling of how much they love her and how hard it is to leave her behind, just as the father is saying green pastures. They walk out and when mother briefly protests, Crisp raises his voice just a bit to let her (and us) know that he's aware the sons have left, just as he says the words my cup runneth over. All the bitter pain and the irony and the sentiment of the story are all wrapped up in that scene for anyone who wants to see it.At the end of the movie, I felt overcome with emotion when I saw the flashbacks to the earlier part of the movie and heard the narration about memory. As much as I wanted to see the movie as something of a melodrama, the pace and the style of the thing is just too effective to be easily dismissed or categorized. There's a very human kind of rhythm to the film. It's quite an accomplishment and a beauty to behold. "},{"Title":"3rd dimension","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  other than the strong plot and the professional acting, another important factor is the visual structure of this film that made it a classic. the s-rule was perfectly done in the extreme long shots of the valley. this gave the picture a whole lot of depth and made me forget that i was watching a 2-dimensional thing. the diagonal lines in the mine and in the church, use of foreground objects, these factors all gave the picture depth. other than depth there was art in those frames. every piece of frame in itself was like a photograph taken with great care. each character was put in the frame according to the rule of thirds thus making every single inch of the frame useful. also lighting was changing according to the plot. when the big boys decide to go to america, there are lots of shadows in the house thus making it unable to see the mother's and father's faces clearly. probably in a situation like that, they would not have wanted their faces to be seen clearly either. so John Ford acted in accordance to the personalities of his characters. i think these are the underlying factors which made this movie a whole time classic. "},{"Title":"a beautiful, rich film","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  Saw this justly famous film for the first time recently on American Movie Classics, and was captivated. I half expected a somewhat boring quasi-documentary on Welsh mining life at the turn of the century and was instead thoroughly drawn into the story of the Morgan family. Marvelous acting throughout, and beautifully photographed. The prominence of music in Welsh life is richly represented by the beautiful choral singing throughout the movie. The economic circumstances of mining life - capital vs. labor - are not ignored in the film, although some critics are disappointed that Ford did not turn this story into a Marxist screed. We can be grateful he didn't.As far as the criticism that the movie lacks social realism and is too romanticized and not gritty enough, I have two responses. The first is that poverty does not imply that people must necessarily live like savages. Poor people in the depression maintained cleanliness, dignity and high values despite straitened economic circumstances. Also, the slob culture we live in today is a recent phenomenon. Even within my memory, the poorest families on high occasions were better dressed than many wealthy suburbanites look today when they go out to eat at tony restaurants. The second response regarding the romanticization is, so what? Do we have to feel guilty about wanting to see a story beautifully told? People don't necessarily enjoy feeling as if they have to take a shower after seeing a movie, which is the case with many of today's masterpieces of social realism.  "},{"Title":"The Unreality of Reality","Date":"6 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" My guess is that most of the younger generation would find this movie corny and unreal--as if Pulp Fiction or Enter the Dragon were real! The great thing about this movie is the characters. I mean not only the fictional characters but the flesh and blood actors who played them. Where will you find the likes of Donald Crisp today, or Sara Allgood? The young Roddy McDowell looked like the quintessential 19th century boy. Today's actors are bland. Perhaps that is because they are merely hedonists pursuing the acting trade. You know their lives are centered around the basest fleshly pleasures and though their bodies maybe well formed, they're more akin to lay figures than people with souls. I liked this movie because the people in it had souls. To be sure, the Morgan family was an idealization. No family has been or ever will be like that. But an ideal is what it was meant to be father and mother as pillars supporting a household of loving children, exuding calmness, humility and occasionally humor and mirth. What kind of an ideal do we have to hold up to it? Sex in the City? The single career mom? Dad and his gay roommate? If you want to begin to know another, ancient and now almost lost ideal, this movie is a good place to start. "},{"Title":"Yes, my son, I know you are there.","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" There's this bit at the end of the dinner scene when the older sons choose to leave their father's house. Huw (played by Roddy McDowall) is still too young to be part of the dispute, and stays at the table. His father sits at the head of the table, stunned at the departure of his elder sons. Huw, far down the table, continues eating and deliberately clanks his cutlery on the table to attract his father's attention. After a couple of times, Donald Crisp as the father says, Yes, my son, I know you are there. Then Huw, his goal accomplished, sets to and starts eating again. That scene never fails to brings tears to my eyes.I love this move. I've seen it a dozen times and it only gets better. My only quibble is the performance of Walter Pidgeon who does a lot of staring-off-into-the-middle-distance speeches. I know it was a popular and romantic style of acting, but I always fast-forward or skip his scenes.I know some say How Green Was My Valley is not an accurate portrayal of life and people in a Welsh mining village. I say, Who cares? This is a film not a documentary. It's a wonderful story, beautifully filmed and acted. Roddy McDowall gives an excellent performance, without a hint of the usual child actor posturing of the era. This is one of my all-time favorites. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous work, involving melodrama, gorgeous Maureen O'Hara!","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  How Green Was My Valley is involving melodrama, of the tell us a story kind. Hew Morgan, as an old man, remembers the Welsh mining village (and valley) of his youth, particularly the strike which divided his family, the girl who he fell in love with and married his older brother, and his beautiful sister (Maureen O'Hara) and her thwarted love for the decent preacher Mr Gruffydd (Walter Pigeon).Another work of nostalgia and sentiment from John Ford. Naive and simplified, but intentionally. Ford knew he was calling up a bygone age, with a campness and naivety to go with it, a bit like Selznick did with Gone with the Wind, and indeed many movies did at this time. Moviegoers at this time were nothing like the antiquated Welsh characters in period garb we have here. This called for just as much escapsim from them as it does for us - but, if you like, moviegoers were used to the characters not resembling themselves back then.But the greatest treats are for film buffs - How Green Was My Valley is a stunning work visually. I don't know that i would have given it the Oscar above Citizen Kane, but everyone knows the esablishment rewards people who do what is expected, but do it really well (John Ford) instead of people who wrapped up all their old tricks and delivered it to them in a beast they didn't recognise (Orson Welles). Its ironic, actually, that these two should be competing this year for Best Picture, because watching some of Ford's pre-Orson Welles flicks, you can tell that, like Orson told us, he did take the ceiling from Stagecoach. Ford did invent the ceiling in cinema. You can see it in Young Mr Lincoln as well, 2 years before Kane, Ford's compositions where actors are framed against the ceiling of a room.Don't ever believe John Ford when he tells you he was just a workman, doing his business well. He was a poet. This work is pure poetry.9/10. It lost a mark b.c Roddy McDowell, in the role that made him a child star, shall we say, really really improved with age. I'd recommend you see this just to fall in love with Maureen O'Hara. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Films Ever","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  Rating 9 out of 10. Directed by John Ford, How Green Was My Valley is one of the best movies ever made. Winner of five academy awards including a best director award for Ford, and best picture beating out movies Citizen Kane and The Maltese Falcon.This story is about a Welsh family in a coal mining town in the late 19th century. Donald Crisp, who won an academy award in this film for best supporting actor, does a superb job playing the head of the Morgan family, his wife played by Sara Allgood (nominated for best supporting actress) is in a strong role as well. The female lead character is the daughter of the Morgan family, played by Maureen O'Hara as Angharad. A really young Roddy McDowell plays Huw, the youngest son. Walter Pidgeon is brilliant as the village preacher. Writing this comment makes me want want to see it again. "}{"Title":"many good qualities but disappointing","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This is one of those movies I've heard of at various times in my life and assumed I would see eventually. Finally did last night, on PBS television. It was made in the 1940s, my favorite decade for movie-making. It seems that movies then were more serious. They didn't get distracted with special effects, gadgets, trying to show how cool they are, or trying to further some political agenda. They could concentrate on story, character, human relationships, the drama of ordinary people in extraordinary situations. Three of my top ten all-time favorites are from the 1940s. So I was predisposed to like this one.I was disappointed. As others have posted, the movie has many good parts underlying well written novel, good acting, great photography, memorable events, memorable characters. It provides a wonderful glimpse into a culture now gone. Yet even around the halfway point I was getting disappointed. Why?I think the basic problem is that the novel it's based on is just too long to be made into a two-hour movie. Too many characters aren't developed well. Too many scenes had to be cut. Some examples- I'm sorry, but I really couldn't keep all the brothers straight. I was glad when some went off to America. When one died (fairly early on), I wished I could have easily rewound the film to remind myself what he looked like. Ten minutes later when I saw another brother I could have sworn that was the one who died.- The youngest boy, Huw, should have been made to age over the three year or so span of the movie. It really was distracting. Maybe they could have used a 14 year old actor who could be made-up to look 10 at the start. Maybe they could make him look shorter at first by having him stand on a lower floor than the other actors. He also seemed to behave like he was 10 the whole time.- Huw seems to fall in love with the widow of his brother. This is only hinted at. It should be developed! - How did the strike get resolved? What was the compromise? - Why did the boxer who helps Huw become blind? It struck me as odd. Why bother including that part, since time is limited? - The Maureen O'Hara character, Angharad, and her marriage didn't make sense. We get to see her husband in only two very brief scenes. He is a stereotype. When did they meet? Doesn't his father object? Show us more of his character and personality. Show us at least one scene of their married life.- The Walter Pigeon character, the minister, is a very important part of the film. We see him teaching and helping Huw, which is great. But his decision relative to Angharad needs more development. And at the end, we are left to figure out for ourselves what will happen.- The part about one of the older brothers who gets invited to sing before the Queen is wasted. I would drop two of the older brothers, including this one, from the film entirely. Use the time saved there to develop the relationship between Angharad and her husband.I hope I don't seem to be nitpicking. As I said above, this movie provides a loving look at a time and place now gone, and does it well. It is good. But it should have been two movies. "},{"Title":"It always makes me cry","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  This is a very great film. I have watched it at intervals since I was very young and have always enjoyed it. I agree with others that Walter Pigeon appeared to be a little stiff but I don't find it that important. Mr Morgan  (Donald Crisp) reminds me of my grandfather who was a miner for a time. His father was killed in the mine. The last scenes are guaranteed to make me cry every time "},{"Title":"How Disjointed Is This Movie","Date":"15 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Admittedly I watched this with the idea that this movie was such a classic and had great performers in it. It wasn't quite as good as I had expected.People have panned this for the performers not having proper Welsh accents or the scenario looking too much like California. But the truth is that even without World War Two going on, the Hollywood film industry was actually in bad financial shape during the Great Depression like everybody else, and it would have been too expensive and difficult to make everything properly look and sound like Wales, let alone go on location. The idea was to show essentially a poor mining town, even if the settings didn't match the interiors of actual Welsh houses.I have not seen the book, so I cannot say how well the movie follows it. Admittedly the major problem was that the script was rather disjointed. It starts off with the protagonist talking about leaving his village and describing how it was when he was growing up. The first part has the miners going on strike when their wages are cut, and the father denounces the idea of his sons joining a labor union (though not explaining why). Later on, the mine owner's son wants to marry the family's daughter, and she is in love with the local preacher but marries the son anyway. Huw, the son who tells the story, is sent to the local school, gets bullied by classmates and teacher, fights back, and eventually graduates with honors, but chooses to work in the mine. That is never explained either.The movie's fundamental problem is that things happen one after another, but without explanations about people's attitudes and why they are what they are, or why people make certain choices which seem illogical. In the end, we don't even know why the protagonist finally leaves the valley when he does, or what he plans to do. "},{"Title":"Forever green","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" From the opening scenes this film embraces you. By the end, there are scenes so heart-wrenching, they take your breath away. I have seen it many times &#x96; on television and on DVD &#x96; never on the movie screen though, where I can only imagine the overwhelming experience it must have been.The story of a Welsh coal mining family at the end of the 1890's going through a time of great change was adapted from Richard Llewellyn's novel. However the film became more than an adaption, it took on a life of its own. The novel was accused of casting too sentimental a light on the life of Welsh miners, but the movie definitely did &#x96; unashamedly.Anyway, there were passages in the book that could never have reached the screen in 1941 including the punishment handed out to a child molester and Huw's first sexual encounter. But whatever its departure from reality, the movie probably influenced the way people thought of the Welsh for decades to come; showing what a powerful work this film was and is.Director John Ford was always sensitive to the breakdown of family. His background was Irish-American and you can see Irish characteristics transposed to that Welsh village. The cast included some very Irish actors Maureen O'Hara and Barry Fitzgerald. However O'Hara was simply stunning &#x96; it's hard to imagine anyone else, no matter how authentically Welsh in the role. There is a touch of movie magic about this film, and it's hard to be pedantic about details in How Green Was My Valley. But no great film is one person. So many talents made this movie. Alfred Newman's score is almost another star. Newman could wring emotion from any scene but he went to town on this movie with strings, choir and Welsh hymns.Truly inspired art direction and photography gave the film a look &#x96; how brilliant is that village snaking up the hillside, which eventually becomes the slag heap? Even the interference of Darryl Zanuck, especially with the editing, made a significant contribution.And the cast Roddy McDowall, Walter Pidgeon, Sara Allgood, Donald Crisp and others &#x96; all of them gone now, yet all united forever in this haunting movie, in much the way that the cast comes back at the end.But the driving force was Ford. His mastery shows in crowd scenes, in intimate moments where each character is brought alive as an individual and especially in the way so much is told visually.Separating the film even more from the book is the recent discovery that Richard Llewellyn did not live the life described in the novel, he was an Englishman. He made the whole thing up from tales he was told and his imagination. But to my way of thinking, that he was able to write something so convincing and enduring, which also became an extraordinary motion picture, is nothing short of genius. "},{"Title":"old fashion drama","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Old Huw Morgan is leaving his Welsh mining village lamenting the state of his village and his family. He recalls his life starting as a child living in the lush green valley. His father and all of his older brothers work the coal mine. Huw (Roddy McDowall) is the youngest. He waits for the men with his mother and sister Angharad (Maureen O'Hara). The work is hard but honorable. Angharad is taken with the new preacher Mr. Gruffydd. The idyllic life is threatened with a new owner, lower wages and a tough strike.Master director John Ford films this beautifully. I don't usually like narration and this one isn't one of the exceptions. The story is an old fashion personal epic. The cast is strong. It does feel dated and not necessarily a classic that is in the top rank of cinema. This won Best Picture over 'Citizen Kane' and is still beloved by its fans. However they're not at the same level for cinephiles today. "},{"Title":"Phenomenal acting, a relaxing soundtrack, but a very sad storyline","Date":"22 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" I borrowed this movie on DVD from the library this recent August, and when I watched it I thought This is a hallmark cinematic masterpiece in Hollywood history. There were many things I loved about this movie. First off, the Canadian actor Walter Pidgeon in the role of Mr. Gruffydd was a wonderful actor, and so was Maureen O'Hara as Angharad Morgan and the rest of the Morgan family played by Donald Crisp, Sara Allgood and the newcomer Roddy McDowall. Secondly, this movie also had a gorgeous setting taking place in a mining town in 1890 Wales. Third, I loved the Welsh singing in this film, like the popular traditional hymn MyFanwy which is sung by the villagers to Mrs. Morgan (Sara Allgood). However, this classic film has a very depressing story line that makes some people cry, but not me though because I really liked watching this from the library. I highly recommend this John Ford masterpiece to any movie fans of all generations old and young, because it is a very significant film to learn about, based on the book by British author Richard Llewyn. "},{"Title":"The Film That Beat Citizen Kane","Date":"21 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" At the turn of the century in a Welsh mining village, the Morgans (he stern, she gentle) raise coal-mining sons and hope their youngest will find a better life.William Wyler, the original director, saw the screen test of McDowall and chose him for the part. Wyler was then replaced by John Ford, who thankfully kept McDowall. Fox wanted to shoot the movie in Wales in Technicolor, but events in Europe during World War II made this impossible. Instead, Ford built a replica of the mining town at the nearly 3,000-acre Fox Ranch in Malibu Canyon. Can you tell the difference? Of course, the cast had only one Welsh actor Rhys Williams, and he was only in a minor role.At the Academy Awards, the film won Best Picture, Best Director (John Ford), Best Actor (Donald Crisp) and Best Cinematography. Today we complain that the Best Picture did not go to Citizen Kane. For me, the bigger insult is the Cinematography award. Gregg Toland is among the best who ever lived. "},{"Title":"It wasn't so bad to be The Grapes of Wrath, but it never quite gets there.","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" What stays with me is the singing. They sing on their way to work. They sing on the way home from work. They sing at weddings, funerals, church services. They sing during downtime, during happy occasions and during sad occasions. Their singing comes in the form of choral arrangements that doesn't come from formal practice but from their very souls. When they sing it comes from the echoes of the past, of the heritage passed down from their fathers. Their singing sweeps across the hills and becomes part of their daily breath.John Ford's adaptation of Richard Llewellyn's book How Green Was My Valley is a movie about the hardships in a small 19th century mining town in Southern Wales, in which the people live in poverty and grief yet they sing all the time. Were it not from the singing this might be just another good-looking memoir, so the singing gives it texture.The movie is a memoir told from the point of view of a man who is about to leave his native land. He tells us his story in flashbacks so that we understand where he came from and why he is eventually driven to vacate. This is a mining town, but it has become so industrialized and over-populated that the place no longer resembles the land of his formative years. The story is told from the point of view of the young Huw (Roddy McDowell) as he watches the hardships within his own family. His proud father (Donald Crisp) and his mother (Sara Allgood) struggle against generational differences to hold their family together. Among the siblings are Ivor (Patric Knowles), Huw's older brother, and Angharad (Maureen O'Hara) his older sister. There is also Bronwyn, Ivor's wife whom Huw harbors a serious crush. And there's Mr. Gruffydd (Walter Pidgeon) a good-hearted minister who marries Huw's sister.The problems within the family have to do with the children's restlessness, and their desire to escape the generational heritage to find their own way in the world. The first cracks begin to form when the mine worker's pay is cut and they go on strike. The boys in the mine want a strike, but Mr. Morgan is supports the mining company and, for a short time, becomes the town pariah. This is the beginning of their problems and won't end until the Morgan children are scattered across the globe.The heritage given to the children of this town is to work in the coal mines. Everyone has their problems, whether they be marital strife, accusations by the church or simply a matter of personal difficulties that turn into life-long grievances. This is not a happy story to say the least. Even little Huw has his problems at school where an egotistical teacher makes him humiliates him in front of the class because of his low social standing.The narrative given in How Green Was My Valley feels more like pieces and short stories rather than one continuous thread. It looks and feels like pieces of memory and that would be fine if we felt any real connection with the characters. We can't help but feel for them, but while we understand their circumstances, the characters remain sort of unknown to us. We feel the texture of their location and their heritage, but the individuals are missing. There are things in the movie that work. John Ford creates a sense of time and place and of memories. We feel that these are events that are being looked back on, but something in the intimate detail is simply not there. We reach for the emotional pull but our hands grasp at empty air.Possibly for that reason, the film's historical legacy is not so great. Despite being acclaimed at the time, earning ten Oscar nominations and taking home the prize for Best Picture, How Green Was My Valley has more or less faded into obscurity. It is rarely screened on television except in the occasional annual Oscar marathon and even then only rarely does it show up. That could be because the film doesn't really reach out to the viewer. The involvement factor remains somewhat at arms-length. Well-made as it is, the movie feels like homework. It is not the first John Ford movie that you reach for or even the second or third or fourth. This is a film with just as many things that work as things that don't. There are elements that stay with me, but as a whole, it doesn't. "},{"Title":"It would be hard to find 3 movies more obsessed with the Past . . .","Date":"27 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" . . . than GONE WITH THE WIND, REBECCA, and HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY. This trio of films won the best picture Oscar for 1939, 1940, and 1941, respectively, as the deadliest war in world history was picking up steam. In 1941, Academy voters COULD have given their most coveted golden statue to such Top Ten Movies of All Time as CITIZEN KANE or THE MALTESE FALCON, but the supporters of dictator appeasement (who made up the bulk of the Tinsel Town electorate) was hell-bent on ignoring present realities and instead immortalized this early model for Ralphie's 1983 starring vehicle, A CHR!STMAS STORY. Yep, this studio back-lot John Ford-directed piece also is mostly fluff, also narrated by an unseen adult version of the young boy seen on screen. HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY more or less glosses over such potential themes as the greediness of the One Percenters (always at the expense of normal people), the rape of the Public's homeland by out-of-control industrial bullies, or the notion that the rich should be encouraged to swoop in and snatch the fairest blossoms of common folks womanhood to lives of cold heart-breaking artificiality.Instead, the main focus of HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY is on a men's chorus constantly singing pieces in Welsh. Well, my dad was a card-carrying UAW member, 90% of whom have disappeared since his heyday at The Plant. Similarly, I'd wager that the number of Welsh-speaking people in the world is at least 90% less now than the 1941 tally. Yet, whenever ANYTHING happens in HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY, a hundred men immediately start singing in this dying language. Bronwyn gets married? Let's sing. Miners strike? Sing again. Meillyn has an out-of-season baby? Sing to drown out their cries. Huw flogged at school? Sing sing sing. Ivor killed in the colliery? Sing a little softer. You get the idea. This songfest was the last gasp of Pre-War escapism for awhile. MRS. MINIVER and CASABLANCA brought the war home in 1942 and 1943 as Best Picture Oscar winners. But, as the WIZARD OF OZ taught us that all Munchkin-sized folks love to sing, HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY similarly enlightens us regarding the wicked Welsh. But you should NOT title your flick HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY, and then turn around and shoot the picture in black & white! "},{"Title":"Wales Mining Drama","Date":"8 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" John Ford directed this Academy Award winning film(Best Picture & Director) that is set in a Welsh mining town, seen through the eyes of young Huw Morgan(played by Roddy McDowall) who works in the mine with his family. Despite his age, Huw is determined to help his family, and have his parents(played by Donald Crisp & Sarah Allgood) be proud of him, though they really want him to better himself by going to school. Film also deals with the trials and tribulations dealing with the unseen mining owners, and the unsafe conditions of the mines, which will one day have tragic consequences...Good film is overpraised, since its beating Citizen Kane in the 1941 Academy Awards is legendary. Though I agree it was the wrong choice, this is still an effective little movie, with fine performances by all. "}{"Title":"The valley that never lost its verdant fields","Date":"11 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" The movie is too predictable for a modern day audience. It doesn't have anything that makes the viewer feel exhilarated. Nor does it provide an adrenalin rush. It's a movie that is unlike John Ford's other movies, the point being it's not a Western film.Yet, this is a movie that brought out the true director in John Ford. He has really shown in a dramatic way of how the bourgeois love, live together and leave- when they have disparate views- in a small industrial town.The movie is narrated by the youngest person of the family, Huw. He narrates what good times his family had when they were one single entity until the workers guild protests began. His father, loyal to the owners, refuses to protest and is hence rebuked and threatened by his co-workers. His wife and son call a meeting and the lady warns the men to stay away from her husband for he is justified to remain neutral. On their way back, the mother and son fall from a bridge and both of them suffer from fractured legs. The mother recovers soon but the child takes some time to recover. His spirit gains strength when the preacher brainwashes him and even makes him walk a few steps on the daffodils after months of having quiescent legs. The boy becomes the first from their family to go to a school and even complete his primary and secondary education. As the father and the rest of the family hope that he would go to a college and make them proud, the boy chooses to work in the same coal mine as his father and brothers, for that is what helped his father meet the bills over the years. One of his brothers die in a mining accident and after a few years his father too dies in the same mine. In the meanwhile, their daughter and the preacher love each other over the years. The daughter gets married to a wealthy man, and after an unhappy marriage they decide to take a divorce and rumor mills that the preacher and the daughter still continue to love each other. The preacher however denies the fact that they are in love and he wishes her a happy future. "},{"Title":"Men like my father cannot die. They are with me still, real in memory as they were in flesh.","Date":"20 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" It's unfortunate that if John Ford's only Best Picture winning film (can that be right?) is remembered for anything nowadays, it's for topping a film classically acknowledged as being among the best of the 20th century, Citizen Kane. From a modern perspective it might seem hard to understand how an occasionally mawkish tale of a proud Welsh family won the trophy. Nonetheless, to my mind, this melodrama about a Welsh mining town, and how the Industrial Revolution transforms this town and its people, is a classic in its own right, more than worthy of the lofty status inherent in being a best picture winner. At the center of this story is the youngest son of the proud Morgan family, Huw Morgan, who is finally leaving the valley after 50 years. The landscape, once pristine and barely touched by soot, has been obliterated. The few miners that remain no longer sing jauntily, like his father and brothers used to. As Huw leaves, he remembers happier and more prosperous times, when simple people like his family could flourish. This film is told from his perspective, seen through the eyes of a young Roddy McDowell (too young at times, though several years pass he never looks a day over 10). The valley of his childhood is idyllic, as memories of one's childhood are wont to be. Huw's narration provides the film's most powerful moments the quotes on his father which bookend his reminiscence, the unrequited, unreturned love he feels for his brother's fiancée. The memories of a child were the perfect way to tell this story, the nostalgia inherent in those memories helps make the labor struggles of a small Welsh town seem universal. This is a film about a family, tested through the passing of time and how they must acquiesce to the changes time forces upon them. When their wages are first cut at the mine, a mere sign of the problems to come, the patriarch, Gwilym, is reluctant to accept his son's call to unionize. In his mind, he has dealt honorably with his employers and so they shall do the same to him. But these simple values are slowly eroded by the obvious truth that he and his family are being exploited. Despite the many tragedies that befall them, the many disappointments and unfulfilled hopes and dreams of the Morgans, John Ford always allows them to keep their dignity. However, a large share of the credit must also go to the actors. Donald Crisp and Sara Allgood, as the patriarch and matriarch of the Morgan Family are both outstanding. The dignified love they have for each other, as well as their reserved strength are the highlight of the film. Walter Pidgeon as the idealist preacher, faced with the inadequacy of his faith in the face of a corrupted township has perhaps the best-acted moment in the movie. Maureen O'Hara, as the beautiful Morgan sister whose love he rejects, also has some great moments. What makes this film a classic is its superb cast and how ably it plays upon the universal themes of memory and love, family and loss. With the coming and going of time, things inevitably change&#x85; sometimes time and time again for the worst. It is in how we deal with those changes that our value is measured. How Green Was My Valley is a tale made universal by the family at its core, who through their dignity in the face of hardship, prove to be invaluable. "},{"Title":"Mines, melodrama and bathtubs full of holes.","Date":"13 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" A perfect example of the fine storytelling ability of the studio system in Hollywood's Golden Age, How Green Was My Valley is certainly one of John Ford's fine achievements; beautifully set in black and white as well as superbly acted by each actor amongst the large crowd of characters.There is a narrator, but we really don't need him to tell the story so much as simply set it up for us. Here, Ford's direction and the screenplay speak for themselves by introducing the family in simple shots or pieces of dialog. Along the way, we see each character as they are simple, honest and part of a close-knit clan that is not just their family but a whole Welsh town that embraces unity and brotherhood. Anyone who has seen classic Hollywood films before understands how this type of story will play out, but it still is more than worth it to go along for the ride as we witness the Morgan family go through many trials and troubles including problems with unions and wages, disagreements among relatives, marriages, forbidden love and of course death.There are times when I felt that this film dragged on a bit, especially the scenes showing the young Huw's introduction to public schooling, and some of the characters like the drunk boxers are there for nothing more than mere comedic relief. Still, this movie earns its sentimental moments. These are people you can care about and we certainly are not drawn into this story by any means of contrivance or fixation. Ford is always a magnificent storyteller, and here he weaves several threads at once, the most moving being that between Maureen O'Hara and Walter Pidgeon. Hindsight tells us this should not have received all its awards, but that does not take away from the fact that it is still after all these years moving and tender in ways that seem dead to us today. "},{"Title":"Reminiscing the times...","Date":"9 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This movie tells the story of the Morgans, a coal-mining family that lives a harsh life in South Wales valleys.Huw Morgan tells this story as an older man.He looks back to the time he was a kid, wanting to be a miner just like his father and older brothers.John Ford was one of the greatest directors of western movies.But western wasn't the only genre he was good at.How Green Was My Valley (1941) is a beautiful film that won 5 Oscars.It's a nostalgic trip into one's memories.Master Roddy McDowall is the young Huw and what an excellent job he does.Donald Crisp is terrific as Gwilym Morgan.And so is Sara Allgood as Mrs. Beth Morgan.Maureen O'Hara gives a brilliant performance as Angharad.Walter Pidgeon is very good as the new preacher, Mr. Gruffydd who's loved by Angharad.John Loder plays Ianto Morgan and Patrick Knowles is Ivor.They're both great.Anna Lee is magnificent as Bronwyn, Ivor's wife.This movie has some dramatic moments set in the mine.But it shows us that even though the life may be tough and money hard to get, you can always find some beauty in life. "},{"Title":"As powerful and effective as you could expect from an '40's family-drama.","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" The '40's are known for their strong family-drama's, often based on a best selling novel. All that this movies have in common is that they are filled with melodrama, dozens of characters and are basically in their themes and essence more or less the same. Yet they always manage to make a powerful and effective impression, no matter how many times you have all seen it before.This is a real family-drama alright! It has as a nice change that the movie for once isn't set in an upper-class family but a hardworking and struggling family in a little mining place, set in Wales, around 1900. But yet all of the problems remain the same. There is love, hate, struggles between the classes and death. The universal themes are all handled well within this movie, making How Green Was My Valley just as powerful as any other genre example from around the same time period.The movie is filled with many characters (not in the least due to the fact that the family consists out of many children), each of course with their own problems and views on the world. It makes the movie really melodramatic and you can actually wonder if it all wasn't a bit too much to handle in a just over 2 hour long movie. Lots of drama is happening in this movie, often involving some of the different characters of the movie and at times it is hard to keep track of things.This unfortunately often is the case with movies based on a novel. There is no way that you can ever put everything that is in a novel into the movie. You have to make some cuts but often a danger with those cuts is that the story will loose its power, since some things will be left out that are perhaps relevant for a certain following situation or the development of a character. Because of this as much as possible elements from the novel are being kept in the movie, with as a result that the movie often feels overfull, overlong and way too melodramatic. This also goes for How Green Was My Valley, that is filled with characters, dragging in some parts and over-dramatic in others.Nevertheless How Green Was My Valley remains a great genre movie, thanks to its craftsmanship. Even though I probably prefer John Ford's less serious movies, I can also appreciate his heavy drama's. It's a well told movie, despite all of the earlier mentioned problems with these type of movies.But of course you also shouldn't forget the acting. It's a movie that is made foremost by it's characters and the actors that are portraying them. Even though the movie doesn't feature the biggest stars of its time, it's a cast that is filled with some real capable actors who suits their roles all very well. Yes Walter Pidgeon and Donald Crisp are some well known actors but they were mostly actors who were normally playing secondary characters. Same also goes for Maureen O'Hara, who perhaps also wasn't that well known during this movie, which was only the 8th she ever did, even though she had already played the role of Esmeralda in the 1939 version of The Hunchback of Notre Dame.To show how popular this genre was at the time; it won 5 Oscar's in 1942, including the one for best picture and best director, which means that it beat Orson Welles and Citizen Kane at that time. It really doesn't mean that this movie is a better one than Citizen Kane but its merely a reflection of how people looked upon movies in the early '40's.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"How Good Is My Performance?","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" I was actually stunned by this movie the first time I saw this several years ago, and I hadn't seen it since, and ever since my portable DVD player came to be at work, I've been watching a lot more movies lately, and I was very happy to see this again, as this movie really is touching, about a Welsh family and their sort of attachment to the mines where they work for a living. Also, the daughter in the family is hot for the preacher, but the preacher wisely gets the girl to marry elsewhere, but is that for the best? Oh, what an American debut for Roddy McDowell. Literally off the boat from Britain, he just gives the most heart-tugging performance imaginable, it's hard to believe he wasn't nominated for an academy award for this. Everyone else is great here too. Wasn't a huge fan, now that I think of it, about the whole priest / daughter brouhaha, but other than that, a great watch (again!) "},{"Title":"An ertenal classic that still stands up --for all the melodrama of the time.","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  Peter Bogdanovic told a story about John Ford and How green was my Valley on a TV show recently.Ford sets up the shot where Maureen O'Hara comes out of the church having been forced into a marriage she does not want.Ford has a wind machine making the weather blustery and the camera picks up the couple as they exit the church.  They get into the horse & buggy and the wind blows away the bride's veil.  The camera follows it as it blows over the fields and then finds, in the distance, the figure of  a man standing under a tree.  This is the man Maureen O'Hara really loves but they cannot marry now.Ford calls Cut and his cinematographer comes over and says shouldn't we get a close-up of the actor (?) under the tree.Ford refuses No!  -- if we do that, they'll use it. "},{"Title":"One of the best films ever, a masterpiece of cinematography!","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  Contains Spoilers! This is a personal favorite.  It never ceases to move one to tears. Especially the scene when the mine explodes and the elevator rises by each level, wet with debris but no survivors.  This is one of the best novels set to movies by Richard Llewellyn. Produced by Darryl F Zanuck and directed by John Ford, with an allstar cast including Maureen O'Hara, Walter Pidgeon, Roddy McDowall, Anna Lee, Donald Crisp, and Sara Allgood.  Mr Morgan(Crisp)is the proud father of a hardworking mining patriarchy.  It is amazing how well Hollywood recreated the Welsh mining town where the story is set!  The new preacher Mr Gruffydd (Pidgeon)is well liked and especially by Angharad(O'Hara)and young Huw Morgan(McDowall).  Unfortunately the son of the mine owner is set to marry her, and she cannot refuse, so she is miserable in a loveless marriage. The soundtrack is beautiful, and the miners' continual singing throughout provide a moving framework for their spirit and suffering.  Huw is small and smart, so will become a doctor. He and Mrs Morgan have fallen in the frozen water and are rescued after she confronts them for their rough ways, but they are bedridden for months. They tap hello with their canes, Mr Gruffydd visits, and lovely Bronwyn reads him from Robert Louis Stevenson, so they both recover.  A very touching scene comes when spring is here and Huw looking out the window observes that the daffodils are in bloom. Mr Gruffydd takes him out and teaches him to walk again, among the daffodils.  Then later Huw gets beat up at the neighboring school and becomes a man there, and the scholar decides that before college he wants to go down into the colliery, just like his father and brothers did.  He gets beat up again defending his sister's honor.  Then they lose their jobs to neighbors, the mine blows up and Dada and Ivor Morgan get killed.  Some hard lessons here, but that is how it was. The valley that had previously been green was quickly turning black from soot, and everyone who could was getting out.  The Morgans leave, and presumably Huw has a better life as a doctor, and other better and more lucrative opportunities await the brothers. "},{"Title":"thoughtful, poignant","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  I enjoy Fords work, in particular his westerns, so was intrigued by this nostalgic story set in a rural coal mining town.  While unappealing for many I'm sure, persevere and you'll find a delicate, gem - a story about fragility of life and family.  Melancholically shot in black and white with some stunning cinematography, the film is required viewing for those who can appreciate it.  "},{"Title":"**** out of ****","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  One of John Ford's finest movies is the story of life in a Welsh mining town seen through the eyes of Huw (Roddy McDowall), the youngest son in the Morgan family.  Covers everything from family turmoil to social issues, but manages to remain interesting throughout the entire film.  As usual with John Ford, it is beautifully shot, with ever frame obviously composed by a man who loved making movies.  Always moving, and heartbreaking at times, it is an ultimately uplifting film about the human spirit. "}{"Title":"Fine Picture","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  This film has everything and it's all good.  From the opening shot with the Welsh singing, it holds one's attention in an iron grip.  There is a powerful message about how idle gossip can ruin a reputation, and I especially like the boxing lesson that is given to the schoolmaster. "},{"Title":"Always Our Valley","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  The continued popularity of this superb film may be ensured by the fact that so many viewers yearn for some idealized valley of their youth. Ford tells Llewellyn's story with scene after engaging scene showing the master's touch.  The setting/architecture balances brilliantly the images of mine, chapel, and home, symbolizing the three focal points of their lives -- and of ours.  The black slag slowly consuming the green hillside reminds us of the loss of our childhood dreams. As the parents, Donald Crisp and Sara Allgood convey anger, humor, and sentiment with great charm.  Likewise Maureen O'Hara, who, in addition, looks lovely beyond the praising of it. Roddy McDowell's performance may be the best ever for an actor of that age group. In contrast Walter Pidgeon seems hesitant and unnecessarily stiff in some of his lecturing scenes, but this is a very small flaw in a very great film. If your heart doesn't sing with the Welsh miners, it's a sad thing for you.  "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films ever made","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  I have read Richard LLewellyn's book, and the sequels, at least six times. While the movie lacks some plot details and descriptive material, the dialogue and movie narration are pure Llewellyn --and purely Welsh. It's always fascinated me that the conquered and adjunct peoples of the UK have done things with the English language that the English rarely have. Think of the English poetry and prose of the Irish poets, dramatists and novelists, and the poetry and prose of the Welsh writers. Unlike the Scots, the Cornishmen and the Irish, the Welsh accent is not so much in pronunciation as it is in the rhythym.I have seen this film at least fifty times over the course of my life. It never pales. Walter Pidgeon is fantasic, as are the elder Morgan sons --the only really Welsh leads in the film. For people who have never heard Welsh hymns in Chapel, or have heard a Welsh choir live, the singing simply defies description. "},{"Title":"classic old movie with heart","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  This film is great to watch and at times poetic too.The story of a welsh mining community in the 19th century grabs you by the heart from frame one. The characters are interesting and human,the effect of the mine on the morgan family is total,it feeds them  tho they are badly treated by the owner.The family is sometimes split down the midddle but comes together as a strong unit in times of crisis,the scene where two brothers leave for the USA is poignant as the mother knows they will never meet again.The camera shows them leaving the valley climbing upwards as if the only way they can progress in life is to leave their past behind them.The acting ,writing and directing are first class,modern movies have grea effects but very few have the heart and humanity of this film.Grab some coffee,sweets and a   box of tissues make that two boxes of tissues watch and enjoy     8.5/10 "},{"Title":"One of the greatest!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  How Green Was My Valley, which beat the over rated Citizen Kane for the Academy Award in 1941, is one of the most moving films that I have seen.  The characters in this film instantly attract the viewer to continue watching, the role played by Roddy McDowall is exceptional for a young actor, and the storyline is one that makes you want to laugh and cry at the same time.The ending is perhaps the highlight of this film, as well as the light-hearted moments with McDowall's school master, and it is a film that should be seen again and again.A classic!  And one of the greatest. "},{"Title":"Such a wonderful movie!","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  There aren't enough superlatives for this movie.  It definitely deserved its Oscars.  Not only is it a movie about class tyranny, it is also a movie about family and family values.  Maureen O'Hara is wonderful, as always. "},{"Title":"A tale spun of rich incident","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  The basic plot It follows the ravelling and unraveling of a Welsh mining village and a large family in it, told by the focus of a young boy, Huw, as he grows up.The praise As it simultaneously recalls subplots,characters,events dramatically and comically,it has the feeling of a tapestry . The various layers of subplot and event, twine with character bond.It ties these delicate strands together perfectly and sensitively , allowing for tragedy,comedy, and incident. You see a society , and its characters in realistic ways, through the very good acting by Roddy mcDowell, Sara Algood, Maureen O'Hara, Walter Pidgeon, Barry Fitzergald,Donald Crisp, and Anna Lee . It recalls childhood in an interesting way, is often touching, and has a great ending. Or, you could just judge it on its cinematography scenery , or music. Either way, it is a very good movie. Best Picture.The flawsa little saccharine at times. "},{"Title":"A most memorable film","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  The first time I saw How Green Was My Valley I was about thirteen years of age.  Being Welsh and living in Wales at the time, I felt certain pride whilst watching it. I cried and cried and cried, quite unashamedly (despite my older brother laughing at me). Each time I saw it again, I cried. Then I got older and, in one fell swoop, my memory of the film was shattered.  Someone said to me do you really like that film? Almost all the actors are American, it was filmed in America... there's hardly anything Welsh about it...aw! I had never realised. Now, when I watch it, I do see the flaws and I have seen too many films in which Roddy MacDowall is a 'baddie' for me to consider him the innocent child. Nonetheless, it is a film I will always remember when many others I have watched will have long since been forgotten. Nosta. "},{"Title":"A tear-jerker, yes, but surely the greatest one ever made.","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  How could anyone watch this film and not sympathize with the Morgan family and the troubles it faces? Yes, it's only a movie and although its power is diluted a bit by the inevitable Hollywoodization of Llewelyn's novel, it boasts terrific performances by several actors who rose to the occasion, has a gorgeous score, and is full of imaginative touches and haunting images (so many of the scenes are burned into my memory) by a director at the top of his form. And there's just enough humor to bridge the tragedies that are inflicted on these people. I still delight in the scene where Rhys Williams (the only player who was actually Welsh) and Barry Fitzgerald give a boxing lesson to a sadistic schoolteacher (the only time John Ford flirts with cuteness), but the movie is full of great moments. I'm a cynical, jaded movie-viewer but, even if it sometimes verges on the operatic, I doubt that I would even want to meet someone who could dislike How Green Was My Valley. "},{"Title":"Worth the Wait","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  After seeing the parent trap, Im eagerly trying to see as many films with its stars. How Green is My Valley has the much younger Maureen O'Hara.It starts off slowly and to be honest you really need to watch it several times, but it is worth watching. It picks up in the last half with a bit more pace.I feel a little disappointed in the end, there seemed to be no point to the story, it went from A to B, but then you wonder why it needed to go to B in the first place.However its got a certain classic quality to it, the story starting off in the mining village, the youngest son is sent to school in hope he'll get a proper job save working down the mine, then there is the fight scene in the school. Classic. The film wouldn't be complete without the scandal between preacher and Angharad, of course played by the lovely Maureen O'Hara. "}{"Title":" A film close to home","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  I've seen this film over 25 times and I still cry at the end. This is a story close to home as it deals with life and death around the coal mines. My home town is depicted in the movie The Mollie Maguires(the movie was shot 20 miles away) but HGWMV weaves a kinder but sadder tale of the same kinds of class struggles, family loyalty and love. One of the most sorrowful looks in cinema passes between Mr. Gruffydd(W. Pidgeon) and Angharad(M. O'Hara) at the mine shaft after the explosion that kills Donald Crisp,a look of longing and loss. The Welsh singers add soul to the dreary,poor village and in the lives of these people , I can see my forebearers in this town which suffered the same fate as the Welsh town. "},{"Title":"Easily John Ford's Greatest","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  This is the third greatest movie I have ever seen.  Ranking only behind CITIZEN KANE and CASABLANCA.It is easily John Ford's greatest.  The movie is filled with visionary shots that only a truly magnificent and ingenius Director can provide.The story is over the top, bordering on melodrama, but successfully walking that tight line without crossing over into it.  I am still in amazement that it could be done.Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"The best film I have seen","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  This film without doubt is the best film ever made. An excellent cast and script with more than the occasional tear. I believe that this film is a must see for anybody who enjoys a good film on the tyranny of class exploitation. "},{"Title":"The life and times in a Welch coal mining town circa 1900.","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" I saw this picture when I was about the same age as Master Roddy McDowall and it's poignancy and eloquence has stayed with me all these 66 years. I loved the picture then and I still do, even now. My father was a blue collar worker and he provided very well for all of us at a difficult time when living was simpler and, in my opinion, so much better than today. He loved us all and this love in our family reminded me so much of the great love expressed among all in this film. This movie was able to get down to the grass roots, so to say, of what life must have been like in a Welch mining village at the turn of the century. The acting from everyone was superb in their individual roles showing the strong character among the Welch people. The singing by the men was, at all times, rousing and truly magnificent - a memorable and fitting tribute to the director and producer who orchestrated such a resplendent film. "},{"Title":"Best picture wasn't deserved","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" I've seen this movie now a dozen times.With each viewing the story becomes more trite, the characters more cardboard, the experience poorer.Perhaps the book is a masterpiece but without reading it I can't comment. But I am wondering if people raving about the movie haven't read the book and are projecting the wonders of the book onto the film. But I digress...Find me a small UK mining village (England/Wales/Scotland, even Ireland had anthracite mines in the 40's) where the sons weren't expected to follow their fathers into the mines, regardless of their intellectual or other abilities.Watch The Stars Look Down, 1940, if you want a better example of the tough life faced by everyone living in a coal mining village. "},{"Title":"Their voices still a glory in my ears","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Although John Ford won four Academy Awards for directing, on only one occasion did his Oscar coincide with the award for best picture. This is perhaps largely because Ford was a director who made more of an effort if he liked the material. His technique had earned him the respect of his peers, but by and large his greatest efforts were not Oscar-winning fare. Enter How Green Was My Valley - a sentimental story of family and community, the screenplay of which Ford called nearly as perfect as a script can be, but also Daryl F. Zanuck's attempt to produce a picture with a dramatic sweep to rival Gone with the Wind. The result ticks both boxes - happy John Ford, happy academy.The finished product may be smaller in scope (not to mention runtime) than Selznick's superproduction, but like Gone with the Wind it underwent several changes of cast and crew. The original choice for director was the excellent William Wyler who, just to contrast with Ford, won three Oscars for directing, each time for a best picture. Had he been given the reins we would have seen a somewhat different focus. Wyler was better with actors and intimacy, but Ford was better with places and groups of people. The film is thus short on convincing drama and great performances, but strong in its depiction of a community. Ford brings the mining village to life with tender beauty, and devotes time to giving character to the crowd scenes.Of any of the major productions of this time you might expect this one to be in Technicolor, if nothing else to show just how green that valley was. But Ford, who was actually appalling at colour composition, achieves the contrast with monochrome, thanks to Arthur Miller's Oscar-winning cinematography. You can see the effect best in the opening sequence, when the mottled greys and swathes of black of the village in modern times changes to startling white with crisp black silhouettes for the green of Huw's childhood.What makes this picture especially typical of Ford is its use of space. In the Morgans' home he uses tight framing devices and makes the large family appear to take up every available space. The effect and intention here is of cosiness, not claustrophobia. Ford often made interiors look cramped to emphasise the togetherness of family and community. In this case it also makes the place look all the emptier by contrast when the sons leave home. Ford actuallycontinues this pattern of shot composition for the exteriors, using tree branches for framing or buildings as backdrops to make the making the village appear similarly enveloping and close-knit.Ford must also have relished this chance to make use of music and song as an emotional backdrop. You see this in most of his sound pictures. A piece of diagetic music, usually some kind of community sing-song, begins as a simple transitional group scene, but we then home in on a moment of intimacy as the singing continues in the background. The best example from How Green Was My Valley is when Sara Algood welcomes her sons back into the home after the strike. I think Ford more than any other director knew the value of diagetic music, and was (quite rightly) against excessive background scores. Unfortunately this was 1941, and overstated incidental music was more or less inevitable.While Ford could create beautiful images, he rarely made much effort to motivate his cast. Here we have some disappointing performances from Maureen O'Hara and Walter Pidgeon, both of whom could do much better, and either grating hamminess or downright bad-acting from the bit players. It was also a mistake to have Roddy McDowall play Huw throughout the film. He's fine as a child, but the baby-faced twelve-year old doesn't convince as the young adult he is supposed to be by the end. The one great performance is that of Donald Crisp, an intelligent actor who also had experience as a director. Players like that don't really need coaching, all they need is a role that is worthy of them.Of all the best picture winners of this era, retrospect has not been kind to How Green Was My Valley. It is often unfairly recalled as the film which won over Citizen Kane, not to mention The Maltese Falcon and The Little Foxes. Its sentimentality and its reluctance to delve into the darker elements of the story look particularly dated next to the maturity of post-war Hollywood. I would say it is a slightly unfocused story, with not enough enough emphasis on any one of its strands. However, it's silly to blame members of the academy for being puzzled by pictures that were ahead of their time, and even sillier to condemn a picture for having broad appeal. How Green Was My Valley is not literally the best picture of 1941, but it is that broad appeal that made it a winner. "},{"Title":"Far better than Citizen Kane","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This is one of the finest films ever made and a Hollywood milestone. The film is about the lives of the members of the Morgan family, told in retrospective by Huw the youngest member in the family. The movie has great charm and beauty. In my opinion it is far superior than Citizen Kane. Quite honestly Citizen Kane is not good to begin with and it is extremely boring and unconvincing. The Academy was right in giving this the award instead of giving it to the overrated Citizen Kane. How Green Was My Valley is extremely moving and heartbreaking. The bittersweet climax is unforgettable. A film everyone should watch at least once in a lifetime. "},{"Title":"Sentimental Ford Drama....A Classic Piece Of Film-Making...","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Sentimentality is not such a bad thing, when a film is so beautifully produced and acted as this one. A young boy looks back on his life in a small coal-mining town in Wales, and the turn of events that has led to his decision to leave his cherished 'valley'.Beautifully told, and it is not hard to see why this film won 'Best Film' honors over 'Citizen Kane' at the Academy Awards. 'Kane' is, of course, the more influential of the two, but the conservative Academy often subscribes to the theory 'When in doubt, go for the crowd pleaser'. Orson Welles, with his alleged Communist sentiments and scandals, seemed a riskier choice than the great American master Ford. So, the accolades at the time went to HGWMY. That is not to say that Ford's film was undeserving. It is superbly directed, and has retained it's popularity over the years to be acknowledged as a true American classic in it's own right.A wonderful cast supplements Richard Llewellyn's original story. A lovely young Maureen O'Hara is perfect as the lovesick Angharad, the Morgan's only daughter, who cannot marry the man she really wants to be with, Mr Gruffyd (Walter Pigeon), a preacher. However, this is more than a love story. It tells of the unbreakable bonds of family, of spirit and hope, of conflict and politics in turn-of-the-century Wales. Donald Crisp is amazing as the father of the Morgan clan, and the youngest son, Huw, our little narrator Roddy McDowall, gives a touching performance.The real winner in this film is the cinematography. The Fox Studio sets seem to effortlessly take on an Old-Word Welshness. Ford's unique ability to meld social concerns with old-world nostalgia and romance makes 'How Green Was My Valley' a memorable classic indeed.Whilst it is slow-moving at times, this is a terrific product overall. Sad, moving, gentle and warm, HGWMY does not disappoint. "},{"Title":"Majestic From Beginning to End.","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Forever to be known as the film to win the Best Picture Oscar in the year of CITIZEN KANE, Ford's film is itself truly great and more than worthy of sitting beside Welles' masterpiece. A human drama that presents a community on the verge of death, living and fighting against an uncertain future the only way they know. The film strikingly shows the line between the value of tradition, the need for progress and how society handles it. It is an epic but intimate tale of love, life, death, family, religion and society. The film crams a vast and rich thematic palette into its absorbing two hour runtime. Not a scene is wasted or uninspired. John Ford's masterful direction and Arthur Miller's beautiful cinematography create a perfectly stark, and frequently beautiful, representation of a Welsh village at the turn of the century. Ford's affection towards the dying culture is clearly evident. A haunting, inspiring and beautiful film. Do see it. "},{"Title":"GREAT movie!","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" fr qangor >...Then we go into flashback. And so we go on this movie-long flashback of his life and times growing up in the valley... but NEVER get CLOSE to filling in the actual, non-flashback story WHY is he leaving the valley? What was up with that? I claim the right as a viewer , that if you're going to announce a momentous event and then slip into a flashback, that the flashback better damn well explain the momentous event! But of course, that would require a plot, and this movie can't be bothered with that...< I would suggest you read the original book, How Green Was My Valley, and then maybe you'd realize that it is a very well-tied-together story. John Ford did a terrific job with this movie, having to condense it considerably. It's obvious that Huw is leaving the valley because he can't get ahead in any job he tries, the mine is pretty well cleared out, and he realizes that. You can find the book at a used bookstore. Unfortunately, I can't spell the author's last name, all I know it is Richard something (hey, it's Welch!). It's one of my favorite movies. "}{"Title":"...but if manners prevent our speaking the truth, we will be without manners.","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" With producer Darryl F. Zannuck's three hundred thousand dollar purchase of the film rights a record sum at the time, his vision of the movie encompassed a four hour epic extravaganza on the scale of Gone With The Wind, complete with full color treatment. However with World War II looming, and Nazi warplanes bombing England and Wales, on location shooting became impossible. The dried out brown hills of Malibu didn't fit the bill when it came to 'green', and as it turns out, created a blessing in disguise for this tale of family and labor strife set in a Welsh coal mining town. The black and white format captures the anguish and ill fortune of an entire town in a way that color never could, and with it, garners an array of film awards including an Academy Best Picture.For young Roddy McDowall, the film was a blessing as well. He had only been in the country for two weeks with his mother, on the run from the war in England, when he auditioned for the part of Huw Morgan. There is probably no better definition of being in the right place at the right time. The story is told through the eyes of Huw, and his portrayal captures an unusual maturity and integrity. Director John Ford immediately took to the young actor, and brilliantly utilized his ability to convey the rigors of mining life and the trauma that comes from being different. The 'little genius from the coal pits' teaches all of us about dignity and individualism, even when a bully school teacher couldn't beat it out of him.The movie is blessed with impressive performances. Donald Crisp excels as the Morgan family patriarch, and in turn was recognized with a Best Supporting Actor. Equally assured is Sara Allgood as his wife Beth, holding her family together in a way that even her husband couldn't. Walter Pidgeon and Maureen O'Hara deliver one of the most heart rending unrequited love combinations in film, giving the movie as much an uncomfortable undercurrent as the dangers lurking underground in the mines.Ironically, the recognition of How Green Was My Valley as Best picture came out of a field that included Citizen Kane, widely recognized today as the best film of all time in many quarters. On that count, my preference tilts toward Orson Welles, but I've seen that one quite a few more times. Nevertheless, for a first time viewing today, 'Valley' leaves an impressionable imprint, with no surprise as to how it's characterization of family unity and living by one's principles can strike a chord among viewers even some sixty plus years after it was made. "},{"Title":"It's Black-and-White? I Hardly Noticed!","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" In the late 1930s, a novel written by Richard Llewellyn called How Green Was My Valley flew off bookstore shelves with nearly the same enthusiasm as a little-known tome called Gone With the Wind. Well, when the movie Gone With the Wind (1939) played to packed houses and won numerous awards, including eight Oscars, Darryl F. Zanuck envisioned a similar treatment for a movie based on this book four-hour length, full Technicolor, shot on location in Wales. Well, plans have a tendency to change. When Nazi Germany decided to drop bombs all over the British Isles, production was still shot on location -- in Malibu, California. And this is why How Green Was Valley was filmed in black-and-white.But, enough history. I figured I needed to explain briefly why a movie whose title literally screams color was shot in black-and-white. And, quite frankly, I find that to be the only real problem with this movie. I, for one, would have loved to have seen the Welsh countryside, complete with green valleys and daffodils and the growing coal slag over the course of the film. But sometimes you make do with what you have. Thanks to John Ford's deft and efficient direction, the final product made do just fine.Starring a young Maureen O'Hara and an even younger Roddy McDowall, How Green Was My Valley successfully conveys the perspective of youth, especially in how McDowall's character, Huw Morgan, spends months in recovery after falling into a frozen stream, and how he looked up to Mr. Gruffydd (Donald Crisp), the town minister. O'Hara, whom I always knew to be a beautiful and talented woman, is perfectly cast as the Angharad, Huw's only sister. But the best performances to come from this film are those of Donald Crisp and Sara Allgood, as the Morgan parents. Crisp's Gwilym Morgan is a stern and noble man, who rarely raises his voice to get his point across. And Allgood's Beth Morgan is a hearty woman who isn't afraid to speak her mind. And, though Donald Crisp did win Best Supporting Actor, I believe that Sara Allgood's performance is the best one in the film, especially during the scene in which she walks for the first time after she and Huw fell into the aforementioned frozen stream.Okay, so How Green Was My Valley is in black-and-white and not in color, but don't hold that against it. It is still a worthwhile story, with strong performances and skilled direction only John Ford could deliver. "},{"Title":"An Undervalued Masterpiece","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This is a film that for some reason does not seem to have gained the place in the pantheon of major film achievements that it deserves. It is a story of a working class family at the turn of the nineteenth century, facing the many hardships of work and survival in the harsh mining communities of the Welsh Valleys. Perhaps the unabashedly political theme of the antagonism between miners and their ruthless employers is a factor that has led to it being sidelined by many commentators. Perhaps it is the now-unfashionable sentimentality in the portrayal of the idealised working-class family. Even so, the film remained so powerful in its depictions, even in 1984, that it was not shown on television in Britain for the duration of the 1984-1985 Miners strike.John Ford's direction evokes a real sense of involvement in the life of the small community perched continually on the edge of disaster. And I would class this is one of the most powerful weepies of all time. Anyone who can maintain a dry eye throughout the film is made of stern stuff indeed. "},{"Title":"a simple comment on how green was my valley","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Despite being known for directing his western films, John Ford left a mark in the film industry with his many works. An example of this is his Oscar Best Picture, the 1941 film How Green Was My Valley, controversially known to have defeated Orson Welles' Citizen Cane and John Huston's The Maltese Falcon, which is considered as the greatest pictures ever made. He also won his third Best Director Oscar for this film, which also became controversial, competing with Cane and Huston. Nevertheless, Welles considered Ford as the best director of all time. Citizen Cane and The Maltese Falcon are always mentioned in film books and the viewing of these films is a must for film buffs and students. Even though How Green Was My Valley didn't get that much recognition and prominence in the latter years up to these contemporary times, many elements of the film still deserve commendation. Having been created in the midst of the World War II, the filmmakers faced many limitations. 20th Century Fox had envisioned the film to be a four-hour Technicolor epic similar to the 1939 film Gone With The Wind, which would have been shot in South Wales. But even with all of these restrictions, the film succeeded in creating an outdoor set, with a line of cottages slanting uphill toward the mine colliery. This was impressively realistic, even though it was just part of a set built in the hills of Malibu, in Southern California. How Green Was My Valley was originally a best-selling novel by Richard Llewellyn before being adapted by Philip Dunne into a screenplay. The story is about a main character, Huw Morgan's flashback to the very important events in his childhood that shaped his life. It tackles many social problems, showing Huw's family and community facing problems in their coal-mining town, like unemployment, forming of unions, young men having to leave their homes to find better jobs in other countries and death in the family. It also shows the unfair treatment to laborers and the wide gap of the wealthy and the humble but hardworking families like the Morgans. It tackles Huw's challenges as a young boy, being ridiculed in school, being taught to fight and be a man, and healing his broken legs from an accident in the snowy roads. The most important part of the story is that it presents a hopeful side, showing the closeness of a family and how they face their problems, helping each other. 1941 was the time of the World War II it was depressing for the many families who had sons and husbands who were soldiers fighting in foreign lands. They needed hope and I'm sure many of the film viewers felt the hopefulness despite the tragedies in the film and in the reality of war. People should watch How Green Was My Valley because it is a film with a great blend of humor, romance, tragedy and social troubles in which we see the Morgan family trying to prevail through it all. But it is not just the story that will move you, the setting of the Welsh sloping hills will make you believe that they really shot it in Wales. The setting seems to be a character of its own, with the flashback of Huw's life, changing from a pleasant community in the flourishing valley, a memory of his childhood to being grown up and changed from all the tragedies, tragedies that have also left the valley filthy and old. The characters all have stories to tell and lessons to learn from, most especially Huw, in whom we see the change and maturity and the broken innocence although growing up in a happy and warm family. All though How Green Was My Valley isn't considered as the greatest picture ever made, it deserves to be seen, as a contribution to the many great stories told in film and it is also a part of the assemblage of films that made John Ford one of the greatest directors ever. "},{"Title":"Memorable & Well-Crafted, If Rather Downbeat","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This adaptation of the memorable story of a town of Welsh coal-miners is well-crafted and generally well-acted. The rather downbeat story makes it a little harder to enjoy than some similar movies, but that hardly detracts from the care with which the movie was made. There are several sequences that work quite well, both in terms of the humanity of the characters and in terms of the themes involved.There are quite a few characters, and most of them are believably portrayed by the cast. The screenplay does a pretty good job of selecting a series of events that work on screen and that create a good sense of the broader history of the town and its families. The problems they encounter are presented thoughtfully, and even the slower stretches are usually used to develop the characters.Walter Pigeon and Maureen O'Hara carry much of the picture, but there are also several good performances from the rest of the cast. Despite the continual struggles of the characters, it is generally enjoyable to watch, with lots of good cinematography from John Ford, and it has a good amount of worthwhile and thoughtful material. "},{"Title":"a theory","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  *may contain spoilers*Someone else said below There is a curious mistake in the concluding minute of the movie. The father, Donald Crisp, has been killed in a mine accident, leaving the film to conclude in sadness. So we go to a flashback of how the valley once was green and everyone was young and happy. Suddenly we see the father walking with his young son (the film's narrator), limping and with a cane. Did he survive? How?At the end we are back in the present, when the child character is reminiscing about his life (his narration is concluding at this point). My theory is that the occasion for him narrating this story for us is that he is dying. Then, once his memories catch up with him and his narratino of them is over, he dies and is greeted in heaven by significant people from his past who have already died...Bronwyn, his sister, the preacher who helped him walk, his father, and last, his four older brothers. Just a theory. )Liked the movie, though it was a bit repetitious at times. Great dialogue, and very moving.  "},{"Title":"A subtly subversive classic","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  Yes, there is plenty of tear-jerking sentimentality in this film. But there is also as much social commentary as has ever come out of a major Hollywood picture. Donald Crisp's sons are labor activists in the mine--and their activism splits the family apart. Barry Fitzgerald leads the local church's persecution of a woman accused of adultery--and pastor Walter Pidgeon speaks out against intolerance. Little Roddy McDowell is the country kid ridiculed by his more sophisticated (and cruel) classmates and teacher. (The teacher is subjected to some vigilante justice when Roddy's townsmen invade his classroom.) Women in the film take leading, assertive roles--and not just in the family. So while How Green Was My Valley endures as a rich, family drama--enhanced by the Welsh songs and settings--it is a deeply political film as well, embodying the kinds of values of tolerance, fairness, and justice that we went to war to defend in 1941. "},{"Title":"A Film About Love and Family That Brought Hope to a World in Chaos","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  How Green Was My Valley is considered the giant-killer.  It did defeat Citizen Kane in 1941 for the Best Picture Oscar.  Clearly this film is not as good as Citizen Kane (what film is?).  However, How Green Was My Valley might be the most important film to ever win the Best Picture.  It was made right when the world was spinning out of control.  The Nazis were becoming a threat not only to Europe, but to the whole world.  The Japanese were gaining power and the attack on Pearl Harbor had dragged the United States into the war.  This film is so loving, so pure, and so perfectly made that it is near impossible to say anything negative about it.  Donald Crisp won an Oscar for his supporting turn, Maureen O'Hara does some of the best work of her career, Walter Pidgeon and Barry Fitzgerald each leave lasting impressions.  However it is a young Roddy McDowell that proves that even in the darkest of times, love and family will prevail in the end.  A great film.  4.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Ford's best film","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  How Green Was My Valley is a very moving drama, thanks to the direction of John Ford.  Ford has proved himself as an excellent director with this film, as he tells the story (which is also done well) of a family of coal miner's in a small town.  Not for everyone, but absolutely for any film buff or fan of Ford's work.  Winner of 5 Oscars including Best Picture, Best director (which actually beat out Citizen Kane and probably should've been a tie), best supporting actor and best cinematography.   "},{"Title":"1941 Classic Masterpiece","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This is a rather sad and dismal film concerning a Welsh coal mining village and the entire town is employed by the mining company. The Morgan family is a long established mining family and well respected and especially, Gwilym Morgan, (Donald Crisp) who has a large family of boys and one girl, Angharad Morgan, (Maureen O'Hara). There are many problems with the Morgan Family which occur within their own home when the young men decide they have to form a union with the coal mining company and they all go on strike and this angers their father Gwilym Morgan and the boys leave their family. Walter Pidgeon, (Mr. Gruffdd) who is the local pastor and has fallen in love with Angharad Morgan and she loves him but they have a very hard time trying to communicate their feelings about each other. John Ford produced a great film and there is great acting by Roddy McDowell and Barry Fitzgerald. "}{"Title":"How Pure Was This Movie!","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" John Ford was one of the greatest directors the world ever saw, and this truly remarkable(though overlooked, unfortunately!) film does nothing but strengthens that fact. Rich with love and beauty, this film will always be one of the most beautiful family films of all time.Wonderful cinematography, enchanting music and great characters evidently fit the film to height. Maureen O'Hara in the role of a loving sister and an obedient daughter is fantastic. Donald Crisp(Mr.Morgan) is amazing as a responsible father and coal-miner. But the one who wins the toss is Roddy Mcdowall in the role of Huw Morgan, the youngest of all brothers. What a charming performance! I can never forget his shy face when he finds himself (innocently) in love with his elder brother's fiancée.. it's just one among a lot of beautiful sequences in this film.. like never forget to say 'Bless you!' when you see one sneeze.I've never seen such beautiful things in movies made before or after this 1941 Oscar winner. Highly recommended to all those who love to watch the films with moral qualities and virtues.How can anyone not love this movie? "},{"Title":"Ford's masterpiece","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This is director John Ford's masterpiece, followed closely by The Searchers. John Ford takes us into an incredibly sentimental world, so sentimental at times you're almost embarrassed to watch. However, one can get past this and view the beauty of the film for what it is.We see the destruction of a city, a destruction apparently by capitalism. The theme of this film is kind of an Irish Grapes of Wrath, people are commodities, and the real players are the corporations and companies. We watch as a traditional family has to make do with one thing, and that is the family itself. While their world falls apart, they never lose their love for each other and they realize that family is there to keep one going. One of the best descriptions of the world as it is and how strong family ties can save it.ZooTrouble "},{"Title":"A Human Face for the Working Class!","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" I have watched this masterpiece at least once a year for the past 30 years and each time I find another nuance I had not noticed before. This is a rich work of cinematic art from the great John Ford.Growing up in a working class family I knew people very similar to the the Morgans and saw their struggles to earn a living. The characters are well-defined and you will be drawn to them. How refreshing to see the working class portrayed as admirable, intelligent people, deserving of so much respect. Kudos to the master John Ford for bringing such a true character study to life. Also Daryl Zanuck deserves credit for acquiring this property and guiding this project to completion.This movie should be mandatory viewing for all high school or college students studying history, economics or sociology. During the last scene, no feeling person will be able to forget the look on young Huw's face as the lift rises from the pit. Huw gives a human face to the heavy sacrifices the working class sometimes have to make while earning a living.As they say a picture's worth a thousand words! A digitally restored version of this movie is available on DVD. Rent it or better yet buy it and see for yourself. HGWMV will become one of your favorite movies, too. "},{"Title":"An Evocation of Wales Before the Coal Ran Out; Both Lyrical and Lovely","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This is a splendidly-made film. It is better than its competitor film Citizen Kane also dating to 1941 because Kane is also very-well-made but about a man ethically not worth the film, an empty exercise in rattling-good story-telling. I am no great fan of How Green Was My Valley either; but its story at least concerns people who lived under a dictatorship, the British Empire, and about their universal expectations namely that hard work, not committing crimes against others and holding to hope and saving a little for the future should be enough to guarantee them, a modicum of happiness...They used their faith as an excuse to fasten their narrow ways onto others and worse, as an excuse to ignore reality; and they acted in their reality as if they were responsible at work not elsewhere. But in the end they were proved to be wrong. At the core of the film is their pseudo-Christian pretense to be self-responsibles not just in their work but as human beings on Eartth; of course this latter claim was largely untrue because they were denying or ignoring so much. They had substituted pseudo-Christian pretensions to be moral through fear, ignorance and abstinences or frustrations for the old tribal ideas of doing what you were told and what everyone else did in order not to be punishable. So when the mines, for which these rights-poor Welshmen worked began to play out, those they had treated as infallible pseudo-Christian leaders turned out to be those who had no interest in their individual welfare or rights at all. The god that failed is hard enough for any true believer to admit; but when that 'god was always nothing better than a statist privilege-wielding imperial-corporation's c.e.o., the awakening can be devastating for the believers. The tale is told in his old age by a man quitting the region, who was the youngest son of a mining family when the era of coal mining was b beginning and the valley of his people was green, not blackened by industrial slag and dust. Director Ford dwells lovingly on this peaceful time, and the simple life of its hard-working folk. What undoes this time are a series of disturbing happenings; he has to learn to fight to survive at school; the local parson is blackballed for loving a beautiful girl and has to leave his parish; a union is begun when the pay and work at the mines starts to be cut back; there are violent incidents; and finally the entire pretense the folk had been living under the Empire collapses into something untenable. The union question divides the family; the mother and her youngest fall into a freezing river and have health problems, etc., etc. Ford and his scriptwriter, adapting the lyrical novel of the same name by Richard Llewellyn, the great Philip Dunne, opted to set the conservative father on a pedestal and ignore his pro-dictator and therefore slavery-position-accepting ideas. The artistry of much of the film is not Fordian; he seems to have done here as in The Quiet Man a job of accepting the way of the people as a given, which robs the film of some potential dramatic power. But what is left is beautifully photographed by Arthur C. Miller with music by Alfred Newman and often quite moving. It is hard to believe the entire film was shot on a soundstage and in back-lot locations, nowhere near Wales at all. Gwen Wakleing did the costumes, Thomas Little the set decorations with art direction by director Nathan Juran and Richard Day. In the cast, Walter Pigeon is magnificent as the priest, Donald Crisp and Sara Allgood stalwart and warm as the parents, Maureen O'Hara lovely as the tragic Angharad. Among other good actors one must look for Anna Lee, John Loder, Patrick Knowles, Rhys Williams, Barry Fitzgerald, his brother Arthur Shields, Morton Lowry as the obnoxious schoolmaster and Roddy MacDowall who is nearly perfect as the young Huw. Despite its conceptual flaws, it is a masterwork of cinema that evokes its lost and less contentious Age honestly and often well. "},{"Title":"Never watch this film without a box of tissues!","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This is one of the best films of the 1940s but I've gotta warn you that it might take quite an emotional toll on you to see it! That's because the film is about a family of Welsh coal miners who experience many, many tragedies. And, because the acting, direction and writing are so superb and they must have had a genuine love for the material. As a result, you feel a very strong connection to the characters and it is truly painful at times to watch. But, given that the film seems so real and the film was so lovingly made, you will also most likely find yourself glued to the screen. It truly is an amazing and must-see film.The film is told my Roddy McDowell's character after he is grown and is reminiscing about life in his small Welsh town when he was just a boy. For his first acting job, McDowell did an amazing job. The only problem at all is that several years were to have passed in the film, but poor old Roddy always looks the same age! But this is such a minor problem that it can be overlooked. At first, the valley where he grew up in seems very idyllic. It's still beautiful despite the coal mine and the family enjoys a certain level of comfort. But, as the years pass, the wages begin to drop and the once lovely locals show that down deep they aren't so lovely--though all the while, the focal family in the film maintains its dignity and decency. I actually liked this aspect of the film, as in the beginning things just seemed too perfect--slowly exposing this undercurrent was marvelous and seemed awfully real.In addition to all the sad moments, there were some wonderful and happy moments as well (though in general, there seemed to be more sad ones). I particularly enjoyed the scene where the two local men went to Roddy's school and beat the man up in front of the class. He really, really deserved it and the scene was handled very well.The most amazing thing about this movie is when and how it was made. The film originally was to be made in Wales and in color, but WWII came and spoiled all that! So, the movie was actually made in a set constructed in Malibu--but it looks just like Wales! I know, because I have visited Wales and it was spot on! But, given that Malibu isn't the same lush green color but more of a yellow-green, this forced the film to be made in black and white--which I think actually works better in this film anyways. To learn more inside information, try watching the AMC short film AMC BACKSTORY--HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY--included on the DVD of this film.By the way, I feel compelled to throw in my two cents worth concerning the controversy over this film beating out CITIZEN KANE for Best Picture. A lot of people love KANE and it's a great film, but I have read some knuckleheaded comments online about how bad HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY was. Perhaps the wrong decision was made (though I would have voted for HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY), but you can't rationally say that this isn't a great film--and probably John Ford's best--it's THAT good!!! It IS possible to love both films! "},{"Title":"A must see movie, probably John Ford's best movie ever.","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" To me the best movie of all time was How Green Was My Valley. It's considered John Ford's greatest movie. It received five Oscars beating Citizen Kane for best movie Oscar (1941), it also receive Oscars for Best Director (John Ford),Best supporting Actor(Donald Crisp),Best Art Direction/Interior decoration, and best cinematography. A real tearjerker (three hankies) about the life and times of a Welsh mining family during the Victorian era. Donald Crisp is the patriarch of the Morgan family, the type of father that everybody wants. Ford's skills at movie making reach its zenith. Watching the movie makes you feel like part of the Morgan family. You live through the joyous times and the poignant times. The cast is superb, Walter Pigeon, Donald Crisp, Maureen O'Hara, a very young Roddy McDowall, Anna Lee, and Barry Fitzgerald, among others. the DVD is available from foxhome.com for $11.23, available in US only. "},{"Title":"Sugary movie that has not stood up to the passing years","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Old movies sometimes have a certain charm. We like Angels With Dirty Faces, even though the slapping antics and code of honor don't ring true for today. How Green Was My Valley suffers much more from the passing years. The whole set looks unrealistic - more like a themed area in a Las Vegas hotel than a real Welsh village. The community singing does not ring true, and there are even parts with choreography so you could call it a musical.It's a sugary sweet love story between Angharad (Maureen O'Hara - who is truly gorgeous) and the preacher (Walter Pigeon, who's not). It's also a story of a boy not quite becoming a man - his trials and triumphs all too predictable.I watched the movie to the end, because it's not a bad movie - it's just not a good one either. The biggest question to me is why would this beat Citizen Kane for the best picture Oscar? After watching the movie, I haven't a clue. "},{"Title":"Well directed film is entertaining but dated, and its politics are very outmoded","Date":"25 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" The hard life in a Welsh mining town in the late 19th century through the experiences of a family of miners. Filmed in Hollywood in a huge movie set and not in Wales (for obvious reasons, since in 1941 Britain was through the most critical stage of World War II), this sentimental movie is quite dated but still worth seeing. Competently directed, the most amusing thing about it is its very reactionary politics. For instance, the scene where the stern patriarch of the family jumps in joy after hearing that his sons will be singing in front of Queen Victoria can only bring guffaws today (obviously, this family is totally pro British and has no use for Welsh nationalism). Or when the same patriarch adamantly opposes his sons joining the miners union (which he sees as socialist and god knows what else). Or when he kowtows to the mine boss, hoping that his daughter will marry her son (and why, in that class saturated era, would the boss like his daughter to marry a worker's son?. The patriarch is very stern and harsh toward his children, but hideously submissive towards the boss of the mine, despite the terrible working conditions there). And what about the subplot about the church elders making a ruckus about the supposedly adulterous (although not consummated) relations between the priest and the patriarch's daughter. All this look very ridiculous to a contemporary viewer. And it jumps at you when you are watching it, I'm not trying to see what is the ideological undercurrent here, it's very much upfront. I have seen little of director John Ford's movies, I admit, but what little I've seen seems both maudlin and conservative to the point of reactionary now. It could be that our social mores have changed so much in the last decades (and not always for the better) that he seems reactionary now, but I guess that even to his contemporaries Ford might have looked very conservative. "},{"Title":"a picture forever been cursed by critics as the one undeservedly trumped CITIZEN KANE for BEST PICTURE in the Oscar game","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" As a picture forever been cursed by critics as the one undeservedly trumped CITIZEN KANE (1941) for BEST PICTURE in the Oscar game, John Ford's traditional family chronicle about the Morgans in the South Wales Valleys based on Richard Llewellyn's 1939 eponymous novel, is truly born in the wrong year, for all we can see, it has a solemn rigour with first-rate camera compositions and Black-and-White cinematography, but tellingly it is also dated for its musty Protestant sense of worth in certain ways, say, the grating small- town parochiality is too overtly in-your-face, the socialism slamming is rather political and the puritan doctrine that a love-struck romance can be a man's undoing of his belief in God, thus he cannot marry the woman he loves simply because he chooses a lifestyle of austerity as a preacher, and doesn't reckon that she can tag along, only results in misery of both, it's all the same old story detached from our times. Starts with an euphonious voice-over (by an uncredited Irving Pichel), Huw Morgan (McDowall) recalls his earlier life with his parents Gwilym (Crisp) and Beth (Allgood), as well as his five elder brothers and an elder sister Angharad (O'Hara). His father and all his brothers work in a coal mine, and Angharad grows an affection towards the new preacher Mr. Gruffydd (Pidgeon), and the feeling is mutual. After a happy marriage of the eldest brother Ivor (Knowles) and Bronwyn (Lee), life begins to show a stern face towards the family. In the spirit of beating the drum for the traditional family values, the Morgans stick together, against all the havoc, and as parents, Gwilym and Beth have to accept the departures of their children when mining jobs slump and an enveloping danger regards to the danger index of this line of work. For Huw, his rite-of-passage is also composed of violence and prejudice, McDowall is the sole leading actor here, a staggering child performance with earnest compassion and empathy; Crisp portrays a quintessential steely father with benevolence under his rugged surface, and Allgood is a great scene-stealer as the tough mother, abiding by her family relentlessly, occasionally, she can also give audience a good laugh to appease the daunting reality, both nominated for Oscar and only Crisp won the trophy. Although Pidgeon and O'Hara are first billed, but their story doesn't fill up too much screen- time to be considered as the lead, Pidgeon's indignant deliverance in the church before he leaves embodies an archetype of Hollywood machination of hyping up a catharsis during its climax, considerably it was soul-inspiring to behold at then, but retrospectively speaking, its gloss has lessened since the method has become universally in the cinematic realm, now, it is barely an asset for new audience. Winning 5 Oscars, including BEST PICTURE, DIRECTOR and SUPPORTING ACTOR, the film can be listed as one of the most embarrassing winner, not a bad movie at all, only it revealingly reflects that the academy is not as prescient as what we give its credits for, which is a rather unfortunate gauge befalls on this one, otherwise, we could appreciate it more as a John Ford's brainchild. "},{"Title":"One of John Ford's best films","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" John Ford's How Green Was my Valley is a depressing story told in excellence about a Welsh father named Gwilym, (played by Donald Crisp in an Oscar winning performance) whose oldest sons are coal miners and wants his youngest son to find a decent job and then decides to be a coal miner like his brothers. The movie stars Walter Pidgeon as a preacher who thinks about whether he can be in love with Gwilym's oldest daughter Angharad (played by Maureen O'Hara) who is very much in love with but Pidgeon's character however doesn't believe that he can give her the life she deserves even after she comes back from New Zealand without her husband. Ford's movie also teaches us the times of hardship that Gwilym and his sons went through while working in the mine. Now that I'm reviewing the film that made John ford win his 3rd directing Oscar, as well as Clint Eastwood's favorite movie to me the film was very good being one of 1941's best and greatest achievements in film of that year and in film history. "}{"Title":"Sappy, Slow, Sentimental Fare","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" What can you say about a film that is known less for the fact that it won the Academy Award for Best Motion Picture than the fact that it beat out Citizen Kane? It also beat out The Maltese Falcon and Sergeant York--both of which, I would argue are more revered today than HGWMV.I will not assign a score to this film, because I did not watch all of it. This is not to say that it's a bad film, but I grew tired of the painfully precious tone at the beginning of the film, coupled with the very heavy-handed dramatization.John Ford directed many fine films (for example The Quiet Man),but in this film I felt at times that he thought he was directing a silent film, so overly dramatic was the action and the behavior of the actors.The story is primarily about a family of miners, the Morgans. They live in a valley with a one-industry economy. This is a prescription for economic instability. There may be a great story in the trials of the town and the Morgan family, but the film's slowness and it's reliance on overdramatization stopped me from watching its entirety. Perhaps one day I will watch it again, being prepared for it's style ahead of time. "},{"Title":"Charming, gritty, enjoyable","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" My observations Beautiful Maureen O'Hara. Talented Roddy McDowall. Poignant performances by Donald Crisp and Sara Allgood. Rhys Williams very good; I also saw him in The Corn Is Green, with Bette Davis. Shields and Fitzgerald also in The Quiet Man, and so is Maureen O'Hara. Walter Pidgeon very funny later in Julia Misbehaves (Greer Garson), where Walter is upstaged (smacked around?) by a trained seal. Beautiful Welsh singing. Makes me think of their Eistydfodd (sp.?) annual singing contest. Gritty, scary mine sequences. That flooding gave me the creeps.Lovely fake-Welsh village. So what about the fakeness and fake backdrops, etc.? Saves a ton of money, and besides the British Isles were all involved in that war business. Not good to have Nazis attacking John Ford's film crew if he had shot in Wales. Crappy husband Maureen married, but beautiful home and clothes she got ahold of. Still, there was nothing good about being separated from her true love, Walter Pidgeon. You have to remember that Walter would co-star with at least two beautiful women, Greer Garson and Maureen O'Hara. Walter (Gruffydd) gives their comeuppance to a whole church-full of gossipy hypocritical nitwits out for blood, even though they don't get it and it's over their cotton-filled heads. It looks as though very few of them have any personal romantic notions, so of course they would be jealous of Maureen and Walter, lol. (Does church lady ring a bell?).Two movies I am reminded of here. The Corn is Green (already mentioned) is set in Wales, and deals with coal miners and their lack of formal education. Corn has a central young male character Morgan Evans who tries to get formal education. IN HOW GREEN THE FAMILY NAME IS MORGAN, AND ANGHARAD IS MARRYING MR. EVANS. Rhys Williams is assistant to the schoolmarm (Bette Davis) in Corn. The second movie is The Little Minister (1934), where Katharine Hepburn (wealthy woman in disguise as a gypsy) is in love with the new minister (John Beal). Apparently her father/benefactor wants her to marry someone else, but she has her eye set on Reverend Dishart. I thought of this when I saw Angharad (Maureen) in love/attraction with Gruffydd/Walter.One more thing One of the gossips in How Green Was My Valley was portrayed by Mary Gordon, who portrayed Nanny Webster (older, wise woman) in The Little Minister. I recognized Mary's face right away.The mine tragedies in this movie are horrendous, yet believable. Even though I know it is all fake, it is very realistic and brings horror and painful watching.Talk about painful watching, when I saw Huw/Roddy getting beaten up by the young tough boys, I wanted to stop recording and erase this movie. Getting treated so badly by the schoolmaster was also pretty evil. Finally, I forced myself to continue watching. When Rhys Williams and Barry Fitzgerald descend upon the schoolmaster and give him a taste of his own medicine I thought that it was an hilarious scene. I was able to finish watching the movie.10/10 "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" I have not read the book for about 40 years so when I saw the DVD on special offer I thought I was doing well. However... it's obvious, as previously noted, that not only had the person directing the film never spoken to a Welsh person, they did not know anything about Wales. The small mining town in the valley looked like a little house on the prairie and the meagre miners' cottage was vast inside, making a mockery of the poverty issues so strongly fought against. The accents were dire, they really were, but what finished it for me (no, I am ashamed to say that I did not last the duration of the movie), was the appearance of two dear little birds on the windowsill by Huw's sick bed. Nothing like those ever flew in the UK when I lived there. I kept wishing that it could be remade today. I wonder if it could? The likes of Ruth Jones for example, could show the real Wales . Ah well, i suppose we put it down to time passing. "},{"Title":"Best movie ever made?","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" I think, on the whole, this is the best movie ever made. The movie represents the best of human nature. Citizen Cane has been sometimes cited as the best, and unusual camera angles made it interesting, but it looks average in comparison to this movie.Everything about this movie is absolutely top notch. The screenplay, cinematography, acting, music, settings and costumes, etc., as organized by the great directing by John Ford, are all superb. The movie is without any weakness or faults.This movie is an assertion of the best in the human being and a statement of optimism about the future. This movie does not exploit sex or violence. Those with strong primitive instincts will not like it. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Motion Picture","Date":"12 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" How Green Was My Valley is a great, well acted, well directed story but one of it's most remarkable features is the incredible black and white cinematography. If your kids are whining because they don't want to watch a movie that's not in color, show them How Green Was My Valley. It is visually gorgeous.It would seem logical that the reason How Green was My Valley beat out Citizen Kane for the Best Picture Oscar was because the character of Charles Foster Kane was modeled on William Randolph Hearst, an incredibly powerful newspaper mogul of those times, and he was not amused by Orson Welles portrayal of his private life. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This is another classic film I love. How Green Was My Valley is truly beautiful and I think an outstanding film. It looks gorgeous, with ravishing cinematography and the costumes and sceneries are very eye catching. The music is wonderful too, the background music is quite poignant but I was much more impressed with the Welsh Choruses which were so beautiful and the singing was superb. The script is lovingly written, the story is compelling, John Ford's direction is exemplary and the pacing is just right. Plus I have little wrong to say about the acting either, Walter Pidgeon, Maureen O'Hara, Roddy McDowall and Donald Crisp all give performances better than I could have dreamed of. Overall, this is a very beautiful and affecting film that always makes me cry at its end. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Excellent classic with outstanding cast, writing and direction","Date":"8 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This review contains spoilers.A heartwarming classic tale of a close family in a Welsh coal mining community and the struggles they must endure.Master Roddy McDowall is introduced to his first significant US film despite having appeared in numerous British films prior to his memorable appearance in this Oscar winning film.It begins as a brief narration of the childhood memories by the youngest son, Huw Morgan who is now middle aged. The scene switches to the past showing the Morgan family has several grown sons working with their father at the coal mine and one very young son (Roddy McDowall) still at home with his mother and attractive grown sister (Maureen O'Hara) who helps her mother care for the home and her brothers.The director does an excellent job with a realistic depiction of the life styles of a coal mining family returning home from the mines each day with their lunch containers and gear from the mines to immediately scrub down the insidious layer of coal dust in a tub of hot water. A coal miner never gets rid of all the fine coal dust which gets into their pores and sinuses. So in that aspect, the movie is very realistic.Very few scenes included the depths of the coalmine. Most of the movie was centered on the Morgan family, their lifestyles, traditions and family interaction.The sound track has quite a bit of Welsh men's choirs singing which nicely bookends the trek to and from the mines each day.The film takes us into the home and the stringently, well-mannered dinner table of the Morgan family; all of whom are respectful of their parents and traditions. The father is a respected leader among the community of miners. A new minister, Gruffydd (a young Walter Pigeon) has arrived as a fresh ray of hope in contrast to the vile deacons running the local church filled with gossiping biddies. One of the Morgan's older sons ends up married to a beautiful new wife.The sons desire to form a union to protect their salaries from those unemployed workers from nearby villages who are willing to labor in the mines for less but the father does not agree, thus the adult sons end up moving out of their fathers home and the miners walk out for a 22 week strike. The miners turn their anger toward the Morgan patriarch Gwilym played by Donald Crisp, thinking that he has somehow allied himself with the mine owners.Sara Allgood gives an outstanding performance as the matriarch of the Morgan family and nearly steals the show with her inspiring presence as a great actress. After a window smashing incident, her character takes on the strikers and threatens retribution for any violence against her husband. On the way home, she and her youngest son, Huw, end up trapped in the icy river and nearly die from drowning and exposure. They are rescued but require extended periods of recovery. Huw was not expected to walk again but the minister takes an interest in him and brings him books to read which opens up a new world of learning for him.Months later, with the minister's encouragement, Huw walks again and is sent to school for a higher education he would not normally have had. The schoolmaster is immediately cruel, abusive and viciously condescending toward the young, frail son of the coal mining family. Huw becomes a victim of schoolyard brutality. When his brothers and the local community boxing champion help the frail Huw learn to defend himself, the sadistic schoolmaster violently beats Huw across the back with a stick, flailing him to the bone. The village boxer and his friend go to the school and in a satirical manner, they knock the vile schoolmaster about the classroom until he ends up in an unconscious heap on the floor.The married Morgan brother dies in a coal mining accident leaving a widow with a baby; newly born after his death. Although Huw's father wants him to use his education to become a doctor or Lawyer, he chooses to go to the coalmines with his family even though he is just a boy and moves in with his brother's widow to help support her and keep her company. The women seem to encourage Huw's decision to work in the coalmines despite the father's efforts to steer Huw into a better path for his future.Two of the grown brothers end up being laid off because of their high wages and they leave to seek work in America.The Morgan's daughter, Angharad is quite smitten with the new minister but he won't have her live a life of poverty as his wife so she ends up in an unhappy, arranged marriage with the mine owners son but later ends up divorced and the brunt of gossiping old biddies led by the vile servant who has run her husbands home for generations&#x85; despite the fact that she has not committed any wrongdoing. The minister is furious with the congregation and leaves his ministry after chastising them for the cruelness of their hypocrisy.The patriarch, Gwilym of the Morgan family is finally killed in a mining accident&#x85; dying in his youngest son's arms.This classic film was reportedly recognized by the Library of Congress as being worthy of preservation for its historical significance.I highly recommend this as a wonderful classic the entire family can enjoy. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Movie, Wanted to Break Out In Song Myself","Date":"21 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" This film leaves me with an odd feeling, probably because of the many incongruities portrayed. For instance, we are introduced to a mining village where grimy, underpaid wretches, some of them too old or too young, all sing happily on their way to deadly work! The story relies on many tragedies, some that occur at the mine on a regular basis. There are strikes that last a year, dust explosions, accidents and lay-offs that cause half the family to move to another country. How can the narrator then introduce the story about a happy valley in Wales? It's a story about religious hypocrisy and a cruel persecution of a pregnant woman by church deacons, teachers that cane their students until the bone is exposed, a mine that causes the town to become without colour, consuming their native sons in accidents at regular intervals. It's about a union that smashes windows in the house where the union leader lives with his father who is not a member of the union. It's about a father who did not permit his adult sons to speak at the dinner table! Make up your mind, either it was a happy little valley or it wasn't.It tries too hard at tragedy and fails miserably in its repeated attempts. First there is the union which divides the family, then there is the daughter who marries the mine owner's son she doesn't love but has a flame for the preacher, then there are the sons that are torn away from their mother, then there is the son who loses his ability to walk due to a spill in cold water, then there is a cruel teacher who beats students senseless, then there is the mine which randomly consumes the father. If you were to write this today it would be rejected. Readers wouldn't get through this work without filing it under G. Pick a tragedy, one only please, and use some writing skill to develop that properly.This film is typical of the sagas of the era, like GWTW et al, which struggles to create an irony that might have existed only in the minds of those who lived back then, and because of this flaw is quite dated and irrelevant. "},{"Title":"A Glory","Date":"14 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Apart from a few quibbles (daffodils in Wales bloom in February/March, not in high summer as the film would have it), I think this is, for the most part, an absolutely amazing piece of work.It captures exactly the small-minded hypocrisy of village life and the petty viciousness of the villagers, only too ready to turn on their own, and much as we still see it today. And the spittle-flecked religiosity of Chapel folk of the old school. But it also brings to the screen the warmth and beauty of family life and living in an age that will never come again.Although Maureen O'Hara seems to recycle her skittering servility for The Quiet Man, for the most part the women's performances, especially Sara Allgood and Anna Lee, are luminous. Donald Crisp is a marvel, and the actors who play the Morgan sons are solid. And even the Welsh is correctly pronounced, which is a marvel of itself.As for the music that ties it all together, it is sublime. I am so glad that this magnificent film prevailed in the Oscars over the tired, tiresome, arid and boring Citizen Kane. For once, the Academy got it right. "},{"Title":"Poignant Valley A Masterpiece ****","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" A Welch coal mining town;impoverished as ever, but rich in family relations, is the theme for How Green Was My Valley, an outstanding picture.Those coal miners, suffering from black lung disease, are forever remembered with poverty etched on their faces. They work long days and have little for it. They work for an uncaring management. They go on strike with violence resulting.The cast is top-rate. Donald Crisp, as the patriarch, won a supporting Oscar for his performance. He is strict but understanding. His wife, astutely played by Irish theater actress, Sara Allgood, is superb. Her scenes with the striking workers,and with family are all memorably done. Allgood was nominated for best supporting actress and unfortunately lost to Mary Astor for The Great Lie. This was a travesty.Maureen O'Hara, as Anharyd, their loving daughter, who loves the town preacher, but yet never marries him. Instead, she marries into the family of the owner of the coal mine. The marriage is loveless and subject to criticism by the town gossips, who direct their attention to the kind wholesome preacher,admirably played by Walter Pigeon. 37 years in the family, Anharyd is constantly reminded of this head housekeeper, wonderfully realized by Ethel Griffies. Note her social snobbishness as she too looks down on the less fortunate. Speaking of social class distinction, the scenes where scholar Huw (Roddy McDowall) attend school are fantastically realized when he encounters children as well as a hostile teacher, all of whom despise Huw Morgan for being a member of coal miners. We're in an era of the picture where belonging to a union or just mentioning a union smacked of socialism.The whistle signifying an accident in the coal mine is forever haunting. How much can the Morgan family take?The film is a tribute to coal miners and others working in hazardous industries. The warmth of family surrounded by poverty is another theme dealt well in this film. You will just burst out crying when Allgood, at the mine when her husband is killed, speaks out that her dead son,along with her husband, came to her. My father never died, says Huw. Such is also true of this magnificent film.It must be remembered that How Green Was My Valley was voted best picture of 1941 by the Motion Picture Academy. It beat out Citizen Kane, regarded by many as the best film ever made. To me, the academy made the right choice, politics aside.We all know family values and we can value this true American classic. "}{"Title":"A Feel-Good Movie Forever and Ever...","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" In this world there are millions of families around us, each and every family, has his own story, among them How Green Was My Valley is a emotional sentimental family drama of a 50 year old Huw Morgan, who narrates his child-hood flashback to us. Huw Morgan is the youngest in the family, with 5 brothers and one sister. Huw's father Donald Crisp is a Scotsman in a coal-mine, and his mother Sara Allgood, a housewife. They are happy until the tragedy event takes place in their life&#133; The 80-acre set design of the village was just amazing, while watching we never comes to know it's a set. When it comes to the matter of Acting, each and every one did great, among them Donald Crisp, Sara Allgood and Huw Morgan are the stage Steelers of the show. Huw Morgan, narrating adult voice is brilliant. Out of 10 nominations this movie won 5 Academy Award in 1942. This is also one of the best movies of Director John Ford, which won him an Oscar for his great effort. So please watch it, to feel-good.Always, good makes us to feel-good; so if u wants to feel-good, watch this movie to feel-good. "},{"Title":"The welsh western!!","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" You can tell this film was directed by John ford, throughout the film you're just waiting for a bunch of cowboys to ride right in.I am pretty sure the Rhondda has never looked like that , even before it was filled with slag- in the days when it was green. Some of the accents are questionable- a mix of Irish and Indian accents generally, although the preacher from Cardiff doesn't even attempt an accent. The characterizations are pretty good though, and aside from the accents the acting is pretty good on the whole. The script is well written as is the plot. This film is worth a watch, for entertainment - or like me- if you want to see what Hollywood makes of the welsh! "},{"Title":"Corny, heartbreaking.","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  I can't watch this anymore.  More important, neither can my ex wife, of an adamantine nature.You don't really want to miss this one.  It's a beautifully crafted story of the disintegration of a community.  It is as corny and as effective as can be.  You will be queen wherever you are, says Walter Pidgeon and we quail.  Or kvell.  What a story to break your heart.  And how well done.Everything, every detail, is exquisite.  Even the stereotypes -- the mine owners, the bereaved widow -- are well done.  Do not miss this. "},{"Title":"A Classic Hollywood Movie from the Golden Era","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  One of my personal favorites. This is one of those rare movies that truly does have a heart to it. A poor mining family in Wales deals with the travails of life and change. No pat happy endings but through it all a sense of deep faith and hope and the value placed upon life and the enjoyment of life. Beautifully photographed under the direction of the great John Ford (the most Oscar winning Director in history. 4 of em) with wonderfully poignant performances by Roddy McDowell and Maureen O'Hara and Donald Crisp to name a few. Walter Pidgeon is a bit stiff in his delivery of the new minister in town but then again, I imagine a new minister in a coal mining town in Wales might be a bit stiff anyway. This movie snatched the Academy Award for Best Picture out from under the nose of Orson Welle's Citizen Kane and for my money, I'm glad. I'm a huge movie buff if I do say so myself and I certainly understand the significance and importance of Citizen Kane and I've seen Citizen Kane many times as well. But honestly, somehow Citizen Kane comes off like vegetables you know they're good for you, but you'd still rather have roast beef and gravy. "},{"Title":"A family classic","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  This is widely considered to be the best film of a golden year for films, 1941.  The academy awards collected are impressive.  And it is a fine film.  But it's a weeper, a true sobber.  Charles Dickens would feel at home in this ultimately tragic story of a dreamy little mill town in Wales turned into a polluted nightmare, and a lovely family transformed by hardship, sexual frustration, and death.  Maureen O'Hara and little Roddy McDowell were especially good.  John Ford was at his best.  On the other hand, Walter Pidgeon was a bit hammy in one of his last scenes, and all of the characters in the film are strictly one dimensional.There is a curious mistake in the concluding minute of the movie.  The father, Donald Crisp, has been killed in a mine accident, leaving the film to conclude in sadness.  So we go to a flashback of how the valley once was green and everyone was young and happy.  Suddenly we see the father walking with his young son (the film's narrator), limping and with a cane.  Did he survive?  How?  Was everyone, including his wife, mistaken?  The father had never before been hurt until his death!  Did the boys on the third floor at 20th Century Fox try to brighten up the film's ending? Still, this is an above average film, designed for the whole family.  "},{"Title":"Blu-ray Release of HGWMV is the way to go.","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Below is what I original wrote about the DVD release. Since then it has been made available on the Blu-ray format and that is the disc to purchase. All of the Extras are carried over from the DVD but the picture and sound are greatly enhanced on this format. Even if you already own this title on DVD (and, or Laser Disc), as I do, you will want to consider picking up Fox's new (January 2003) Studio Classics issue of HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY. The film transfer is the finest to date and this DVD is full of wonderful Extras! The commentary track features Anna Lee (one of the film's stars), making limited, but charming remarks about her sweet remembrances of making the film, along with a very fine commentary by author Joseph McBride. There is a AMC BACKSTORY presentation (from the days when AMC was truly a fun place to watch classics) that is exceptional; as well a large selection of Stills that are quite exciting (many shots of John Ford working on the various sets). The audio tracks offers one in Stereo (probably remixed), English Mono and French Mono. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film!","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  Maureen O'Hara simply glows on the screen in this beautiful film. Wonderful supporting cast all the way through; lovely music as well.  Great film to watch with children about the age of 10 and up, and will hold their interest, though you may have to fill them in on the political issues of miners vs. owners. True family values in this film; not the hollow right-wing variety. "},{"Title":"Excellent piece of work","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  A tale, told through flashback, which relates the trials and tribulations of a mining family in Wales. Beginning with the joys of a happy, hard working family, but when a mining strike occurs with the absence of unions it starts to put uneasiness in the family. Still we are aware of this being a perseverant clan who try to battle through Expertly directed by the best, John Ford, beautifully photographed, featuring a great cast (even though they're mostly Irish) turning in wonderful performances. Somewhat has the stigma of being an overrated film by beating out Citizen Kane, and Maltese Falcon for the best picture Oscar, but this one shouldn't be missed. Rating, 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Nostalgia versus reality","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  I need not comment on the story line as it has been dealt with several times over in earlier comments here. Suffice to say that this tenderhearted movie appeals to our longing to hearken back to simpler times when values were truer, integrity upheld no matter what, and family ties meant so much more. Yet the stark realities of their life, weighed down by the struggle with poverty and class distinction of the miners, does take its toll. Little Roddy McDowell, by the way, does a fine job of carrying his role in the story, considering his youth. I never seem to tire of seeing this film. All the characters give wonderful performances, and of course Maureen O'Hara shows her acting skills nicely and expresses some of her Irish qualities so well. I'll always like this one and have special memories for it. "},{"Title":"A well spent evening, grab the popcorn and tissues.","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  A wonderful timeless classic, a family movie that grows more endearing  as the years pass. The story-line is an example of a strong willed yet close knit family of personalities.It shows how different we can all be yet still hold the deepest love and respect for one another. If family values home and hearth mean anything these days to anyone this will delight and bring a warmth to the heart. I believe it would do us all a little good to watch this fine and wonderful cast portray what the world needs a little more of, unconditional Love and Loyalty. "}{"Title":"Classic","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  How Green Was My Valley is a departure from the Westerns that John Ford is so well known for.  The picture depicts the life of a Welsh coal mining family as their lives and family history are about to change forever. Their traditional way of life is on the verge of change as the narrator, the youngest of a large family, reminisces about his life as a boy in the mining town.  The film is poignant, and at the same time, able to make a statement about both modern life and the lives of turn of the century miners.  How often as adults do we reflect on how life was as a child? How often are we saddened by the loss of close family and friends who have drifted away? How often do we wonder when it was that our lives changed?Roddy McDowell, Maureen O'Hara, Donald Crisp and the rest of the cast turn in superb oscar-worthy performances.  This a movie that all movie buffs should see. "},{"Title":"A fine collaboration from Zanuck and Ford","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  A superb cast consisting of Roddy McDowell as young Huw, Donald Crisp and Sara Allgood as Mr. and Mrs. Morgan, Maurenn O'Hara as his sister Angharad and Walter Pidgeon as Mr. Gruffydd, town minister.Sixty year old Huw Morgan looks back at his life as a boy in a small Welch mining town.  Life was harsh with the brutal conditions of the coal mine and the treatment of the workers by the company.  His remembrances reveal the disintegration of his close knit family, while capturing the intimacies and issues of their time.  This acclaimed screen classic is one of Twentieth Century Fox's 20 great films of the 20th century, and is one of my favorites, as it will be yours after viewing. "},{"Title":"Good, but not as good as it should have been.","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  This should have been a better film, it's a bloody good story.  The various members of a Welsh coal mining family go through some major joys and sorrows in a time of social upheaval, it's all very true and moving, but not as moving as it should be.The high-budget forties studio gloss seriously diminishes the impact of the story.  Everything looks clean and cute and nostalgic, professional choirs dressed as coal miners stroll down the street, there's none of the danger, dirt, or poverty that the characters are supposed to be experiencing. The long-ago-and-far-away elements of rural Welsh life are emphasized too strongly, at the expense of the universal emotions the characters experience, and the audience's empathy.The actors are all good (although Maureen O'Hara is the only one who makes any attempt at a real Welsh accent), but the characters never come completely alive.  It's a film where you sit and watch the story unfold rather than one where you live the story with the characters. "},{"Title":"How bad were our accents","Date":"24 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Anyone who knows Wales at all will find one major problem with this film. You'll hear Irish (mother - Sara Allgood), American (Mr Gruffudd - Walter Pidgeon), English and even Scottish accents in this film. However only one of the cast actually sounds Welsh, and one other can do a passable attempt at one. It's like getting a guy with a strong Australian accent playing a Texan, it just doesn't work! This really grates. The film doesn't look as if it was filmed in America (other than the daffodil scene maybe) and would have been a good deal more powerful if it hadn't been for this one wee problem. Ford is a good director, couldn't he have got hold of proper voice coaches? The acting is good but for this detail, and there is also some wonderful Welsh singing in the film. "},{"Title":"Ford's sentimental tribute to coal miner families...","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY was a natural for Darryl F. Zanuck to buy for the screen once it became a sensational best-seller. And he was right to cast MAUREEN O'HARA, WALTER PIDGEON and RODDY McDOWALL in the leads--they're superb. But what really makes the film memorable are the wonderful character roles played by DONALD CRISP and SARA ALLGOOD, two of Hollywood's most renowned veteran performers.And what a pleasure it was to see DONALD CRISP get his Oscar award for Best Supporting Actor. This fine actor is in so many of my favorite films that I can only say--it's about time.But the story of a coal mining village where the industrialization is about to take place and miner's lives are about to change, has never been one that intrigued me enough to want to sit through two hours of sentimentality about the strength of a family during hard times. The theme has echoed in many a movie, but never with as much sentimentality as is on display here.Nevertheless, it has its quaint charm despite the script's tendency to become too maudlin for comfort--and the final scenes involving the mine disaster that takes Crisp's life are very touching. But Ford's film never got that much of a grip on my emotions--I find it overly sentimental with nothing really important to say aside from the bonds of family strength which it makes obvious with a series of repetitive scenes.A nice touch is the Welsh choral music in the background--appropriate and tastefully done. "},{"Title":"The End of an Era","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This film is chintz, but should be seen for its historical value. It is perhaps the last great bit of artificial melodrama that audiences could take at face value.The world would soon change forever. Orson Welles changed the way depth is photographed, and that is a very, very big deal. Here, we have deep focal diagonals and energetic smoke, but no shocking god's eye.Fast upon that, many filmmakers were to soon change our notions of verism. Here we have overt staginess, teapot acting, song from outside the narrative, ultracleanliness.The war was soon to transform America, and American films forever, introducing varieties and degrees of irony unfathomable to the audience that first saw this. What we have here are now embarrassing religious and political stances.This is to film what Bulwer-Lytton is to novels. Don't laugh unless you have read a B-L novel. (Try `Alice.') Melodrama is defined by the shifts in societal consciousness. What's discarded is melodrama. This is a husk of what it once was, gutted not by the lack of craft in it, but by the accident of the random devolution in group narrative.I think John Ford knew his quaint world was soon to end, and that is why he made a film about a quaint world that was soon to end. It was well known to Ford that friend Welles was watching Stagecoach scores of times during the filming of Kane, and jazzing every effect, every view, every trick. He was dead and knew it. "},{"Title":"How Green Was My Valley","Date":"21 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" I had heard about this film because it won the Oscar for Best Picture, against films like The Maltese Falcon, Suspicion and Citizen Kane, and it featured in the book of 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, so I had to see it, from Oscar winning director John Ford (The Grapes of Wrath, The Searchers, Mister Roberts, The Man Shot Liberty Valance). Basically the story is set during the turn of the century in Wales in the valleys and a small coal mining town, told from the perspective of a grown up Huw, seen throughout as a child (young Roddy McDowall), who is part of the Morgan family who are having a hard time. The youngest of the family is of course Huw, the patriarch is Gwilym (Oscar winning Donald Crisp) who has older sons that work in the dangerous and unhealthy mines, and he hopes his youngest son can honour the family name working hard, but the boy has his own ideas. Meanwhile the most beautiful girl in the valley is Morgan daughter Angharad (Maureen O'Hara) and despite him not being sure he could provide for her if they were to be together she is very much in love with him. Other stories that go on throughout include miners striking due to wages being lowered, good men finding themselves out of work and exploitation by unseen miners, but mainly we see the trials and tribulations of preacher Mr. Gruffydd (Walter Pidgeon), including business and family situations. Also starring Anna Lee as Bronwyn, John Loder as Ianto, Oscar nominated Sara Allgood as Mrs. Beth Morgan, Barry Fitzgerald as Cyfartha, Patric Knowles as Ivor, Morton Lowry as Mr. Jonas, Arthur Shields as Mr. Parry and Ann E. Todd as Ceinwen. I'm afraid to say that I did personally find this film a bit dated, in the way it was layered, in the way the acting was cheesy some of the time, and I could not follow absolutely everything going on, but the acting is fine, I can see why the particular cast members were nominated and won their Oscars, the direction is good, and the studio created Welsh landscapes are interesting, so while it may not be something I would necessarily watch again, I can see why in most ways it is a recommended drama. It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Interior Decoration, Best Cinematography and Best Picture, and it was nominated for Best Film Editing, Best Music for Alfred Newman, Best Sound and Best Writing, Screenplay. Very good! "},{"Title":"How Big Was My Yawn","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" John Ford is an acquired taste. His storytelling is visually breathtaking, but his pacing demands the most out of your patience. Pappy Ford has entertained and thrilled me several times over the years. Yet, patience won't quite cut it with How Green Was My Valley, his 1940 Oscar winner that tells the story of a Welsh coal-mining family struggling through the ups and downs of pre-welfare state industrialism in the late 1800s.HGWMV is a beautiful movie, inasmuch as you can find black and white beautiful. Artistically, everything is rich and satisfying to the eye. You'd never know it was shot outside Los Angeles, Ford has captured Wales so well.But, what is the point of this film? In two long hours, we meet and greet a passel of Welshmen and women who are struggling. They struggle and struggle, and when they're done--you guessed it--there's some more struggling to deal with. The whole thing is a flashback from the viewpoint of Roddy McDowall's character, Huw. Now a senior citizen, he looks back on his boyhood . . . and all that struggling and suffering.I got done with How Green Was My Valley and looked over at my middle-aged wife and teen-aged daughter to ask them why they thought this movie was such a classic. They were both asleep.I guess they had their own share of struggling--staying awake.My suggestion is to stick with one of Ford's Monument Valley westerns with John Wayne. At least then, the gunfire will keep you from nodding off. "},{"Title":"Sentimental drivel","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"14 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" I just finished watching this film for the first time, as part of my quest to see all the Best Picture films.Feh. Feh, feh, feh. Dreadful. Just dreadful. I hated this movie.First off, it's from a school of film which I've always hated no plot, just a bunch of episodes strung together. The ultimate example of this the whole movie is a flashback to the childhood of the narrator, who, in the opening scene (prior to flashing back), tells us how after 50 years, he's leaving the valley. Then we go into flashback. And so we go on this movie-long flashback of his life and times growing up in the valley... but NEVER get CLOSE to filling in the actual, non-flashback story WHY is he leaving the valley? What was up with that? I claim the right as a viewer , that if you're going to announce a momentous event and then slip into a flashback, that the flashback better damn well explain the momentous event! But of course, that would require a plot, and this movie can't be bothered with that.OK, so that's my complaint about the form; how about the content? Plain and simple, this movie reaches the point of bathos. In its endless sequence of episodes, we move from one tragedy to another, with the severity increasing as we go. Before the movie is over, everybody either loses their job at the mine, gets killed in the mine, has to forgo the love of their life, or gets beaten up and whipped by preposterously sadistic teachers and classmates. I won't give away the ending, such as it is, because you'll see it coming a million miles away anyway it's the only tragedy left that hasn't happened yet. By an hour into this thing, I was looking at the clock to see how much more I had to endure.All this travail is set against a backdrop of such sappy, syrupy sentimentality that you're likely to get your hands sticky just handling the DVD. Apparently we're supposed to feel some kind of great love for these characters; I didn't. For the most part, I found them sketchy and one-dimensional. The father, the mother, and to some extent the preacher, aren't too bad, but everybody else, you're apparently supposed to find lovable because everybody talks about how lovable they are. For instance, the great tragedy of Ivor when he dies, we're supposed to be all devastated and all-- except I couldn't remember which one he WAS. All you could really say about him was, he was the one who got married. Did he have any personality? If so, I missed it. Did he say or do anything memorable? If so, it escaped me. He was as cardboard-cutout as the rest of the brothers. Actually, did ANYBODY in this movie have a personality, aside from the 3 principals I mentioned? And let us not forget to pause and reflect upon the townsfolk. Part of the sentimentality is supposed to be about the wonderful people in this miner town, that we're supposed to identify with. The noble good workers and all that the narrator lovingly looks back on. Except that they are a total prop, and change like the wind to suit the plot (such as it is). They're good, wonderful people-- except when they're narrow-minded and nasty. And somehow we're not supposed to notice the inconsistency of them flip-flopping, by my count, SIX times in the movie.But the nadir, the absolute nadir of the movie, the moment when it lost me irretrievably, was when the boy, who has now become an honor student (and how did that happen? His teacher was a sadistic bastard who hated him, yet somehow gave him honors marks. But since we were done with that episode, no reason to bother explaining what happened! After all, we can't be bothered with plot!) and has the chance to climb out of the harsh, filthy mine life and become a doctor or lawyer, really rise and make something of himself-- decides, no, he WANTS to work the mines. This is the central character, the protagonist with whom we're supposed to identify, and he's an absolute blithering idiot. I couldn't respect him a drop after that.Awful, awful, awful. I got no enjoyment out of this movie at all. I gave it three stars, because the performances weren't bad (given what little most of the actors had to work with), and the cinematography was pretty good. But I truly hated it and hope I never have to look at it again. I WANT MY TWO HOURS BACK! "},{"Title":"Poetic but outdated movie","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  'How Green Was My Valley' is an offbeat movie among the works of a great - maybe the greatest - American director, John Ford. Here, you'll not find the great landscape of some famous westerns directed by Ford like 'The Searchers' or 'The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance'. This time, Ford turns his eyes to England and tell us a pungent story about a coal miner's family and its difficulties. The movie is affectionate and poetic but in some way the impression is that the movie - especially the style used to tell the story - is a bit outdated. Anyway,the movie can lifted some emotion and the performance of Roddy McDowall in the role of the young Huw Morgan is a highlight.I give this one a 7 (seven).  "}{"Title":"For those who have read the book You won't find the same gripping quality in the movie!","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" When it was published in 1939, How Green Was My Valley became an immediate best-seller because it was eloquent, true to life, and laden with the inner spark of emotions of a questioning kid. Through the eyes of the youngest Morgan growing up in rural South Wales in a mining community with his poor but respectable family we feel the hardships they experience as the scales wages decrease more and more in the mining and the increasing slag heaps mar the beautiful countryside. Huw's brains and his temporary physical disability set him apart from his brothers and consider a future out of coal-mining. That also makes him a better observer of the changes that would happen to his land along the years.What I have written above is pretty much what happens in the movie too, naturally but as someone who always tries to read the book first before seeing an adaptation I did not find the same flavor in the movie. I am aware of the fact that it is highly difficult to reflect all of novel in a 2 hour length feature film but there is something more that must have happened to be placed in the movie. In the book Angharad actually meets Iestyn up the mountain, even Huw accompanies her. In the movie there is an impression that as if Angharad was forced to marry him though she only met the local minister. While the movie focuses on Angharad and her dysfunctional family relationships it never mentions the relationship between Margen and Owen and his giving her away to his brother. Because of this very focus, you would think, Angharad is the only daughter in the family because Ceridwen does not exist in the movie either. Besides, Huw sounds more like a challenging boy no matter how vulnerable he may seem. In the movie one won't see it. For instance, in the book it is How himself who jumps and shout back at Mr. Parry in the meeting of deacons for Meillyn Lewis. The little boy challenges all of those deacons because he can't just bear the suffering of a poor girl in front of everybody. He even says to his fatherIf Meillyn is a slut, Chris is a coward and I know which of them is worst. In the movie it is Angharad who speaks up in the chapel, the same Angharad who just says wait till Mama hears in the book. In the book Huw asks whatever comes to his mind though he knows she will tell Mama on him. Once he even tells her that he has just seen a new baby come by looking through a plank and asks her whether the babies really come to the world that way. They two have always close relationship. When Huw movies in with her after the death of her brother he becomes quite a man actually. At a point when he tells about the gossip about Angharad and the local minister Bron tells something like so what? He is a man and she is a woman. People will talk. We are in the same house now and I know the way you look at me. They even talk about getting married. In the movie you just see him as a pubescent boy. The movie does not tell anything about Ceinewen either. Huw tells about his first sexual experience in epic lines in the book no man shall know what gods are working in him then Last but not least in the movie we are just led to think that Huw just chose to go down the colliery but in the book he decides to do so because he is expelled from the school. At the school he sees a little girl having a cord about her neck and from the cord that hung to her chins on which it is chalked I must not speak Welsh in school so he loses himself and hits a teacher. It is likely to see many more drastic changes from the book. But I think, the changes I mentioned took very much from the soul of this masterpiece. It may be just my imagination but I think the movie should have been more creative to reflect the book. Though the acting and the directing can't be called too bad it is not enough for this adaptation. "},{"Title":"Valley is product of the times","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" The style is a bit hard to take at times as with most John Ford films. But at least it talks about things that matter, or least once did ... not a brilliant film but with some good points. Perhaps in comparison to what is being made today it's understandable that people would see many old films as being better. It's annoying that the boy Huw goes down into the pits when he has the ability to,at least, get away from this place. As an educated man he would have been in a better position to strike a blow against misery then by romantically suffering. This is a morality play or a lesson in divinity as such things used to be called. He commits a sin of omission and nothing comes of it. I was in Wales in 1967 and saw the slag heaps which, two years before, had rolled down over a primary school and killed everyone inside. Most of the mines in England and Wales are now gone. I don't think they will be missed ... "},{"Title":"Lord Of The Colliery","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Some things never die, or at least die very slowly...for all the opinions about seismic shifts in film that occurred during/after WWII, I don't see that Ford's approach was so quickly extinguished. Of course, the acting's bad; stagy and confined by the conventions of a novel; recurring choruses played by the actors right on screen...Capra made essentially the same movie (Wonderful Life)when viewed in terms of the hortatory tone, the class warfare...It also came to me when hearing these put on Welsh accents and the narrative stance, the repeated idiomatic use of is it?...this is where Jackson got his *filmed* Hobbiton scenes and the central Frodo/Sam narrative dynamic (dogged persistence through faith); the increasing pall of coal smoke, the angled camera view of the march to the mines, all are later echoed in Jackson's *filmed* vision of Mordor and Orthanc -- not to be confused with Tolkien's written visions. "}]