[{"Title":"The Ghost of Frankenstein (1942) ***","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" An often overlooked and under-appreciated entry in Universal's classic Frankenstein series that succeeds as an atmospheric, effortlessly paced monster movie. Dark, stormy nights, crashing thunder and lightning -- all add in setting the stage for a thoroughly satisfying night of chills.Coming after FRANKENSTEIN, BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN and SON OF FRANKENSTEIN, this comparatively B production benefits from a fine cast who is able to make the unconventional plot line seem quite believable. The dignified Cedric Hardwicke plays the more reserved, second son of the original Frankenstein, who is visited by the ever-sinister Ygor (Bela Lugosi, reprising one of his greatest roles that originated in SON OF FRANKENSTEIN), who now urges that the scientist restore strength to his misshapen friend, The Monster (newly played by Lon Chaney). Working with the dubious help of a spurned medical assistant (the always delightful Lionel Atwill), Frankenstein hopes to right the wrongs of his father by transplanting an educated brain into the monster's head.After having played the definitive version of Frankenstein's Creation three times already, Boris Karloff vowed not to continue with the series at this point. It must have been a formidable task for Lon Chaney to take over the part for THE GHOST OF FRANKENSTEIN, but while he doesn't make as compassionate a monster as Karloff did, Lon does manage to endow the character with an awesome display of brute strength with his otherwise stone-faced performance.This also features the lovely Evelyn Ankers as Frankenstein's daughter, and Ralph Bellamy as her heroic fiancé. Special consideration must be given to Hans J. Salter, who fashioned an excellent music score which perfectly compliments the impressive work of director Earl C. Kenton, who was able to take a gradually declining storyline and charge it up with some life. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"The lesser of the first four films, but still good","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The citizens of the small German town of Frankenstein are once again incensed about Castle Frankenstein. Even though Wolf Frankenstein, son of the original mad doctor Heinrich/Henry, has been exiled, and the Monster and Ygor are supposedly dead, the villagers are claiming to have seen Ygor, and they believe that the presence of the Frankensteins has left a curse on their town. So they ask the mayor for permission to destroy the castle; it's granted. After they spot Ygor at the castle their fervor is increased. The destruction reveals the Monster encased in hardened sulfur, which apparently has been therapeutic for him. Ygor takes the Monster and escapes to Vasaria, home of another Frankenstein son, Ludwig. Of course chaos ensues.Series note Because the Frankenstein films to this point are as chapters in a novel, it's advisable that you watch them in order. Begin with Frankenstein (1931), The Bride of Frankenstein (1935), Son of Frankenstein (1939), and then finally this film.As the first three Frankenstein films are all 10s in my view, The Ghost of Frankenstein is a slight letdown. It's still a good film, but the atmosphere isn't quite as creepy, the sets aren't quite as good, the acting is cheesier (especially from Lugosi, who was already mired in serious off-camera personal problems by this point), and the scant running time doesn't help the film develop as well as it should.Despite the problems, there is much to admire. Director Erle C. Kenton, who began his long career during the silent era, appearing first as an actor in 1915, still gives us nods to the expressionist elements of the previous films. A scene that takes place on rooftops is probably the most direct reference in the series to the production design of The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari (Das Kabinett des Doktor Caligari, 1920). Kenton also references the other Frankenstein films without mimicking them--such as the scene where the Monster appears outside of the heroine's window, or the flashback sequence, which at first might feel like padding, but turns out to be necessary on examination.Vasaria is just as attractive as the elaborately realized village of Frankenstein in James Whale's films. Ludwig's palatial home, though more contemporary looking--the series continues through this point to modernize its mostly anachronistic settings--is still impressive, even if it can't match the amazing, towering-behemoth sets of the castle. Kenton's interesting point-of-view shots of our new Monster, Lon Chaney Jr., emphasize his hulking size (Chaney was 6 foot 3 and bulky) so that it looks like the sulfur pit was not only rejuvenating but cultivating for the formerly Karloffian Monster.The look for The Ghost of Frankenstein is much brighter than the previous films. There aren't such deep shadows, the sets are better lit and appear a bit crisper. For me, while this loses some of the atmosphere, it's attractive for different reasons. The music, a combination of an original score by Hans J. Salter and stock music by Charles Previn, is interesting, particularly for its occasional resemblance (although more traditionally tonal) to Stravinsky's Petrushka (originally written in 1911).Kenton and writers Scott Darling and Eric Taylor gave this entry a poignant spin by creating what is essentially a discourse on appearance differences, such as ethnic or subcultural identities. The Monster seems to be despised and feared not so much because he is evil but because he is the proverbial Other. He looks different, walks different, and talks different; it is because of this that he is considered a monster. While technically, he does commit crimes, they tend to be precipitated by dehumanizing, often violent reactions from the people around him. That's why the Monster has positive relationships with children--the idea is that they have not yet been socialized into dehumanizing the Other. Instead they have positive, curious reactions to him, which he reciprocates. Of course, these subtexts are present in all of the Frankenstein films, but Kenton, Darling and Taylor make it much more overt here. When Ludwig and his assistant are debating dissection of the monster to destroy him, we even get this line of dialogue, How can you call the removal of a thing that is not human 'murder'? The Monster is certainly human--he's made only of human parts. But regardless, because of difference, he is dehumanized conceptually, and thus a candidate for relatively casual extinction.The resolution that Kenton, Darling and Taylor show for the characters in the film dealing with the Other is also informative. To our heroes, the best answer seems to be physically manipulating him, to a severe extent--it would cause the Monster to lose his personal identity. The goal isn't acceptance of the Other, but molding the Other to be the same as they are.While this is certainly not the best entry in the series, it's a must-see, as it provides important links in Universal's Frankenstein mythos, which was continued for four more films. "},{"Title":"It's Fun...For a 'B' Level Entry !","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Boris Karloff was right; to leave the party while the leaving was good. This 4th entry didn't do much to expand the story or the Monster's character. All that was left to do was put new angles on what was already done before (& better).Nor was Lon Chaney Jr the actor to fill the Monster's boots. Physically, he was bigger and taller than Karloff (just look at their scenes together in 'House of Frankenstein' where Chaney half lifts Karloff off the floor during his panic from the upcoming full moon), but except for his rampages, he was unable to inject any emotion in the Monster's eyes (could hardly see them), or express mime acting to symbolize the Monster's torment.But this movie is acceptable fun if you can ignore the higher quality of the first three movies. The rest of the cast is way above average and so is the acting. And the ironic fate of all the characters displays the story's dark humor. Frankenstein, Ygor and even the Monster have a difference of opinion of whose brain should ultimately be popped into the Monster's skull.A nice touch was the three uncredited cameo roles in the opening scene carried over from 'Son of...' the Burgomaster (Lawrence Grant) and the two jurors previously killed by the Monster in 'Son of...'; Lang (Lionel Belmore) and Neumuller (Michael Mark). And of course, Dwight Frye.A necessary chapter to the next sequel that started the Monsterfest! But you'll need to watch 'The Wolf Man' (before or after 'Ghost of...') before moving on to 'Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man'.6 out of 10 ! Some classic moments!     "},{"Title":"Great Universal Monster Fun!","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The story picks up somewhat after Son of Frankenstein...Ygor...still alive somehow and the monster go in search of the second son of Frankenstein to recharge the monster and ultimately put Ygor's brain in the monster's body.. That at least is the plan.  This is certainly not the best of the Frankenstein cycle but it is a lot of fun.  Bela Lugosi again chews up scenery as the demented crook-neck Ygor...a malevolent and evil persona that has befriended the innocent creature, played with depth and great ability by Lon Chaney Jr.  In point of fact...Chaney's Monster ranks closely to Karloff's for his ability to give the monster a third dimension so to speak.  His scene with the little girl and her ball is a gem.  Lionel Atwill is in this as a bad scientist(a familiar role for him) and again he is very winning in his portrayal.  Evelyn Ankers is good in the female lead and Cedric Hardwicke is adequate in his role as the Frakenstein progeny, although somewhat lacklustre to be sure.  All in all a good Frankenstein film! "},{"Title":"You Can't Keep a Good Monster Down!","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"   The Ghost of Frankenstein was the fourth film in Universal's Frankenstein series. Although both the budget and running time had been cut back, it nevertheless remains an entertaining film.  The story picks up following the ending of Son of Frankenstein (1939) where the monster and his friend Ygor had apparently perished. Not so. You can't keep a good monster down these days. The villagers (including Dwight Frye) plan to destroy what is left of Frankenstein's castle. As they prepare to blow it up Ygor (Bela Lugosi) is spotted on the castle walls. He had been keeping a vigil over the spot where the monster was believed to have perished. The explosion reveals the monster (Lon Chaney Jr.) to be alive. Ygor spirits him away just in time and takes him to the village of Dr. Ludwig Frankenstein (Cedric Hardwicke), the second Frankenstein son. The monster takes a liking to a little girl Cloestine Hussman (Janet Ann Gallow) but kills two villagers who try to rescue her. The monster is overpowered and arrested. A trial ensues and the prosecutor Erik Ernst (Ralph Bellamy) tries to find out who and what the monster is. Dr. Frankenstein testifies that he does not know the monster. This sends the monster into a rage and he escapes with Ygor. Ygor takes the monster to Frankenstein's home and convinces the doctor to help restore the monster to his former strength. Meanwhile his daughter Elsa (Evelyn Ankers) discovers her father's papers and we are shown in a flashback to the original film, how the monster was created. Frankenstein decides that the only thing to do is to destroy the monster. His father's ghost (i.e. the Ghost of the title also played by Hardwicke) appears to him and suggests that giving the monster a new brain would be a better solution. Frankenstein agrees and wants to use the brain of a colleague whom the monster has just murdered. But Ygor convinces Frankenstein's assistant Dr. Bohmer (Lionel Atwill) otherwise and...... Chaney plays the monster as a total mute and shows little emotion except when the little girl is involved. It would be Chaney's only appearance as the monster. Hardwicke lacks the passion of Colin Clive in the two first installments which weakens his performance. Atwill who had played the police inspector in the previous film is suitably sinister as the mad doctor who joins with Ygor. Lugosi again turns in an excellent performance as the evil Ygor. Ankers lets go with a couple of her patented ear splitting screams. Bellamy has little to do as Ankers' love interest and prosecutor. Oddly enough, even though Colin Clive (who died in 1937) is clearly seen in the flashback sequence as Henry Frankenstein, it is also clearly Hardwicke portraying Henry's Ghost. Dwight Frye also seen in the flashback, has a small role as a villager at the beginning of the film. Although the ending is a little over the top, the film is still pretty good thanks to its excellent cast of veteran performers. Followed by Frankenstein Meets the Wolfman (1943) in which Lugosi plays the monster. "},{"Title":"Good and certainly enjoyable enough.","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Poor people of Vasaria. When will they ever be left alone? Once again the Frankenstein monster is resurrected and creates chaos and mayhem to the people of Vasaria and once more a son of THE Dr. Frankenstein continues his father's work. No as a part of the Universal Frankenstein franchise this movie of course isn't terribly original but still the movie its story is brought good and original enough to make this movie an enjoyable one to watch.Lots of 'Frankenstein regulars' show up once again in this movie. Bela Lugosi reprises his role of the deformed Ygor. Lugosi is terribly overacting in most of the scene's but at least its fun to watch. Lionel Atwill this time doesn't play a police inspector like he did so many times before in Frankenstein movie's. This time he plays a doctor/professor that used to be Dr. Ludwig Frankenstein's mentor. The Frankenstein monster himself is this time played be Lon Chaney Jr. and the make-up makes him look like a believable Frankenstein monster.If you're a fan of Universal monster movies you'll find plenty to enjoy in this movie. It's one of the better/more enjoyable movies that is part of the official Frankenstein franchise and it certainly doesn't have a bad ending.There isn't an awful lot wrong with this movie but it simply isn't original or refreshing enough to consider this a classic horror-movie. Of course this movie is best and probably only truly watchable and recommendable to those that are fan of the Universal Frankenstein franchise and classic Universal monster movies in general.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The Tide Turns","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  `Son of Frankenstein,' the third Frankenstein movie from Universal, started a trend.  In the first two movies, the Monster was an active force in the story &#150; his actions carried the story along.  By the third film, he became a background character, more prop than participant (which is what Boris Karloff feared would happen).  By the fourth film in the series, `Ghost of Frankenstein,' the transformation is complete the Monster is now a supporting character in his own movie.The real star of the movie is Bela Lugosi as Ygor, continuing his role from `Son of Frankenstein.'  Miraculously recovered from death by gunshot wounds, he finds the Monster (now played by Lon Chaney Jr) and sets off the restore his friend to full power.  He locates Dr. Ludwig Frankenstein (Cedric Hardwicke), a respected physician in the nearby town of Visaria, and blackmails him into helping with his father's creation.  But Ygor is also plotting with Dr. Frankenstein's fellow scientist Dr. Bohmer (Lionel Atwill in his second Frankenstein film) to alter the experiment a little&#133;`Ghost of Frankenstein' comes across as insubstantial when you compare it to the first three Frankensteins.  The acting is decent Bela Lugosi does a good job hamming it up as Ygor (a far cry from the elegant Count Dracula), and the other players go through their paces admirably.  Lon Chaney makes a competent Monster; he can lurch pretty well, and has a few moments of pathos, but he doesn't get much a chance to really act.  Of course, that's not really his fault; the script didn't give him much to do.I suppose `ghostly' is the best word to describe this movie after all.  It manages to generate atmosphere and thrills when you're watching it, but it dissipates in the light of day.  "},{"Title":"Better than its reputation","Date":"14 August 2009","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Snobby reviewers frequently deride Ghost of Frankenstein as the beginning of the decline in quality for the classic Universal horror films, emphasizing the decreased budget, lackluster script, and the lack of Boris Karloff as the monster. Categorically, this film gets unjustly bundled with Frankenstein Meets the Wolfman, House of Frankenstein and House of Dracula. However, while it's not up the quality of the films that preceded it, Ghost of Frankenstein is much better than any of its successors, and it has moments that are as good as any in the series. Bela Lugosi shines in the second installment of his greatest role, the demented, broken-necked Ygor, maintaining his tenuous control over the monster. While still a deviant schemer, Ygor is more three dimensional in this film than in Son of Frankenstein. For instance, he shows compassion for the child Cloestine when the monster indicates he wants her brain. Lon Chaney Jr. is no Karloff, but his massive, imposing version of the monster gave this viewer a shudder at one point, the first time the Frankenstein monster has scared me since I was seven years old! The sympathetic scenes when the monster befriends Cloestine are all the more interesting for the contrast with Chaney's unreadable, statuesque visage. In both Frankenstein and Son of Frankenstein, it was hinted that the monster--a child himself in one sense--is drawn to children as potential friends. This film is the first to really develop this theme. The scene where the monster retrieves Cloestine's ball is as good as Universal horror gets, especially accompanied as it is by Hans J. Slater's beautiful music score. The score is a tragically overlooked aspect of this film. Next to Franz Waxman's score for Bride of Frankenstein, Slater's score may be the best of any Universal horror film. The script is at times touching, but at times pedestrian. However, director Erle C. Kenton does a laudable job with what he's given. The cinematography is chillingly atmospheric and makes effective, menacing use of shadow. Also to the script's credit, this is the first film to address the obvious solution to the monster's problems since the real problem is his criminal brain, why not simply give him a normal one? Colin Clive and Basil Rathbone could have done this at any time, but it never occurred to them. Some elements of this film prefigure the Hammer horror series by fifteen years or more the underground cells for lunatics, all the talk of brain transplants, etc. The last 5 minutes are very effective and made a lasting impression on me as a child, an effect undiminished by the years. All in all, Ghost of Frankenstein is a must see for any classic horror fan. "},{"Title":"the second son of Frankenstein","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ghost of Frankenstein takes place after 1939's son of Frankenstein. this time the second son of Frankenstein(sir Cedric hardwicke)who is a mental health physician picks up where his brother left off.the monster(Lon Chaney Jr)and ygor(Bela Lugosi)seek him out for help.but the good doctors assistant(Lionel atwill)has other ideas.the beautiful Evelyn ankers plays Dr Frankenstein's daughter.Ralph Bellamy as her boyfriend. i would call this the weakest in the series but still very enjoyable. i actually love the whole universal Frankenstein series,after this there was 4 more;Frankenstein meets the wolfman(43)house of Frankenstein (44)house of dracula(45)and the comedy classic Abbott and Costello meet Frankenstein(47)anyway i give ghost of Frankenstein 8 out of 10.a good universal b movie with a great cast. "},{"Title":"The George Lazenby of Frankenstein","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No one envied George Lazenby when he became the first actor to play James Bond after Sean Connery bowed out of the role. I can only imagine that Lon Chaney Jr. must have felt the same sort of pressure when he was signed to take over the role of Frankenstein's Monster from the great Boris Karloff.Ghost of Frankenstein is, for some reason, one of the more obscure of the Frankenstein series -- I guess in the same way Lazenby's On Her Majesty's Secret Service is considered one of the lesser known Bond films. Coming on the heels of the Karloff trilogy, it does have a second-hand feel to it that doesn't allow the film to reach the heights of its predecessors.This is unfortunate because the movie isn't that bad, actually. In terms of inter-film continuity it probably has the strongest ties with the previous film, Son of Frankenstein, thanks to the continuing presence of Ygor (who, for reasons never explained, survived being shot in Son of Frankenstein). Ygor continues to act as Svengali/Pied Piper to The Monster, and Bela Lugosi turns in a performance that in my opinion rivals if not surpasses Dracula. Anyone who thinks Lugosi was a one-note ham actor capable of only variations on Dracula should check out this film and Son of Frankenstein for a revelation.As the Monster, Lon Chaney isn't bad. Being considerably stockier than Karloff, he somehow appears smaller (blame the sulfur pit, perhaps?). Chaney also chooses to play the role completely mute, a departure from Karloff's growling portrayal. There are several moments where he manages to evoke the types of emotion Karloff was capable of showing under the flat-top -- including a rather puzzling moment where the Monster recognizes Dr. Ludwig Frankenstein, the son of the original Dr. Frankenstein (maybe there's some backstory that we are unaware of?).Cedric Hardwicke as Ludwig Frankenstein tries hard but is unable to produce the same sort of near-madness that his predecessors Colin Clive and Basil Rathbone exhibited, while Lionel Atwill (playing a different role than the policeman from Son of Frankenstein) has a fairly thankless and somewhat confusingly written role to play in the eventual fate of The Monster.Universal was not known for its inter-film continuity, and although Ghost manages to tie in quite successfully with Son (if not the earlier films) there are still a few jarring continuity gaffes, the most notable being the use of a different actor for the scene when the original Dr. Frankenstein pays a ghostly visit to his son (hence the source of the title in case you're wondering) -- even though Colin Clive, the original (but by the time this film was made, sadly deceased) actor is clearly shown in a flashback sequence.Ghost of Frankenstein is far from being the best of Universal's Frankenstein series, but as a middle-of-the-pack entry, it's quite worthwhile. And for serious fans of The Monster who feel that the later team-up entries in the series are abominations (that is to say Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man, House of Frankenstein, House of Dracula, and Bud Abbott Lou Costello Meet Frankenstein), then this film is pretty much the end of the Frankenstein Monster story. "}{"Title":"The ghost of Chaney!","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After the visually impressive and incredibly photographed Son Of Frankenstein comes a formulaic B-movie which has it's moments,to say the least.There will be spoilers in this review,but most of you know about this film already.There is a curse upon this village...The curse of Frankenstein!.After a brief conversation,the villagers bring down Frankenstein's castle,but the immortal Ygor(Lugosi,recreating one of his finest roles)and the indestructible Monster(a surprisingly good Chaney jr.)get away.They force the second son of the infamous doctor to give the Monster strength.Strength of a 100 men! shouts Ygor.Lionel Atwill(as the mad Dr.Bohmer)totally overshadows Hardwicke's Frankenstein.There is a failed attempt to evoke the tragic spirit of the original,by throwing a little girl into the mix,but please don't think too deep about this matter,or you'll find a really tall,undead child molester replacing the much loved Frankenstein Monster.The highlight of the film is the part in which an evil,cunning,plotting,talking Monster graces the screen!Sadly,the continuity between this one and the next installments is nowhere to be found.Anyway,this one has it all.Murders,mayhem,angry villagers,Monster and Ygor.It's a good film,nothing less and nothing more. "},{"Title":"Breezy, Enjoyable Universal Fun!","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, we all know that Frankenstein was the trend setter. The Bride Of Frankenstein was the superior follow-up and Son Of Frankenstein was the most literate. But of all the Universal Studios Frankenstein movies, my favorite is 1942's The Ghost Of Frankenstein. I really don't know why, perhaps because this is the film I caught most often at midnight on Fright Night on WOR-TV. The movie itself is standard fare, but to me it is so breezy and so much fun I just enjoy watching it over and over again. Lugosi is great a Ygor the hunch back servant who is the monsters guiding light. Chaney Jr. is not the ideal frankenstein but he pulls it off here. Some great lines like Lugosi's Look at the lightning, the lightning is your mother he says to the creature. All in all, a lot of fun with a heavy dose of Universal charm and atmosphere! "},{"Title":"A worthy fourth showing for Universal's Frankenstein","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The third sequel to James Whale's 1931 masterpiece carries on with the idea put forward in Son of Frankenstein, in that the villagers from the settlement where Dr Frankenstein created his monster believe that their home is cursed. This leads us to Castle Frankenstein, where Bela Lugosi's Ygor is holed up. After the villagers burn the castle down, Ygor finds his 'friend', the monster; and the pair travel to the home of Frankenstein's second son Ludwig, whom Ygor hopes will be able to revitalise the monster. The events of Son of Frankenstein don't play too heavily on the plot of this film, and several important plot points have been ignored so that the plot is able to move as the writer wanted it too. This is somewhat annoying, but there are slight attempts to explain the reappearance of certain key characters that go some way to sorting it. The main plot idea is basically the same as Son of Frankenstein, in that it sees a descendant of the original doctor trying to heal his father's monster at the request of the sinister Ygor.Watching this film, it's obvious where Hammer Horror got a lot of their ideas for the continued story of Frankenstein from. There isn't a lot of reference towards the classic Mary Shelly story, and like Hammer would go on to do; this is a new take on the classic horror story. The Ghost of Frankenstein is hugely enjoyable as long as you don't go into it expecting more than a B-movie picture. The cast give the film many of it's main plus points. Series star Boris Karloff doesn't appear in this instalment, but classic star Bela Lugosi makes up for his absence. Lugosi's Ygor is the main driving force behind this film, and he brings just the right amount of calculation and malevolence to his crippled character. Lugosi is joined by Lon Chaney Jr, who steps into Karloff's role as Frankenstein's Monster. Really, he doesn't have all that much to do; but he's a worthy replacement for Karloff. Cedric Hardwicke is the doctor this time around, and does a fairly good job; while Lionel Atwill swaps his role of the one-armed inspector in Son of Frankenstein for Doctor Frankenstein's immoral assistant. Overall, this isn't as good as the three films that preceded it; but it offers a good time, and if you're a fan of the series, you'll no doubt like this too. "},{"Title":"The monster is back, along with the horror stars","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Ghost of Frankenstein is one of the several follow-ups to the original movie.In this one, the monster is resurrected by Igor and after the monster takes to a young girl, they end up with Dr Frankenstein's son. He puts Igor's brain into the monster, thinking it was a doctor's. The local villagers burn Frankenstrin's home down at the end, but his daughter and her lover are safe.As often in these sort of movies, we get a thunderstorm and foggy atmospheres to make it creepy.The cast is made of the usual stars in these movies Lon Chaney Jr as the monster, Bela Lugosi as Igor, Cedric Hardwicke as Dr Frankenstein's son, Lionel Atwill (The Vampire Bat), Evelyn Ankers (Son of Dracula) and Ralph Bellamy (The Wolf Man). Bellamy, Chaney and Lugosi are all reunited form The Wolf Man.This a must for all old horror fans. Excellent.Rating 3 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Ghost of Karloff","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even though this may be considered the weakest link in the legacy series of Frankenstein films,, 31-44. i rather enjoyed this one,, Lon Chaney Jr. plays the monster this time,, it was said that Boris Karloff didn't wanna be the monster no more,, because he felt that the series was getting to campy so to speak,, Bela Lugosi is also back as Ygor again,, boy you just can't seem to kill Ygor either,, hang em,, shoot him,, he just seems to come back for more. Frankenstein and Ygor in this one seek out the good dr's second son, to see if they can switch brains in this one,, and have the monster wind up with Ygor 's brain,, now folks that's a scary thought,, again the monster speaks in this one,, which i think is very very good,, this one should have a higher rating overall,, it's n ot a bad film at all,, and Lugosi,, and Chaney Jr. did a great job in it. "},{"Title":"An Old Friend","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this last night (on DVD) for the first time in years. It was like seeing an old friend! I remember enjoying this on WOR-TV (NYC's channel 9) years ago.Bela Lugosi steals the show as Ygor (just as he had in SON OF FRANKENSTEIN), but the entire cast is superior for what is essentially a B-picture. Beautifully photographed and scored, the film is well cast, well acted and a joy to watch. And Lionel Atwill's miscalculating Doctor Bohmer is the icing on the cake. Look for familiar (and unbilled) faces among the angry villagers Brandon Hurst, Dwight Frye, Richard Alexander, Harry Cording, Lionel Belmore and Michael Mark! "},{"Title":"Still a lot of fun","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For a while when I was a kid this was my favorite Frankenstein movie. Chaney is still second only to Karloff in the role of the monster --- he may not have had the subtlety (not that the script called for it) but he brought a great deal of brute power to the character. Of the two, Chaney's monster is the one I'd least like to run into in a dark alley. And the scene where he accidentally crushes the life out of his dearest pal Ygor always struck me a seriously creepy in its irony. There seems to be some debate over whether the noted character actor (and all around bad ass) William Smith actually appeared in this film as a kid. For what it's worth, he told me personally that he did and I'm happy to believe it. By the way (and I hope I'm not breaking any IMDb regs by saying this) I was amused that an earlier commenter thought highly enough of Denis Gifford's review of GHOST OF FRANKENSTEIN in his Pictorial History of the Horror Movie to quote it word for word and pass it off as his own! No hard feelings --- we were all kids once! "},{"Title":"Good Film in it's B Movie way","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After being resurrected from the sulfur pit. Frankenstein's Monster,and Ygor go to find the next Frankenstein son. Who plans to fix the monster by transplanting him a new brain. The movie is actually really good compared to the other later Frankenstein films,and it entertains,I didnt expect it to beat Whale's first two masterpieces,but it is fun.3/4 "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Alot of people say lon chaney's monster is not as good as  boris karloff's which maybe true.But at this point I think this movie is 100 times better than son of frankenstein.Bela lugosi does a good job playing igor and the set they used is especially spooky.The only dissapointment is that in one scene the monster speaks but other than that it's the best in the frankenstein series. "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Pretty good film; after this one the movies with the Frankenstein Monster don't really tie in together.  Lon Chaney, Jr. and Bela Lugosi (as the Monster and Ygor, respectively) are particularly good.  At the very beginning, look for Dwight Frye (Lugosi's Renfield in Dracula) in a small part as a mob-inciting villager. "}{"Title":"Good, underrated fun despite absence of Karloff","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  ***  out of ****Most fans forget about GHOST OF FRANKENSTEIN, maybe because it's the first in the Universal Frankenstein series to feature another actor as the monster instead of Boris Karloff. Well, Lon Chaney does a decent job with the script he's got, and by the time of this fourth film the monster has been blown up so many times that he's bound to be a little lethargic.Bela Lugosi gets a chance to reprise his flawless Ygor character again, as he revives the creature and takes him to the second son of Frankenstein for an upgrade. The doctor decides to civilize the monster by giving him a new and intelligent brain, but Ygor has plans of his own...Chaney manages to show the brute strength and force of the monster, even if he lacks the depth as an actor to make the scenes with the little girl work as touchingly as Karloff might have.This movie has a terrific musical score by Hans Salter, as well as a sufficient amount of atmosphere and scenery that makes these old chestnuts so wonderful and special in our hearts. It's just over sixty brisk minutes, and light fun for all. "},{"Title":"Really good for the fourth in a series","Date":"14 October 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here we go again. In the grand tradition of Frankenstein (1931), Bride of Frankenstein (1935), and Son of Frankenstein (1939) comes the fourth in Universal's series. This time around, the crazy doctor of the title is Ludwig (Sir Cedric Hardwicke), the brother of Basil Rathbone's character in Son of and the (other) son of Colin Clive's original Dr. Frankenstein in the original and Bride of movies.A generation or so has passed since the villagers last destroyed the Monster in a sulphur pit. But, of course, he's only mostly dead, and his old pal Ygor (Bela Lugosi) holds vigil outside the old Frankenstein castle, hoping the creature will revive himself. At the same time, angry villagers are mobilizing; they decide that there's a Frankenstein curse that's prohibiting their crops from growing and businesses outside of town (named after Frankenstein, for some reason) are refusing to deal with them. The curse must be broken, so off the villagers go to burn down the castle. The explosion indeed wakes up the preserved Monster, and he's reunited with his old pal Ygor.There's another Frankenstein a village or so away, as the crow flies - Ludwig. Ludwig, who runs an insane asylum out of his house, also works for the police; when the Monster is captured and put on trial, the good doctor is called in to deal with the situation. But Ygor, he's a cunning sort, and he persuades Ludwig to get the Monster remanded to Ludwig's own castle so that Dr. Frankenstein can work on giving the Monster a nice, new brain. (There appears to be some brain damage for the big guy; he can't speak, as he could - haltingly - in previous films, and simple logic isn't his forte.) Ygor, he of the broken neck from being ineptly hanged, wants his own brain to be placed in the creature's cranium.The setting is as eerie and stark as in other Universal monster movies. Hidden rooms, long staircases, vaulted ceilings - it's a realtor's dream. Ludwig also has a grown daughter Elsa (Evelyn Ankers, another Universal staple), who's probably named after Elsa Lanchester, who starred in Bride of Frankenstein. Elsa's boyfriend is Erik Ernst (Ralph Bellamy), who's stuck between the mob rule of the town and his fondness of the Frankensteins. Lionel Atwill plays one of Dr. Frankenstein's doctor associates. Lon Chaney, Jr., by the way, grunts his way around a macabre set as the Monster itself.For a movie that's the fourth in a series, Ghost of Frankenstein (so named, perhaps, because the ghost of the original Doctor appears) is competently acted, directed, and shot. No, more than that, it's expertly done. There's some overacting (Ankers), to be sure, but overall it's a very well realized hidden gem among Universal's many horror movies of the early 20th century. "},{"Title":"It still lives on.","Date":"6 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The townsfolk who live near Frankenstein's castle decide to finally finish the job and blow it to the ground. Ygor who lives in the rubbles manages to escape and in doing so discovers the Monster in a sulphur pit. So Ygor and the monster head to the town of Vasaria to see if Ludwig Frankenstein (the son of Henry Frankenstein and brother of Baron Wolf Frankenstein) will help them out and cure the monster. This means finding him a new brain, and Ygor wants the doctor to put his brain into the monster. Even a weak Frankenstein sequel is a diverting, and highly amusing offering. No matter how much they re-use the old-hat formula, the imaginative and crisp look of the film's set designs (not up to par with earlier films though) and effects always seems to win out for me. And how can I forget the iconic monster itself! This time we have Lon Chaney Jr. taking over Boris Karloff's mantle, and there's a splendid cast on hand featuring Ralph Bellamy, Lionel Atwill, Cedric Hardwicke and a scene chewing Bela Lugosi as the enthusiastically sly Igor. Lugosi is the burning flair, and while Lon Chaney does a resourceful job. He's no Karloff. The material is not as deep and thoughtful as it's highly regarded predecessors, but the patchwork script ends up turning into b-grade shenanigans shooting at the straight and narrow. At least the nippy pace makes sure it never truly flags about, and there are some effective set-pieces laid out by Earl C. Kenton's able direction. The music score on the other hand, can fall into the overkill category and tries to hard to leave a mark in every possible sequence. There's no harm to the legacy, but neither is it an impressive addition. But otherwise I've always enjoyed these Universal monster features, no matter what the quality is. "},{"Title":"Boris Has Left The Building","Date":"31 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The fourth Universal Frankenstein movie has Bela Lugosi, Lionel Atwill, the usual angry villagers, and scream queen Evelyn Ankers, but it's notable more for what it doesn't have Boris Karloff.Boris hung up the deadbolts and the platform shoes after making the previous Frankenstein movie, Son Of Frankenstein. What's left is an entertaining if hectic creature-feature made on the cheap that gives old zipperneck another lap around Frankenstein Castle for cheap thrills.The best thing in the film is Lugosi's Ygor, the hunchbacked horn-playing malcontent from Son who is back despite his apparent death in the earlier film. Lugosi invests Ygor with more menace and more sympathy this time, showing his character to be sweetly dependent on the comradeship of the mute monster while nursing an insane grudge against the community that has hounded him.Lugosi was actually in more Frankenstein than Dracula movies, though he played Dracula in Abbott & Costello Meet Frankenstein. He played Ygor as often as Dracula on film, and perhaps found Ygor a better part for channeling his inner pathos. Watching him frantically chase the Monster, crying He is all that I have! Nothing else! is to feel something beyond the limits of genre. To the extent Ghost works, it does because of Lugosi.What doesn't work is the nominal lead, Cedric Hardwicke as the second son of Dr. Frankenstein. Throughout the film, whether menaced by the Monster or blackmailed by Ygor, he carries the mien of a lord who has just overheard someone break wind at a fancy dinner. Ankers and Ralph Bellamy as her suitor seem to have wandered in from a romance filming on an adjacent set. Atwill is at least menacing in a minor role, though his jealous doctor is not well integrated into the rest of the story.I don't agree with the negative comments about Lon Chaney Jr. as the Monster. He had a major challenge filling Karloff's part, and was all wrong physically for the cadaverous creature, but he still manages a serviceable performance, and rises to something more when opposite Janet Ann Gallow's little Cloestine. Unlike many child actors of this period, she manages to do more than look cute as the apple of the Monster's heart, and Chaney does a lot here with his silent stares. A nice shot captures him staring down at the child, and the viewer, his eyes so pathetic but the rest of him so menacing you don't know what to think.Was the Monster truly bad or not? The Frankenstein films seem to go in different directions. In the first film, and in Son, the monster is a mad killer. In Bride he was more a victim of intolerance. Here he's played, interestingly, somewhat in the middle. He kills people, including one hapless doctor who isn't in the Monster's way at all, but seems as unhappy about his nature as anyone else.Ultimately, you wish director Erle C. Kenton and the screenwriters were as interested in the character of the Monster as they were in making a horror cheapie short enough for Saturday matinees. They had a chance at creating something lasting, rather than just campy and intermittently entertaining. It's not bad, just a bit soft, enough to make you think Boris took the soul of the Frankenstein films with him when he left. "},{"Title":"A great movie -- but rather confusing!","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A film with so many plot twists, every reviewer's synopsis makes it sound like a different movie.  And no wonder -- even the characters (and their players) are confusing.  Bear in mind that this is the fourth film in the series, a sequel to `Son of Frankenstein'.  It's own sequel is ` Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man'.  The director was Erle C. Kenton.First, let's straighten out who plays who.Sir Cedric Hardwicke plays a relative of Victor Frankenstein, a doctor who wants to put a normal brain into the monster.  Bela Lugosi again plays Ygor, the evil hunchback shepherd -- despite the fact that Ygor died in the previous movie.  Lionel Atwill is Hardwicke's assistant -- despite the fact that he played a one-armed policeman in the previous film.  Lon Chaney, Jr., (`The Wolf Man') does NOT play the Wolf Man -- he plays the monster.  But he ends up with Bela Lugosi's brain, because Lugosi tricks Hardwicke into putting his brain into Chaney (?).Meanwhile, Dwight Frye, the actor who played Dr. Victor Frankenstein's crazed assistant in the original film, plays a concerned villager in this one.  Evelyn Ankers and Ralph Belamy are among the cast -- but I'll be darned if I can remember WHO they played . . . And now let's deal with the convoluted plot, which goes like this;The monster allegedly kidnaps a little girl (actually she befriends him), and the townspeople put him on trial for kidnapping.  He escapes and gets his brain swapped for Lugosi's, then he goes blind because the Lugosi-brain blood type is wrong for the monster's body.  The blind Lugosi-brained monster goes berserk, destroys the laboratory, and gets burned up in the ensuing fire.There, now -- THAT should clear things up once and for all!   (?) "},{"Title":"Frankenstein IV Ygor's Brainchild","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Ghost of Frankenstein (Universal, 1942), directed by Erle C. Kenton, resurrects both the Frankenstein series and its monster(s) for another horror-go-round. This, this fourth edition, begins at the town hall where villagers, in fear of an evil curse, want to persuade the judge to grant permission for them to go and blow up Frankenstein's castle. For the benefit to those who haven't seen the third installment, The Son of Frankenstein (1939), it's briefly explained by one of the villagers that Wolf, the son of Frankenstein (played by Basil Rathbone) has brought back to life his late father's creation (Boris Karloff), only to have it terrorize the town once more, with the help of a crazed shepherd named Ygor (Bela Lugosi), who used the monster to carry out his evil deeds and kill off those jurors who found him guilty and sentenced to be hanged. Afterwards, Frankenstein does away with both evil doers by shooting down Ygor with bullets and pushing the Monster to his doom into a boiling sulpher pit. The judge then grants permission to have the castle destroyed. As the villagers carry out their mission, they find Ygor very much alive and well, living in the castle. The castle is then dynamited, but before it is gone entirely, the pressure of the blast releases the Monster (now played by Lon Chaney Jr.) from his prison of the hardened sulpher pit to freedom. Ygor thus takes his friend, the Monster, away and to another village, where lives Ludwig (Sir Cedric Hardwicke), the second son of Frankenstein, now a surgeon who practices on the diseases of the brain, with Doctor Theodor Boumer (Lionel Atwill), as one of his assistants. Also living with Frankenstein is his daughter, Elsa (Evelyn Ankers), who's in love with her father's associate, Doctor Eric Giffrey (Ralph Bellamy). While at the village, the Monster encounters a little girl, Cloestine (Janet Ann Gallow) who, unlike the other villagers, fears him not. After the Monster is taken to jail, comes to Frankenstein for assistance, but refuses. After the Monster escapes, he and Ygor come to Frankenstein home, where the monster rests of the laboratory table. Frankenstein makes the decision to at first destroy his father's creation, but after his father's ghost appears to him, decides otherwise by performing an operation replacing the evil brain of the Monster with a sensible one. But who's? After Doctor Kettering (Barton Yarbrough) is found murdered, it is decided to transplant the deceased man's brain into the Monster's head. Ygor on the other hand wants his brain planted into the Monster's head, while the Monster, who has just taken Cloestine from her home, wants the child's brain instead. Which brain will be used? A no-brainer situation.The Ghost of Frankenstein, which lacks logic, is the first in the series of Universal quickies (usually about 70 minutes, more or less), gearing more to the enjoyment of the Saturday matinée crowd than to just adults. The first three films were class A productions, carefully prepared scripts, with FRANKENSTEIN (1931) being intense for children to see, and all featuring Boris Karloff as The Monster. Ygor, who was pronounced dead in the last installment, returns, with no explanation as to how he survived the bullets. However, it is said that the Monster cannot die, which explains his resurrection once more. On the plus side to this production are the special effects, crisp black and white photography, brief clips taken from the initial Frankenstein featuring Colin Clive and Dwight Frye stealing a dead body from the cemetery and the creation of the Monster, and a stock musical score by Hans J. Salter. As with Son of Frankenstein, Bela Lugosi's Ygor steals the show, although he is somewhat less menacing this time round. Lon Chaney Jr., a recent recruit to the Universal rouster of movie monsters, makes a satisfactory substitute to Karloff's Monster, but not as memorable as he is, or was, as Lawrence Talbot in The Wolf Man (1941), and its sequels. In many ways, Chaney's Monster is many times better than the latter Glenn Strange's performance. From this point on, the Frankenstein monster would become a second rate character, which was reportedly a letdown by its originator, Karloff, this being his main reason for quitting the series. One thing here that would have made Karloff proud is the way how Chaney's Monster interplays with that of a little girl. It's been said Karloff was totally against his monster character in Frankenstein having to drown an innocent little girl in that one intense scene by the lake. Here, the Monster still goes on a rampage to kill, but shows the human side of his nature when it comes to the innocence of a child, showing no fear of this hideous creature. Also seen in the supporting cast are Leyland Hodgeson as the Chief Constable; Holmes Herbert as Inspector Holtz; and Doris Lloyd as Martha. Fans of the initial two Frankenstein entries will take notice that Dwight Frye (appearing unbilled), the one who played the hunchback Fritz in Frankenstein (1931) and Karl in Bride of Frankenstein (1935), as one of the angry villagers in the opening segment. And yes, that is the same Lionel Atwill, here appearing as Doctor Boumer, who played the one armed police inspector in Son of Frankenstein. He would assume different character roles in future installments in the Frankenstein series.As with all the Frankenstein films of the 1930s and '40s, The Ghost of Frankenstein is available on video cassette. It did have frequent revivals on cable television's The Sci-Fi Channel, and currently plays occasionally on American Movie Classics. In spite of this being the first in the series with B material scripting, The Ghost of Frankenstein actually is a fast-paced production at 68 minutes, and seldom dull. (**1/2 brains) "},{"Title":"Good-looking, but the gaps in logic...!","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Another Dr. Frankenstein tries to put a good brain in the monster.  Of course, he fails.  Film looks fantastic--beautiful sets and Evelyn Ankers has gorgeous costumes--but it has huge gaps in logic (far too many to list here).  There is good acting by Chaney (as the monster), Lugosi (as Ygor) and Ankers.  But Sir Cedric Hardwicke looks miserable as Frankenstein and George Zucco is given nothing to do.  Fast-moving, but the flaws in the script really got to me.  Also--what a quick ending!  A lesser entry in the Universal Frankenstein series. "},{"Title":"As decent as this sequel is, it was running on fumes!","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ygor resurrects The Monster and brings him to Ludwig Frankenstein for help. Ludwig wants to replace The Monster's brain with a brain that does good deeds. Ygor wants to give the Monster his brain. I thought this sequel wasn't bad. It keeps your attention throughout and offers some decent suspense. They also learned from their mistake from Son of Frankenstein, trimming it from over 90 minutes back to over 60. As technically sound as this sequel is, this series was really beginning to feel tired. Karloff is no longer here and the magic is gone. It really seemed like they were doing anything to keep making money off the franchise. The Monster is no longer special. Lon Chaney Jr. is pretty good as The Monster, but he can't fill Karloff's shoes. It didn't feel genuine at all. Bela Lugosi is a lot of fun and was one of the main reasons why this was as watchable as it was. Cedric Hardwicke is solid as Ludwig. He's always reliable. Lionel Atwill returns as a different character, which I didn't understand. Evelyn Ankers is one of my favorite horror actresses, so I'm biased. This is perfectly acceptable for a sequel, but the thrills are gone. This series was running out of gas at this juncture. It was far from being done though. 6.3/10 "},{"Title":"The Fourth Film in the Classic Universal Monsters Series is an Entertaining B Movie","Date":"10 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bela Lugisi reprises his role of the ghoulish hunchback Ygor from The Son of Frankenstein after having survived being shot. Ygor finds the body of the monster (this time played by Lon 'The Wolf Man' Chaney, Jr.) preserved in sulfur beneath the ruins of the castle and plans to extort Ludwig Frankenstein into performing a brain transplant operation placing the ghouls' mind into the body of the powerful monster. Fans of the classic Universal monster series will undoubtedly enjoy The Ghost of Frankenstein despite the noticeable drop in production values and the absence of Boris Karloff in his signature role. Followed by Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man. "},{"Title":"Last of the Universal-International classics","Date":"11 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ghost of Frankenstein ended the 11-year run of Universal's classic horror films, which began with Dracula and the original Frankenstein. Bela Lugosi repeats his role as the lugubrious handyman Ygor from Son of Frankenstein, giving the movie a sense of continuity. Boris Karloff had migrated to Broadway for a few years, and so was unavailable for the title role he'd created. The chores, and the patented Jack Pierce makeup, go to Lon Chaney Jr. He's not bad. A different monster than Karloff, he's more beefy, physically menacing, and, so, scarier in a way. It has hints of a true ghost story, with detective tale elements, although there is no mystery, of course, with a title like this. And what a cast! Interestingly, Atwill does NOT repeat his role as the maimed police official from Son... and he's at his malicious best in this one. For classic horror completists, a must. After this entry, the Universal monster series deteriorated to the monster reunion films in which they'd all show up to contribute mayhem - Hey, Dracula! How ya doin', Wolfman! "}{"Title":"Ygor Saves the Day!","Date":"9 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" True enough, the production values have come down somewhat since SON OF FRANKENSTEIN the costumes, sets and spfx. One can tell that Universal basically b-movied the whole concept of the monster series starting with this one.Having said that, I think that this movie is still an all-time classic. It's got Lionel Atwill as Bohmer and if that weren't enough, it's got BELA THE GREAT! Ygor was Lugosi's best role--including Dracula! When, in the finale, Lon Chaney's monster speaks, it is with Lugosi's dubbed voice. It's truly one of the most unsettling scenes in the Universal horrors cannon. I don't know why more people haven't commented on it. "},{"Title":"Ghost Of Frankenstein Has One Bad Mistake!","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is an entertaining flick, but notice one thing. It goes back to its predecessor Son Of Frankenstein. Boris Karloff as the monster in Son Of Frankenstein murders two villagers who were on the village council. One was a portly man named Lange and the other was a small, mustachioed man named Neumiller (not sure if spelled right). At the beginning of Ghost Of Frankenstein, the same two murdered village board members (Lange and Neumiller) can be seen back at their pulpits on the village council with speaking parts. They say I agree your honor when the mayor is taking a vote as to whether or not the castle of Baron Frankenstein should be destroyed. Careless, even stupid, mistake. One would be passable, but both of them back!!!! Come one! "},{"Title":"Father Frankenstein & Mother Lighta-ning","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The fourth Universal monster epic opens with the touch of having darkened trees & swirling fog serving as background for the opening credits, ala 'The Wolf Man' and gets rocking right away as the ever present mob of villagers in the town of Frankenstein badger the mayor into letting them destroy the castle where the monster & his friend Ygor reside, a means that will supposedly erase the curse of Frankenstein.As he did in the previous Son Of... movie, Lugosi steals the show as the malevolent Ygor (and he seems to be having a lot of fun doing it). Lon Chaney's monster, though a bit stiff at times, does a very good job (imo). It's true that for most of the film, Chaney is rather poker-faced, but this monster of Ghost comes off looking a lot more human than the automaton Karloff nearly gets reduced to in 'Son...'. He befriends a little girl & thinks he's doing no wrong as he goes to retrieve her ball but finds himself being attacked by irrational villagers who seem to be in every city the monster inhabits. The monster (for the most part) only kills in self-defense.Another plus for Lon's monster is that we don't have to wait 50 minutes into the movie to see him up & moving. And maybe as a side-effect of being knocked out & rejuvenated so much, the monster is very temperamental at times towards Ygor. He doesn't hesitate to knock him around whenever he's not in the mood for taking orders. > Of course, there is that one big plot-twist in the movie, that at this point in time, the Universal executives had no apparent trouble with until 1943 for some odd reason(SPOILERS) The ending with Ygor's brain being put in the monster's body and the latter's regaining the ability of speech, albeit with Lugosi's voice. "},{"Title":"The Ghost of Karloff","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was the first of the B Universals featuring the Frankenstein Monster and it gets things off to a rousing good start. Once you accept the fact that the movies were no longer being given the lavish Hollywood treatment that they got in the first 3 installments, Ghost is a fun movie with a great cast.Karloff is definitely missed as the Monster, as no actor before or since has brought so much pathos and menace to the part. Yet even in the last of the A Frankensteins, Son of Frankenstein, the character was beginning to diminish.Lon Chaney Jr. was given the part of the Monster in Ghost and while he lacks the nuances of Karloff's version, he is still light years ahead of the horrendous Lugosi Monster in Frankenstein vs. The Wolfman and the robotic Glenn Strange in the remaining installments. Chaney's Monster emphasizes the brute force and indestructibility of the character, but pathos is not ignored. His scenes with the little girl have genuine impact and in fact, show a more sympathetic side than even Karloff portrayed in Son.The rest of the cast is outstanding. Cedric Hardwicke is impeccable as always, portraying a slightly less manic heir of Dr. Frankenstein than Basil Rathbone in Son. Universal's great scream queen Evelyn Ankers is as pretty as always and meshes well with Ralph Bellamy as the romantic leads.Bela Lugosi again provides a dominant performance as crippled Ygor, who must be almost as immortal as the Monster himself. Though not quite the bravura performance he gave as Ygor in Son, Bela is still great with his sleazy, unsavory Ygor, a master manipulator. I was especially moved by his line at the picture's end, as he confronts an angry Monster Tonight, Ygor will die for you. The other noteworthy performance is by the great Lionel Atwill as the misguided Dr. Boumer. Atwill is one of my all-time favorite character actors. Boumer is not his greatest mad doctor role (that would be Dr. Rigas in Man Made Monster)mostly because he is not really mad or particularly evil...just obsessed with getting his just due. Watching actors like Hardwicke, Atwill and Lugosi interact is a real treat.The movie lacks the atmosphere of the previous entries, but this is only to be expected. What's important here is the story and the characters. Sure, the plot is kind of goofy, but the story creates its own kind of logic and moves like a rocket.I still wonder what the film would have been like if Karloff has continued as the Monster or, perhaps, played Ludwig himself. "},{"Title":"Arguably Lugosi's most delicious role","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'The Ghost of Frankenstein' (1942), produced by George Waggner and directed by Erle C. Kenton, is a solid entry in Universal's 'Frankenstein' series, marked by fine production values and generally strong performances from a well-known cast.  The film, the fourth in the series, is similar in atmosphere, tone and style to Waggner's 'The Wolf Man', filmed a year earlier. Cedric Hardwicke turns in an appropriately gruff performance as Dr. Ludwig Frankenstein; Lionel Atwill's Dr. Teddy Bohmer has potential but lacks enthusiasm and ample screen time; and Chaney is unremarkable as the monster. The real star here is Bela Lugosi; his portrayal as the revived Ygor (supposedly shot dead at the end of the previous film, 'Son of Frankenstein') is arguably one of his best, most delicious roles.  Stubborn and extremely manipulative, Ygor is the catalyst for most of the story's evil deeds.  He's also the sole source of humor, albeit dark, in an otherwise serious, gloomy film. 'Ghost' does take a while to get to the crux of its wild story, but when it does it's delightful.  You see, Ygor has an ambitious plan He longs to have his brain put into the monster's body so that he may live forever and reign over all the b*******s he so hates (i.e. everyone)!  But before this can happen, the new doc must first juice up the monster with a little lightning in order to rejuvenate him for the upcoming surgery.  'Ghost' is the last solid, worthwhile entry in Universal's 'Frank' series (before things became quite silly) and is recommended viewing, esp. for Lugosi fans.  "},{"Title":"The Ghost Of Frankenstein (1942) ***","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have something of a love-hate relationship with this film. It was only the second in the Frankenstein series I had watched shown on Italian TV in the summer of 1989 as part of a late-night show hosted by 2 oddly endearing monster puppets(!), I managed to tape the transmission and saw it again a few days later, enjoying it a great deal both times. However, when I caught up with it again on DVD 12 years later, its charm had ebbed considerably and I felt it was a very routine effort all around with little of the high style which had marked the three previous entries in the saga; viewing it, by way of Universal's double-feature DVD, paired as it was with the magnificent SON OF FRANKENSTEIN (1939) - which, up to that point, I had never watched in its entirety! - certainly didn't help matters any! So, this time I decided to reverse the formula, as it were, and watched GHOST prior to SON - and it worked, as I found much to like in it all over again! In fact, now I would rate it above the even more contrived monster bashes HOUSE OF FRANKENSTEIN (1944) and HOUSE OF Dracula (1945) - as here we still have the luxury of one monster for the entire duration. Of course, the film doesn't remotely measure up to the irreproachable quality of its predecessors and the reduced budget is quite evident, but the formula seems to work all the same - even if the end result is relatively discreet, particularly when compared to SON's ornate set design and its overgenerous running time.The brain transplant plot is interesting enough and one actually wonders why it wasn't utilized earlier since the abnormal brain given to the monster clearly is behind its anti-social, criminal behavior (though, in all fairness, it was never given much of a chance by the suspicious, unfriendly townsfolk!). The cast, as always, is first-rate although the performances aren't Cedric Hardwicke clearly wishes he was elsewhere (it was unfortunate as well that when the titular ghost appears, it does so in Hardwicke's persona and unmistakable voice!); Ralph Bellamy and Evelyn Ankers are no great shakes as the romantic leads; Bela Lugosi (who returns as evil shepherd Ygor), fails to repeat the character's essential repulsiveness since here he has no opponent to equal Basil Rathbone in SON; Lon Chaney Jr., in his sole stint as the monster, is only fair (he's best at demonstrating the creature's strength - controlled by Ygor - but his scenes with the little girl, intended to bring its emotive powers to the fore, aren't as interesting and result only in being sappy); also, for those who know about his fate, I can't help feeling that Lionel Atwill as the once-great doctor brought down by a scandal and reduced to the level of assistant - albeit a duplicitous one - to his former student (Frankenstein) is basically playing himself here! The lack of a proper budget (forcing the use of standing sets and musical cues from THE WOLF MAN 1941!), however, doesn't preclude some effective shadowy lighting throughout or a fiery climax which is so well done that Universal would recycle sections of it into the finale of HOUSE OF Dracula!! "},{"Title":"An Excellent Film!","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I truly love this film. After seeing FRANKENSTEIN, BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN, and GHOST OF FRANKENSTEIN, and loving them, I am sure you can imagine how desperate I was to see the fourth chapter in this series. I loved it! It was wonderful!Igor, and the monster that Victor Frankenstein created both continue to live in the castle, and the town is still not convinced that they are dead. So they tear it down. Now, Igor wants to be one with the monster, so he tracks down Dr. Frankenstein, the second son of Victor Frankenstein, and asks him to put his brain inside of the monster. Now, the doctor wants to clear his family name, by giving the monster a good brain, rather then Igor's brain.The way they went about making this chapter in the series was great, the way they came about bringing back Igor and the monster. And the ending! The ending is so freaking crazy! If you are a fan of the Boris Karloff Frankenstein Trilogy, then you will enjoy the fourth chapter in this series. Lon Chaney Jr does just as good of a job as Karloff did.  "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ghost of Frankenstein, The (1942) **** (out of 4) Sequel to Son of Frankenstein has the monster (now played by Lon Chaney, Jr.) and Ygor (Bela Lugosi) escaping their deaths and heading off to another village to another Dr. Frankenstein (Cedric Hardwicke). The fourth in the series certainly isn't a four-star classic like the first two films in the series and there's no question this one here into the B range but it's still a terrific horror movie that has plenty of great action and nice performances. Chaney has the perfect body for a huge monster but he plays it as a monster and not really a human like Karloff did. Lugosi is good as Ygor but his performance is a notch below his work in Son. Lionel Atwill, Ralph Bellamy and Evelyn Ankers are good as well. The Ygorstein at the end is a bit campy but it adds to the fun. "},{"Title":"Your father was Frankenstein. Your mother was lightning.","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of course the problem with the Frankenstein sequels, of the Universal Studios kind, was that they had to follow the genre firework that was Frankenstein (1931) and the monolithic titan that followed that one in 1935, The Bride of Frankenstein. These are tough acts to follow; still are actually!Son of Frankenstein (1939) managed very well, it had Basil Rathbone in it and Bela Lugosi giving great horror oomph as Ygor. Boris Karloff bowed out as the monster after that one, leaving an iconic legacy and an insistence that the monster didn't speak. The result of Karloff's (ahem) request has proved divisive amongst Frankenstein fans, does it need a voice for personality, or is it better off as a lumbering rage machine only? Point being that in this one, he gets a voice, courtesy of Lon Chaney Junior's stint in the role, and it's not exactly a success.Ghost of Frankenstein represents the start of the decline of the franchise, a noticeable drop in quality across the board. It's like Universal caught the cash cow disease and decided that quantity and not quality was what mattered. They would eventually team up the bolted necked one with Abbott and Costello, with fun results, but the horror aspects began to wane here in 1942. Lugosi is on hand for some more Ygor mischief, Cedric Hardwicke and Lionel Atwill as scientists with opposite ideals are reassuring presences, while Evelyn Ankers is sexy and costumed with a great eye for detail.At just 67 minutes in length the film thankfully doesn't have time to be boring, though action is in short supply, so hooray for castle destruction and fire unbound! While Woody Bredell and Milton R. Krasner, via their photographic lenses ensure Gothic atmosphere is consistently ripe. Right, it's time for Universal Monster Tag Teams next... 5/10 "},{"Title":"Fourth Frankenstein.","Date":"23 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Erle C. Kenton directed this entry, that sees the monster(now played by Lon Chaney Jr.) being dug out of the dried-out sulfur pit by Ygor(played again by Bela Lugosi) who somehow survived his gunshot wounds(!) and takes the monster to Henry Frankenstein's older son Ludwig(played by Cedric Hardwicke) to be cured of his chronic sickness. Ludwig at first wants nothing to do with his father's legacy, but gets an inspiration to replace the monster's sick brain with an educated one, though Ygor wants his brain put in the monster's body, since his body is dying, and he wants to be immortal. He is helped in this by the treachery of his associate Dr. Bohmer(played by Lionel Atwill) leading to a horrifying climax... Evelyn Ankers plays Ludwig's daughter Elsa, and Ralph Bellamy plays her fiancée Erik.Good sequel falls short of the first three, being a cheaper and less ambitious production, yet it is well acted and has a good story, and remains an enjoyable addition to the growing mythology. "}{"Title":"You can't keep a good monster down.","Date":"31 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Scraggle-toothed Igor is back, protecting the monster who once again survived, and he is even more evil than ever. Now Basil Rathbone's doctor has been replaced by his brother (Sir Cedric Hardwicke) who, along with an assistant (Lionel Atwill, given back his arm after granted a new part after the third installment) who longs to put a decent brain in the misunderstood monster. But Bela Lugosi's Igor longs to get out of his broken-necked body and into Frankie boy's, and that's where the horror comes in. Scream queen Evelyn Ankers gets more than her share of horror as Hardwicke's daughter, with Ralph Bellamy her love interest here after their earlier pairing in The Wolf Man.Former Wolfie Lon Chaney Jr. takes on the role of the monster here, properly grunting and snorting as directed, but by this point, the monster wasn't really about the heart that Karloff had instilled, mainly to scare the people who sought to stop him. The presence of a little girl whom the monster befriends seems an effort to write the wrongs of the poor child in the first film, but unlike Karloff's monster, this one really is a total nightmare. Quite B looking as compared to the first three, it manages to remain entertaining with Lugosi enjoying every moment being over the top, basically running rampant over everybody else in the film. "},{"Title":"Entertaining entry in the Universal franchise.","Date":"13 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Ghost of Frankenstein inevitably falls short when compared to the knockout films in this franchise that preceded it Frankenstein, Bride of Frankenstein, and Son of Frankenstein. The atmosphere just isn't as strong, nor is this ever terribly spooky. It's still solidly entertaining, it's just not as classic as the others. Part of the problem is Lon Chaney (Jr.), who shambles and pantomimes adequately, but doesn't invest the Monster with the same amount of emotional torment as Karloff. The story picks up as Son of Frankenstein ends, with your standard Angry Villagers Bearing Torches laying siege to Castle Frankenstein and destroying it; however, sinister Ygor (Bela Lugosi reprises the role with great relish) and the Monster survive. They make their way to a new village where Ludwig Frankenstein (Sir Cedric Hardwicke) is a psychiatrist; unfortunately, the Monster kills some people and is brought to trial. After it escapes, it finds refuge in Ludwig's abode; Ygor succeeds in getting him to help by blackmailing him. The good thing is that Ludwig thinks he's finally hit upon the best way to reform the Monster and turn him good. God help the Frankenstein family, they'll try anything to restore their good name, and things just always seem to turn out badly. A top notch cast makes everything quite easy to watch, with Lionel Atwill as Ludwig's self serving, sneaky colleague Doctor Bohmer, the beautiful Evelyn Ankers as Ludwig's daughter, Ralph Bellamy as prosecuting attorney Erick Ernst, and adorable young Janet Ann Gallow as the child Cloestine, who isn't intimidated by the Monster. (A *very* young William Smith, eventually to become a tough guy B movie icon, is one of the village children as well.) In fact, it's the actors who help to really sell this sequel, although the story isn't bad and comes up with some amusing twists, such as the differing opinions on just whose brain should end up inside the Monster. Things come to a comfortably predictable finale where the house comes down. The best moments tend to involve Ygor, who proves to be as interesting a character as he was in Son of Frankenstein. Not too memorable in the end, but an enjoyable watch just the same, and at a mere 68 minutes long it doesn't overstay its welcome. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Frankenstein's Monster Starts Losing Steam","Date":"2 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Squeezing every little bit of profit out of a popular film franchise is not a new practice. It may feel like a modern convention to run a franchise into the ground as long as the audience is willing to shell out the cash, but it's been going on for decades. Universal Pictures struck gold with their classic series of movie monsters and, as a result, they were sure to release as many films as audiences would pay to see. THE GHOST OF FRANKENSTEIN was the fourth film from Universal with their famous shambling abomination. It was at this point that the series was starting to lose a bit of steam. I suppose there is only so much you can do with a creature like Frankenstein's monster without retreading the same ground. The movie opens with the inhabitants of the village of Frankenstein demanding justice. They believe they've lived under the curse of Frankenstein long enough and a rash decision is made to burn Frankenstein's castle to the ground. In the process, the mob makes the unfortunate mistake of freeing Frankenstein's monster from the sulfur pit in which he's trapped and unleashing him again on the world. Knowing the village will never let them rest, the eternally loyal Ygor helps the monster escape to the town of Vasaria. In Vasaria, Ygor seeks the aid of Frankenstein's other son, Ludwig. A successful neurosurgeon, Ludwig might be just the help Ygor needs in utilizing the monster's incredible power for his own needs. His goal to transfer his brain into the body of the monster and gain his strength.The problem with the Frankenstein movies is that they all follow the same pattern monster on the loose, angry mob with torches, evil science that is an affront to nature. We all know the drill. The first movies were great but I wish the later movies had either tried to break out of the mold or put the monster to rest. GHOST OF FRANKENSTEIN finds yet another relative of the original mad scientist being brought into the mix. He is, of course, a talented scientist in the field of neuroscience, having removed a brain for surgery and replaced it successfully back in the skull. This is too good an opportunity for the devious Ygor, portrayed by Bela Lugosi. Lugosi is the best part of this movie as the evil hunchback. He is conniving and simple-minded, desperate to protect his only friend, the monster. All he wants is to be forever unified with his friend and, if he happens to become immortal and all-powerful in the process, all the better. Lugosi is the only stand out performance in the movie. Cedric Hardwicke is nothing special as the tortured Ludwig, forced into a position where he must resort to extreme measures. He seems to have a good head on his shoulders, but why he would agree to save the monster from dissection (the only means of truly killing it) is beyond me. Even more baffling is the motivation behind the less-then-noble Doctor Bohmer (Lionel Atwell). Ygor offers him power, wealth, and the respect of his field if he agrees to sneak Ygor's brain into the surgery, but why would Bohmer, an intelligent man in his own right, believe the empty promises of an evil man such as Ygor? I don't know. He just does. Roll with it.It's all good though. I'm not worried about some poor character decisions. It all works within the scope of the movie. It's a classic creature feature with all the usual tropes we've come to expect. It doesn't rise to the level as the original, and certainly not as high as BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN. It's still an entertaining film, even if it feels a tad generic at this point. Lugosi is great, and Lon Chaney Jr. stands in well enough since Boris Karloff had left his iconic role at this point. If you're a fan of the classics, you can't go wrong with this fun little time-waster. As far as I'm concerned, even the weakest Frankenstein movie is still a more enjoyable tale than a lot of modern films. "},{"Title":"Decent if lower-budgeted Franky sequel.....","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ......Okay here we have Lon Cheney Jr. lurching around as the Monster, Bela Again showing up as Ygor, Lionel Atwill Again but this time as a scientist, and Ralph Bellamy in a glorified cameo. Takes the old brain switching routine, mixes in another semi-endangered little girl(enough w/ that angle guys...), and modernizes the setting. What do you get? I kept on thinking of--and I know it sounds odd--the later Planet of the Apes flix, this one being sorta in line w/ 'Conquest of the Planet of the Apes'. You know--shot on a backlot, shot in cheapie sets, kinda stark setting, shortish movie, a non-necessary sequel that works despite itself.Cheney as the Monster is good for what it is, he looms up and is pretty threatening. It's Franky as Dullard pure and simple. Lugosi isn't quite as effective as Ygor this time around but is okay. Hardwick and Ankers are average, but you don't get the feeling of Great Committal by either performer.This has a rushed feeling to it, and it's only 70 or so minutes long. I liked the Hamletish scene and the finale was kinda fun, if you don't mind Ygor's voice being lip-synched by Cheney as the monster before going blind in the fire....! **1/2 for trying. "},{"Title":"A Good Fourth Film","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While this fourth film may not be as strong of a story as the first three films in the series it is watchable - worth watching if you are into the Universal Classic Monsters.In this fourth film installment you will find out just how strong willed Ygor is. The original doctor's son, Ludwig, and Ygor seeks to restore the Monster to his full power and wants to rid the criminal brain that is inside of the Monster and transplant a new brain put into him. Will they succeed? Who's brain will be transplanted into the Monster? I enjoyed this film as much as I did the first three films in the series even if the story is a bit weaker than the others.In this film it is Lon Chaney, Jr. as The Monster. I think he did a fine job with his performance - as he was trying to fill the shoes of Boris Karloff in the role and is not an easy task. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Fun watch","Date":"12 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was more like it,I enjoyed this movie a lot more then the last sequel, This movie startedwhen the town is thinking it cursed , so they blow the monster house down but not knowing they escape.The whole movie felt really fast pace and with a lot action with the monster.I really liked how the story moved forward and came to a end There was some great acting from the whole cast.I am going to give this a 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The quality has diminished a bit","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Ghost of Frankenstein is significant thanks in large part to the fact that it is the first time the Universal/Jack Pierce Monster is played by someone other than Boris Karloff. Lon Chaney Jr. gets the daunting task of trying to follow Karloff the Uncanny, and although he plays an adequately scary Monster, his characterization lacks the looks and feelings of the classic Karloff Monster. This is also the first film to star the sleepy Monster - where the makeup clovers the actor's eyes in such a way to insinuate that the Monsters eyes are either closed or barely open. This was likely done in an effort to mask the fact that the character was not portrayed by Karloff and eventually just became a trademark of the Monster look that we know today.The Ghost of Frankenstein is a decent addition to the Universal monster library and was a movie viewed many times during my childhood on Saturday Night Creature Features. The story has more holes than a wedge of swiss cheese and the acting (at times) is just as bad. That being said, it is still a classic Universal Monsters film and has all of the earmarks of such from the music to the beautiful black and white, to the cast which includes the likes of such Universal monster mainstays as Lon Chaney Jr, Bela Lugosi, Lionel Atwill, Ralph Bellamy, Evelyn Ankers, and Cedric Hardwicke. Overall, a decent entry, but there is much better to be had. "},{"Title":"The Final Frankenstein","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Ghost of Frankenstein (1942) Lon Cheney, Bela Lugosi, Cedric Hardwicke, Ralph Bellamy, Dwight Frye, Lionel Atwill, Janet Ann Gallow, Evelyn Ankers, Barton Yarborough, Doris Lloyd, Leyland Hodgson, Olaf Hytten, Holmes Herbert, Lionel Belmore, Harry Cording, Lawrence Grant, Otto Hoffman, Jimmy Phillips, Brandon Hurst Ernie Stanton, Glen Walters...Director Erle C. Kenton, Screenplay...Scott Darling, Eric Taylor.The final Frankenstein movie, The Ghost of Frankenstein was released in 1942, while World War II raged in Europe. Americans flocked to see the resolution to their favorite horror film franchise, escaping reality and living in the eerie and mysterious Gothic Germany of Mary Shelley's fiction and brought to life by Universal Studios. The first film had starred Boris Karloff, the best interpretor of the Monster role, which he reprised in Bride of Frankenstein. But the equally terrific horror film actor Lon Cheney also donned the Frankenstein outfit and did a good job. In the final movie, following the plot to Son of Frankenstein, the son and heir of Dr. Frankenstein (Cedric Hardwicke) is once again in trouble due to his father's legacy and his monstrous creation. Ygor (Lugosi) has been seen in town when the villagers had believed he had died along with the monster. In his exile, the Doctor is powerless to stop the wicked deeds of Ygor and it is obvious to viewers it is Ygor, not Frankenstein, that is the real monster. Ygor is a conniving, cynical and wicked,deathless little troll who likes to create mayhem. Frankenstein has only two weaknesses - his master Ygor and children. His actions are only reactions to the villagers shunning him and hating him for being different, despite the fact that he becomes more and more human as the film series progressed. Before long, Baron Wolf Frankenstein devises a plan to rid the world of Frankenstein. He will perform a brain transplant, which his father had once done with Frankenstein. His evil ways owe to his criminal brain which should have been a normal brain. But Ygor interferes and makes it possible for his brain to be in Frankenstein's body. This science-fiction element really works and despite the criticism it got, I find it very exciting. This film is not slow-moving or full of too much mystery as the other preceding films which ran too long and hardly any action occurred up until the final minutes of the film, usually ending in a climax in which it is believed Frankenstein dies only to discover in the next film that he was alive. Well, this time it's all over for good. The film has wonderful music, acting and cinematography and is a marvelous way to end the Frankenstein movies. Lon Cheney proves to be quite the versatile actor. Bela Lugosi (best known as Dracula) is probably better as the less in-your-face and more subtle Ygor than Dracula. Lugosi and Lon Cheney, despite being real life actor rivals, were wonderful to see on screen. Universal would not end their horror film series completely. They went on to make many other movies and Frankenstein appeared in other films in which he was not the star (Abbot and Costello Meet the Wolf Man, for instance) Frankenstein was borrowed by many other directors and producers and would become as much an American icon as Superman. "},{"Title":"The fourth entry in this Universal Horror series is haunted by ghosts of Frankensteins past","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ygor and the Monster died at the end of Son of Frankenstein. But not so fast The Ghost of Frankenstein, the fourth entry in this Universal Horror series, reveals they survived. The Monster can't really die unless he's dissected, and Ygor has already survived a broken neck. What's a few bullets in his body, too?The Monster (Lon Chaney, Jr.) has now survived a seemingly fatal end three times first he returned to menace his original creator; then he returned to menace Frankenstein's grown son; now he's returning to menace Frankenstein's other son (Cedric Hardwicke), the brother of the last guy. This Frankenstein works with mental patients and has removed a man's brain to operate on it before successfully returning it to his head. When the Monster kills one of his associates, Dr. Kettering, he realizes he can undo his father's mistake and replace the creature's evil brain with Kettering's. Will Kettering enjoy this second chance at life, or will he curse Frankenstein for housing his mind in such a monstrous body? No one will ever know if Frankenstein's secretly evil associate, Dr. Bohmer (Lionel Atwill), gets his way. Bohmer wants to replace the Monster's brain with Ygor's. Meanwhile, Frankenstein's daughter and her fiancé (Elizabeth Ankers and Ralph Bellamy) provide the uninteresting love interest.After three excellent films, the Frankenstein series suddenly shows considerable strain. The plot is weird and macabre enough, but there is little humor and few scares. The Monster appears right away this time and spends his first few scenes in bright daylight. Comparing this film to Son of&#x85; shows the superiority of Boris Karloff to Chaney. The Monster has little to do in either, but Karloff makes the most of it, while Chaney barely makes an impression on us. The director Erle C. Kenton and his crew are either unwilling or unable to create the kind of inventive visuals of the first three films. This film looks fine, but it's easily the blandest of the series so far.Was anyone else amused by the ghost of Frankenstein, played by Cedric Hardwicke, who appears to the son, also played by Hardwicke, to give bad advice? By this point, we had already gotten a good look at the father in stock footage from the first film, where he is played by the very different-looking Colin Clive. It seems that the ghost of Frankenstein (1931) returns to haunt this cheap but entertaining B movie. "},{"Title":"Bela Lugosi presents The Mad Ygor Show!","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although quite a bit better than its reputation suggests, Ghost of Frankenstein is the first minor disappointment in a series of already four Universal Frankenstein productions. There are several valid excuses to explain this, however. The rudimentary influences of Mary Shelley's immortal novel had vanished since Son of Frankenstein already, but at least that film largely compensated the lack of originality with a truly astonishing German Expressionism filming style. Rowland V. Lee turned Son of Frankenstein into a visual masterpiece with magnificently constructed set pieces whereas Ghost of Frankenstein is again an 'ordinary' Universal horror flick with mediocre scenery and a repetitive storyline. Another reason to confirm the series' slight downfall is the absence of the almighty Boris Karloff in the role of the monster. Karloff wisely decided to stop associating his name with the character after Son of Frankenstein and, despite also being a great classic horror actor, Lon Chaney Jr. can't possible follow in his footsteps. The role of the monster already lost some impact and importance in the previous film, but still, seeing Boris Karloff in that legendary outfit and make-up added a whole lot of power. The plot picks up where its predecessor ended, with the evil former assistant Ygor recuperating the monster from the sulphur pit where he supposedly got destroyed by Frankenstein's oldest son Wolf. Ygor and his friend promptly leave the cursed town searching for Frankenstein's other son Ludwig, who's a respected surgeon in a little town called Vasaria. Following a first painful acquaintance with the local townsfolk, Ygor forces Dr. Frankenstein and his assistant Dr. Bohmer to home the monster in their laboratory. Ludwig hopes to fix his father's creation by transplanting a sane brain in the monster, but Dr. Bohmer and Ygor come up with a more fiendish plan. Bela Lugosi's diabolical portrayal of Ygor is the main reason why Ghost of Frankenstein is still a very entertaining film. He's a sly and completely unreliable madman who even aims at world domination! Lugosi dominates every sequence he's in and he even manages to provide the mundane plot outline with some moments of humor & tension. "}{"Title":"the film isn't as good as the previous ones but it's still a lot of fun","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" By now, the Frankenstein franchise is getting a little weak. Aside from the later film, ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN, there wasn't a whole lot of ground broken in this and the next two films. But, considering what fun they are to watch, who cares! This film marked the departure of Boris Karloff as the monster. In his place was the noticeably shorter and chunkier Lon Chaney, Jr. who does a decent job of grunting and killing people--but a far cry from the wonderful performance of Karloff in BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN.Back from the last film is the evil Ygor, played with gusto by Bela Lugosi. It's odd to see him, as he CLEARLY was shot and apparently killed in the last film!! This time, the evil little troll is out to hatch a new evil plan--get the other son of Frankenstein (Ludwig) to put evil Ygor's brain into the much stronger monster so he can kick the collective but of mankind! Well, all appears to be going well until the conclusion when once again the world appeared to be saved--until the next film, FRANKENSTEIN MEETS THE WOLFMAN!In addition to Ygor's unexplained recovery, this film featured Lionel Atwill as a doctor. Yet, in several other films in the series he played a policeman--one who had his arm ripped off by the monster! Yet here he is with a normal functioning non-prosthetic arm! So much for continuity in the Universal horror films!Overall, the best thing about this film is Ygor. Lugosi played him with gusto and it was fun watching him chew up the screen. As for Lon Chaney, Jr., he was fine but nothing special. Nice atmosphere and a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"A shadow of the original...","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" With the direction of Erle C. Kenton, the frankenstein movies went in a very different way that the previous movies did. This time the monster is reduced to a shadow of what he was, a supporting character for the development of the real star Ygor. The title is fitting, since this movie is the ghost of the greatness the first three had.Nevertheless, it is still enjoyable. The plot follows Ygor, a role now mastered by Bela Lugosi, who finds his lost friend buried by sulfur. The creature, now played by Lon Chaney Jr. follows Ygor in his new plan to force the other son of Frankenstein to help the damaged creature.Wonderful Cedric Hardwicke plays Ludwig Frankenstein, as a surgeon who has mastered a technique to transplant brains. His mentor, Dr. Bohmer, played by Lionel Atwill, is jealous of the recognition his pupil receives, and teams up with Ygor in their plan to use the monster to conquer the world.The script is full of good ideas, but sadly, they are all poor explored. The conflict between master and pupil goes unexplored and the scrip fails to take advantage of the creature. The movie focuses on Ygor and his relationship with the monster, but forgets of exploring the Monster' side of the team.Hardwicke, Lugosi and Atwill give an outstanding performance considering the script they had to work with, and Chaney Jr. manages to be as impressive as Karloff, although not as expressive.The movie is a mediocre but still enjoyable chapter in the saga, and set the events to the next one in Frankenstein meets the Wolfman. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A brain is a horrible thing to waste.","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Faithful Ygor(Bela Lugosi)uncovers the Frankenstein monster(Lon Chaney Jr.)from the rubble of the Frankenstein castle. Ygor convinces(Cedric Hardwicke) another descendent of the original Dr. Frankenstein to replace the criminal brain of the monster. The fervent Ygor volunteers his own brain.This resurrection of the Monster is kind of bland. I always love those lightning/thunderstorms. Lugosi shines while Chaney Jr's portrayal of the Monster comes across with the expected brute force, but not the attitude/mood of Boris Karloff.Also in the cast are Ralph Bellamy, Evelyn Ankers and Lionel Atwill. This is a pretty good movie, but just does not have the thrills and chills expected of it. "},{"Title":"The Ghost of Frankenstein!","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the best sequels in the Universal Monsters series! The monsters look great! Lon Chaney Jr. is excellent as the Frankenstein monster! In My opinion he is arguably neater than Boris Karloff. Bela Lugosi performs excellently as Ygor! The makeup on both of these actors is excellent! Collin Clive is in this one! The acting by all of the actors in this film are really good. The music is great! In My opinion this is a great sequel to the original! In My opinion I think that its great to have these two characters to be played by these two actors in the same film! If you like Lon Chaney Jr., Bela Lugosi, the classic Universal Monsters, great black and white movies, and horror films then I strongly recommend that you check out this film today! "},{"Title":"'Your mother was ... the lightening!'","Date":"18 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Those villagers. Those rampaging, outraged villagers. They had been a staple of the first three Frankenstein pictures, just as they would be in the three that followed this. Stuck in the middle (excluding Abbott and Costello's meet-up) of the series, their anger bookends 'Ghost ...'. It is ironic that this virtuous mob, already furious even at the film's beginnings, are the ones who resurrect Frankenstein's now silent creation by blowing up the family castle.Cedric Hardwicke is Doctor Ludwig Frankenstein, son of Colin Clive and brother of Basil Rathbone, and by the far the most retrained family member, possessing none of his relatives' intensity. Bela Lugosi returns as Ygor, happily unaffected by being 'riddled with bullets' in the previous film. His balance of mischief and malice is finely crafted and Ygor remains the picture's most animated character. Ralph Bellamy's rather dully efficient hero Eric, and his glamorous partner Elsa (Evelyn Ankers) are the alleged goodies, as always less interesting than the villains, a clan aided by Doctor Bohmer played by the mighty Lionel Atwill.The Monster's first appearance, clumsily stumbling out from the now hard-set sulphur pit that incarcerated and preserved him, is effective. One's hope is that the monster's robotic groping is a result of his ordeal, but that is pretty much the sum total of Lon Chaney's (the 'Jr' is now gone from his name in the credits) interpretation of the role. Having said that, the following scene, with Ygor chasing after him across the blasted health-land as The Monster tries to find the best spot to attract the lightening has a charming surreality about it; like a panicking father trying to gain some control over an errant child. And yet the people the mis-matched duo meet in Vasaria as they search for the latest Baron Frankenstein, are disappointingly unafraid of them. More a curiosity befalls the young maiden and gaggle of townsfolk as they set eyes on the unsightly couple, and this, alongside Chaney's soulless performance, undermines The Monster's effectiveness greatly.Once in Vasaria, the Monster is captured and imprisoned. As Ludwig is brought forward and pretends not to recognise the creature, we catch a glimmer of emotion on his/its face as anger takes hold (to balance with this, there is a scene where Ygor, gesturing towards the Monster, exclaims 'Can't you see? He is for the first time happy in his life'. Chaney's unmoving, unblinking, totally statue-lie performance gives no indication of any emotion whatsoever, and either renders the scene ludicrous, or displays Ygor's humour extends to heavy sarcasm).To remind viewers of the original story, we are treated to a flashback from the original film, also reminding us how much more moodily lit, extensively furnished and interestingly directed the 1931 picture was by comparison, although it substitutes a close-up of Chaney's monster in place of the original Karloff. Director Erle C Kenton makes great use of shadows when dealing with the Monster &#x96; sadly, the shadow close-ups bear little resemblance to the Monsters actual actions or placing within the composition.The ghost to justify the title is that of the original Baron (this time with Hardwicke playing Colin Clive's role) visiting his son and introducing the idea of placing a different brain into his creation.It is just possible that Chaney's subdued take was deliberate to highlight how startlingly changed he is by the film's finale. With Ygor's brain in his head, he speaks with Ygor's voice in an impressively dubbed scene. This new evilly grinning personality is how the Monster would remain (theoretically) throughout the next four Universal films since no further transplant takes place. Suddenly blinded by an averse blood-type reaction, the Monster causes the laboratory to explode, lending us some nice shots of his face blistering and frazzling in the flames, before some cheerful 'wrapping-up' music accompanies Eric and Elsa happily away to safety leaving the evil-doers to burn.More a 'monster movie' than a 'horror film', this is fast moving and fun (more so than the previous 'Son of...', although it lacks the spectacle of the earlier offering). Yet it is a step down from the ambitions of the preceding Frankenstein pictures. By this time, WW2 was in full swing, and it's real-life horrors outweighed anything fiction had to offer. Perhaps, along with the financial constraints, Universal deliberately set out to make their horror output more lightweight. "},{"Title":"Better death than a life like this . . .","Date":"12 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ghost of Frankenstein is easily the best of the 40's films dealing with the adventures of cinema's most famous monster. It is also the first film to feature someone other than Boris Karloff as the Frankenstein Monster. By this point Universal began churning out horror flicks as programmers with shorter running times and an emphasis on making a quick buck. As a result you hear the same music over and over, view the same sets repeatedly, and witness stock footage from previous films to pad the running time. And I can never get enough of it!Having grown up on these fright films I enjoy the nostalgia every time I re-watch one. This particular film was sort of a Holy Grail because it was the least seen of the Frankenstein series so I suppose I have a particular fondness for it. It was made immediately after The Wolf Man and contains many of the cast members from that film Bela Lugosi, Ralph Bellamy, Evelyn Ankers, and of course Lon Chaney, Jr. The story is nutty and really fools with the continuity of the series. Two town officials who were murdered in the previous film, played by Lionel Belmore and Michael Mark, appear in virtually the same roles. Castle Frankenstein looks completely different and apparently the sulfur pit, which was in a separate building in the previous film, is now in the basement. I could go on but why bother; this is part of the charm these films have. As directed by Erle Kenton the film has many impressive moments. Particularly solid are the shots of the Monster emphasizing his size towering over the little girl, ducking through doorways, and casting his shadow everywhere. Also interesting are many instances of characters playing to the camera as if the movie were in 3D. Plus you get two Frankenstein torch-bearing mobs instead of the usual one.The acting is always the aspect that interests me most. The two top-billed actors, Sir Cedric Hardwicke and Ralph Bellamy, are very uninteresting to say the least. Bellamy is just plain dull; Patric Knowles would have been a better choice. Hardwicke seems bored throughout. He is monotonous and just plain miserable; never cracks a smile and is completely unconvincing as a driven scientist. Luckily everyone else on hand contributes to the fun. Lionel Atwill, although given little to do, is the real mad scientist here. He underplays and doesn't go off the deep end like in Man Made Monster. As always he commands attention and gives a top performance. Miss Ankers is a joy as she is in any of these genre films. Beautiful and with an ear-piercing scream she adds a touch of class to the proceedings. Lugosi gives one of his best performances as Ygor, somehow surviving being shot in the previous film. He also seems to be missing his gnarled teeth and has a new outfit. Lugosi underplays for the most part and is a brilliant manipulator. And the scene where he blackmails Hardwicke is masterful; he completely wipes the floor with that accomplished actor and owns that sequence. Of course the performance everyone wants to analyze is Chaney as the Monster. He is a mixed bag for sure. His monster doesn't make a sound and doesn't possess any of the pathos Karloff brought to the role. Instead he is just a frighteningly large creature with minimal humanity. The scene with him bursting into Frankenstein's home, stalking, and then murdering Dr. Kettering is truly frightening. But we never feel sorry for him as a misunderstood person. However it is fun to watch Chaney the actor come to life in all the physical scenes; he clearly enjoys mixing it up with the stunt men. Unfortunately for the Frankenstein series this would be the high point in the forties; the subsequent films would go steadily downhill as the Monster gets pushed further into the background. Chaney is easily the best of the post-Karloff monsters. If anyone wishes to pass an entertaining 67 minutes then Ghost of Frankenstein is your ticket. "},{"Title":"O.K. most of the way, but bad ending","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the first Universal Frankenstein film without Karloff as the Monster, and the first one that's a B film.  It's well-done, fast-paced, and fun most of the way, despite Lon Chaney Jr. being all wrong as the Monster.  Chaney was too heavy and round-faced to replace the more gaunt Karloff, and he underplays the Monster to such an extent that he seems made of stone (maybe this movie should have been called Ghost of Golem).  All the pathos of the Karloff Monster are gone, and with it much of what made the Monster compelling is gone too. But worse is the ending, which I won't spoil for you except to say that it was a huge blunder that the Universal Frankenstein series never recovered from.  From this point on the Monster was just a lumbering, souless killing machine -- when he wasn't just laying around on some slab someplace.  So, while I enjoy this film, I despise its ending. "},{"Title":"Highly impressive sequel effort","Date":"17 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Still alive in the sulphur pits, the monster and the hunchback assistant travel to an adjacent town to convince the Baron's other son to continue with his fathers experiments in making the monster immortal.This is a surprisingly enjoyable and effective entry in the series. One of the better elements here is the rather exciting and plentiful action scenes here that make for a really enjoyable time. The opening of the film is a perfect example of this as it's the rapid on the castle which features the villagers storming the grounds and destroying the foundation while chasing the assistant and the monster through the catacombs and into the graveyard, being quite the highly impressive and exciting start as there's a thrilling sequence immediately. Along that same path, the lightning storm sequence and the rampage through the town following the trial in the hall also manage quite a few fun moments within this, while scenes in the middle at the mansion seems to have quite a nice dose of cheesy fun. The film's best segments, though, are in the final half as there's quite a bit to like here. Starting with the results of the brain-swamp and the resulting double-cross fueled by the emerging townspeople is used to set-up the main action as the monster's attempts to fend them off not only damages those around him but also starts off the centerpiece burning-down-the-house finale through the wild action in place. That not only is this fun due to the action present but also the storyline connections as this series of actions is built because of the fun body-swapping story lines as well as the continuation of the infatuation of the monster with children from the first entry which really helps this one along. They are enough for this one to hold off it's few flaws. One of the biggest marks against this one is the utterly contrive and rather nonsensical story that really eels like cash-in by the throwing yet another relative of Frankenstein's who yet again has extensive knowledge of brain-swapping to carry the film on. It's not all that original or creative at this point in the series which helps keep this one down somewhat. Another big one is the fact that the film doesn't really make it seem important for the creature and the assistant to seem like imposing figures for the townspeople, wandering up through the streets in broad daylight and engaging many of them in conversation that openly declare their association with the infamous family and their intentions there. At first the villagers seem afraid but willing if it gets them on their way, then it doesn't bother them at all until the final third of the film when the monster gets loose and starts rampaging. That's what spurs them into action, many times often ignoring the fact that they're out there despite the fact the creature openly escaped custody. It's pretty inconsistent, yet it's not a huge detriment to it in any way.Today's Rating-Unrated/PG Mild Violence and tense confrontations with children. "},{"Title":"Keep Resurrecting a Dead Corpse","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the 4th entry in the Universal Frankenstein series and, ultimately, the last to feature the monster in a solo role. From here out, the series begins to mesh with the other Universal monsters ultimately ending in the monster mash movies.This movie really suffers in comparison to the original Karloff trilogy and it's clear, at this point, that the wheels are coming off the franchise. The real problem is that it rehashes far too many ideas from the first movies, with none of the magic that made them so special.Ygor has continued to give the town the creeps, despite being shot 3 times in the gut in the last movie. The villagers decide to sack the castle to destroy the villain and, in the process, unearth the monster. Yes, despite being destroyed for a third time, the monster is still alive as well. I guess this is the ultimate blueprint for every modern horror icon who has survived a litany of deaths. Ygor brings the monster to yet another Dr. Frankenstein. This time, it's another son (who was inexplicably never mentioned in any of the previous movies and is, somehow, a few decades older looking than Wolf in SON OF FRANK, even though they are brothers). At first the doctor has no intention of helping Ygor until his father (not played by Colin Clive) visits him and convinces him to carry on the Frankenstein tradition. The plan is to transplant a better brain into the monster, which ultimately goes awry due to betrayal and Ygor's cunning.Having covered so many of the same patterns as the previous, the movie really suffers in comparison. Lon Chaney Jr takes over the role of the monster and just can't hold a torch to Karloff. Gone is the tragic soul of the monster. Instead, he becomes a lumbering oaf, stiff-armed and completely dehumanized. Sadly, though I enjoy Chaney in speaking roles, I have often felt that he was terrible in monster makeup. The newest Dr. Frankenstein, also, is a letdown compared to the previous. Yes, Colin Clive as Henry Frankenstein was the template for mad scientists and will never be touched for sheer unadulterated madness. Even Basil Rathbone as Wolf in SON OF FRANK had a certain lunacy to him. Cedric Hardwicke plays Ludwig Frankenstein, in this movie, as a bland generic doctor who would be more at home in a TV drama. There is just nothing special about him. Even Bela Lugosi as Ygor loses much of the maniacal edge that made him so good in SON. You'll notice even his makeup is more generic in comparison.The setting, itself, even pales in comparison. Yes, the actual village is just as quaint, but the movie is brighter, crisper and far less Gothic and shadowy than any of the previous three. The one positive is that there are certainly more electrodes, spinning gadgets and lab equipment than we got in SON.It was a wise decision by Universal to bring more fun into their monster flicks by mixing up the monsters in the sequels that would come because it is clear, at this point, that they were running out of anything original to say. "},{"Title":"The Legacy of Frankenstein","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the last film, Son of Frankenstein, both Ygor and the monster known as Frankenstein were killed. Or at least that is what we were led to believe. The villagers, on the other hand, believe differently as some of them swear that they have gotten a glimpse of Ygor (Bela Lugosi) on occasion late at night near the castle. And this news frightens them. But that's not all the villagers are upset about as it appears that all of the bad publicity stemming from the monster's rampages has done severe economic damage to their town as well. So at an impromptu meeting with the mayor they decide to march on the castle and destroy it. And despite Ygor's attempts to defend the castle, the villagers blow it up anyway. Unfortunately, the explosions only serve to uncover the monster (now played by Lon Chaney) which Ygor then gleefully leads to safety. And so another chapter is written in the legacy of Frankenstein. Sadly, this one seems to lack the energy the other three films in the series had. If anything, it seemed like it was rushed into production without any coherent thread holding all of the scenes together. Likewise, a number of the ideas put forward were already done in at least one&#x97;if not all three&#x97;of the previous films. That said, I have to rate this one as slightly below average. "}{"Title":"Under-rated, it's one of the best in the series","Date":"24 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I personally consider 'GoF' under-rated and one of the best in the Frankenstein single monster series. I prefer it to all the Universal Frankenstein films except 'Son of Frankenstein' which I liked about equally. This does not include those films with other monsters in them. Personally I thought 'Bride of Frankenstein' was a bit silly thanks to many of the over-the-top Doctor Pretorius scenes. I only enjoy it for the wonderful visuals and makeup. 'Frankenstein' as a film was just okay even if Karloff was excellent as always. I realize I am in a small minority. 'Ghost of Frankenstein' for me was much more fun to watch overall then those others, I especially like Lugosi's work in it. The brain transplant of ygor to the monster's body added a weirdness and horror to the film that sets it apart. The same goes for 'Abbott and Costello meet Frankenstein' when they wanted to transplant Wilbur's brain in the monster.It's a shame 'GoF' lacked continuity with the next film 'Frankenstein Meets the Wolfman'. They should have kept the monster blind or at least have explained his regaining his sight. Poor Mr. Lugosi played the monster (in 'FMtW') with a sleepwalker-like lumbering gait with arms outstretched because the monster was supposedly still blind. Then they later removed 'FMtW' references to the monster being blind which was why Lugosi had played him that way in the first place.BTW-continuity was also lost when the monster could no longer talk after, 'Bride of Frankenstein'.In 'GoF' the talents of Cedric Hardwicke and Lionel Atwill greatly added to the film. It's a movie I can watch again and again. I can not say the same about all the others. "},{"Title":"What good is a brain with out eyes!","Date":"2 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** The 4th of the Frankenstein series from Universal Studios has the monster played by Lon Chaney Jr instead of it's creator the great Boris Karloff who by then had much better things to do.The movie The Ghost of Frankenstein is a lot like a street corner Three Card Monte game with everyone involved Ygor, Bela Lugosi, the mentally deranged broken neck, from unnecessarily being hung, flute playing psychotic to Dr. Ludwig Frankenstein, Cedric Hardwick, and the Doc's assistant the disbarred Dr. Bohmer, Lionel Atwill, trying to fit a new brain into the criminal minder Monster's skull. The new and improved brain would replace the convicted and executed murderer's brain that Ludwig's pop the original Doctor Henry,or Hank, Frankenstein put into the monster's head over ten years ago.The monster in fact was brought back to life after the outraged townspeople of the town that bears it's creators name-Frankenstein-attacked the long deserted Frankenstein castle and destroyed it with dynamite causing the Monster with Ygor's help to come back to life after spending the last ten years buried alive in a sulfur pit. Alive and looking for action or a new brain the Monster together with his loyal companion Ygor makes it's grand appearance by killing two people when he tried to retrieve little Colestine's, Janet Ann Gallow, balloon. The Monster arrested and put on trial later escapes from police custody on a horse drawn carriage with Ygor as the wheel-man and goes to Dr. Ludwig's mansion. There he plans to get his head straightened out by getting the Doc to get a new and improved brain form himself!***SPOILER*** What in fact in the end does the Monster in is not that Dr. Ludwig couldn't get the job done but that both Ygor and the Doc's assistant Dr. Bohmer sabotaged his brain operation for their own selfish reasons. The Monster himself wanted little Colestine's brain but both Ygor and Dr. Bohmer tried to put Ygor's brain into its skull making Dr. Bohmer famous in the world of brain surgery and giving Ygor's a new and healthy body. On top of all that Dr.Ludwig Franenstein was planning to put the brain of his good friend the kind and brilliant brain surgeon Dr.Kettering, Barton Yarborough, in its skull. It was Dr. Kettering whom the Monster killed when things weren't quite going his way in the brain transplant department. With both Ygor and Dr. Bohmer getting the upper hand by tricking Dr. Ludwig in putting Ygor's not Dr.Kettering's brain into the Monster's skull all hell breaks loose when the Monster, or Ygor, finds out that that it's new brain isn't compatible with its old and patched together body! This leads to a complete meltdown or conflagration of the Franenstein Mansion with everyone, including the Monster,in it by the time the movie is finally over! "},{"Title":"Not as good as some of the others but still worth seeing","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When the villagers decide to destroy Castle Frankenstein, Ygor and the Monster search out the original Dr. Frankenstein's son, Ludwig to help bring the Monster back up to his full potential. Ludwig is not anxious to help initially, but blackmail is a good motivator, especially when your father has created a rampaging monster and you're trying to hide from that past. After the Monster is arrested and has a few more murders under his belt, Dr. Frankenstein decides to once again restore him to full power, but this time with the brain of one of his scientific colleagues, recently killed by the Monster. Ygor and another doctor have different ideas.Overall, this was an entertaining but inferior Frankenstein film. The Monster, played by Lon Chaney, just didn't have the same mannerisms as when he was played by Karloff and this really detracts from the overall level of the film. On the other hand, the rest of the acting is convincing.I also enjoyed the way the whole story was set up in this one-a fair amount of time and effort was spent in retelling the tale so far, but in an interesting way. The sets and the filming were also done beautifully, and the story itself was fun.This is not the best in the series by any means, but it is worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Okay for a sequel.","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was just okay, it didn't really have anything to make it stand out from most other Frankenstein films from the 40's. Although the first 2 films were the best, this movie succeeds in overcoming that fact and managing to be a fairly worthwhile film. Best recommended for fans. "},{"Title":"From triple A blockbuster to big budget B movie.","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Ghost Of Frankenstein is the first in the series to transition to B movie territory (where practically ever horror movie resides), but its also the first to show a significant drop in quality.The Monster is played by Lon Chaney Jr this time around instead of Karloff, and he's bloody awful. No expression, no life, nothing - an extremely boring portrayal of a character brought to life by Karloff. Sr Cedric Hardwicke is the blandest of all the Frankensteins that have come before, not one line is said with any flare or interest, pure paycheck role. His daughter, played by Evelyn Ankers, has got to be one of the most boring, beautiful actresses I have ever seen, shes not bad, shes just not interesting. Even Lionel Atwil isn't shinning like he did in Son Of Frankenstein. Bela Lugosi as Ygor is still as much fun as ever though and defiantly the best part of the film. He isn't as creepy this time around, but he is more sympathetic in that he continually defends the monster and you genuinely believe that he means it when he says the monster is his 'friend'. The beginning and ending are also highlights as both included burning buildings and lots of angry villagers which is awesome, and the idea of The Monster with Ygors brain, and to hear Ygors voice come out of The Monsters mouth is extremely creepy and yet bad-ass at the same time. Overall, A very average film that comes no where near the heights of the previous films. Hopefully this is but a misstep in an otherwise brilliant franchise. "},{"Title":"And batting Clean-up in the FRANKENSTEIN line-up our fourth entry into the saga, GHOST OF FRANKENSTEIN!.....(After all, it is Baseball Season!)","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" WITH the initial release of the Universal Pictures' backlog of their special brand of Horror Movies, not all of the titles were included. Hence their 1957 release of the SHOCK THEATER* package included some of the best, oldest and most frightening films, but had skipped a few here and there; thus leaving those which were sequels with a lot of missing information and an awful lot of answers that remained a mystery until a decade or so later; when the release of further films filled in all the missing gaps.AS for the Television release of the great Monster/Comedy Spoof of ABBOTT & COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN (Universal-International, 1948), it was packaged and released with the other Abbott & Costello Universals such as BUCK PRIVATES, IN THE NAVY, HOLD THAT GHOST, KEEP 'EM FLYING!, etc. They played over another TV Station in our market; being WNBQ TV Channel 5, an NBC wholly owned subsidiary. THUS, while we were treated to the likes of Dracula (1931), THE MUMMY (1932) and the first 3 of the Frankenstein Saga in FRANKENSTREIN (1931), BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN (1935) and SON OF FRANKENSTEIN (1939); the inventory of films skipped 1942's GHOST OF FRANKENSTEIN and gave us their first crossover Monsterfest in FRANKENSTEIN MEETS THE WOLFMAN (1943).THIS created a lot of confusion in our adolescent and pre-adolescent little heads. Why was the village now called 'Vasaria' instead of 'Frankenstein' and just who is this Baroness (Ilona Massey) and what happened in the hot sulfur pit and old Ygor (Mr. Bela Lugosi, Himself).GHOST OF FRANKENSTEIN (Universal Pictures, 1942) picks up the ball where SON OF FRANKENSTEIN left off. Ygor (Bela, again) survives his being shot and is still living at the ruins of the old Frankenstein Estate. In the mandatory villager mob scene, Ygor is found, but in evading the seemingly eternally angry townspeople, the old crooked, broken-necked creep discovers his old pal, the huge artificially constructed and very powerful, Frankenstein Monster. Only now there's one problem. The old Frankenstein Creation is now weakened and not hitting on all cylinders.AFTER the monster is struck by lightening (excuse me, I meant LITE-TEN-INGK!) and the evil woodwind player concludes that they should journey to the far-off village if Vasaria; where the other Frankenstein boy (Sir Cedric Hardwicke)* lives and practices as a Doctor specializing in sicknesses of the Mind. The gruesome twosome quickly arrive in Vasaria and manage to get involved with the locals, get involved with another bait and switch brain fiasco, kill a brilliant scientist and are manipulated by yet another evil scientist, Dr. Bohmer (Frankenstein series appearance champion, Lionel Atwil).THE finale ends with a terrible twist of fate for Ygor's plans and a great fire finishes off the Monster, until next time.THE Dean of All Horror Movie Aficionados, Famous Monsters of Filmland magazine Editor, Forrest J. Ackerman, had gone on record in stating that in his opinion, GHOST OF FRANKENSTEIN was the last of the true Frankenstein Series; and we can find no real reason to challenge this premise. The fact that it is a continuation of the storyline that had built up to this very point; which is further underwritten and emphasized by the fact that there is no other 'Crossover' characters to complicate the storyline give need to episodic mini-stories in one film.GHOST OF FRANKENSTEIN also introduced us to Frankenstein Monster Number 2 in Mr. Lon Chaney, Jr., who did a fine job interpreting the role in his own way. He would once again don the Monster's make-up and suit, albeit for only a few scenes in replacing an injured Glenn Strange in the above mentioned ABBOT & COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN.***NOTE * The Universal SHOCK THEATRE package of Horror Pictures spawned a whole new generation of fans for the Classic B & W films of the 1930's and '40's. The release of these also created a weekly horror movies showing in whatever markets they were sold to and Hosts of such shows became celebrities, locally and some . In Philadelphia (and later New York) there was John Zackerly. There was a Vampira in Los Angeles. Here in Chicago, WBKB Channel 7's Shock Theatre had 'Marvin'; who was portrayed by a young and talented Comedian and Ventriloquist named Terry Bennett.NOTE ** Hey Schultz, that sounds like a good premise and title for a TV Series. How about THOSE FRANKENSTEIN BOYS!? It could take a fresh look at the trials and tribulations of growing up with a famous Frankenstein Pop.SPECIAL NOTE Other cast members of note are Evelyn Ankers as the young Baroness Frankenstein, Barton Yarbrough as Dr. Kettering and an unbilled Dwight Frye (yeah, Fritz in FRANKENSTEIN, Carl in BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN and Renfield in Dracula (1931) ). Mr. Frye got no film credit for his appearance as a villager.POODLE SCHNITZ!! "},{"Title":"The Quality is Fading Fast","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This 4th re-incarnation of the Frankenstein franchise comes off as pretty tired. The plot borders on incomprehensible, stitched together almost as poorly as the Monster himself. Lon Chaney, Jr.'s talents are wasted. And his Monster makeup wreaks of blue light special. Lugosi as Ygor, on the other hand, is the film's highlight. But the scenes where Chaney's lips move and we hear Lugosi's voice from the Monster are unintentionally hysterical. If you want to see all the Universal Frankenstein films, you've got to sit through this one. Just remember Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man is next, and you'll survive it ! "},{"Title":"Classic Horror","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This a a sequel to Son of Frankenstein. It is a great movie. It has a great story line. It has great acting. It also has great special effects. Do not think because something is old that can not be good. This is one of the scariest movies ever made. It is very intense. Frankenstein meets the wolf man better. House of Frankenstein is also better. House of Dracula is also better. This is scarier then Frankenstein (1931). And very few movie are scarier then that one. It is scarier then The bride of Frankenstein. If this movie does not scar you then no movie will. This is scarier then Son of Frankenstein. The monster wants a new brain. So find the son of Doctor Frankenstein who is also a scientist. Very scary. "},{"Title":"Unfortunately for me this movie creaks more than it creeps...","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Judging by my review title, you'd think I dislike the movie and I'm being harsh on it. Just for the record, I don't dislike Ghost of Frankenstein. It's just that in comparison Frankenstein and Bride of Frankenstein, which are two of my favourites, and Son of Frankenstein, which I am also very fond of, it fell short. There are definitely some good things, the film does look wonderful, the sets are lavish and sometimes quite Gothic and the photography is very good as well. The score is lush and atmospheric, and of the cast there are two great performances and one very, very good one. They are Lon Chaney Jnr and Bela Lugosi. Chaney will suffer from inevitable comparisons to Boris Karloff, who was born for the role of the Monster(I always did find Karloff much more emotional), but on his own he does manage to give a very poignant and frightening(in look) performance complete with an imposing presence. Lugosi will always be Dracula to me, but as Ygor he has an ever magnetic presence. Lionel Atwil also shines as the miscalculating doctor. Evelyn Ankers is good even if her screams are a little too shrill. The angry villagers include some famous faces that are fun to spot, but part of you wishes that they had more to work from. There are a couple of performances that don't make the grade though. Ralph Bellamy has very little to do and looks very stiff. And while I loved Cedric Hardwicke in The Hunchback of Notre Dame I found that he spent most of the time looking miserable and ill at ease here. Ghost of Frankenstein has sadly some bad things as well. The film is far too scant in its length, consequently the story felt rushed making the atmosphere not creepy enough, the ending abrupt(not to mention very over-the-top) and the characters generally uninteresting, a lot of them just come and go. The re-used scenes are good to see but seemed as though they were only there to pad out the running time, while the script is very weak and doesn't enable the actors much to work with. All in all, not a terrible film but disappointed me. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Boris bailed out...","Date":"12 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Karloff decided that he no longer wanted to play the monster at this point, probably because the quality of the role had declined in Son of Frankenstein and was even worse here. The monster was increasingly less a character and more a plot device. The real monster in this movie is Bela Lugosi's Ygor, who manipulates everyone into doing his bidding.Instead of merely dissecting the monster and eliminating its danger, Ludwig Frankenstein (really a lot less crazy than his father or brother) decides to put the brain of a colleague into monster instead. Oooookay. I'm sure that would have worked out well, had Ygor not convinced another colleague to put HIS brain into the monster.Lon Chaney plays the monster this time out, and frankly, he's not as strong as Karloff or his own portrayals of other Universal movie monsters.Well shot, well acted and very atmospheric, but by this point, the whole of Universal horror was getting a bit dull, and the monsters were marching towards their inevitable date with Abbot and Costello. "}{"Title":"The descent continues","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the beginning of this film with such noted thespians as Lionel Atwell and Cedric Hardwicke, the mayor is being harassed by peasants spouting the same juvenile complaints. After being told he'll be replaced, he asks what he should do. Remove the last traces of this accursed Frankensteins from our land! immediately provoking the question- well, what the hell do they expect living in a town actually called Frankenstein?! And so they go to blow up mighty castle Frankenstein with a few boxes of TNT and the movie degenerates from there as Ygor and monster (played unmemorably by Lon Chaney Jr., given the role because of his name rather than suitability). Atwell, Lugosi, Hardwicke and a strong soundtrack do little to compensate ridiculous plot devices, ludicrous dialogue, story discontinuity, and a soppy romance thrown in. www.tracesofevil.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Nothing happens","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the more sluggish sequels in the Frankenstein series.  Ygor finds the monster where he was left in Son of Frankenstein and they beat it before castle Frankenstein is blown up by the ever complaining villagers.  Lightning hits the monster's pressure points but it's not enough apparently so he and Ygor go to the town where Ludwig Frankenstein lives so the monster can get stronger or something like that.  The monster and Ygor stroll through the town square where the monster is naturally seen and eventually caught by virtually the whole village shortly after killing some brave but stupid villagers.  The monster eventually ends up in the hands of Ludwig who plans on putting the brain of one of his dead assistants in the monster's skull.  Ygor and Doctor Bohmer (Lionel Atwill who was in every horror movie ever made) secretly plan to insert Ygor's brain so they can rule the country or world or county or whatever.  Nothing else happens as we wait to see the monster with Ygor's brain.  That moment is brief but is a high point of the movie as we see the monster demonstrative and cackling with Ygor's brain.  But Ygor doesn't have the same blood as the monster's so everything doesn't work right.  I thought this was actually a very nice plot device.  Ludwig's daughter and her boyfriend eventually walk away happily under the movie ending beautiful person formula while her father burns to death along with the monster (but not really of course.)  Virtually nothing of interest happens in the movie between the beginning and the ending that we haven't seen before.  That can also really be said of most of the sequels but it's even more dull here.  If you've seen Ygor in Son then you've seen him here.  Chaney is actually pretty good as the monster.  His size works to his advantage here as he makes a very imposing monster.  The interplay with the girl is actually pretty sick and probably could have been avoided.  Evelyn Ankers graces the screen again with her presence.  She's given more airtime here then in movies like Son of Dracula and is as gorgeous as ever.  The sets are also classically universal.  Hardwicke is not a great central character as he's just not interesting enough.  Surprisingly bland.6.3/10  "},{"Title":"SAD","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie takes everything that the Monster once had away.  Does anyone remember the way the monster was in BRIDE...?  The Monster barely had anything left in Son of..., that's why Karloff left.  Lon Chaney does do a good Frankenstein monster.  He mouths Ygor's voice precise and enthusiastically.  Still, the movie lacks the full Universal Horror feeling of the three earlier films.  The movie is quick paced and take place mostly in the day, and bright lights.  Though a good classic film, this movie seems like it was made just to be made, not for the quality that could have been put into the film.  Bela Lugosi, returns as the imfamous Ygor, minus the sharp teeth from Son of..., and Lon Chaney assuming the role of the Monster, in the final film that the monster would be the only monster in.  No wolfman, vampire or mad scientist.  This movie is simply, in terms of quality, SAD! "},{"Title":"LON CHANEY JR., TRIES TO BE FRANKENSTEIN","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"       The Ghost of Frankenstein 1942 was released on Friday the 13th, which was a lucky day for Universal.  The picture had been a great gamble.  Karloff had forsworn the Monster for mad doctor roles more in keeping with his advancing dignity.  Basil Rathbone was now totally identified as the movies' Sherlock Holmes.  Rathbone's role of Wolf was rewritten for Sir Cedric Hardwicke and called Ludwig, Frankenstein's second son and Doctor of the Mind.   Karloff's Monster remained unchanged, except by Chaney.  Jack Pierce tried to mould him into Karloff, but the taller, thicker, jowlier man remained a hulking Lennie. Performance cannot compare to Karloff's and never did. "},{"Title":"No Classic","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ygor searches out a second son of Frankenstein, played by Cedric Hardwicke, to have his brain inserted in the skull of the monster in this third sequel to 1931's Frankenstein. With this film, the first without Boris Karloff as the monster, the Frankenstein series slides into the realm of the B-programmer. Entertaining, yes, but it lacks both the gravitas and humanity of the first two films. Lon Chaney, Jr., sadly, is no Karloff, but I do not blame him for the monster's decline. It started in the previous film. The simple fact of the matter is that the monster is no longer being treated in the films as an independent moral agent. He is now just a pawn, and that is what he will remain throughout the rest of the series. However, Chaney tries. He provides the monster more personality than Glenn Strange would later. Fortunately, Bela Lugosi keeps things percolating as the evil Ygor. Well worth a look, but no classic. "},{"Title":"Average Monster Caper","Date":"7 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's nice to know that the concept of the franchise movie isn't a modern idea. Universal were doing it away back in the 1940s . Interesting to note that they're just as clumsy and as cynical as movie money making exercises are nowadays . . At the end of SON OF FRANKENSTEIN both Ygor and the monster were obviously dead but by some miracle that only seems to exist in movie franchises Ygor suddenly appears live and well while burning sulpher pits have no adverse effects on the Frankenstein monster . It's interesting to note that when Lawrence Talbot - The Wolfman - the series similarly makes no attempt to explain how he suddenly gets miraciously resurrected in each outing The plot itself is rather threadbare and revolves around a simple premise of  Ygor tries to trick a Frankenstein descendant in to putting his brain in to the monster  . It's a B movie with a rather short running time but this isn't necessarily a criticism since director Erie C Kenton manges to keep things running along at a fairly quick pace though there's some slight annoyances such as the jarring accents of the cast that switch from British to American to European and we're treated to the occasional plot contrivance such as Dr Frankenstein installing knockout gas at his residence when there's no logical reason for him to do so - unless he was clairvoyant and expected a visit from the monster and/or some angry villagers It's interesting that film critics over the years have pointed out an alleged homosexual subtext to James Whale's BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN while totally ignoring the relationship between Ygor and the Monster here . I doubt if there was a subtext here but I also doubt if there was a subtext to BRIDE either . I do notice that the monster seems to have an unhealthy interest in children and would it be damaging to a critics career to suggest that there's latent paedophilia in the series somewhere ? "},{"Title":"close, but not quite....","Date":"11 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Ghost of Frankenstein was the first time that the Hollywood-ized version of Mary Shelley's monster was not portrayed by Boris Karloff. The role now went to Lon Chaney, Jr. Bela Lugosi reprised his role of Ygor for this picture, in which again, the title does not have any connection with the story. After all, it's the monster that's come back from the dead, not Dr. Frankenstein. But oh, well, let's start talking about the movie.In this picture, Ygor and the Frankenstein monster escape from their tombs (alive again, figures) and track down a second son of Henry Frankenstein (Cedric Hardwicke), demanding that the scientist implant Ygor's brain in the monster's, so they can be one forevermore. Or something like that.This is my least-favorite of the five black-and-white Frankenstein pictures that I have seen. It's also the most shallow and the most one-dimensional and the least fun. It brings together some quintessential casting choices in a screenplay that is ultimately too weak and mellow to work even on the basis of a low-key horror flick. The characters, save for Ygor, have no personality and it's a shame that Sir Cedric Hardwicke, so great an actor, was left with very little to do but stand around and mumble pessimistic dialogue. This time around, even Frankenstein's creation, though on screen quite often, comes around as flat and without any trace of personality. They might as well have had the creature played by a dummy and have Ygor drag him around all day, for that's ultimately what seems to happen.The Ghost of Frankenstein is a very close miss for me. I have seen other horror flicks that were even more harebrained than this, but extended a little more enthusiasm that made them more enjoyable. This one comes off as a little show. It is saved from being a tremendous failure by its brisk running time. However, this Frankenstein picture is anything but memorable. "},{"Title":"The monster is pathetic but the film isn't bad","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie had great sets, all the necessary angry mob scenes and innocent children, and a lot of good actors.  Bela Lugosi is wonderful as a sinister, cruel friend to the Monster.  Lon Chaney Jr. is not a bad actor, but I couldn't take him seriously as the monster.  He was too puffy and not tall enough.  Overall it was an enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"Stale,unusual,if watchable first b-entry in Frankenstein series","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The  basic plotYgor ressurects the monster from the sulphur pit in which it was buried at the end of Son of Frankenstein'and then brings him to Frankensteins other son ,Ludwig,a brain surgeon,Ludwig's conniving assistant,and Ludwig's  beautiful daughter.Ygor want's ludwig to make the monster more vigorous,although Ludwig  gets the idea of giving the monster the brain of a decent man.The praise.Good sets,good lighting,better dialogue than one would expect,so-so character design.The cast is the best part,with Cedric Hardwicke(as Ludwig),Evelyn Ankers(as Elsa),Lionel Atwill(as Ludwig's assistant) and Bela Lugosi(as Ygor).Good for a Universal b,and the monster's choice of brain is shocking,as well as the brain he ends up with. The flawsThe plot is stale,and Chaney jr. is MORE than laughable,with his unfitting body,pudgy cheeks and a wooden,hollow ,performance,without the pathos required for his role.Remember ,this is only a B,albeit a watchable one. "},{"Title":"Bad Brain Science","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I went on a binge, watching all four of the first Universal Frankenstein movies. I know that many believe Metropolis to be the first mad scientist movie. But that wasn't about science or scientists, but about repressive society. The science there was actually technology and had as much to do with things as the devices in 1984. This, this, I think is the first movie series where the whole point was that science was inerrently evil in its tendencies. Its different than a Faust story, where powers were conveyed for selfish ends; here the ends are discovery. Its no mistake that there's the heavy hand of religion in the village context that surrounds the man and his work.So when I watch these, I pay attention to two things. One is how science is portrayed. Its radically different in all four. And the second is how the cinematic grammar is used to present that notion. Its a sort of hobby of mine to compare sequels and remakes.+++In this fourth one, we go through yet another change in how science is handled. Once again it shifts from the cosmic to the ordinarily human. Its about brains doing science and science on brains. We are reminded that the original scientist was not misguided, it was just his stupid assistant who made the mistake of using a criminal brain. Otherwise, all would be well. The doctor this time is a brain healer, and he has guess what? A dumb assistant who makes a critical mistake in substituting brains.The foreboding oboe of the last film gives way to a plaintive bassoon. The little boy of the last to a little girl. I think the shift in gender subtly supports this shift in science to human again. The ghost is not the ghost of the monster, who we learned last time has this cosmic invulnerability. It is the ghost of the original science visited upon his son to advise against killing the creature, merely fixing the prior brain error.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "}{"Title":"Ghost of Frankenstein","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ygor(Bela Lugosi who easily steals this film), with his distorted and broken body, secretly plans to use the body of Frankenstein's creation(Lon Chaney, Jr, taking over for Karloff)to house his own brain when he is able to manipulate the monster to follow him to Baron's ancestor, great brain surgeon Dr. Ludwig Frankenstein(Cedric Hardwicke, well cast)in a nearby village where the doctor works as head of a mental hospital and institution. The monster, in this film pretty much as a killing machine with little or no soul left, right away murders two villagers so Ygor will have to work quickly to get the devious task in his plan underway.Ludwig has been able to shield his family's notorious past from his daughter Elsa(Evelyn Ankers)for quite some time, but finds the ghost of that very past coming back to haunt him in the shape of Ygor who at first threatens to expose Elsa to the notorious secret of his family's past and then later uses other means using the monster to try and get his way. Complications ensue right away for Ludwig as the monster kills his assistant, Kettering. Then Elsa is exposed to the monster. Ludwig feels he must disassemble the monster right the opposite from his father..destroy the creation. But, when a ghost of his past offers a solution, a brain transplant of Kettering, Ludwig feels he can save the living monster while also providing it with an innocent brain that will replace the criminal one.Lionel Atwill portrays Dr. Theodor Bohmer, the teacher of Ludwig who attempted to remove a brain and replace it with the end result being death. After his student Ludwig's same attempt is a success, Bohmer harbors an intense jealousy that Ygor can tap into. Ygor will use that jealousy to his advantage so that Ygor's brain will be the one transplanted into the monster not Kettering's. But, Ygor's plan will indeed backfire when he doesn't realize that blood type plays an important key into brain distribution.Surprisingly, this film is a lot of fun. For the exception of the miscasting of Chaney as the monster, the cast is first-rate and the film benefits from the evil, sinister cunning of devilish Lugosi as Ygor. We get an early performance from Ralph Bellamy as Erik Ernst, a prosecutor trying to find the hideout of Ygor and the monster. That angle provides extra conflict for Ludwig because his daughter Elsa is in love with Erik who must probe the doctor for the evil duos whereabouts.Despite the usual chaotic explosions, this film at least remains a highly entertaining film in a highly entertaining series from the Universal studios. "},{"Title":"Promises much but falls away....","Date":"31 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Fourth of Universal's Frankenstein pictures; it was also the last to feature the monster on his own - he was soon shunted off to be a side man to the Wolf Man and Dracula; and it's clear with this film that Universal were running out of ideas for the character.Lon Chaney Jr. takes the role of the monster vacated by Karloff and his performance is leaden and downright dull, being the caricature image of the monster everyone recalls. Chaney has none of Karloff's pathos and only a little of his menace. Jack Pierce's makeup was designed specifically for Karloff's face, and it doesn't suit the jowlier features of Chaney. Lon gave some very good performances over his career; he's brilliant as the Wolf Man and makes a surprisingly effective Dracula; here, however, as in the Mummy sequels, he's just going through the motions.Cedric Hardwicke is surely the most boring actor ever to work in Hollywood, his expression changing so little he'd have made a better zombie than a second son of Henry Frankenstein. The acting in the film is largely carried by Bela Lugosi in his second appearance as Ygor, who gives another wittily sardonic performance and eliciting moments of pathos that are utterly missing from Lon's Monster. Lionel Atwill's Dr. Boma is rather underused until the final reel or two.The film gets most of its marks from me for its terrific opening it's a nice touch to see Frankenstein actors Michael Mark, Lionel Belmore and yep, Dwight Frye turn up as frightened villagers. Ironically, it isn't long before they've dynamited the castle and released the monster from his sulphur tomb. Cue a delighted Ygor - My friend, you lived through the pit! The monster gets his strength restored in a great little sequence during a storm, willing the lightning to strike him. This is Chaney Jr's most effective scene. From here, the film becomes maddeningly routine.Ygor and the Monster head for Vasaria, cajoling Dr. Ludwig Frankenstein (Hardwicke) into performing a brain transplant. There's much business concerning the monster and a little child, the creature being locked up, escaping, and hiding out in Frankenstein's underground laboratory. Evelyn Ankers and Ralph Bellamy, both fresh from The Wolf Man, provide the romantic interest in the story. They are given very little to do.Only at the end, with the monster perishing in the flames as the villagers (yet again!) torch the Frankenstein residence, does the film spring to life once more. The burning of the monster must have raised a few goosebumps to contemporary audiences, who made the film a hit.Not a great addition to the series, but worth it for Lugosi. "},{"Title":"the ugly monster is taken to be made better by another son of henry","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lon Chaney Jr is terrible he wastes his time trying to be like Karloff and instead transforms the sympathetic monster into nothing more than a hulking brutish moron who likes stupid children instead being human the makeup is horrible jack pierce was great at makeup in the 30's thats when he puts it on the right actor but you cant put the Frankenstein makeup on Chaney without making it look as horrible as CRAP and the music is cheap and corny as cheese it does not have the mood of the first three films although by the third the characters were already becoming lousy and unoriginal except Igor and the monster but in this movie their characters become dumb and cheesy Bela Lugosi did better in son of Frankenstein... "},{"Title":"Cheesy Classic","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some of the worst lines I have ever heard come from this movie. The only reason it gets a ten? It deserves more than the low 5.8 it has now. In reality, it gets between a 6 and a 7. Lon Chaney easily is the worst monster of them all, and probably the most frustrating to watch. The real problem with this film is that it's not packed with action as other films in the series are. It starts off quick with the traditional villagers blowing up a castle Ygor(Lugosi) just happens to inhabit. Upon doing so, they unknowingly expose and release the Monster, who gets struck by lightning, and through that his strength multiplies. The end scene where Ygors brain is transplanted into the monster produces ridiculous results and dialog. I'm just glad they didn't put Ygor in any films after this as he was annoying. Lugosi is great no doubt, but as Dracula only, not as Ygor.One of Universal's worst Monster movies, the film is enjoyable, laughable, cheesy, not scary or even thrilling for a second, but as far as entertainment goes, you couldn't do much better on a foggy October night . "},{"Title":"The Usual Universal Horror Movie Schlok","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" By the fourth installment of the 'Frankenstein' franchise the film was demoted from an 'A' film to a 'B' movie replete with the standard 'angry mob of villagers with torches' cliché. Karloff wisely bowed out of playing the monster this time around replaced by the inferior Lon Chaney Jr. of 'Wolfman' fame. He performed as if wearing an ill fitting suit which indeed he was. It was Karloff's old Frankenstein drag. The studio was so cheap they didn't even make him his own costume. This movie proves once again how little imagination and creativity studio bosses have and how they will beat a dead horse until it is dog meat. Bela Lugosi of 'Dracula' fame plays Igor the Hunchback with the same over-the-top, bad acting he was famous for when playing vampires. "}]