[{"Title":"What you people don't know would fill a book!","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"70 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Many of the posts here are so filled with diatribes and inaccuracies that I had to laugh! One poster complained that the Flying Tigers actually were only flight trainers for the Chinese Air Force, and only lost three pilots in combat. At least two complained that John Wayne was a draft dodger. One stated that the Tigers were in combat two years before Pearl Harbor. One stated that the Japanese were unfairly treated as bad guys in the film. One declared that the Flying Tigers were up against a superior plane in the Japanese Zero....First off, the Flying Tigers started training in September of '41 and were disbanded in July of '42. In that roughly ten month period they shot down 286 CONFIRMED kills for the loss of 12 Flying Tigers. They were not Chinese Air Force flight instructors! Their kill-to-loss ratio remains one of the finest in aviation combat history. Secondly, the Tigers never encountered the Zero in Combat. Their foes were primarily J.A.A.F. pilots, and the Zero was a Navy plane. Third, the Japanese indeed DID SHOOT AT PILOTS in parachutes and in life rafts, whenever possible, because they were taught that the enemy must be killed at all costs, lest he survive to fight you another day. Fourth, the Japanese committed the most UNSPEAKABLE horrors against the Chinese people during WW II, as the book, The Rape of Nanking can testify to. Fifth, John Wayne was NOT a draft dodger. He had a bum ear due to an infection which rendered him physically 4-F. Sixth, the outdoor sequences of The Flying Tigers were not filmed in Northridge, California, but rather in the high desert area around Santa Fe, New Mexico, in the (successful) attempt to give the foliage a more foreign look.As to the film itself, I would suggest you go to the Fighter Museum in Phoenix, AZ, or the Air Force Museum in Dayton, OH, and find out just how close the film was to reality. The Tigers WERE usually outnumbered about 8 to 1 in combat. The 3 squadrons of the Tigers DID USE outdoor facilities as shown in the film. The Tigers were indeed mercenaries, paid by the kill, as well as by the month. The Tigers WERE frequently short of spares and fuel. The Tigers DID have nicknames, like Tex (David Lee Hill) and Pappy (Gregory Boyington). The Tigers DID have a few beautiful nurses on station. (In fact one of them, Jane Foster, ended up marrying a Tiger, who was subsequently shot down and killed a week before they were to leave for the States.) Truthfully, the only real overt fiction in the film is the pre-Pearl Harbor combat, as in fact, the Tigers did not start combat operation until after Pearl Harbor, (being in training prior to that.) Why is the film so accurate? Because two guys who weren't able to cut it as Tigers decided to take the story of the Tigers to Hollywood to sell it. They were the technical advisers for Republic, which was able to glean much about the unit from them.Leave your politics at home and take a second look. This is actually an excellent depiction of the organization and the men, backed up with a superior special effects unit and a great score. (Both nominated for Oscars.) "},{"Title":"Wayne Goes To War","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"22 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" John Wayne's first war film was one of his best, a solid actioner with Wayne giving great presence as the leader of a fighter squadron doing battle against the Japanese invader over the skies of China in the dark days before the U.S. entry into World War II.Wayne plays Jim Pappy Gordon, a variation on the many flinty-commander-with-heart-of-gold characters he would play in films to follow like Sands Of Iwo Jima and Fighting Seabees. Gordon is less flinty than most of them, maybe because his men are volunteers or maybe because his girlfriend Brooke (Anna Lee) is stationed on the same airbase. While the Japanese take their toll on his men, Gordon's toughest job may be keeping peace in his squadron when smug gloryhog Woody Jason (John Carroll) arrives.When I first saw Flying Tigers as a boy, the on-screen gore made the strongest impression. In those days, before pay television, it was something to see a Japanese pilot grab his face, blood oozing through his fingers. Times have changed, of course, but one is still impressed by the well-rendered dogfight sequences, for which Ted Lydecker was nominated for an Oscar. Though it's troubling to be entertained by what amounts to real images of people getting killed, director David Miller manages to incorporate actual combat footage very well into battle sequences that alternate with Lydecker miniature work and shots of actors in their cockpits, better than the more acclaimed director Nicholas Ray later did in another Wayne air war film, Flying Leathernecks.Flying Tigers contains one key historical inaccuracy While assembled in the months before Pearl Harbor, the Tigers didn't see action until December 20, 1941. This is an important caveat, but the inaccuracy allows for one of the very first and best examples of that classic movie cliché, where a dramatic scene ends with a glimpse of a desk calendar showing the date Dec. 7. The scene that follows is one of those Wayne moments that resonated especially in theaters in 1942 and still packs a punch now Pappy alone by a radio, standing expressionless while a cigarette smolders in his fingers, listening to President Roosevelt declare war.Neither Wayne's iconographic stature or final victory against the Japanese were sure things when Flying Tigers came out in 1942; we tend to take more for granted and give films like this less credit. Wayne was 35 and not a real soldier, yet he came to define the war effort for many. Judging from the way some comments here attack him as a straw dog for present U.S. war policy in Iraq, Wayne's potency as a symbol remains undimmed.Climbing off his P-40 after an early mission, Wayne is shown a row of bullet holes on his fuselage. Termites, he says laconically, before striding away.I give a lot of credit here to Miller, who knew what he had in Wayne before anyone else did, and uses the actor's terse authority to great effect. Miller was making propaganda, yes, but effectively and sensitively We see Chinese children victimized by war, including one shot of a wounded child crying after a bombing clearly modeled on a famous war photo of the period. Unlike other wartime films which went heavy on ethnic stereotyping, the Japanese are seen as skilled, ruthless adversaries who require resolve to face down.The film does lose altitude at the end, when Wayne goes off on a hare-brained bombing mission and Carroll has a why-we-fight epiphany that rings rather hollow. Maybe it's because he's playing a heel, but I find Carroll hard to take, with his Clark Gable mannerisms and the way he seems to always play to the camera rather than the other actors. There's also a little too much melodrama between Wayne and Lee that feels out of place in a war film.But Flying Tigers has weathered the years better than most films of its kind, and is a historic landmark both for its effective action scenes and its pioneering use of Wayne as cultural touchstone. More than 60 years later, it still packs a punch. "},{"Title":"Volunteering for China","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" The Flying Tigers and God Is My Co-Pilot are the two films out of World War II which are dedicated to the American volunteers who flew for the nascent Chinese Air Force both before and after America officially got into World War II. Though this film is based on fictional people it holds up a lot better than God Is My Co-Pilot because it avoids the racial stereotyping of the Japanese. The Japanese are seen, but only in aerial combat shots with no dialog. And it's true they did have a nasty habit of machine gunning fliers while they were parachuting down, no avoiding that.The main plot of the film is John Wayne as the disciplined leader of this particular squadron of Flying Tigers based somewhere in western China and an old and rather undisciplined friend John Carroll in a rivalry over nurse Anna Lee. Carroll's irresponsibility causes the death of one man and maybe another.Still he's not a bad sort, just an overgrown kid. Carroll actually has the best moment in the film consoling Mae Clarke the widow of one of the Flying Tigers.Some nice aerial combat shots are in this film and it really should be seen today to explain some of the Chinese attitudes towards the Japanese today. We got into World War II on December 7, 1941 which in fact the men in Wayne's squadron hear about in the film. The Chinese were essentially at war with Japan starting in 1931 with the Japanese invasion of Manchuria. It was a longer struggle for them than for any other country.Other performances of note are Paul Kelly as Wayne's second in command and Gordon Jones are Carroll's sidekick. Check it out if it is shone on TCM. "},{"Title":"P-40 replicas used in the film.","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Being born in 1939 I grew up watching all the John Wayne movies and remember quite well the impact this film had on me and eventually my chosen profession as a pilot. The question that always comes to mind whenever I see the film is; Who built the P-40 Warhawk replicas used in the movie? I assume Curtis-Wright had a hand in it as they are mentioned in the credits. The replicas were done fairly accurately and obviously had an engine and propeller with enough power to taxi. This also means that they had a steerable tailwheel and main landing gear brakes for stopping etc. Noticeable though is that while taxiing you do not see flight control surface movement especially in the rudder which would move with the tailwheel. No aileron movement is observed either, which you would see during taxi over rough ground and the pilot's hand holding the control stick naturally would transmit some vibration to the ailerons. The most obvious difference from the true P-40 is in the area of the canopy and windshield construction, kind of close but not convincing when the actual footage of aircraft taking off shows the true configuration and size of the aircraft. The film is not TOP GUN but is always a nice nostalgic event for this old retired pilot. "},{"Title":"Wayne,China,dogfights!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  Well done action film with good attention to detail.Many critics unfairly derailed this movie as propaganda when it is actually a good peek into that time and place.Mercenaries!Oh my!Many do not want to recall that the U.S. was very much involved in combat with the Japanese long before Pearl Harbor.EGAD!No wonder the backlash.See this one if you like John Wayne and war films.One of the greatest B movies ever as this is the forte of Republic films.There are some historical exaggerations but all done in good taste to condense such large scale events into a short movie......  "},{"Title":"One of Wayne's Best WWII Films","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  Sure the corn flows right along with the fake blood, but this is very good action.  The special effects were great, with just one really lousy shot. Wayne is tough, and we win in the end anyway, so why complain.  No, this isn't Saving Private Ryan, but if that had been released in WWII, we would have lost the war.  I give this an 8, pilgrim. "},{"Title":"campy and over-the-top fun","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" I am a real sucker for some of the old Republic films--particularly the wartime films. Yes, I know they are NOT artistic masterpieces and the movies of course take advantage of many cinema clichés BUT they also deliver wonderful, if somewhat low-brow, entertainment.Despite John Wayne being billed as the lead, he is in fact somewhat of a background figure during much of the movie. Instead, the main focus seems to be on the incredibly glib and cocky John Carrol. He's a jerk and he's terribly selfish but boy can he fly. And, Wayne, being an old pal of Carrol's knows that down deep Carrol will prove himself in the end.Along the way, we are treated to a liberal dose of the nobility of our Chinese comrades in arms as well as the inherent decency of our volunteer pilots. While all basically true, it has all the expected touches of a WWII American propaganda film. For me, that's not really a bad thing, as this film and others like it succeed in being great entertainment. In fact, because of this, I have seen this film several times. It's not exactly deep or sophisticated, but sometimes we NEED a film we can just enjoy and not think too deeply about. "},{"Title":"Second-rate, but lovable","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  Yes, this is a second-rate John Wayne war film (which probably makes it a third or fourth-rate movie for some).  Its story resembles a Pat O'Brien/James Cagney military actioner of the thirties, or maybe even the Spencer Tracy/Clark Gable flight movie TEST PILOT, more than it does the real story of the Flying Tigers. Wayne plays the paternalistic leader always telling the hot shot to play with the team; ironically, it was because the Army Air Force wanted to deflate the cowboy attitude and emphasize team work that the real Flying Tigers got disbanded. Despite the corn and cliches, Wayne and the movie are lovable.  Like all war movies made between 1942-1945, it's also an eye-opening time capsule. "},{"Title":"Tigers Opted Out","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Several friends of mine flew with the AVG. One of them who attended the premiere (c. October '42) recalls that he and a couple other Tigers were so embarrassed by the film that they were caught sneaking out of the theater.However, the loathing of John Wayne contained in other reviews on this site demonstrates a total lack of objectivity. Wayne was 35 at the time of Pearl Harbor, and not even his friendship with then-Cdr. John Ford could get him accepted for military service. (according to one bio, his distinctive walk resulted from a football injury.) On one tour of the Pacific, Wayne got dead drunk with some fighter pilots in New Guinea. They placed his inert form on a cot and carried it into the middle of the compound and allowed him to awake with a hangover stark naked. He rolled over and went back to sleep...Whatever anybody thinks of Wayne or the Vietnam War, he was still visiting troops in-country at age 63. "},{"Title":"You may serve the soup course now Pappy!","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" The Flying Tigers gets off the ground early as Commander Jim Gordon (John Wayne) leads his blue group fighters into exciting aerial battle against the Japanese. The film takes a look at an American band of mercenary fliers defending China just prior to our entry into World War II. For historical perspective, there's a scene right after Gordon chastises hot shot flier Woody Jason (John Carroll) for missing a night time reconnaissance flight; on Gordon's desk is a calendar with the date - Sunday December 7, 1941. President Truman's declaration of war is listened to intently by the squadron on the radio, and soon after the Tigers get orders to take out a railroad supply line.In between aerial dog fights, Gordon has his hands full managing the aforementioned loose cannon Jason, an old friend who thinks the war was made just for him. He sees each Japanese opponent as another five hundred dollar bounty, and is too impressed with himself to follow orders, even when it leads to disastrous results. The set up though allows Jason to lead the movie to it's predictable ending, in which he redeems himself by ramming a damaged transport plane into a Japanese rail car loaded with military supplies. This right after giving parachuted buddy Gordon the old Geronimo out the plane's door before disobeying orders one last time.John Wayne's romantic interest in the movie is suitably portrayed by Anna Lee, her character a nurse at the air base tending to Chinese children and wounded fliers when necessary. Other supporting players of note include Paul Kelly as Commander Gordon's Number #2 man Hap Smith, and Gordon Jones as Alabama, who has a fondness for saying I'm getting that old feeling whenever hot shot Jason makes an appearance. Jones looks a bit out of place in the film, perhaps I've seen him too many times playing the foil to Abbott and Costello in any number of their own movies and TV shows.Both as a war film and a John Wayne vehicle, Flying Tigers is generally adequate, taking some liberties from a historical viewpoint to be considered entirely accurate. For fans of the Duke, it's the type of action adventure in which he excels, combining elements of courage and heroism on which his fame as an entertainer rests. "}{"Title":" Outnumbered, over a patch of Chinese sky, their roar carried through the entire war ","Date":"23 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Here is a movie straight out of the annals of World War Two. The Japanese Empire was sweeping through Asia and destroying large parts of mainland China. Few of their adversaries were able to stop them, but one unit made history, by encountering them over the skies of China. In 1940-41 General Claire Chennault formed a mercenary group of American Flighter pilots to combat the invading Japanese. The movie based on their exploits is called  Flying Tigers  and star's John Wayne as Capt. Jim Gordon. Although an America propaganda film, it was designed to stimulate America's involvement in the war. Later, it came to symbolize America's contribution to the multi-national effort to fight the Japanese. The movie is in Black and White, crude, coarse and blatantly patriotic. Still it gave a boost to morale at a time when things were not going well for the U.S. or China. As a result with the additional cast of John Carroll, Paul Kelly, Gordon Jones and Edmund MacDonald as 'Blackie Bales' the movie succeeds in creating a rousing yarn of heroic young men and the niche they created over the Asian skies. **** "},{"Title":"What did you expect in wartime?","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Yes it's a propaganda piece; yes it's a bit cheesy; yes it's not accurate. What did you expect it's a Republic film and made for entertainment in a very dark time of our history the beginning of WW2 when things weren't going so well.There is also the issue of security. We couldn't afford to name names and be historically accurate without spilling the beans to our enemies. Imagine laying out the entire contingent, personal conflicts, equipment and order of battle just so you could say in the middle of a war that your got it historically accurate. You must view such films in that context and so Flying Tigers turns up pretty well. The flying sequences were nominated for Academy Awards and were great for that day and age.I was especially intrigued by the twin engine transport which turns out to be a failed one off design from the early 1930's which was used for ground shots and model shots. Here's the scoop from Wikipedia.The transport was the XC-12 1933 with two 525hp Wright Cyclone engines; span 55'0 length 42'0 load 3000#. It was an all-metal; triple biplane tail; *partly-retracting gear, which extended automatically when the throttle was closed. Funded by local Greek restaurateurs as a promotional aircraft, and constructed with help from University of California students. US patent #1,745,600 issued to Socrates H Capelis, of El Cerrito, in 1930 (a modified application for patent of the design with a half-span dorsal wing and two more engines appears in 1932). The main spar was bolted together, and much of the skin attached with P-K screws rather than rivets. These tended to vibrate loose, requiring tightening or replacing every few flights. Promotional tours were soon abandoned, and its career ended as a movie prop, appearing in ground roles* in several motion pictures (Five Came Back 1939, Flying Tigers 1942, others) before reportedly being scrapped c.1943. * Flying shots in films were of a model; the plane itself was grounded by the studio's insurance company.Johnmcmd "},{"Title":"Typical John Wayne Fare for the '40s","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" I got hold of a 50th Anniversary edition VHS of this movie. I dig old celluloid. This film is typical John Wayne stock of the period, though many of his scenes are stolen by John Carroll, who displays a lot of personality and gives the film a real boost. Carroll's character is introduced to the audience as a devil may care' type, always bucking convention and discipline until...as you might expect...reality catches up with him. The Flying Tigers were a volunteer air security team stationed in China both before and during the second world war. Hostilities between Japan and China were in full sway by 1931, and the Chinese suffered many civilian casualties...especially women and children. But...not all of the volunteers were there for humanitarian reasons. Some were in it for the money, and a bounty paid for the number of Japanese planes downed by the Tigers made this an attractive means of income for some mercenary types. Woody ( Carroll) comes on-board just this way. But after a number of mis-steps...one of which costs the life of one of the members...he begins to take on a different perspective. There are the usual ups and downs of the crew in this situation...even to the point of Wayne and Woody jockeying for position with Wayne's girl, a nurse for the shelter. One tear jerking scene is where Woody gives his bounty earnings to the wife of a now dead flyer who was trying to right some past actions that had him thrown out of flying and which did not put him in good footing with the other men. Woody felt personally responsible, and made up a story that made the man's wife proud, though it did not take away the pain and grief of his loss entirely. Woody redeems himself in the end...but you will have to view the film in order to see that. In the cast are a few stalwarts of the period. Jimmie Dodd was there...he would later go on to Mickey Mouse fame and fortune. Mae Clarke was there...but no grapefruits were present. Tom Neal was also there, though Detour was yet several years off, along with other 'poverty row' features. This is the kind of film that is tolerable to watch, and the whole family can get in on the act, though it would be good if an adult is on-hand for the kids in order to answer questions about the old school way of doing things. "},{"Title":"WWII propaganda is entertaining John Wayne film...","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" FLYING TIGERS, made on a tight budget for Republic Studios, has JOHN WAYNE doing his standard hero role with ease and skill as he copes with a squadron of American men volunteering to shoot down Japanese planes during the early days of WWII. And contrary to another's comments, that's not Harry Truman declaring war on the Japanese, it's Franklin D. Roosevelt, heard in his famous speech to Congress wherein he invokes that day of infamy phrase.If this were an MGM film, it would have been a perfect vehicle for SPENCER TRACY (in Wayne's role) and CLARK GABLE (in the JOHN CARROLL part of a cocky flyer). Carroll breezily handles the role of Jason, Wayne's old service buddy who shows up at the outpost in China so he can shoot down the Japanese for $500 per downed aircraft and makes no bones about it. His cavalier attitude is a turnoff for the men in the squad, so we know he's going to have to redeem himself in everyone's eyes by becoming a hero before the last reel is over.It's a clichéd story, done before in films like ONLY ANGELS HAVE WINGS, even the part about the disabled man whose eyesight bans him from flying but nevertheless must prove himself when the chips are down and he gets the chance to fly because Carroll doesn't show up in time. These and other plot devices seem borrowed from the Howard Hawks film, whether intentionally or not.But it serves as good, solid entertainment for John Wayne fans, despite the low-budget production values because all of the aerial sequences are well filmed with special effects that make the action as realistic as possible, even when some of the footage appears to be taken from actual stock scenes of dogfights.Victor Young's score is a solid plus, and the performances are adequate with ANNA LEE as a charming nurse for Wayne's love interest and GORDON JONES as Carroll's sidekick, with MAE CLARK, TOM NEAL and David BRUCE in minor roles.Carroll's role is played in such a way that he reminded me of a poor man's Clark Gable--the same cocky charm and arrogance that Gable would have brought to the role.For fans of WWII war films, this one fills the bill nicely. "},{"Title":"I hope you two had a good time . . . ","Date":"15 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  . . . because Hap paid the check, Jim says to his girl and the guy who just paved the way for Japan's successful sneak attack on Pearl Harbor. Surprisingly, some FLYING TIGERS viewers haven't put two and two together. They think they're watching a simple war flick, not realizing that this John Wayne vehicle actually is a film noir outing featuring Brooke, the deadliest Femme Fatale in recorded human history. It's clear that Jim's night patrol just before midnight, Dec. 6, 1941, was perfectly positioned to give the U.S. Pacific Fleet a heads up on TORA! TORA! TORA! But hot-to-trot Brooke lures key pilot Woody from his duty station for a night on the town, since Woody is much better looking than Wayne's Jim, her stodgy steady. As a result, visually impaired Hap dies in Woody's place, and Jim's assigned mission is cut short before it can blow the whistle on PEARL HARBOR. As John Wayne stares into the distance while socialist president FDR drones on from the radio about Days of Infamy, you can tell that he's thinking Some day my grandchild will drive a Lexus. FLYING TIGERS is a cynical look at war profiteering and mercenaries from beginning to end. Despite its opening on-screen tribute to Chiang Kai-Shek, viewers soon see that Jim is musing Just wait till my buddy Ronnie Reagan sells your world council seat to the Commies. "},{"Title":"I wish somebody'd figure out a ship that'd fly on rice.","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Exciting WW2 actioner about flight commander John Wayne and his crew having to deal with hot shot pilot John Carroll's recklessness. I was loving the first thirty minutes and then Carroll shows up. Right away I got that old familiar feeling of dread. You see, I've seen more than my fair share of older films and one of the most clichéd plot lines was a cocky, flirty guy who swoops in and steals the girl of the nice, upstanding guy. This was the plot of quite a few Jimmy Cagney pictures. In this case, it was looking like Carroll would steal Anna Lee away from John Wayne which is a movie-killing idea if there ever was one. I don't watch John Wayne movies to see him play runner-up to mustachioed cheeseballs. The movie tries to go there but still have it all end well and all it does is leave a bad taste in your mouth. It's a shame really as the movie would have been much better without Carroll's clichéd character. It's still a good movie, thanks to Duke's performance and the exceptional aerial action scenes. "},{"Title":"The Republic of John Wayne vs. the Empire of the Sun.","Date":"11 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" While the planes these American war heroes supposedly have the face and teeth of tigers painted on them, it is very apparent that they look more like sharks. As these military men of the United States protecting the Chinese from invasions of the Japanese, they are involved in combat even before the attack on Pearl Harbor. John Wayne is the jovial commander of the base, in love with nurse Anna Lee (of General Hospital fame) and dealing with a brash newcomer (John Carroll) whose arrogant presence is upsetting the other men. Carroll can't be described as a team player; In fact, he takes it upon himself to make his own rules without regards to the consequences. In spite of all that, Wayne remains on his side even though he's breaking a lot of rules. But when one of Wayne's men is killed (after being grounded due to issues regarding a lack of depth perception) while covering for Carroll (out on a dinner date with Lee), the Duke has had enough, and prepares to send Carroll back. Then, December 7th occurs, and the mission that they were previously on becomes more complicated.Not much different than other war stories about the Pacific, but lacking in some of the clichés that made others trite and stereotypical. Wayne is extremely likable, Lee an absolute delight, and the Chinese children she is taking care of totally adorable. Her description of the plight they went through to get through to her is very moving. Carroll's performance is a mix of arrogance, tenderness and insecurity, his cockiness obviously hiding a lack of self-esteem and ability to be part of an important team. The combat sequences are well filmed with some bloodiness thrown in to make them more realistic. This helps make the Why We Fight message of the film seem less obvious and results in a genuine crowd pleaser. "},{"Title":"John Wayne to the rescue","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Did John Wayne really win the Second World War? Perhaps not, but he certainly took the attack across the silver screen. In this early war film Wayne played Claire Chennault disguised under a pseudonym Jim Gordon perhaps to keep US intentions from the Japanese.AVG, the official acronym of the Flying Tigers, was composed of American mercenaries who flew for the Chinese Republic. A picture of Chiang Kia-chek the nationalist leader hangs on the door. The pilots are paid on apiece work basis. Yet they work together against the fearsome Japanes onslaught besieging China.Enter Woody, a wise guy, who wants to be an ace, mostly for the money. He's an overgrown teenager in a fighter aircraft. Will he mature in the role or destroy the unit by showboating? It is easy to dismiss this as a formula US war movie but there is some perception of the difficulties faced in running a mercenary unit. "},{"Title":"Based on real characters.","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  The lives of Claire Channault and Marine Ace Greg Pappy Boyngton can easily fit in this movie.The United States of America was fighting for it`s life and was in a hurry for heroes in the early dark days of World War 2 when this movie came out.The Flying Tigers were the foundation for America`s efforts to win the war against Japan in the Pacific theater.I liked John Wayne`s character`s toughness in order to GET THE JOB DONE.Unlike Claire Channault and Pappy Boyington, it is unfortunate that John Wayne is not buried at Arlington National Cemetery. "},{"Title":"Flying Tigers, Flying Sharks or Flying Sushi","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" They were the terror of the sky, a small daring band of American mercenaries who soared into battle against the Japanese in defense of China's freedom. They were aces, adventurers and heroes, America's hottest fighter pilots - 'The Flying Tigers'! Possessing unmatched skill and bravery, Jim Gordon (John Wayne), the Tigers' commander, is the top gun of China's skies. But he faces a battle on the ground when his good friend Woody Jason is suspected of recklessly causing the death of a fellow pilot and is accused of stealing Jim's fiancée. Jim's fight to retain his respect for Woody while maintaining the solidarity of his pilots is an explosive battle of courage and heroism that lights up the sky with action! according to the DVD sleeve description.This looks like it was rushed together from other war stories featuring brave flight commanders and his heroic crews, with all the familiar theatrics - the exception that Captain Wayne (as Pappy Gordon) doesn't ease his pain with alcohol can be explained as the film's release during wartime necessitated a pro-war slant. Director David Miller and Republic Pictures owe their greatest debt to Howard Hawks, which can be evidenced by viewing The Dawn Patrol (1930) and Only Angels Have Wings (1939). Flying Tigers is usually claimed to be Wayne's first war picture, though he'd been fighting mightily in previous films. Herein, Mr. Wayne is a steadfast but easy to pushover leader, hotshot John Carroll (as Woody Jason) gets most of the script action, cute nurse Anna Lee (as Brooke Elliott) cleans up quickly in the bath, and Paul Kelly (as Hap Davis) supports the team well. Mouseketeers will recognize a young Jimmie Dodd.The picture should have been titled Flying Sharks, to match the painted airplanes. It starts with a quote from Generalissimo Chang Kai-Shek, who praises United States forces for their glorious support of his invincible Chinese people. So sad, the Chinese are unable to conjure up a plate of roast beef for Captain Wayne. No matter. The first big story stumble occurs when Wayne advises Mae Clarke (as Verna) to have her husband report for duty in the morning without revealing that the two had spoken; hopefully, Ms. Clarke was able to figure something out. The film is so programmed and artificial, it's difficult to recommend - but, many in the cast are enjoyable, and they've included some good, action-packed aerial footage.***** Flying Tigers (10/8/42) David Miller ~ John Wayne, John Carroll, Anna Lee, Paul Kelly "}{"Title":"History is Spoken Here!","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" I enjoyed the characters, story and action so much that I wondered why it did not have a higher rating. Wayne is at his best as Captain Gordon who must make decision of his underlings. Anna Lee (General Hospital fans will remember her as the Matriarch of the Quartermaine family)is young and lovely as Wayne's pretty nurse gal pal. The radio's address of the President's speech after the bombing of Pearl Harbor will give you chills as if it were just spoken to you at that moment! I am so glad I didn't pass this film over. The dialog is great when Wayne and Woody are flying at the end of the picture. You've gotta see this one! It may make you a WFF (Wayne Fan Forever). "},{"Title":"Cargo aircraft in movie","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" I'm trying to identify the type of cargo/airliner plane that was used in the movie. Woody and Alabama were flying it when their characters were introduced and when Wayne and Woody ran the nitro bomb run, it was used again. It looked like a DC-3 with a box tail elevator. Anybody know what type of plane this is? it's worrying me to death! I'm familiar with Some of the Douglas transport aircraft of that period and the Curtiss C-46. This plane looks like a pre WWII model, but closer to the 1936-38 era. I've tried looking through the internet at the sites for Douglas, Lockheed, Beech, Boeing and other aircraft companies, but no luck in locating this plane. I really have to know what type of plane it is. "},{"Title":"A group of American fliers aid the Chinese.","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" A very good movie to help military enrollment soon after the U.S. entered WWII. And what could possibly be wrong with a John Wayne flick? Capt. Jim Gordon(Wayne)leads an American Volunteer Group which flew for the Chinese against the Japanese...right up to that fateful day December 7, 1941. Some very graphic scenes of aerial combat blends with a little romance and comic touches. Gordon comes to odds with an old friend Woody Jason(John Carroll), who seems to need to prove his prowess in the air. Plus Woody forces himself into a relationship with the Captain's girl(Anna Lee). This ambitious war drama also stars Paul Kelly, Mae Clarke, Gordon Jones and Jimmie Dodd. Not among the greatest of the genre, but memorable. "},{"Title":"The OTHER airplane in the movie Flying Tigers","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" I just saw Flying Tigers for the tenth or so time on AMC, and I really enjoyed it. I took me back to when I was a kid. I had a model of this airplane complete with the shark mouth (even though it was supposed to be a tiger. I noticed that one of the other commenters was able to recognize the two different types of P-40 airplanes used in making the movie. He certainly seems to know his old fighter planes. Anyway, I am curious as to what kind of an airplane John Wayne and the other guy were flying trying to drop the nitro on the Japanese. It is a small twin-engine passenger plane but it has an unusual tail design having triple rudders and dual horizontal stabilizers. I have been Googling for hours, and I cannot find that airplane anywhere. I would appreciate any information. Thanks. --jer "},{"Title":"Corny, gory, look at US/Japanese fighting before Dec. 7","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  This is a black and white film in more ways than one. The Japanese (Japs) are portrayed as ruthless, remorseless killers who wouldn't hesitate to shoot a man in his parachute. The Americans (Joes) are a bunch of loveable lugs fighting on the side of right, helping pre-Communist China fight Imperial Japan's war machine. The corny dialog is as high as the P-40's cockpit, but there are several bits of sophisticated dialog, usually with a black-humor tinge. Flying Tigers was not a big-budget film, with what appears to be Northridge, CA subbing for China, but there's enough action and explosions to make any male viewer happy (and some sappy love interest, too). The effects range from the sophomoric to the spectacular (including some dizzying dogfights) and the fighter planes on both sides have an oil-sprayed, bullet-pocked look which is quite authentic. Other attention to detail the Americans were basically paid mercenaries and one of them makes no bones that he is killing for cash; the flying tactics are mostly accurate as the actual P-40s in China were, on their own, no match for Japanese Zeroes. You might think this is just a John Wayne movie, circa 1942, so how violent could it be? Well, it's not for the small fry. Blood spurts and spews from wounds, especially eyes and throats and there's one scene where Wayne surveys the instrument panel of a dead flyer and it's dripping with oil and blood. It's not gory in the Spielberg tradition, but it's not something I'd recommend for the kiddies. By the way, Victor Young's  pretty love theme was deftly parodied by Elmer Bernstein in another air classic Airplane. "},{"Title":"Good action scenes says it all.","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  This John Wayne movie has some excellent action scenes but is saddled with too much melodrama in the shape of a boring dumb blonde and tacky propaganda touches. John Wayne as 'Captain Jim' is great for the most part but Anna Lee as his admiring nurse/sweetheart? is a thorn in the side of the movie. John Carroll seems to hog many scenes and he just doesn't have the charisma. Good performances are put in by Jimmie Dodd as 'Mac' and Paul Kelly as 'Hap'. Saving the best till last, Mae Clarke as 'Verna Bales' puts in a fine, understated performance. Great photography and solid special effects more than make up for the forgettable script. "},{"Title":"A film about a real man whose real name was Claire, played by a real man whose real name was Marion","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" There's just not enough pure and shameless propaganda out there, so here's a perfect example. The attack on Pearl Harbor brought the US into the war and made national heroes out of the real-life Flying Tigers and their commander Claire Chennault, who as paid warriors in the Chinese air force were the only Americans already fighting the Japanese on 7 December 1941. John Wayne was swiftly hired to play the pilot mercenary leader in a propaganda movie a year later. I once tried to sum up the movie for the Daily Mirror's TV listings as a film about a real man whose real name was Claire, played by a real man whose real name was Marion. The chief sub cut and replaced it with the words Standard John Wayne war movie instead. Which is what it is, and none the worse for it. "},{"Title":"Not factual at all","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Unfortunately the makers of this movie had a great chance to make a really factual and very exciting movie about the American Volunteer Group(AVG) aka the Flying Tigers, but they blew it. Too bad... I think most of the planes are not what was used at the time (1941-1942). And John Wayne was not even close to Claire Chennault was all about. The real story of the Flying Tigers was much more exciting and filled with some real juicy slices of life. If you don't believe me, just ask some of the people that were in the Flying Tigers and lived those exciting days. Dick Rossi, Tex Hill and Jane Hanks are a few of those people. Jane especially does not like this movie. I agree with Jane. "},{"Title":"A shameless rip-off","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" This movie ought to have a good plot; it's shamelessly borrowed from the Jules Furthman/Howard Hawks 1939 classic ONLY ANGELS HAVE WINGS. What FLYING TIGERS lacks is any of ANGELS' snap or character chemistry. Everybody's performance feels a bit empty and wooden. Even Wayne seems to be doing the part more from memory than really feeling it. The plot holds up, for what it's worth, but the movie seems to be trying to wring some cheap emotionalism out of it, as though nobody can really get into the skin of this thing and make it real. If you can't tell the difference between real grass and Astroturf, you might like this movie a lot. "},{"Title":"Barely fair","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" This film, made in 1942, is naught but a US propaganda film. This is an early John Wayne film and, unfortunately, his acting is absolutely not up to his later standards. The rest of the cast, quite frankly, isn't very good either. While the story is decent and it's quite well-written, I had to give it a pretty low score. It seems that most of the good actors were either already engaged or had joined the US Armed Forces by the time they filmed this. I don't think it was very well directed, either, or perhaps it was very hurried. I think they did everything in one take. It's sad, really, because the Flying Tigers story is epic and heroic. Instead, several of the pilots are shown to be nothing but money-hungry mercenaries whose only motivation is the bounty paid per aerial kill. Oh, well...sorry about that, but it wasn't even a very good try. "}{"Title":"Possibly the Worst Film of All Time","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" I am serious. Words cannot describe just how bad this movie is. You have to see it to believe it! But I don't suggest renting or buying this at all. I am NOT a John Wayne fan. He always gets on my nerves- But- I just so happened to catch this while watching television with my Grandfather some years ago. I will never forget how miserable I was and how much I wanted RUN out of the room. No joking. I almost had an anxiety attack! I just wanted to run away and you know its bad if I was willing to give up quality time with my Grandad. That's something I never give up on. But..well.. Terrible acting all around. The plane scenes are some of the most boring scenes in cinematic history. You sit there thinking When will this end?! How long have they been up in the frigging air?! John Wayne was a terrible actor but this was the worst film he ever attempted. I just know it will either put you to sleep or it will make you want to shoot your own television. Please believe me. And in case you're wondering- No- my grandfather didn't like the film either. 1 star....if it deserves THAT! "},{"Title":"1940's cheese ball military adventure misses the target!","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  I love 1940's movies but FLYING TIGERS was nothing more than wartime propaganda. The duke made a slew of military adventures to please the public and make our fighting men feel good before they got blown to bits at places like NORMANDY, OKINAWA, etc. The DUKE leads a rag tag band of pilots in China against the Japanese and all heck breaks loose. We have a cheesy romantic subplot that doesn't fly (kind of like a Curtis Hawk full of bullet holes) and a wild ruffian pilot who trys to move in on Wayne's woman and his command. I suppose by 1940's standards this film is ok. I recommend this film to aviation buffs only.  "},{"Title":"Clichéd and obvious script with some good dogfights but generally just a standard piece of flag waving","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  A few years before Japan attacked Pearl Harbor, a unit called The Flying Tigers helps the Chinese defend themselves against air strikes from the Japanese. Lead by Captain Jim Gordon, the brave men risk and lose their lives on a regular basis and try to get on the best they can. When Jim's old pal, Woody Jason, joins him on the team it sees their friendship put under strain as Woody's cavalier attitude puts him and the others at risk.I'm not entirely sure why this film was thought to be a morale booster because I would have though the troops may have been a bit narked that John Wayne was free to make films when really he should have been overseas as well as part of the draft. Anyway, this film aims to be nothing more than a bit of morale boosting fluff and, as such, it pretty much does just what you expect it to. The plot is predictable from the second that we meet Jim's friend Woody and it is apparent that his attitude and love for women will cause friction that will probably be sorted out as the needs of the country increase. It does this without any real style or effort and the plot never really engages that much.The characters are good enough to care a little bit about but they are very thin and fit into set pigeon holes as mostly upright heroic men of various type &#150; young, playful, fast-talking, tough, reliable etc. Wayne plays a typical cowboy role and even has his gun on his hip the whole time! He does the American macho version of the British stiff upper lip pretty well and he makes his character better. Carroll is pretty poor and it is the fault of his obvious character &#150; at least Wayne is meant to be solid and predictable, Carroll just seems clichéd. Lee's love interest is drab and never makes an impact. The real draw of the film are the occasional dog fights that, although obvious models at times, are still reasonably good fun (compared to the rest of the material anyway).The preaching message at the end (where Carroll says that the Chinese cities meant nothing to him until he realized that they were just people like back home) is a bit rich and in poor taste when you consider what the US then did to the Japanese cities but I suppose you can forgive it for doing what it set out to do &#150; simplify the issues for the sake of boosting morale. Watching it now it doesn't do this and all we are left with is a thin, predictable plot, a poor romance and some OK dog-fights with models. Can't have been considered that good at the time but 60 years later it is worth just dismissing as propaganda in a basic frame.  "},{"Title":"The draft dodgin' Duke goes to War again","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  It's 1942, welcome to John Wayne's wonderful world of World War II where the Japanese are quote whore eyed Japs and the Chinese are quote laundry loving layabouts.In real life, of course, everyone knows John Wayne was WW2's most famous draft dodger; the 1940's equivalent of George Bush and Dick Cheney. Just like the gruesome twosome, Wayne acts the big tough soldier, whilst never actually having made the sacrifice of fighting himself.In fact the fortunes of America and John Wayne seem to be intimately entwined. In 1942 he was handsome, virile, confident and loved by one and all - like America. By the late 1970's, he was a one lunged, crotchety, wheezing, wig wearing anachronism. Had The Duke survived to the present day, then the parallel with the Bush Regime would probably be even more profound.Anyway, to the film; you could sum it up and say 'John Wayne; good', 'Japanese; evil, bad'. The Japanese do 'bad' things (ie bomb innocent civillians and shoot  American pilots) and The Duke flies into town in his white plane and cleans up the whole gosh darn mess..There's nothing wrong with this film; it's a John Wayne film and it is very much 'of its' time' - xenophobia and racial stereotypes included.However, everytime The Duke lights a cigarette I cringe, because this is what, in time took his first lung, and ultimately his life.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  Again, this is history through the eyes of  Hollywood. The Flying Tigers originated in November,  1941 and were disbanded in April, 1942. Their losses  totaled 3 fliers! More propaganda for the then war  effort. These fliers were from the Army and Navy Air  Forces and basically were instructors for the  Chinese Air Force "}]