[{"Title":"great picture","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"51 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" In Holiday Inn it isn't Bing Crosby or Fred Astair that makes the movie outstanding, but rather the relatively unknown B movie star of the time, Marjorie Reynolds. As you watch this movie you can feel the mood that Marjorie is portraying at the time, just by the look on her face. For example, during the the Easter scene, her eyes and smiles say it all, you can see she is in love, and as she sings White Christmas at the end you can feel the sadness of her character - throughout the entire movie she says more with her facial expressions then the most popular movie stars do today in their entire careers... If you love truly good acting, Holiday Inn will make you smile and make you cry, it will bring back memories of a time when ladies could truly dance in high heel shoes, we don't see that type of dancing these days in movies. Picture quality, sound and special effects are not of primary importance in these kinds of films, these are the kind that rely on your own imagination and feelings, much in the way you do when you read a good book. These older movies serve up so much good feelings they could be used to replace prescription meds for those feeling bad. "},{"Title":"Bing was a marketing genius.","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"54 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Finally Paramount gave Crosby a big budget musical and didn't rely on his charm and personality to carry the film. The budget went to hire such outside talent as Fred Astaire and Irving Berlin. And none of them disappoint.In the first of two films Astaire and Crosby did together the characters are remarkably the same. Astaire is the elegant and charming show business professional who's ambitious for success. Crosby is the talented, but lazy partner who just wants a life of ease and comfort and not to work more than he has to. Small wonder that their double act broke up. But now enter a complication. They both get interested in the same girl who in this film is Marjorie Reynolds.Crosby dreams up the idea of a nightclub/hotel called Holiday Inn where they only work on holidays. He wants Reynolds to help with the shows there. Astaire wants her for his act after his other girl partner Virginia Dale runs off with a millionaire. And the fun starts. Now since this was Crosby's home studio and he's first billed, just who do you think gets Reynolds in the end? As maid Louise Beavers put it, don't sit and mope because some slicker stole your gal.Irving Berlin writes a majority of new songs to supplement a couple from his vast trunk of songs mostly about our holidays. By that time Berlin had extracted an agreement which became standard for all the films he wrote for. Not one note of non-Berlin music is ever heard in a score he writes. Just listen to this and just about any other film Berlin is associated with. Even music in the background is his.The hit song in this was supposed to be Be Careful It's My Heart, the Valentine's Day song, sung by Crosby and danced to by Astaire and Reynolds. It did have a good deal of success. But the success of White Christmas was exponentially phenomenal. It netted Irving Berlin his one and only Academy Award and for Bing Crosby his number one item on vinyl. In fact everyone's number one item on vinyl.I don't know if Bing Crosby ever set out to become the voice of Christmas, but if he did he was a marketing genius. If he's known and appreciated for anything with today's audience, it's for that. White Christmas became the first Yule song he was identified with although he had recorded some Christmas material before that. After this he started doing the holiday music in serious. Just think, along around Columbus Day, record companies even now reissue his Christmas stuff every year and his totals as largest selling recording artist in history grow once again. That's why the Beatles and Elvis, etc. don't have a prayer of overtaking him.In fact White Christmas's initial success was so great that Decca wore out the original master putting out records to meet the demand. So in 1945, Decca got Bing, the Ken Darby Singers and John Scott Trotter to re-record it almost note for note. The original 78 had White Christmas with the flipside of Let's Start the New Year Right also from Holiday Inn. The newer version which most people hear has as it's flipside God Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen.I don't want to ignore Fred Astaire's contribution here. He does a nice comic turn with I Can't Tell a Lie, the Washington's birthday number where Crosby keeps changing the tempo to upset him and Reynolds. The Fourth of July yields a number for each. Reynolds is kept from the show by Bing's machinations and Astaire has to improvise something. He improvises Firecrackers and anyone who knows anything about Astaire knows how hard he worked to get that spontaneous feeling in his dancing. Bing sings The Song of Freedom, reminiscent of James Cagney's Grand Old Flag number from Yankee Doodle Dandy also out in 1942 and Song of Freedom is also reminiscent of what Paramount could have given Bing in the 1930s had they hired someone like Busby Berkeley to give Bing some of the production numbers that Dick Powell had at Warner Brothers.So what more is there to say, but sit back and enjoy the fun. "},{"Title":"A magical Inn that influenced a hotel chain.","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"38 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Everyone has a favourite Christmas movie. For some it's A Christmas Carol, or Miracle On 34th Street, perhaps It's A Wonderful Life, or maybe How The Grinch Stole Christmas. Even Bing's later White Christmas gets aired locally every Christmas Day, while Holiday Inn is far more obscure. Yet, this film is my favourite holiday season film. Made long before I was born, I saw it as a child & it had an influence on me. Perhaps the film is dated with its B&W war-time feel but that 1940's elegance is part of the charm. Returning to the Inn is like re-visiting old friends at a magical, mythical place. It's a treat to see a younger Bing Crosby (compared with his performance in White Christmas)& Fred Astaire, as well as the beauty of Marjorie Reynolds. What may not be well known is that the film provided the inspiration for the name of the Holiday Inn chain of motels & hotels. A Memphis businessman named Kemmons Wilson planned a national chain of motels. He hired a draftsman to draw up the plans. It happened that the draftsman watched the movie while he was working, and he sketched the name of it at the top. Wilson saw it, liked it, and stuck with it. Holiday Inn was born & the first opened in August of 1952, some 10 years after the film.Sure, not all the holidays are treated in the film. And the Independence Day segment contains some war-time propaganda with newsreel shots of McArthur, FDR, & military hardware. But this was the era when Hollywood went to war & stars did pitches to audiences to buy war bonds, etc. Yes, the black-face Al Jolson style Abraham number causes me to cringe a bit, but the tune is snappy, and the justification is in keeping with the plot as Bing tries to hide Marjorie Reynolds from Astaire. The supporting characters are also fine. There's Gus the cab driver for the Inn, whom Bing gives 10 bucks to take a detour to keep Reynold's away from the Inn the night the Hollywood men are there. Bing says for that kind of money Gus should take her by way of Medicine Hat (a prairie town in Canada). I also enjoy character actress Louise Beavers portrayal of Mamie, the Inn's cook. She's not only a mother figure to her two charming kids, but also to her boss. During Thanksgiving, Bing mopes while  Astaire & Reynolds are filming in Hollywood together. He puts on a recording of himself singing I've Got Plenty To Be Thankful For, while he comically criticizes himself - even saying you're flat. Mamie tells him that all he did was tricks to keep Miss Linda. He was never honest with her & instructs him to go to Hollywood & tell her how he feels. The song White Christmas became a huge hit with this movie. It's sung twice. The first time, Bing is teaching it to Reynolds on the piano & they sing a duet with his coaching. The second time, at the end, it's an unplanned duet. Reynolds is singing it on a sound stage mock-up of the Inn, once again at a piano. She finds that at the same spot in the song as Bing had done earlier, she picks up his pipe & rings bells on a tree. Then Bing begins to whistle in the wings. Her solo is interrupted as Bing then sings a line or two. The song isn't completed this time! In the later film, Bing sings the immortal song just like the record. Easter Parade was another Irving Berlin hit from this movie. It would inspire another Astaire movie later with that title.This is not a perfect film but it has been an inspiration to me (& to others). The Inn is timeless. I can always re-visit every year or so & the comedy, songs & dance are eternal. Styles change. If Jim Hardy's Holiday Inn had been a real place, it probably wouldn't survive. The resorts of the Catskills, such as those in Dirty Dancing fell to changing times. Jim probably would have had to have rock acts in the 1950's (or Rap in the 1990's)! But I can always go home to this Inn & know what kind of enertainment is on tap. And also enjoy Mamie's cooking! "},{"Title":"Holiday Inn is an uplifting and heartwarming remembrance that is a legend in its own right.","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"36 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  In any endeavor there are greats, and there are legends.  Bing Crosby crooned his way to the latter status years before this movie, and he is in fine voice here.  It is such a shame that things like talent aren't present in music anymore, but if you want to remember it, this is a great vehicle.  Irving Berlin, Crosby's long time friend, wrote magical numbers for the film, including the unforgettable White Christmas.Fred Astaire gave a tour de force performance, singing, and, of course, dancing his way through this delightful piece in rare form.  It is said that he worked so hard during rehearsals that he wasted away to 85 pounds by the time he filmed the firecracker number.  He might just as well have been weightless, because he defies gravity with his every move.Marjorie Reynolds was seriously outclassed in a role that was intended for Mary Martin, who probably could have improved the chemistry of the starring cast.  Reynolds nevertheless does a creditable job, and Holiday Inn remains her finest hour.Years later, Paramount undertook a vastly inferior remake entitled White Christmas, which failed to capture a fraction of the magic of Holiday Inn.  Astaire was replaced with funny man Danny Kaye, and Rosemary Clooney gave it her torch song damndest, but it didn't gel.  Holiday Inn has more wit, sincerity, charm and, despite being over a decade older, freshness.  Holiday Inn is an uplifting and heartwarming remembrance that is a legend in its own right. "},{"Title":"Seasons Greetings","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"34 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" HOLIDAY INN (Paramount, 1942), directed by Mark Sandrich, with adaptation by Elmer Rice, based on the idea by Irving Berlin, stars crooner Bing Crosby and dancer Fred Astaire for the first time (their second would be BLUE SKIES in 1946). In their best on-screen collaboration, they play a couple of song and dance men who vie for the affection of a female dancing partner. While the movie itself has been long associated with Christmas, hence the introduction to Irving Berlin's Academy Award winning tune of White Christmas, HOLIDAY INN features songs for almost all holidays, however, this is the kind of movie that can be aired on television at anytime, whether it be Easter or Fourth of July, but it is that wonderful time of Christmas that has long become associated with the musical of HOLIDAY INN.Opening and closing with a focus of a calendar, which is used throughout the film when centering around a certain holiday, the plot, set in a two year span, centers upon Jim Hardy (Bing Crosby) and Ted Hanover (Fred Astaire), friends and entertainers working at the Club Pierre in New York City with Lila Dixon (Virginia Dale) as the third party to the trio. Although Jim has plans on retiring from show business and spending the rest of his life on the farm with his future bride, Lila, the big surprise comes when Jim discovers Lila loves Ted and intends to marry him instead. So as Jim resides alone at his farm in Midville, Connecticut, he becomes lonely, and a year later, decides to combine the best of both worlds by turning his farmhouse into a night club opened only on holidays, leaving Jim 347 days in which to kick around in, appropriately calling it Holiday Inn. Jim later hires Linda Mason (Marjorie Reynolds), a former flower shop girl wanting a career in show business, as one of the entertainers at the inn. On New Year's Eve, Ted gets a Dear John letter from Lila that she has broken their engagement to marry a Texas millionaire instead. Depressed and later drunk, Ted comes to Jim's Holiday Inn where he unwittingly stumbles upon Linda on the dance floor and starts dancing with her, much to the pleasure of the patrons. Ted's agent Danny Reed (Water Abel), who has only seen the girl from the back, convinces Ted that this girl (whom he'd remember if he danced with her again) would make him a fine new dancing partner. Not wanting to lose another girl to Ted, Jim decides to keep him and Linda apart through various schemes, and after Ted and Linda do form a partnership, it appears that history is destined to repeat itself.Aside from two guys and a girl theme, the score by Irving Berlin and performance by the two leading men make up for some of the weak spots. Songs include Happy Holidays (sung briefly during opening credits); I'll Capture Your Heart Singing/Dancing (sung by Bing Crosby, Fred Astaire and Virginia Dale); Lazy (medley, sung by Crosby); You're Easy to Dance With (sung by Fred Astaire/danced by Astaire and Dale); White Christmas (sung by Crosby and Marjorie Reynolds); Happy Holidays (sung by Crosby, Reynolds and chorus); Let's Start the New Year Right (sung by Crosby); Abraham (sung by Crosby, Reynolds, Louise Beavers and chorus); Be Careful, It's My Heart (sung by Crosby/ danced by Astaire and Reynolds); Washington's Birthday March (I Cannot Tell a Lie) (sung by Astaire/ danced by Astaire and Reynolds); Easter Parade (sung by Crosby); The Song of Freedom (sung by Crosby/ firecracker dance by Astaire); I've Got Plenty to Be Thankful For (sung by Crosby); White Christmas (reprise by Reynolds and Crosby) and I'll Capture Your Heart (with Crosby, Astaire, Reynolds and Dale).While HOLIDAY INN was intended to feature songs for all holidays of the year, some were obviously omitted, intentionally or unintentionally, including a song or a song to Memorial Day and Labor Day, yet a production number for Valentine's Day (February 14th) is hardly considered a holiday of any kind, but is included as part of a holiday number just the same. While Irving Berlin could write so many songs, it leaves one to wonder what he could have done with a song for Halloween Once upon a time, birthdays to two U.S. Presidents, George Washington and Abraham Lincoln, were national holidays. While Washington's birthday is currently celebrated as a day off in many states, Lincoln's birthday is no longer considered a time off from school or work. Since the 1970s, the production number, Abraham, dedicated to Abe Lincoln, usually got deleted when aired on commercial television. Even the original 1979 motion picture soundtrack from Sunbeam Records included every song from the film except for Abraham. The Abraham number was later restored when distributed to video cassette in the 1980s.Also seen in the supporting cast consists of Louise Beavers Mamie, Jim's housekeeper; Irving Bacon as Gus; John Gallaudet as Mr. Parker; James Bell as Mr. Dunbar; and Shelby Bacon and Joan Arnold as Mamie's children, Vanderbilt and Daphne.Aside from its annual revivals on commercial television on Christmas Eve, HOLIDAY INN has played on any given time on cable television's American Movie Classics from 1994 to 2000 to Turner Classic Movie where it premiered July 16, 2003. Having once aired on the Disney Channel in the 1990s, it eliminated the segment leading to the Abraham number. While HOLIDAY INN is a reflection of the times, it hasn't really aged a bit, making it a wonderful package to Holiday movies, improving every time it airs. At 101 minutes, the film goes by very quickly. Even with black and white photography, it's a very effective film, ranking it one of the best musicals to come out from the 1940s. In spite of their on screen rivalry, Crosby and Astaire make a fine twosome who'll capture your hearts singing and dancing. (***1/2). "},{"Title":"Holiday Inn - Truly Classic","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I always feel that a true classic is either a film or a song that within a few feet of film or a few bars of a tune, you know exactly what the song or film is and in most cases the cast or artist who was involved with it.This film, in my opinion, is no exception. The casting of this film (Bing Crosby as Jim Hardy and Fred Astaire as Ted Hanover) is pure genius. Both stars were really at their professional peaks at the time and they show it in this movie musical.Both Marjorie Reynolds as Linda Mason and Virginia Dale as Lila Dixon were not as well known, but I feel they both more than proved themselves in holding their own against the talents of Astaire & Crosby.The supporting cast were fine too. Louise Beavers as well as Walter Abel gave some comedic relief in their roles as Mamie & as Danny Reid.The firecracker dance sequence with Astaire is well worth the price of admission alone! I also enjoyed the dancing sequence between Astaire & Dale during the Your Easy to Dance With number and between Astaire & Reynolds during the Be Careful Its My Heart number.Truly a wonderful film despite the controversy surrounding the Abraham black face routine.When I first saw this film, I never thought about it as being filmed to offend anyone, I just considered it was the only way to explain in the plot why Ted & Danny don't recognize Linda since Jim has been hiding her from them. I have never changed my feelings on this and still feel the same way some 35 years later after my original viewing. "},{"Title":"Stylish, funny romantic musical","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  They don't get much better than this  Astaire with the drop dead dancing cool, and Crosby with the honey crooning, both competing for the same gal.  Crosby decides to let it all go and settle in the country, then on a whim realizes he can open his country house as a club open on holidays only.  The girl he ends up drafting for the floor shows ends up being the love of his life, and the dancing partner Astaire has always been searching for.Astaire, Crosby, and Reynolds have great chemistry together  I thought it quite convincing how Crosby's overprotective zeal scared Reynolds away for a while, and Astaire was very cool and believable as a kind of an inoffensive opportunist who exploits Crosby's passionate responses to whatever threat he perceives in Astaire.  Top it off with many of Irving Berlin's best classic tunes, performed in interesting interpretations, and you have a very good musical film. "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" The source of the song White Christmas would be worth watching just for that, but in addition the movie has a bunch of wonderful dancing, and quite a lot of charming songs; I'll Capture Your Heart Singing, Come To Holiday Inn, You're Easy to Dance With, Oh How I Hate to Get up in the morning, White Christmas, and Happy Holiday (all by Irving Berlin) are some of the highlights.Anyone who is a fan of Crosby or Astaire will enjoy this movie. Marjorie Reynolds and Virginia Dale play perfect foils for Crosby and Astaire, supporting them.The plot, what there is of it, is just enough to hang enough Muscial numbers on to keep the movie running along apace. "},{"Title":"What's there not to like?","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This movie has so much and if you can make the chemistry thing the sparking between Bing and Fred and ignore the sidebar romances that don't quite grab you, then you will truly enjoy it. White Christmas - the first performance of the standard and it always grabs me. And I must have seen it fifty plus times. The dancing scene with Fred and the firecrackers, stupendous, incredible, how DID he do it?? Forget the blackface bits, slightly offensive, even considering the era. And the rah-rah-rah for WW2. Evocative of 1942 and FDR. Everything comes together beautifully down to the encore of White Christmas and Bing in the best of voice all through. Story is just about zero and no credibility - imagine an inn open fifteen days of the year with an enormous cast for the floor show (with full orchestra, no less). Bankrupt after the payroll for one holiday would be my guess >). But lovely and nostalgic and worth watching over and over, just for the boys, Fred and Bing. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A True Classic","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This is truly one of the great musicals to ever grace the silver screen. Between the great song, the dance numbers and the chemistry between Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire, this film really is one of the the all time classics. What really makes it great is that it pretty much plays like a great Broadway review that uses the different holidays as an excuse to display the individual talents of each of the film's stars. However, the thing that this film will truly be remembered for is the fact that it introduced one of the all time classic song's to the world, White Christmas.Another thing that makes this film so beloved is that it came out during a time when America needed somewhat of a diversion, World War II. This film helped to give people something to put smiles on their faces as the whole world was going to hell. At least for two hours, this film helped America to forget its troubles and put a smile on everyone's faces. "}{"Title":"A wonderful film!","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  I am most certainly under 70 and I absolutely adore this movie!  Fred and Bing are great together.  The songs are some of Irving Berlin's best. With Bing's voice together with Fred's dancing...it is a first class classic! My sister & I always looked forward to watching this at the holiday season.  "},{"Title":"Happy Holidays...Start with this movie.","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  This film is good in so many ways.  The song and dance numbers were all great.  Teaming Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire was a great idea.  These two played off each other so well that I can't imagine two other actors doing so well.  Even Crosby and Hope wouldn't have done as well here.  Marjorie Reynolds was a treat to look at but also had good chemistry with both Crosby and Astaire.  The support cast was equally as good, Walter Abel as Danny Reed, Virginia Dale as Lila Dixon and Louise Beavers as Mamie gave solid performances.  The set was also beautiful.  Obviously the Hollywood set of Holiday Inn at the end of the film that was supposed to be a reproduction of the real Holiday Inn in Connecticut is the same set used for both scenes.  However it is such a realistic set that the viewer never suspects that the Connecticut scenes were filmed indoors.  I think the fact that the film was in black and white helps in that respect.  A color film may have actually looked more phoney.  The story is a simple one but well put together.  I think many viewers can relate to guys trying to steal girls from one another, its a common enough practice today.  The ending is a bit fairy tale like but then that is why so many probably like it.  We get enough reality in our every day lives.  It is nice to escape reality with a film like this.Lastly, the black face scene during the Lincoln Day performance is offensive but it does not ruin the film.  Of course a minstrel show today using black face would be unacceptable in today's environment but you can't hold a 1940's film to the same standards.  I know some would like to have that scene removed from the film but I disagree.  I am of African American decent and while I could view this film as a disgrace I accept it for what it is.  Rather than try and obliterate scenes such as this from our film history I think they should be viewed as stepping stones to where African Americans are in film today.  There may still be barriers that need to be broken through in the film world but considering where African Americans started we as a society should also take time to appreciate the accomplishments that have been achieved.  Black face is out.  Demeaning yesum roles are for the most part gone and now leading roles that portray African Americans in well to do positions in society are becoming more and more frequent.  So while some of the film history regarding African Americans portrays them in a negative manner it is because of those actors and actresses were able to work in those roles and under those conditions that the modern day African American actors and actresses are able be seen in a more positive light.  Ignoring the past roles ignores the actors and actresses that struggled through those times. "},{"Title":"a must see for musical afficianados","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  This movie has always been part of my Christmas tradition...the blackface part of the movie is just part of the culture of the times. no offense has ever been made and should be taken into consideration about the times of the year that it was produced...it's a great movie and should be viewed as in keeping with the time that it represents...enjoy it for what it is.... a great musical...  "},{"Title":"Making Me Happy With Their Feet","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  I first saw this movie on TV one Christmas Eve about 35 years ago and I've tried to see it just about every Christmas since then. I bought the video a few years ago just so I wouldn't have to depend on the local stations to show it. (They always cut the Lincoln sequence anyway, the rats!) I've never seen a colorized version and I don't think I want to. I like the way the gowns look in black and white! Virginia Dale is a vision in the Easy to Dance With sequence and colorizing that dress would ruin the whole effect.All the songs are great, the dancing's great, and the interplay between Crosby and Astaire is downright witty. I much prefer this movie over the sappier White Christmas with Bing and Danny Kaye. People have talked about this movie being made in simpler times, but I think it has a level of cynical sophistication missing from the later movie. Check out the ending where the camera pulls back to reveal that the Inn is really a set on a soundstage.  It's touches like this that make this movie a classic.There's just one thing I want to know? How do I get to Connect-ticut? "},{"Title":"Where did It Go","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  I'm old enough to remember the America of the 40's   the values; the morals; the joy.    The White, frosty winters, The Christmas's filled with warmth and joy. Hardly ever heard a machine gun in the movies. This Film captures the spirit of America in the 40's  For people who haven't lived it, there is no way they can know how beautiful it wasWhere did it go?    "},{"Title":"Holiday Treat","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This is not a Christmas picture; nor are its stars Crosby and Astaire. It is a movie for any holiday, though it will always be associated with Christmas, because it marks the debut of Irving Berlin's most memorable song, out of hundreds of memorable songs. White Christmas won an Oscar, and deservedly so, but this movie also features Berlin's Easter Parade, which I love as much, and other songs associated with Valentine's Day, Thanksgiving, and Independence Day. Not as well known, but they are Berlin songs, so you know they are well done. The music is the real star of this picture.One of the songs deserves special mention. It is titled Abraham, and is offered as a tribute to Abraham Lincoln, whose birthday is celebrated, and it is sung in blackface. The song is usually excised when this movie is shown on television, out of fear of offending modern audiences with modern sensibilities about race. It doesn't seem fair somehow to apply those modern sensibilities to this movie. The song should be judged in the context of its times by those who lived through those times.Crosby is in fine voice; Astaire is graceful and energetic, though an unconvincing drunk, and I enjoyed the performances of the women who had supporting roles Virginia Dale and Marjorie Reynolds. Neither is a household name today, but both were fine in this movie, holding their own with their better known co-stars. Reynolds is particularly good singing White Christmas with Crosby. I do not wish to be seen as knocking the movie, White Christmas. It is a holiday staple, and rightly so, but truth of the matter is, this movie is better. It is on my must-see list every Christmas from now on. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The World as it was in 1942","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  It is amazing how much the world has changed in the last  58 years.  58 years?  Yes!Reviewers who fault this movie for it's patriotism and display  of martial force in the midst of a holiday movie are obviously  too young to know what the world was like when this was made. It was a time of greater innocence, greater danger and greater racial discrimination.  The innocence was that of the children and the general public who could take a standard Hollywood plot at face value.  It was a time of danger, not necessarily from within society itself (as now when crime makes streets unsafe) but from the outside with dictators killing millions while they battle for world domination.  Those tanks and planes WERE freedom. Without them we would be yelling Seig Heil today and would not have the right to critique a simple movie. The State would have made it for you and you Will like it!As the black face routine was showing I turned to my family and said that I was sure that despite the classic status of this film there were probably a lot of people wincing as they watched Bing Crosby with burnt cork all over him.I'm sure that before he died Bing too winced a little bit at that number, but taken in the context of history it was to be expected.  Al Jolson made a career of blackface and never regretted it for a minute.  Most of the American population accepted that that's the way it is.  Only in the last 40 years have we learned that's NOT the way it is.Things change and it's understandable that after almost 60 years certain depictions of society as it existed then would be out of place today.  20 years ago the movie was popular but the music was certainly out of style.  With the resurgence of the big band sound in the last 5-10 years people are noticing that Bob Crosby and the Bobcats were participants.  No doubt a certain amount of nepotism existed, but Bob Crosby was not Billy Carter to Bing's Jimmy Carter.  (Anyone under 20 can now run and look up Jimmy and Billy Carter.)  Bob Crosby achieved a certain amount of star status with some of his recordings.  He had 4 chart topping hits and led bands for almost 50 years.  He was always eclipsed by his older brother, but then Bing Crosby was THE biggest star of that time, at least among singers.Bob's music was a Dixieland style and it lent a lightness to the big band orchestrations of Irving Berlin's songs that might have otherwise made the music ponderous, too much so for this light comedy at least.Remember, finally that when Holiday Inn came out we were losing WW2.  The Pacific was a Japanese ocean, the Atlantic was virtually controlled by German U-Boats and Allied ships were being sunk within sight of American cities.  The Axis also controlled all of Europe and the Russians were being rolled back into their own homeland.Holiday Inn was escapist entertainment from this bleak reality and it is understandable if some martial patriotism was included to hearten the home front.For 90% of the U.S., snow at Christmas is the exception rather than the rule, but the emotions expressed by the song White Christmas hit exactly the feelings of millions of soldiers taken from their homes to fight a war.  If Holiday Inn did nothing else, it gave Americans something to believe in and remember when things were at their darkest.May your days be merry and bright, and may all your Christmases be White. "},{"Title":"Holiday Inn, the best of great times in the past.","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Holiday Inn is the story of singer/dancer entertainers (Fred Astaire, Bing Crosby, Virginia Dale) who work together in New York. As the group splits up, one seeking a more tranquil life style, a third entertainer comes on the scene as a young aspiring singer/dancer (Marjorie Reynolds). Hoping to break into the business, she meets and begins work with one of the successful members. Relationships develop and change. This film (if it is not) should be an American classic. The music is excellent with performances of White Christmas and Easter Parade. Both singing and dancing is very good (and what else could you expect with Astaire and Reynolds) and singing with Crosby. It is a warm, romantic film which depicts the celebration of many holidays. We use Holiday Inn as a staple, showing it several times during the Christmas season. Unlike many films from this era, it can be found is BOTH VHS and DVD. The DVD version includes both Holiday Inn and Going My Way, another Crosby film. This is a great feel good film with a fantastic cast. "},{"Title":"A Great Wartime Pick-Me-Up","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  The best film to come over here during the war was Holiday Inn.I was 15 years old and working in our village cinema  as apprentice projectionist,the copies of films we received were nearly worn out and by the time our cinema received them they  had bits missing,and needed constant repairs.But of the film itself  I had never heard or seen  any musical like it and it was shown to packed houses for the whole of its run and I think that the Irving Berlin Song Of Freedom was an inspiration to to everyone who at that time was fighting for those freedoms (free from want, free from fear,free to speak and free to hear) These words hold as good to-day for our nations as they did then. In fact all those songs are stuck in my memory They dont make them like this anymore. "},{"Title":"Safe and amiable enough............","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Jim Hardy retires from show business to become a farmer in New England. Once set up he finds that it's a life that is somewhat more demanding than he had first thought, hitting on an idea that should make his life more fulfilling, he turns the farm into an Inn that only opens on public holidays. But things get complicated when Jim's old partner, Ted, turns up and sets his sights on Linda, Jim's gorgeous friend, this holiday period may not be so happy after all.Boasting great star power in the form of Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire, Holiday Inn still feels short of the required genre excitement. There is no doubting the benefit here of having both the leading men's respective abilities on show, Bing croons with the best of them and Fred of course dances with majestic grace, with a firecracker sequence particularly memorable, but the women of the piece are forgettable and outside of the songs and dances the film drifts into almost sleepy auto pilot. All those involved have done far better but at least here we get to hear the first airing of the Academy Award winning song, White Christmas. A favourite of many it certainly is, but it's just a very average picture to me, and not one i revisit very often. 5/10 "}{"Title":"HOLIDAY INN (Mark Sandrich, 1942) ***1/2","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" As I've said often enough, I've somewhat outgrown the Musical genre over the years and, consequently, I do not go back to it as often as I ought to perhaps. Seeing how this is my third viewing of the classic first screen teaming of Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire, therefore, it follows that HOLIDAY INN is something rather special and, indeed, I believe it is. Although the film is nowadays best-known perhaps for introducing the world's best-selling single record &#150; Irving Berlin's evergreen Oscar-winning White Christmas &#150; it is also an amiably heartwarming slice of impeccable entertainment as only Hollywood during its Golden Age was able to provide.The storyline is simple enough a trio of entertainers quarrel over the girl in the middle and while one (Fred Astaire) proposes to her, the other (Bing Crosby) quits showbiz to settle down in a remote farming community. But, as often happens in such marriages, the union is short-lived and Astaire soon heads towards Connecticut to try out Bing's happy busy doing nothing lifestyle. Meanwhile, the latter has hooked up with an ambitious girl but Astaire immediately sets his eyes on her as a potential dancing partner for himself... Although HOLIDAY INN's association with White Christmas gives one the impression that the events taking place in it are set exclusively around Christmas-time, the title of the film itself is much more appropriate as the inn Crosby sets up is one that specifically opens on the 15 public holidays which crop up in the American calendar throughout the year &#150; which are illustrated for us on the screen as they occur, including an amusingly animated one with a confused turkey on Thanksgiving Day! The musical numbers prepared by Crosby and Astaire for their patrons are delightfully elaborate ones with Crosby singing in blackface (on Abraham Lincoln's birthday) and Astaire donning a wig (on George Washington's birthday). Astaire also has a tour-de-force solo number with lots of firecrackers for his partners &#150; one he frantically cooks up on the spot to impress Hollywood talent agents after the girl that was supposed to accompany him fails to appear (thanks to one of Crosby's recurring ruses to put an end to their partnership). Apart from that Oscar-winning song, Irving Berlin's wonderful score also includes Easter Parade (which was brought to the screen six years later by Astaire himself and Judy Garland), I'll Capture Your Heart Singing (a dueling duet between Crosby and Astaire) and You're Easy To Dance With (sung by Astaire as he dances with his new partner, Marjorie Reynolds).The cast is a very strong ingredient in contributing towards the film's overall success Bing Crosby is at his best (in a lightly, comedic vein) as the laid-back proprietor of Holiday Inn; Fred Astaire is perfectly cast as his self-absorbed romantic rival and has a great drunken dance sequence around the film's mid-point; the relatively unknown Marjorie Reynolds is a very likable leading lady (she worked steadily in films for years without ever attaining stardom and, apart from this one, her most high-profile role was in Fritz Lang's MINISTRY OF FEAR 1944; Walter Abel was one of Hollywood's most consummate character actors and he is his usual flustered self here as Astaire's conniving agent; Irving Bacon has a small but winning role of a yokel Crosby hires to detain Reynolds (by any means necessary &#150; which ultimately sees him driving his car straight into a river!) from performing at Holiday Inn when Hollywood comes knocking, etc. Director Mark Sandrich (who helmed some of the best entries in the Fred Astaire-Ginger Rogers cycle in the 1930s) displays an admirably light touch throughout which ensures that the film breezes through its alternately comic and musical phases without a bump.Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire would later be reteamed for the less successful BLUE SKIES (1946) &#150; which I haven't seen yet but wouldn't mind doing so eventually &#150; and HOLIDAY INN itself would be revamped (less effectively) the following decade as WHITE Christmas (1954), a Vistavision color vehicle for Crosby again, Danny Kaye, Rosemary Clooney and Vera-Ellen. "},{"Title":"Three things distinguish this flick from other Xmas evergreens you run across on cable...","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  The 30s-style zip and effervescence show up for about the last time in a musical screenplay. After this, there's generally much sweeter stuff for decades with only a few exceptions (i.e. Comden & Green). As in the best RKO Astaire and Rogers films, you're transported to that magical place and time where you can make a grand living headlining at a swank nightclub. In that regard, B&W is a perfect choice for this movie; color would only destroy the reverie and bring up much tamer stuff, such as 1954's White Christmas.Being born brother to the star may have given Bob Crosby and his Bobcats the job of doing musical treatments. I don't know. All I can say is, bravo to putting a real swing band to work on a movie! The hot numbers have quite a verve to them, rather than an overload of strings and disembodied chorals. It's sweet revenge for every backstager movie with a soundtrack that would be hooted off the stage in real life.And finally, everyone knows the songs White Christmas and Easter Parade are deserved perennials. However, some of the other tunes are neglected. Irving Berlin's songwriting mathematics dictate that from over a dozen songs, he'd write more than two very good ones. I'll Capture Your Heart Singing, You're Easy to Dance With, I've Got Plenty to be Thankful For and Be Careful it's My Heart all have inviting tunes, with lyrics that range from neatly clever to not bad at all. Avoiding embarrassment is an accomplishment given the subjects--just you try writing a song about Washington's birthday!  "},{"Title":"Great Holiday Film","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Primarily aired at Christmas, this film is great year-round.  I first became interested in it when I saw clips from the movie on Christmas specials.  Christmas is the focus of the film, but is a wonderful movie to watch at any time of the year.  Fred Astaire and Bing Crosby are at their best with their singing and dancing.  The supporting women round out the ensemble with equally admirable performances. "},{"Title":"cool","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Super cast is tops.  Astaire is a legend.  We are watching the tape of Holiday Inn.  Then we will see White Christmas and It's a Wonderful Life tomorrow at a special showing.  Also to clear confusion over the Jolson make up, this was actually considered a complement to African Americans at the time and was considered progressive.  Just as Amos and Andy was really no different than 3 stooges.  This was innocent unlike the hate filled manipulation of a Spike Lee today.  this film is talent "},{"Title":"A True Love Story","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Holiday Inn is one of the best love stories I have ever seen. Although it may not have the surface romance of many other such stories, in the end true love wins out over fame and fortune. I also enjoyed Fred Astaires improv tap dance with the fireworks. What a performer!   "},{"Title":"Great musical numbers, pretty pathetic story","Date":"28 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" There are some terrific songs in Holiday Inn, and some wonderful dance numbers. So good, in fact, that it's easy to just ignore how terrible the story is.The truth is, Astaire and Crosby play remarkably unsavory characters. While supposedly friends, Astaire thinks nothing of stealing Crosby's fiancé at the beginning of the play, and later tries to take his subsequent girlfriend. Meanwhile Crosby shows his love through a series of tricks and manipulations designed to make sure his girl will never experience any success outside of what he bestows on her.While you can argue, as some do, that the black-face sequences didn't seem nearly as creepy then as now, even Crosby's girl objects to his behavior during the film, and I don't think there was really any time when it was considered okay to steal someone's fiancé.To make it weirder, there is little indication that either of them were more than mildly attached to either girl. Crosby's response to being jilted is a simple oh well, and he seems to forgive Astaire quite promptly. Astaire seems to go after Crosby's women less because he likes them than because they're there.Really, these are terrible, terrible people. And if there terribleness wasn't commented on at the time, it was not because it was considered acceptable behavior, but because the lead's personal charm and talent and Irving Berlin's classic songs seemed far more important than a typically inconsequential musical plot. "},{"Title":"Don't mind the plot; it's the singing, dancing, songs and charm that count, and they're great","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Few things are as enjoyable as watching the two old smoothies, Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire, at the top of their game doing what they do best, and doing it better than anyone else. With Holiday Inn, make it three old smoothies Crosby, Astaire and Irving Berlin. In fact, the only thing to get in the way of the movie is the plot. It's boy meets girl, boy loses girl to his best friend and partner. Repeat with another girl. Then bring back the first girl. Do another roundelay until boy and second girl and partner and first girl all have a happy ending. What makes the movie work so well and is such a pleasure to watch, or course, is Crosby singing, Astaire dancing, and both doing their charming best with songs, some new, some old, by Irving Berlin. Berlin was one of the great American song writers who hit their peak from the late Twenties through the late Forties. Many of the cognoscenti sniff their noses at him as corny or just too popular. Berlin was, in fact, a highly skilled and immensely talented song writer. He wrote songs which were original, catchy, varied and inevitable...that rare quality in a song that hits a listener with a melody never heard before yet which seems as if each note could never have been placed in any other way. He also was a shrewd businessman. Holiday Inn is one of several movies Berlin personally pitched to Hollywood. The stories were never much, but Berlin would mix hits from his catalog and write new songs. In addition to Holiday Inn, think of There's No Business Like Show Business, Blue Skies, Alexander's Ragtime Band, This Is the Army and White Christmas. The genesis in each case was Berlin. They worked so well because Berlin could write hits in so many styles, lush and romantic, sad and romantic, waltzes, comedy numbers, ballads, syncopated struts, jazzy, patriotic, sentimental or bawdy. It's not for nothing that Cole Porter and Fred Astaire were close friends of his. Personally, I think he could write in more styles and yet keep his own personality intact than any of the great American songwriters except Richard Rodgers. Considering his competition included Gershwin, Porter, Kern and Rodgers, I realize that's quite a statement. If I were stranded on a desert island and could only listen -- over and over -- to the songs of one Broadway composer, Rodgers would be first choice. Berlin would be second. In Holiday Inn, the idea is simple. Jim Hardy (Bing Crosby) leaves the team of Hardy and Hanover (Fred Astaire as Ted Hanover) to lead a lazy, country life on a Connecticut farm, far away from the incessant work of show business. He thinks he's going to marry the third member of the team, Lila Dixon (Virginia Dale). For those keeping score, she's girl number one. But Ted wins Lila, who is good natured up to the point where her ambition takes over, with promises of a bright dancing career. Later, Jim mets Linda Mason (Marjorie Reynolds) and gets the idea of turning his farm into Holiday Inn, a cozy, bucolic supper-club which will open only on holidays. But Lila has left Ted, Ted meets Linda, and...you get the idea. From his catalog, Berlin provided major hits such as Lazy and Easter Parade. Among the lesser known songs or songs written specifically for the movie are You're Easy to Dance With, Be Careful, It's My Heart and a song that got off to a slow start but which turned into one of Berlin's powerhouse hits, White Christmas. For Astaire fans, notable numbers include... --I'll Capture Her Heart Singing - This starts the movie and introduces us to the team of Hardy and Hanover. It's jaunty, funny and perfectly matches, with tongue in cheek, the singing skills of Crosby and the dancing skills of Astaire. --You're Easy to Dance With - Astaire and Virginia Dale do this number as a star supper- club number from their act. It's a smooth, fluid routine, part swing, part tap, that's sophisticated and perfectly executed. --Be Careful, It's My Heart - The number starts out being sung by Crosby, then turns into one of those great, romantic wooing numbers by Astaire with Marjorie Reynolds. The conclusion is a knock out. Astaire and Reynolds sweep around behind a large valentine and, backlit so only their shadows show, pause and hold a classic pose in silhouette, then continue back to the dance floor. They sweep around again behind the valentine, but this time they leap through it toward us, tearing what had seemed a solid backdrop into paper shreds. It's highly dramatic and unexpected. --Say It With Firecrackers - This turned out to be one of Astaire's most complicated dance numbers; it took 38 takes to get it right. He starts out with fast tapping and never lets up...then takes it higher by incorporating firecrackers and exploding torpedoes into the dance, pulling them from his pockets and hurling them on the polished dance floor, matching the explosions in perfect rhythm to his taps. It's quite a sight. Holiday Inn has charm, first-class performances by Crosby and Astaire and memorable songs by Berlin. For those interested in the composer, I recommend As Thousands Cheer The Life of Irving Berlin by Laurence Bergreen and The Complete Lyrics of Irving Berlin by Robert Kimball. "},{"Title":"A film with wonderful Fred Astaire dance numbers and very solid direction","Date":"22 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" It is not necessary, I suggest, to admire Irving Berlin in order to appreciate the realistic qualities of Holiday Inn. Essentially, the piece has fewer than eight significant parts, contains strong and weak songs, but has very fine production numbers that are, for once, fitted into a believable screenplay about people. The plot of the film can be stated in two sentences. A dancer (Fred Astaire), and his partner a singer (Bing Crosby) have two misunderstandings about successive female partners of the dancer--but all turns out happily. Producer-Director Mark Sandrich does a lyrical job of keeping the action flowing; Berlin's simple but serviceable idea was made into a screenplay by Claude Binyon with help from Elmer Rice and others. Bob Crosby was mainly responsible for the orchestral music, which is very competent. With fine B/W cinematography by David Abel, Art Direction by Roland Anderson and Hans Dreier, intelligent specialty gowns by Edith Head, and set decorations by Sam Comer, the film looks smooth, and present a unified effect that still looks impressive today. The songs include, Be Careful, It's My Heart and White Christmas among others; but I suggest the film's chief ornament is the choreography as interpreted by Astaire, from a famous exploding caps number through romantic, fast, and lively to graceful and slow rhythms. As to the actors, Astaire is breezy and effective throughout, particularly when playing off Walter Abel's very energetic work as his agent. Marjorie Reynolds has the warm part of a lifetime as one of the two women in the partners' lives; and Lila Dale is quite successful as the other woman. Louise Beavers steals her scenes as Crosby's housekeeper- confidante. Bing Crosby sings some numbers well but appears to less effect, by my lights, than do the others even though he is acceptable throughout. The settings in the film range from a Hollywood sound stage to theatrical stages to the large Holiday Inn cum nightclub itself to dressing rooms, backstage areas and countryside locales. This film led to several other movies set in converted inns, and to other singer versus dancer romantic contests, for decades afterward. I recommend the film highly for the delightful dance routines interpreted by Astaire--and all concerned-- and for the overall simple but often humorous storyline as presented by director Sandrich and a satisfying cast. Add a very satisfying climax, and almost everyone can agree that this film deserves its perennial popularity. "},{"Title":"It's always a wonderful holiday with Bing and Fred!","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  It seems as if the laidback, unambitious Jim Hardy (Bing Crosby) is always competing with the edgy, decidely ambitious Ted Hanover (Fred Astaire) for the same girl. Ted dances away with Lila Dixon (Virginia Dale) the night Jim and Lila are supposed to get married, proving that Jim wasn't quite right when he claimed that I'll Capture Your Heart Singing. Jim decides to set up the Holiday Inn, an inn that serves up a cracking night's entertainment (themed song and all) every time a holiday rolls around--which means that Jim gets to work 15 days out of the year and enjoy his farm and be Lazy the rest of the time. It isn't long before Jim meets Linda Mason (Marjorie Reynolds), a girl who sings *and* dances beautifully, and the two of them make Holiday Inn a bigger success than anyone could have expected. Jim and Linda share a quiet White Christmas, but just as the quiet (and I must say rather repressed) Jim begins to make hopeful overtures to Linda, Ted gets dumped by Lila and, in a haze of drunkenness, turns up at the Holiday Inn... only to bump into Linda and dance with his perfect partner and not even remember her when he wakes up with a hangover the next day. Ted's agent (Walter Abel) keeps trying to find Linda, whose back is the only thing he recognises, even as Jim realises that Ted could be poised to steal his girl again. Rather than explain this to Linda, Jim embarks on some subterfuge, making Linda dance in blackface (Abraham),  sabotaging their dance routines (the hilarious I Can't Tell A Lie) and trying to keep Hollywood agents from seeing them together (forcing Ted to perform the spectacular Let's Say It With Firecrackers). But Linda discovers Jim's betrayal, and goes off to Hollywood with Ted to make a film based on Jim's Holiday Inn. Can Jim win Linda back, and prove that he really *can* capture her through singing... rather than have her won away by Ted's dancing? Will he, in the end, have Plenty To Be Thankful For?.HOLIDAY INN is quite simply the quintessential holiday movie, perfect for any occasion. It's tailored to be that way, after all, with beautiful Irving Berlin songs written for every holiday. My favourites would have to be the heartbreakingly lovely Be Careful It's My Heart for Valentine's Day, Easter Parade for Easter (later the theme song for a Fred Astaire/Judy Garland vehicle of the same name) and of course, White Christmas--that classic, beautiful Christmas serenade by none other than Bing Crosby. Crosby is on fine form and it's not hard to see why his voice alone could win droves of ladies to his side, even if his character as written was too repressed to be particularly attractive. Undoubted added value would be several of Astaire's numbers... surely some of the most innovative and breathtaking dance sequences he's ever performed, in a lifetime of innovative and breathtaking dance sequences. First off is the number Ted performs with Linda while drunk--whether or not Astaire himself was drunk at the time (it's reputed that he needed 8 shots of bourbon to get the dance perfect), it's a perfectly-timed, subtly humourous number performed with great style. When he dances with Linda again after he's declared that I Can't Tell A Lie, Astaire is as funny as he's ever been, with his immaculate execution and impeccable timing, as he clowns his way through Crosby's abrupt tempo changes. Then, of course, Astaire literally blows the stage up around him as he joyfully proclaims (and his character claims to improvise!) Let's Say It With Firecrackers.The singing and the dancing in HOLIDAY INN, if it isn't obvious by now, is top-notch. What's interesting is that the characters, perhaps unintentionally, display surprising depth and complexity. Not the ladies--Linda and Lila (the latter in particular) are sketchily drawn out and don't have much character of their own. It's Jim and Ted who intrigue Jim, the guy who can't seem to express his love except through anger or music; Ted, the apparently brash fellow who has never failed to fall for every girl he's danced with and felt no qualms at nicking girls off Jim for his own benefit. Jim's general meanness, with only the very occasional chink in his armour when he opens his mouth to sing (and *that* voice comes out of it), makes him very much an archetypal romantic hero. He's *not* the guy you like on sight, nor is he an everyman--he's lazy, he's stealthy, he doesn't consult the lady when he does things... and yet you're rooting for him in the end. A lot of it comes down to the fact that Jim is being played by Bing Crosby. Crosby pulls off the menacing aspects of Jim wonderfully, and yet manages to give him a sensitive undertone that doesn't alienate the audience completely. You can capture my heart singing anyday, Bing!As for Fred Astaire--although his role and character are technically secondary, I have to say that this is the first of his films that I've seen where he actually leaps right off the screen and grabs my attention as an actor and not a dancer. Don't get me wrong; he's always been good. But I've always been more interested in seeing him get to the *dancing*, dammit. All the non-sung words in between? Filler. I'm beginning to think I'll have to go back and watch all those other films again, because Astaire was excellent in HOLIDAY INN. It probably helped that he was playing a bit of a scoundrel, devil-may-care and cheeky as all get out. It's the little touches in his performance that make it so good his annoyance in between hurried dance-steps for I Can't Tell A Lie, his earnestness when he asks Linda if she really means to leave for Hollywood with him... and well, his ability to hold his own as a cad, sort of, and still play right into the hearts of the audience. He's evidently set up to be the villain of the piece, and yet it feels right when things don't end *completely* against him.HOLIDAY INN isn't a brilliant film, but it's certainly a very good--probably even great--one, and it's hard to imagine that anyone could watch the ending credits flash on the screen without a smile lingering on your face and Crosby's voice and Astaire's twirls still in your head. Highly recommended for any holiday in the year... and any other time you might need a pick-me-up! "},{"Title":"decent comedy/musical","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" i thought this was a fun little musical/comedy.there's a number of song and and numbers,most of which i liked.it Stars Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire as friends,who are also rivals when it comes to women.there's some amusing banter between the two,and Astaire is quite a dancer.Crosby is the singer,and his voice is of course pure silk.there is one segment in the movie which which is offensive, and frankly in poor taste,and could be considered racist,but i don't think it was deliberately done in malice.this segment wouldn't be included in any modern movie,but unfortunately,they did things different back then.for me,that's the only black mark on the movie.otherwise,i thought it was good.for me,Holiday Inn is a 6/10 "}{"Title":"Fred's Firecracker Dance Steals the Show!!...","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" What more can be said about a movie that's become a perennial Christmas favorite featuring a whole slew of Irving Berlin song and dance routines, and two of the most popular and talented stars of film musicals--BING CROSBY and FRED ASTAIRE at their best.Well, it's a light, airy, briskly entertaining sort of musical that deserves its immense popularity due mainly to the unforgettable Berlin songs that are sprinkled throughout White Christmas, Easter Parade, Happy Holidays and Be Careful, It's My Heart, among a roster of other delights that more than make up for a thin storyline.And Fred Astaire, in his prime, is a dancer to be reckoned with when he taps his way through the perfectly timed firecracker dance for The Fourth of July sequence. That amazing solo dance, thanks to a pocketful of firecrackers, is alone worth waiting for.Wartime audiences back in 1942 hungered for this kind of innocent fun and laughter--as well as all of the nostalgic, cozy sort of charm induced by having an inviting setting (a lovely old farmhouse in Connecticut) serve as the focal piece for the story of two show business men fighting over the same girl. Marjorie Reynolds lends her winsome charm to the female lead and Walter Abel is delightful in a good supporting role.Especially interesting is the way the storyline leads to Hollywood and the movie combines the Christmas stage setting on a studio set (which is supposed to be an exact replica of the farmhouse), as compared to the real thing. And it's there, on that studio set, that the story leads to its inevitable conclusion with the singing of White Christmas.Interesting bit of trivia My personal favorite Best Song nomination that year was Love Is A Song, the beautiful main theme of BAMBI, but, of course, it had no chance against Irving Berlin's title tune at the top of all the music charts.Too bad Paramount couldn't afford Technicolor for this one. They were on a budget during the war years and made very few major releases in color. "},{"Title":"Astaire/Crosby Classic","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Holiday Inn (1942- directed by Mark Sandrich) A favorite black and white, WW II holiday musical starring Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire.  The plot revolves around a vacation lodge in upstate Vermont that only opens on holidays throughout the year.  Of course, the movie ends with the big Christmas holiday show!  Bing stars as the singer, with Fred as the dancer.  Throughout the movie Bing and Fred vie for the beautiful blond, Marjorie Reynolds, but it's really the holiday extravaganzas staged at the Holiday Inn in Vermont that keep the movie afloat.  Please note, Bing sings White Christmas for the first time in this movie and not, as many people believe, in the later 1954 flick White Christmas.  For you trivia buffs, the director Mark Sandrich was better known as the director of most of the Astaire/Rogers dance vehicles out of RKO!  Also, Sandrich is the father of Jay Sandrich who gained fame as the director of the Mary Tyler Moore show as well as a host of other famous television sitcoms from the seventies and eighties. "},{"Title":"Lots of Singing and Dancing","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Here is an excellent chance to see another movie that picks up great swing band music, singing, and dancing.  Once again a movie is not only entertaining but gives you a glimpse of history as well.  The history would be the music of the time, the singing of Bing Crosby, and the wonderful talent of Fred Astaire.  Then they added a nice, light romantic comedy in a wonderful, romantic setting.  This is not a heavy movie, it is an entertaining movie.  One can always listen to a tape or a CD, this gives you a chance to all but be there live.  And live is when it is most enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Best Christmas (and non Christmas) movie ever?","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I was born decades after this movie was made. I enjoy movies from every era and especially like westerns, action/adventure, and scifi pictures. Yet despite this, I can honestly say that Holiday Inn has got to be in my top 3 favorite movies of all time. I've read all the other reviews and I can appreciate the other opinions rendered. But my opinion is this; Bing Crosby is the finest male vocalist ever. Fred Astaire is the finest male dancer ever. Irving Berlin is arguably the greatest songwriter/lyricist ever. Those three combined in one film practically guarantee a classic. Crosby in the early 40s was at his peak; his voice is pure gold. White Christmas and Easter Parade are still extremely popular, over 60 years after the films' release. Some thought the plot a little weak; maybe so, but it was easy to follow and entertaining to the end. Movies for most sane people are a temporary escape from life's realities, and for anyone who knows their history, one can understand why people loved this 'escapism' movie in 1942. Unlike others, I do not find the Fourth of July number with its film clips of tanks, plane production, MacArthur, and Roosevelt to be 'ludicrous flag waving' or 'propaganda'. I find it refreshingly patriotic - just what the country needed in early 1942 (and could probably use some of today as well). As for the 'controversial' Abraham number, maybe I'm naive, but I didn't even think it racist until I read some of these reviews. Black face numbers were very common in the early century years right on thru the mid 40's; to pick on this movie because of this, or worse yet to delete this section from the movie shows the ignorance of political correctness that overwhelms us today. The number to me does not insult anyone; to me it helps to highlight and celebrate the greatest achievement of our greatest president; the writing of the Emancipation Proclamation. I guess I'm just naive. I can only say that I've seen this movie well over 50 times and am always uplifted after viewing it. My family has a tradition of watching this movie the Friday after Thanksgiving every year to start the holiday season on the right foot, and get us all in the true Christmas spirit. "},{"Title":"An under-rated but highly entertaining musical.","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  When Holiday Inn was released in 1942, it must have been a difficult time for it's two male leads.Firstly Bing Crosby, who had been the number one vocalist in America since the early thirties, was about to be knocked off his perch. Not only had his voice started to lose the original magic, he was about to be usurped by former band singer Frank Sinatra. In real life the two were to become life long close friends, but it was a friendship forged in the knowledge and understanding that Bing would always thereafter run Sinatra a not to close second.Astaire however seemed to be dancing through limbo since the the Astaire/Rodgers partnership had ended in 1939. There had been no change in his brilliance or creative abilities and he was still the hottest dancer on the planet, it's just that studios were finding it hard to find suitable roles for him. With the exception of MGM'S Broadway Melody of 1940 featuring the black and white spectacular production number, Begin the Beguine with Eleanor Powell, nothing had come close to the magic he created with Rodgers in the thirties. Nobody seemed to have the right vehicle for his talents.Paramount Pictures however decided to cast these two struggling stars together in Holiday Inn. Now I am not saying this movie was the answer to Astaires prayers, neither was it a chance for Crosby to recapture any lost magic, but it was certainly a sideways step up for both of them. Buy using the old two guys and a girl scenario, this film was never likely to win any Oscars for originality but it is certainly notable for two reasons at least.What can I say....White Christmas was offered to the world and to imagine that world without it today would be impossible. It remains the best selling record in history with countless new copies sold each festive season. If Crosby had to be content with second in the popularity stakes, then Sinatra would have to be content with never having a success to match it.For Astaire however, this film finally convinced the studios to stop giving him roles where a new potential long-term partnership was offered. That was indeed part of the problem. Every girl Fred danced with was at the time being built up to be the next Ginger and it just wouldn't have worked. To look at his solo on the 4th July firecracker number, it was quite clearly at man at the peak of his profession and remains one of the high points of the movie.My main gripe with this movie is the character Fred played. He, as man was by all accounts a gentleman. A kind, caring and considerate person. Homely, honest and decent and as American as apple pie and cheese and this was the character he played in nearly all of his movies.In this film however, he is a rat and I find it very hard to like him. He is a man who would think nothing of stabbing his best friend in the back and then to make matters worse wipe the blade clean on his neck tie. There is nothing charming or amicable about him. Would Hollywood have been so stupid as to offer such low-life characters to Clark Gable or John Wayne? No these men were American Hero's and had to be portrayed in that light. My argument is that Fred Astaire may not have been a tough guy but he was none the less a hero in other ways and one on an equal level as the other two gentlemen.Astaire plays the part well as the desired effect was achieved by my very reaction, but none the less we all prefer the charming and sophisticated Astaire who would never be so callous as to dance over anybody else's feet.The scenes in the Inn itself are wonderful. An escape from everyday strife and a place to be entertained in the best possible way. Why do such places only exist in movies? If everyday was a Holiday I would live and breath at Jim Hardy's Holiday Inn. Great Music, great holiday feel and great performances throughout. "},{"Title":"If there is one christmas movie to see, this is it!","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  I believe this movie will never lose its appeal. There are alot of good christmas movies, but to me, this is the best. The singing and dancing are remarkable. nothing but feelgood. "},{"Title":"A wonderful holiday treat despite some political incorrectness","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I have always loved Holiday Inn, and will say up front that my favorite dance is the one Fred Astaire does with the firecrackers! This film will always put you in the holiday spirit with its great cast, music, and dancing. Fred Astaire and Bing Crosby make a fantastic team, with Fred playing a bit of a cad. Walter Abel is right on as the agent, Danny Reed, and blond Marjorie Reynolds (that's Peg in Life of Riley for us baby boomers) is lovely as the second woman Astaire attempts to get away from Crosby, the first being Astaire's partner, played by Virginia Dale.The sticking point in this marvelous film is Abraham, which bothers a lot of people, but when it's cut on AMC, nobody likes that either. It's on my video of the film, and when I mentioned it to my sister, she told me that while in England in 1978, there was a minstrel show on television. She couldn't believe what she was looking at and stopped dead in her tracks, jaw dropped. The blackface is one thing; the look sported by Ms. Reynolds and the verse done by Louise Beavers are quite another. I admit that I find the number offensive, but I also think it serves as a reminder of what was (unfortunately) acceptable back then.I love Holiday Inn, I love Bing's singing and Fred's dancing. This is an energetic film, very much of its time with the propagandist Song of Freedom and its attendant movie clips thrown in. Enjoy it for what it is, and don't ask for a modern sensibility in 1942. "},{"Title":"Razor-Thin Plot, but Great Songs and Dances (ALSO bonus information about the animated November turkey)","Date":"31 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" A trio of live stage stars breaks up and two of the stars are items Jim Hardy (Bing Crosby), a talented but lazy crooner, intends to marry co-star Virginia Dale (Lila Dixon) and live the easy life on a Connecticut farm. Plans change when womanizer dancer and third co-star Ted Hanover (Fred Astaire) steals the flighty Lily and both run away to continue their showbiz career. In reality Astaire was a decent man who was cast against his normal type; Lily expects presents on Father's Day. Meanwhile Jim learns about the difficulties in farming and fails; he has a nervous breakdown and recovers. He has a brilliant idea that he will open a song and dance dinner-club/nightclub from an old barn he is converting. Shows will run only on holidays (about 15 annually). Jim tells his old agent Danny Reed (Walter Abel) to sent him some talent. At a flower shop Danny meets pretty blonde Linda Mason (Marjorie Reynolds) who recognizes him and says she can dance well and even sing. She wants a new career, and Danny gives her Jim's address. Jim and Linda both put on airs, but each catches the other and Linda does earn a starting role in the upcoming New Years Eve show. Jim and the beautiful Linda begin to fall for each other, and Linda shows that she can really sing and dance very well. In the meantime unstable Lila wanders again She leaves Ted for a Texas millionaire. Ted winds up at the opened Holiday Inn broken-hearted and drunk, but has a fabulous dance with Linda. Jim, having already lost a girl to Ted, maneuvers unsuspecting Linda away. Later Ted cannot remember anything about Linda, and all that agent Danny saw was Linda's shapely backside. If Danny can find Linda, he will try to link her with Ted for a new stage routine. Ted and Danny go back to the inn on the next scheduled holiday show, Lincoln's Birthday (12 February) in an effort to locate the unidentified dancing beauty. Spotting them, Jim smears the resisting Linda's face with black-face (acceptable at the time) backstage, to disguise her from Ted and Danny. The plan works, but St. Valentine's Day is only two days away. On that holiday, Danny eventually spots Linda despite unfortunate Jim's attempt at disruption. Jim and Linda perform a wonderful holiday dance (Be Careful, It's My Heart.). With the situation up in the air between Jim and Ted, on Easter Sunday Jim sings a beautiful song to Linda, who really shines here. Before long though Linda agrees to join Ted in Hollywood. Over the next few holidays, Ted and Linda become an item, and an engagement is publicized in newspapers and showbiz magazines.Jim, devastated at losing the gorgeous Linda to Ted, closes the inn and to survive writes music for the Hollywood movie being produced based on his own Holiday Inn. But he feels sorry for himself as the months of the year move on. On Thanksgiving Day, his maid Mamie (Louise Beavers) shakes him out of his long spell. She tells him not to mope, but to return to California to win back his girl. You could melt her heart right down to butter, if you'd only turn on the heat! Jim arrives by train a day before the proposed wedding, but Linda obviously has had feelings for him all along. So when she spots him, Ted has lost Linda to Jim for good. But all is not lost for Ted, for Lila has returned and he has apparently taken her back. The movie ends on New Years Eve with Happy Holiday.There are superb production numbers. Featured is perhaps the greatest hit of all time, the incomparable White Christmas. There are other Irving Berlin tunes, including Happy Holiday, Easter Parade, and I'll Capture Your Heart Singing. (By the way, Bing Crosby was rated the number one American pop singer in the 1890-1954 period by music historian Joel Whitburn. Bing's best period was the 1930s and 1940s; indomitable Frank Sinatra would later surpass Bing.) Catch Fred Astaire's fabulous solo firecracker dance on the 4th of July. What a talent! While smoking, he taps his way so perfectly with each sound from exploding firecrackers. It is certainly legit see the accumulation of firecracker paper on the stage. Marjorie Reynolds did not have many starring screen roles, although she was Peg in the 1950s TV sitcom Life of Riley. The movie concept may be flawed Can one make money if the inn is open only on holidays? Only if it caters to a rich crowd willing to pay, say, $1,000 per seat! Besides salaries and expenses, the house does need to pay its live orchestra! But the flick affords a feel-good Christmas classic by Paramount, and although filmed in black and white, is a bit better than White Christmas, made 12 years later. Obviously many holidays are skipped, or else we have a three-hour feature. Curiously, the Holiday Inn motel chain got its name from this movie just a decade after.CORRECT REASON FOR THE ANIMATED TURKEY ON THE November CALENDAR The turkey moves back and forth from 20 November, the third Thursday of the month, to 27 November, the fourth Thursday of the month. At the time of the movie's setting (1941), the Thanksgiving holiday was not yet settled on the fourth Thursday of the month throughout the USA, despite earlier proclamations by Presidents Washington and Lincoln. Some states were still celebrating Thanksgiving on the third Thursday while most others celebrated on the fourth Thursday, and a few even on the last Thursday (when November has five Thursdays). So the turkey was confused where to settle. The situation soon changed with House Resolution 41 (26 Dec 1941) and President Roosevelt's proclamation that supported only the fourth Thursday of the month. So we now celebrate Thanksgiving only on the fourth Thursday in November. "},{"Title":"Despite some uncomfortable stereotypical characterizations, Holiday Inn is still a musical treat to watch","Date":"25 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Exactly five years ago today, I reviewed Irving Berlin's White Christmas with Bing Crosby. Now I'm commenting on his Holiday Inn with Der Bingle which came out 12 years previous and had introed the Oscar-winning song which also became the best selling song ever for several decades. I noted the contrivance of the plot of the other pic then but this one was even more so for me, I mean, a Fourth of July number involving Fred Astaire and fireworks was originally supposed to have him dance with Marjorie Reynolds, really? So if you go by plot, White Christmas is the better movie but if by songs, this one. Having said that, I'd be lying if I didn't say that the Abraham number did make me a little uncomfortable with the whole blackface thing. Actually, Bing and the band and the lady dancers didn't look so bad in their dark makeup but then Ms. Reynolds then taking the characterization of a pickaninny veers into very creepy territory that makes it doubly uncomfortable to watch! And also seeing maid Louise Beavers singing some of that song with her kids in a separate room only serves to remind this modern viewer how segregated much of the country still was at the time. If this were filmed today, maybe Bing and Ms. Reynolds would have dressed as Lincoln and wife Mary and Ms. Beavers and offspring would have been in the same scene with them. Despite all that, Holiday Inn is still quite an enjoyable musical to watch what with all the other holiday-inspired songs that abound in it including the classic Easter Parade which originally inspired Mr. Berlin to make a holiday musical revue but didn't come into fruition until this picture. Oh, and in case you were wondering, yes, the hotel chain that was formed in 1952 did get its name from this movie's very title... "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"27 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Jim (Bing Crosby) retires from his act with Ted (Fred Astaire) and Lila (Virginia Dale) to set up Holiday Inn where he can laze around for the year and only put on a show when there is a holiday. He had counted on taking Lila with him but there seems to be a rivalry with women between Jim and Ted and he is not so lucky on this occasion. He goes through with his plan for Holiday Inn regardless, leaving Ted and Lila in the hands of their manager Danny (Walter Abel). When Linda (Marjorie Reynolds) turns up for an audition at Holiday Inn, Jim has a winning formula to develop. Linda becomes engaged to Jim and all is idyllic... until Ted turns up....The film follows the holiday calendar for a year with good musical numbers on every occasion. Crosby, Astaire, Reynolds and Dale all get involved in the singing and dancing and Abel provides good comedy back-up. It's a musical comedy that provides all the characters with an opportunity to be funny, eg, I'm Linda Mason. It's an easy-going comedy with some great tunes. "}{"Title":"You sound sweet, but you don't make sense","Date":"3 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" By 1942, Fred Astaire had already lost Ginger Rogers until 'The Barkleys of Broadways (1949),' at least, but 'Holiday Inn (1942)' proves that his talents were still very much intact. But he didn't do it alone, of course. Bing Crosby provides wonderful support &#150; or, I should have that the other way around. Bing is actually the centre of attention, with poor Fred relegated to the status of the slightly-arrogant romantic rival, ultimately having to content himself with the former partner (Virginia Dale) who ran off to marry a Texan millionaire. Balancing the two biggest musical stars of the era in a single film must have been a difficult task; certainly no one but Bing Crosby could have stolen top-billing from Fred Astaire. Nevertheless, director Mark Sandrich and music-man Irving Berlin ace this high-wire act by playing to each performer's musical strengths, epitomised by the opening number I'll Capture Your Heart Singing, in which the two stars show off their respective talents to attract a mutual lover.Like many musicals, 'Holiday Inn' was probably built around its musical numbers. The inspired concept of a holiday inn (however economically-fraught in real-life) allowed Irving Berlin to flex his song-writing muscles, penning musical numbers for many of America's days-off, including Christmas, New Year's, Independence Day, Washington's Birthday and Lincoln's Birthday. All are very enjoyable, though the most memorable number is certainly Bing's rendition of White Christmas, which achieved massive commercial popularity in 1942 and has remained a holiday staple ever since (even down here in Australia, where our Christmases are decidedly non-white). Abraham, a bouncy little ode to the 16th President, is frequently annexed from contemporary broadcasts of the film, an undeserving fate for a sequence whose black-face number is entirely justified by the plot (Bing uses the face-paint to obscure his partner (Marjorie Reynolds) from the inquiring eyes of his rivals). If one must insist on finding black-face offensive, then, in my eyes, it should only be when the audience is insultingly expected to accept a clearly-Caucasian actor as portraying an African American.It doesn't need saying that 'Holiday Inn' is a lot of fun. Mark Sandrich was an experienced director of musicals, having been involved in five of the 1930s Astaire/Rogers comedies. His work here is no less professional, and he even manages to work in a self-referential subplot about Hollywood. After the gorgeous and talented Linda (Reynolds) leaves Bing to star in the cinema version of Holiday Inn (the producers' reasons for making such a film are somewhat dubious), we are introduced to a studio replica of the house itself, which offers a fascinating insight into how movies were made in the 1940s. I suppose it would be fair to guess that the two similar structures seen in the film, one real and one a replica, were one and the same set. Most interesting, however, is to see Sandrich peddling the common misconception that filming a scene for the movies is little different from acting out a stage play. In the one take, Linda alights from her horse-and-carriage and walks into the house, where a second camera is already waiting and rolling. "},{"Title":"Fun Holiday Classic","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I know this 1942 movie isn't played as much around Christmas as other holiday classics such as It's a Wonderful Life, and White Christmas, and for the life of me, I can't figure out why. After all, this was the movie that brought us the all time best-selling Christmas song, White Christmas.The movie is just wonderful...it has a terrific cast of Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire, and who can overlook the wonderful Irving Berling score of songs. Bing is perfectly cast as Jim Hardy, a singer who is burned out and quits show business to open up a quaint inn in Connecticut where he stages shows for 15 holidays a year. Fred Astaire is equally good portraying Ted Hanover, a dancer and Jim's former show business partner who steals Jim's fiancée and singing partner, Lila (actress Virginia Dale). The lovely Marjorie Reynolds plays Linda Mason, a young singer/dancer who gets hired by Bing to perform at the shows at Holiday Inn, and who becomes the love interest of both Bing and Fred, after Lila dumps him.The songs include White Christmas, Easter Parade, and several others. The controversial number, Abraham, written for Abraham Lincoln's birthday, consists of Bing and Marjorie Reynolds in blackface. Although not considered politically correct now, this wasn't that unusual for movies of that time period. Fred Astaire has several great dance numbers,and his firecracker dance number is just terrific. He is usually associated with a dance partner, i.e., Ginger Rogers, but this difficult and incredible dance number shows his skill as a solo dancer.This is my all time favorite holiday movie and highly recommend it. It's just fun all the way around. "},{"Title":"Lots of fun!","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Lots of fun! Bing Crosby & Fred Astairedo great work in this wonderful musical with Irving Berlin tunes. Bing croons White Christmas, Fred dances with firecrackers and both vie for the hand of Marjorie Reynolds. Far from the best musical ever produced, but very entertaining all the way through. This was evidently a Paramount vehicle for Crosby, and he gets a greater share of the numbers (and the girl in the end), but you'll see some classic Astaire routines in this one if you're a Fred fan. Mark Sandrich directs and he makes sure the numbers are well-integrated with the (thin) plot, and there are some nice visual moments and a well-executed montage. Really nice musical, and worth your time. "},{"Title":"Christmas Perennial","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Both cozy and sophisticated holiday classic, with Crosby and Reynolds supplying the former and Astaire and Dale supplying the latter. The idealized, warm, 1940's farmhouse contrasts perfectly with the snap and elegance of the nightclub scenes; can anyone NOT watch this during Chritmas?? Marjorie Reynolds has got to be one of the pleasantest actresses ever; she just exudes likability and ease. (she's at her charming best in The Time of Their Lives) Tip watch for the exploding bottle scene, where Crosby's apparent ad-libs seem to really crack Astaire up; you can see Fred trying to suppress real laughter when they're behind the chair in the dressing room. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie!","Date":"10 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This is an excellent movie! We watch it ever Christmas! It's fun & entertaining. They just put it in color which makes it better than ever, but who doesn't still love an old black & white movie?!?! I would definitely recommend it to anyone. My husband doesn't really care for old movies, but loves this one! Fred Astaire gives a phenomenal dance performance and Bing Crosby's singing is always fantastic! We love the firecracker scene at the end of the movie! It is a great combination of singing and dancing, even if you are not really into musicals, you will still enjoy it. My 8 year old nephew even enjoyed this movie, so it's good for the whole family! "},{"Title":"The Romance of Another Time","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I know that the time period of this film was not perfect. There were no Civil Rights acts or equality for women. A war was going on. But there is something pure about this. I wax nostalgic for a gentler form of entertainment. I tire of the explicitness and gore of modern films. I get tired of the profanity and the scatology. That's why it's so nice to have a tradition of pleasant musicals and comedies from this era. No, I wasn't alive at this time. It just seems that we had a better sense of basic decency. Boy, I sound like an old fogy. That said, this film stands on the strong shoulders of Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire. I realize how vapid the plot is. The silly grandstanding; the ridiculous posturing for a romantic involvement. But if all there was was the dance sequences and the production numbers, this film would still be a classic. The premise is so outrageous, but it doesn't matter. The expense of those shows would have required those patrons to shell out about 500 dollars a ticket, considering there were so few of them. I also like Astaire's singing voice, which is often underrated. It's a nice movie. Put it on your holiday plate. "},{"Title":"A Christmas necessity","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Every year on Christmas Eve, since I was a little boy, my father has forced my family to stop what they were doing and watch Holiday Inn.  However, it was the one time of the year that I didn't mind my father's intrusion. The movie is THE holiday movie of all time.  The songs are great and Fred Astaire's Fourth of July dance is legendary.Give this one a try...it's the Holiday season! Nothing gets me in the Christmas spirit more than hearing Bing Crosby singing White Christmas. 9/10 "},{"Title":"The parts come together perfectly.","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  With Astaire and Crosby what more can you ask for? Well here you not only get them, but you also receive the bonus of a great band, a wonderful cast of supporting players and a Christmas script that isn't saccharine.Astaire's Firecracker dance is worth the price of seeing this movie by itself. But the musical score adds to the film's greatness.  "},{"Title":"Best Astaire dancing plus class.","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Have watched it over and over especially when Astaire dances with the fire crackers.  Some shows within the movie could be considered tacky but somehow the cast holds it all together.  Too bad it was filmed during WWII and it isn't in color.  Black and white makes it too much of a period piece while color would update it.  I'm not against colorization of certain pictures especially musicals.  Holiday Inn is a holiday away from everything you want to leave behind. "},{"Title":"Nice easy watching","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Like most musicals, the plot is contrived and convoluted, but executed with professional prowess. The Bing Crosby character is supposed to be next to broke, yet he runs the shows at each Holiday with a budget that would break a Broadway producer. Huge stage, orchestra, sets and chorus people. Yet you do not see one director, stage manager or anyone involed in making each show work. And the show just magically appear with NO REHEARSALS. Like a fairy tale. But one must sustain disbelief when watching any musical. On the plus side the Irving Berlin numbers are very good to great, the dancing and singing extraordinary and the acting above par. Too bad the two ladies didn't amount to much after this film as they were both very good. WHITE Christmas is a semi-remake of HOLDIAY INN and I prefer the former. Not only does it have color, but the story line is more interesting and a little more sentimental. The budget was bigger, hence more elaborate musical numbers, but HOLDIDAY INN certainly stands on its own and should be seen by any musical lovers. Watch the specials on the DVD version. Interesting. "}{"Title":"Fluff","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Kind of enjoyable.  I don't know if it would be so engaging for someone under the age of, say, 70.  You have to understand that Bing Crosby was a crooner with an adoring audience.  He makes fun of himself here, boo boo boo.  But if Crosby has dated poorly, Astaire has not. In the very first of the musical numbers Crosby does a most peculiar port de bras.  Astaire dances magnificently.  He does some of his best.This will surely come in for a lot of criticism re the Abraham number in which everyone is in blackface, but it shouldn't.  You may or may not be African-American, as I may or may not be, but we are all better off for the emancipation proclamation.  Please let us not have Kwanza and Hannukah and Christmas.  Let us have -- well, I don't know what, but anything but separatsm.  Hear Bing croon.  See Fred dance.  Let's shake hands. "},{"Title":"a holiday musical","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" 'Holiday Inn' is not really a Christmas film, but it is a film about all holidays and the film that made 'White Christmas' a best-selling and popular song. This film is about a couple of dance/singing partners who fight over the girls in their lives. Bing Crosby's character decides to move out of New York City to a farm, and he turns this into an inn where they sing songs and dance on every holiday in the year, from Christmas to President's Day to Valentine's Day. It's a musical with plenty of song and dance with Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire, and it has a little bit of a love story in it too.The highlight of this film is, of course, when Bing Crosby and the female lead sing 'White Christmas' in front of the piano and when the female lead then sings it herself at the end of the film, remembering these memories. This scene is done particularly well, but if you like musicals, then don't overlook this one. There is plenty of singing and dancing and a pretty good storyline to keep you interested. And, you must see the scenes where 'White Christmas' is sung. "},{"Title":"Good Light Entertainment","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Like many other wartime movies-this came out early during our involvement in World War Two-this movie was meant to be light entertainment, meant to be spectacle rather than meaningful. Of course the premise is unrealistic-an inn that is only open 15 days per year, and being so fancy to boot? But we're not here to see the story, we're meant to see the singing and dancing. Indeed, the theme is about a great singer (Bing Crosby) and a great dancer (Fred Astaire) competing for the affections of a beautiful woman who is also a performer.The competition is part of the comedy-the blackface disguising the woman's true identity from other people, the changing of the music back and forth during the dance scene when the dancers threaten to kiss, the cars accidentally driving into the lake-all these are meant to be farcical. As for the blackface being offensive, how is that any worse than men dressing up as ladies? And the real black people in the movie are hardly racist stereotypes. In fact, Mamie is the one to give sound advice-to one of the leads.The movie is meant to be an excuse for dancing, singing, and light comedy, nothing more. If you want deep meaning, you won't find it here. "},{"Title":"How on Earth did this become a classic?","Date":"27 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This film just has so many flaws. Aside from White Christmas, the music isn't even that good; it's like the Irving Berlin junk drawer. All of the main characters are completely unlikable. The story's misogyny is only balanced by its misandry. You can't really root for anyone to get their way, because you want them all to get some sense smacked into them.The only character who exhibits good sense is the jaw-droppingly stereotypical maid, Mamie. In fact, everything related to race is horrifyingly cringe-worthy to modern audiences. In a better movie, perhaps that could have been forgiven as an unfortunate aspect of life in that era. But here, it's the final nail in the coffin.The film's only saving grace -- the only reason it gets a 2 rating from me instead of 1 -- is that you still get to hear Bing Crosby sing, and watch Fred Astaire dance with Marjorie Reynolds and Virginia Dale. If only they were singing and dancing to better songs in a better movie... "},{"Title":"Blackface aside, this is a Christmas classic","Date":"19 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Jim Hardy (Bing Crosby), Ted Hanover (Fred Astaire), and Lila Dixon (Virginia Dale) have a popular act. Lila decides to not marry Jim and follow Ted in an act. Jim is blindsided and retires to a farm in Connecticut. He's a horrible farmer. One year later, Jim decides to turn the farm into an entertainment venue called Holiday Inn open only on holidays. Ted and his agent Danny Reed (Walter Abel) are not impressed. Flower shop girl Linda Mason (Marjorie Reynolds) recognizes talent agent Reed and he passes her off to Holiday Inn. Jim has a new song White Christmas and the Christmas show is a big hit. Meanwhile Lila leaves Ted for wealthy Texan. A drunken despondent Ted shows up at Holiday Inn and dances with Linda. They are an immediate hit as a new duo but Ted doesn't remember. Ted continues to come back to search for the mystery girl and Jim is unwilling to lose another partner to Ted.Let's get the blackface out of the way first. It's racist in today's world but it served a purpose for the plot. And back in the day, it wasn't racist. This movie is a fun comedy by two of the best song and dance men in the business. It has some great Irving Berlin standards and the romance is good. "},{"Title":"Gets me in the Holiday Spirit every time I see it.","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This is my one go to movie to get me into the Holiday spirit. Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire as one of the earliest incarnations of frenemies in the movies. Bing leaves the hustle and bustle of NYC Club Life to open a quiet Inn way out in the country of Connecticut that will just be open on Holidays. We spend a year jumping from Holiday to Holiday with Irving Berlin songs like Easter Parade, Be Careful It's My Heart, I've Got Plenty to Be Thankful For and, of course, the introduction of the song White Christmas. Bing's singing and Fred's dancing are at the top of the game and it is a glimpse into the past. Specifically, America in the 1940's with their PATRIOTIC SONG, the depiction of Dinner Clubs and, most unfortunately, a Blackface number that shows we have come along way. "},{"Title":"Simpler Times","Date":"13 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Back in the day, Bing Crosby only worked in a couple of films with Fred Astaire. Astaire was known as more of a dancer in this war era film. Marjorie Reynolds is in this one too,The plot is simple and goes along mindlessly. Seems that Bing and Fred keep falling in love with the same woman and both want to marry her. Complications result though what is in-testing is during the war, women outnumbered men by a large margin so it would take a great woman to hook 2 men from a small pool.It happens in this movie twice. You owe it to yourself to get the colorized version. These 2 ladies look even more stunning in color.Bing, to his credit has an idea as he bought a place called the farm, he plans to make it an Inn open only on Holidays. The idea works enough on film as it gives Bing and Fred a chance to hoof and sing. The Holiday Inn set, truth be known, is employed by Paramount again in 1954 for the movie White Christmas. While the song is in both movies, this movie does not have as many military in it as the later film does. That is because they were mostly off to war.Irving Berlin does the entire sound track to this one. All the tunes are great. While the 1954 film is in original color, this film is quite watchable. "},{"Title":"The Connecticut farm","Date":"29 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Jim Hardy had a dream. When we meet him, he is about to retire from a successful career as a singer. He has proposed to the woman he loves, Lila Dixon, and his dream is to go to the Connecticut farm he wants to run. Lila, alas, has other plans, which do not include Jim in them. Lila, the dancing partner of Ted Hanover, wants to continue in show biz because she can't see herself living in a rural setting.A broken hearted Jim realizes Lila's betrayal, he decides to go ahead with his idea of making a go with the farm he had bought. Unfortunately, it's a lot of work. Meanwhile, Lila dumps Ted for a Texas millionaire. Jim Hardy realizes the farm takes a lot out of him, and decides to make it a place where every holiday will be celebrated, with song and dance, starring himself. An aspiring actress, Linda Mason, meets Danny Reed, the agent that handles Ted and Jim, during his singing days. Danny proposes Linda goes to see Jim, who likes this fresh and bright girl from the start.That is basically the premise of one of the most enjoyable films that boasts Fred Astaire and Bing Crosby appearing together. It is a feel good movie. One that has brought a lot of joy for the sheer pleasure of the holiday spirit the film captures. Directed by Jay Sandrich, this 1942 Paramount release became a favorite of many people, especially around the Christmas holidays. The music of Irving Berlin, a giant in the American musical world, helps out enjoyment throughout a predictable story, that elates the viewing public every time it is shown.Bing Crosby was one of the most enjoyable singers of all time. His rendition of the Berlin's repertoire was impeccable. Fred Astaire does his dance routines showing his unique style, although in the picture he is paired with Marjorie Reynolds and Virginia Dale, neither one was notable for their dancing. Walter Abel appears as Danny Reed, the agent that in a way, is responsible for bringing Jim and Ted together again.A movie that is a must see around the Christmas holidays! "},{"Title":"Well we were just looking for the back of a girl we don't know!","Date":"27 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Holiday Inn and White Christmas stand side by side on my video shelf, and for the longest time, I kept confusing the two with each other. Holiday Inn offers the very first filmed performance of the popular song 'White Christmas', while the movie of the same name takes place at an inn. Both of course feature Bing Crosby and that incomparable voice of his, for my money perhaps the very best of all time. Each of the films has it's own proponents for which is the better of the two. If I had a proverbial gun to my head, I'd have to say that Holiday Inn holds up better in terms of story and continuity, even though both pictures have elements that defy credibility and have you going 'huh?' even while providing a boat load of entertainment.It's a quick newspaper column story that caught my eye that probably sums up the Holiday Inn concept best - Bing's notion of refurbishing a Connecticut homestead into an entertainment venue for fifteen holidays per year is deemed a 'freak idea'. I doubt if the Bingster could make that idea work in real life, even if he and Fred Astaire headlined each show like they did here.But in between the less believable moments, you do have some top shelf entertainment, among them Crosby's singing numbers, and some downright awesome footwork from Astaire. His Fourth of July tap-dance garners well deserved accolades, and I can't imagine a better drunken dance interpretation than the one he did with Marjorie Reynolds in his first appearance at the Inn. Bing and Reynolds in black-face - too garishly over the top by today's politically correct standards, but still important in depicting an earlier era dealing with themes of race and equality. Fortunately, the character of Mamie (Louise Beavers) and her two children was handled with respect and sincerity.So depending on your disposition, Holiday Inn remains a respected movie in the tradition of your great Christmas classics, or just another picture to while away the time while waiting for Santa to arrive. Either way, you should catch it at least once to pay appreciation to Hollywood's golden era, well before holiday fare like Bad Santa threatened to leave it's mark on an ever jaded modern public. "},{"Title":"Endearing holiday favorite.","Date":"18 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This wartime musical comedy features the teaming of Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire with the unforgettable music of Irving Berlin. Crooner Jim Hardy(Crosby) and hoofer Ted Hanover(Astaire)bust up their stage act and Hardy buys a New England vacation inn deciding to only open on holidays...every holiday. Hardy hires a dancer, Linda Mason(Marjorie Reynolds), verbalizing an exclusive contract. When Hanover sees her dance, he competes with his buddy; wanting to take Mason on the road with him. Of course it is the Berlin music that holds the interest, because the script is pretty weak at best. Crosby and Astaire will give their fans what they expect. Scenery is beautiful.Berlin earned an Oscar for the song White Christmas. Other musical highlights include Happy Holidays, Plenty To Be Thankful For and Holiday Inn'. Also in the cast Virginia Dale, Walter Abel, Irving Bacon and Louis Beavers. Kudo to director Mark Sandrich. "}{"Title":"The colorized version will be your favorite musical romantic comedy","Date":"11 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" The MGM musical is said to have peaked in the early '50s. but my favorite show biz-themed musicals were released in '41 and '42, with Fox's Sun Valley Serenade and Paramount's Holiday Inn, respectively. They both feature snow and riding in sleighs, which adds to their charm. There's lots of humor in both, especially this one. Unfortunately, both were shot in B&W by their miserly studios. It's particularly galling that Paramount filmed the forgotten Dixie, reuniting stars Bing Crosby and Marjorie Reynolds, in color, but chose B&W for an obvious classic film! Now that the present film has been released in a colorized version, it can more legitimately be compared with later color films, such as Singing in the Rain. It's far more interesting than the second pairing of Crosby and Astaire, a few years later, in Blue Skies. In addition to a better selection of songs and sets, and a much better comedic interaction between the male stars, their female costars in Marjorie Reynolds and Virginia Dale were much more appealing than Joan Caulfield, in the latter film. Marjorie is my favorite dance partner for Fred, if not the most technically proficient.Berlin was infamous for recycling his better songs in subsequent films. For this film, only 3 songs were previously composed, and probably only one of those Easter Parade, had been sung in a film(Fox's Alexander's Ragtime Band), and would serve as the title song in a third film, 6 years later. Bing's rendition, while driving Marjorie in a horse and buggy,with beautiful fruit tree blossoms in the background, is my favorite of these 3. Lazy, which Bing sings when he is contemplating an easy life, 'retiring' to run a farm, would later be redone by Marilyn Monroe, in a very different(sexy) style! Even the seemingly specialized, though good, song Abraham was recycled in White Christmas, along with the title song.In addition to White Christmas, Happy Holidays is still a standard of the winter holiday season. The former is featured twice once not far into the film, and again, just prior to the finale. Both renditions are essentially private affairs between Bing's and Marjorie's characters, who alternate in its singing. The first occurs in a very romantic setting of an isolated farm house, with a cozy fire, and it's snowing. The second involves Marge singing it on a Hollywood set, with a surprise appearance of an unseen Bing chiming in, come to reclaim her as his runaway girlfriend(She was furious because he first hid her from Fred, who wanted her for a dance partner, then from a Hollywood agent who wanted her and Fred for Hollywood stardom).The long Abraham performance was done in blackface by Bing and Marjorie, along with the orchestra, dancers and waiters, with Lincoln's freeing of the slaves as the theme. Noted African American actress Louise Beavers, as Bing's maid, and her two children, sing a small part. Bing's understood plot reason for doing this in blackface was to make Marjorie unrecognizable to the snooping Fred and his business partner, Danny, who are hooked on her as Fred's potential new dance partner. They don't know her name or where to find her, since Fred was very drunk when he danced with her at Danny's Christmas party, having just lost his former girlfriend and dance partner, played by the lovely Virginia Dale, to a Texas millionaire. Ironically, Ms. Dale left Fred because of a mere jealousy spat over an unseen Marjorie, whom he hadn't even yet met and was connected with by a misunderstanding(Yes, The lady must have been willing, as Fred would later quip when Margie suddenly abandoned Fred for Bing, at the end).Fred's unique 'firecracker dance' for the July 4 show reportedly needed 38 takes to get the synchrony between the explosions and his dancing just right!. Marjorie isn't in this show, due to Bing's dastardly trick to keep her away from Hollywood scouts. She and Fred, nonetheless, become a Hollywood sensation. Thus, Bing spends Thanksgiving alone(except for his maid), his inn closed, just playing his record I've Got Plenty to be Thankful For, with sarcastic remarks. Thanks to a sound scolding by Ms. Beavers, he goes to Hollywood to try to win back Marjorie. It didn't take much, as I previously detailed. Yes, the women were fickle.Among the many musical highlights, I should mention the I'll Capture your Heart Singing/Dancing, You're Easy to Dance With and finale-modified reprisal of these, with the 4 stars reunited. Bing and Marjorie's alternating singing of Come to Holiday Inn, with Marjorie in a sparkling gold evening gown, is great. But, perhaps my favorite is Fred and Marjorie dancing to Be Careful, It's My Heart, while Bing sings it at the piano, unaware of Fred's presence, briefly reprised in their Hollywood montage.....I give it 20 stars. "},{"Title":"If the mood hits you, then it's right","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Here in central Indiana it's February 13, 2007, the day between Lincoln's birthday and Valentine's Day. It's also a cold, snowy windy day; we've had almost 8 of snow over the past 15 hours with gusts up to 30 mph. So after a trip to the store in this messy weather to get the ingredients for a good homemade veggie soup, what could be better than popping Holiday Inn into the DVD and enjoying a couple of hours of one of the best musicals made in the 40s? Holiday Inn is usually associated with Christmas because of the classic White Christmas song, but it's a movie that can be enjoyed any time of the year. Bing and Fred are at their best and are well supported by Marjorie Reynolds and Virginia Dale with good lesser roles by Walter Abels, Louise Beavers and Irving Bacon. Enough people have talked about the plot, acting, and singing and dancing. I just wanted to mention that it's a very pleasant movie that evokes a simpler and in many ways (Abraham and the black face scene aside) much better time. "},{"Title":"What Bing will be remembered for","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I always loved this film at holiday season. I love films that have MEANING.This is the film that Bing will be best remembered for. He is perfect in his role as Inn keeper. Musical, Funny and very enjoyable, the story does an excellent job of keeping people engaged while also displaying Berlins' tremendous musical scoring ability. He couldn't have done a better job. He is one of the reasons this is worth watching.Fred Astaire gives an equally as great performances as Bing's friend. He is very enjoyable in the role and couldn't have been better. He does a brilliant job and, like Crosby, is one of the reasons this is worth watching.Overall, Holiday Inn is an excellent muscial comedy that is the best Bing Crosby film that I've seen. It is a lot of fun from start to finish, with funny and touching moments. Its very enjoyable and shouldn't be missed. "},{"Title":"Bravissimo!!!!","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  It's a complete mystery as to the reason why this movie is seldom aired. I suppose that the fact that it was filmed in glorious black and white might be significant. Astaire and Crosby did make Wonderful Music Together( this is a line from the song which was very popular in the Thirties) and Marjorie Reynolds, Walter Abel,Virginia Dale and Irving Bacon formed a strong supporting cast. It really is a Holiday movie. Hopefully the DVD manufacturers will catch on. "},{"Title":"One of the All-Time Greats","Date":"21 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Holiday Inn (1942) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Simple but incredibly delightful Musical about a singer (Bing Crosby) who decides to head to the country for the quiet life after his dancing partner (Fred Astaire) steals his girl. The singer ends up creating a roadside inn where they're only opened on holidays and it gets off to a good start when he finds a singing beauty (Marjorie Reynolds) but soon his old partner is back and has his eyes on the new girl. HOLIDAY INN is considered one of the best of its type but those who aren't familiar with the movie probably only knows it as the film that introduced everyone to the Oscar-winning 'White Christmas' sung by Crosby of course. There's no question that the song deserves all the praise and love its gotten over the years but at the same time you can't help but think that there are plenty of other tunes here that deserve just as much attention and credit. It's really amazing how simple this film is because you pretty much get a variety of songs set around a holiday and then you have two legends doing some of the best work of their career. From the opening scene of Astaire dancing on the snowy streets to the closing number, everything here is just flawless. I think the film deserves a lot of credit not only for its songs and dancing but also the humor. There are some terrific comic bits including a sequence involving driving into a lake and another that takes place in Feburary that I won't ruin for those not familiar with the film. As for the music there are numerous highlights including 'I'll Capture Your Heart Singing,' 'You're Easy to Dance With,' 'Be Careful, It's My Heart,' and even the blackface routine 'Abraham.' Both Crosby and Astaire are at the top of their game and deliver the brilliance that you'd expect from them. The real surprise here is how flawless and touching Reynolds is in her part. She certainly helps the film and it's a real wonder why she never really took off in films. I think the one negative thing in the film is that Astaire's character is such a jerk that you really don't want to like it but since it's Astaire you pretty much look over his flaws. The film also doesn't want to paint him as a bad guy even though that's what he is. With that said, it's easy to see why HOLIDAY INN is considered a classic and the leads and Irving Berlin's songs are clearly some of the best out there. "},{"Title":"Good Crosby - Astaire - Berlin Musical, but leaves an unpleasant flavor in one's mouth.","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" It seems natural that Fred Astaire and Bing Crosby should have ended up in at least one musical together. They were able to actually appear in two films together (Holiday Inn and Blue Skies) and only missed out on a third film in the 1950s that became White Christmas with Danny Kaye in the Astaire part. Both men were perfectly in line with each other in terms of talent and style. Unlike the two other partnerships that Crosby formed with males in films (with Hope and Fitzgerald) this one was tied together by talent and musical comedy, not blending comic timing or ethnic pairing. It is instructive to see that in both films (both with Irving Berlin scores), they share a duet about the blending of their talents (in Holiday Inn it is I'll Woo Her With Singing...Dancing, and in Blue Skies it was We're a Couple of Song and Dance Men). It was perfectly complementary pairing here.But there is something annoying in both films to Astaire fans. While he played the hero in the musicals he made at RKO and MGM, he was not the hero in the two Paramount films with Crosby. That is understandable - Crosby was the star of the Paramount lot and in their musicals. Astaire was there as a loan from MGM. It has been suggested that if MGM had made musicals for Astaire borrowing Crosby the relationship would have been switched. That is hard to say though. Crosby made the two films at the height of his popularity as one of the biggest draws in motion pictures. Astaire was doing well, but was coming back after being selected as one of the stars of the 1930s labeled box office poison. He really was not in a position to demand a better split in the characterization of Holiday Inn.Astaire and Crosby are partners (with Virginia Dale) in a musical act that is managed by Walter Abel. Crosby feels like retiring, and has bought a farm in Connecticut. He plans to ask Dale to marry him. But Dale and Astaire have been having an affair he did not know of. Abel knows of the affair because they plan to continue the act as a duo, and he would remain their manager. Naturally Crosby feels quite betrayed by this, but somehow remains on good terms with them. He eventually comes up with the idea of turning his farm into a type of inn that is open only on holidays. He tells Astaire and Abel of the idea, but they are dubious of it's success. Crosby finds that Dale is very possessive and jealous of Astaire, whom she accuses of running after women. Meanwhile, Abel has to get flowers for Dale (supposedly from Astaire), and the girl in the florist shop (Marjorie Reynolds) wants to get a break into theater. Abel (to get rid of her) gives her tickets to Astaire's show and a card with the address of Crosby's farm/inn.Reynolds ends up working with Crosby at his Holiday Inn, and they turn out to be a good singing and dancing couple. In the meantime, Dale leaves Astaire, and he goes on a bender around New Years Eve. He heads for Holiday Inn, and dances with Reynolds. They make a good dancing couple. But Astaire can't recall what Reynolds looks like. He and Abel return on Valentine's Day but miss her (due to Crosby's interference). The same happens on Lincoln's Birthday (Crosby disguises Reynolds in a black face number about emancipation). But before Washington's Birthday Astaire and Abel find Reynolds. When Astaire finds she is not engaged to Crosby he and Abel work at getting her to drop connections with the Inn and Crosby, and to hook up with Astaire. Crosby tries to stop this (even trying to bring Dale back into the equation), but seems to fail. The film seems to be heading for Astaire marrying Reynolds.The film is actually a musical comedy and works quite well. Possibly the most disagreeable aspect of the musical numbers is the Abraham number which reinforces old stereotypes on race. But otherwise it is very amusing and memorable in the numbers (particularly White Christmas and Easter Parade). Astaire's highpoint is his July 4th firecracker dance. But the worst aspect is the business of Astaire and Abel in doing anything they can at Crosby's expense, first with Dale and then with Reynolds. Astaire's hedonistic views of sex are part of his charm and also make him less than desirable as a friend or business associate. But they are understandable - many people are blind to the way their escapades hurt others. But Abel's willingness to help Astaire (who is his client throughout) is quite annoying. He is quick, at one point, at criticizing Crosby for raining on the parades of other people, but he never notices how he rains on the parades of others. The end result is that the film, while entertaining and memorable, seems flawed. How did Crosby get to be a partner to such a louse as Astaire, and to have Abel as his manager? The film is definitely worthy of watching and re watching, but it leaves some unease in its wake. "},{"Title":"Astaire and Crosby at their best","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I caught this one on cable last night and although I've always been a fan of both Astaire and Crosby, i watched and listened a bit closer this time. As usual, the plot was Hollywood thin but the songs are fantastic. Bing was at his ba-boo-boo best and Fred, especially in the number You're Easy to Dance With is mesmerizing. You also get a chance to see that Ginger Rogers isn't the only girl who can keep up with Fred. The dance he does when he is drunk is classic too. He really was the best. Bing sings White Christmas as only he can and sends goose bumps down your spine. All in all, this is one you can close your eyes and just listen to. Just great. "},{"Title":"Don't Miss This During The Holiday Season","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Being from CT, I'm partial to this movie. Set in fictitious Midville, CT, we believe the set is patterned after the Silvermine Inn in Norwalk, CT. The story line is quite simple, 2 guys going after the same girl. What stands out are the dance routines with Astaire and Virginia Dale and Marjorie Reynolds and of course Bing Crosby singing White Xmas. I'm against modern colorization but I think his movie would do well because of the so many different costumes used for the different dance numbers. Walter Abel is hilarious as Danny Reed and the shortcut to the shortcut scene is also as well. Light a fire, put on the Xmas tree lights, relax and enjoy a nice, very well done music and dance, holiday movie. "},{"Title":"A dated but above-average example of postvaudeville Hollywood","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  A pretty good romp, it's confusing to compare with the later 1950's production involving a bit of the same music... until you see both.  But now that I've seen both, I know why the remake was done.  This earlier production was severely dated on two points.  Obviously, blackface numbers (in which Negro stereotypes are portrayed by white actors with burnt cork makeup) are at least puzzling if not offensive today, and this film may have been one of the last to include one.   But there's also newsreel drop-ins related to the war effort of the day that break up the narrative.  Crosby no doubt saw remaining potential in the situation of a crooner bailing out of the entertainment business, only to find showbiz buddies continuing to pull him back in front of a crowd, so he eliminated the above problems and did White Christmas with Danny Kaye about ten years later. I advocate seeing Holiday Inn as well, though, since Astaire's dancing beside Crosby's singing is a real one-two punch.  Also, as a matter of history, this record of blackface performance is some help in apprehending what those who did it thought they were accomplishing, and the wartime context is revealed in the 4th of July number.  At that point in the US, similarly to the current situation, a war was foisted upon a largely unsuspecting people - one in which we weren't guaranteed of a win.   And in the midst of it, entertainers summoned the courage to remind the audience of happier times, in the hope that there would be more when the work of protecting freedom was done.    "},{"Title":"Over-rated","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I was expecting more; this film has Fred Astaire and.... well, that's about it.Bing Crosby was just another lucky recipient of the Hollywood Dream, a person who could not act or dance, just sing.... I guess - I've never been a fan of his. I also don't know why so many people get offended by the blackface number. Who the hell cares? Remade in 1954 as 'White Christmas' with Danny Kaye, whom I have always loved. Danny makes Bing look like the chump he was. That film is ultimately the better film. I heard that this one was the one to see, but I know now that I own the 'good version' on video. Maybe I'll go watch it to wash this one out of my mind.OK as a time-killer. Don't let the blackface song bug you. The two little colored kids are cute. "}{"Title":"Worth watching for the song and dance numbers","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I thought this movie was a bit long and slow, and I could not really relate to the intrigues of the show business people, or their love affairs. Although the ending was sweet...Some aspects of it felt very dated, such as the black face number, the black, fat mommy with a heart of gold and a lot of common sense, working as a housekeeper, the war-time propaganda, etc. etc.. But of course you can look at it as a period drama - and I love the elegance of the 40s, when women could still dress like ladies and men like gentlemen! The song and dance numbers are wonderful. Well, they have to be with Bing Crosby as the lead singer and Fred Astaire as the lead dancer! -) There are also wonderful stage sets and decorations for the various holidays depicted.I think the movie was worth watching once in it's entirety, but in future I will probably just skim it for the best singing and dancing performances. "},{"Title":"Singing and Dancing..","Date":"10 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" At an inn which is only open on holidays, a crooner (Bing Crosby) and a hoofer (Fred Astaire) vie for the affections of a beautiful up-and-coming performer (Marjorie Reynolds).This film was the precursor to White Christmas, and today is certainly the lesser-known of the two. How that happened is unclear. While many may think White Christmas is the better film, it is hard to deny some of the great dance sequences with Fred Astaire. This film does have the wider variety of song and dance numbers, as well as an appearance from Irving Berlin himself.Although it really has relatively little to do with Christmas, this is a great film for the season. Maybe not something to revisit every year, but definitely worth returning to time and time again. Bing Crosby was the master of the Christmas film in the 1940s and 1950s. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This is a great movie. Bing Crosby is part of a team of singers and dancers. When he decides to retire to a farm this splits up the team that happens to include his intended wife. She wants to keep entertaining so goes with Fred Astaire. When Bing comes to the realization that his farm is failing he goes to plan B. He only opens the inn only on the holidays. This leads to Astaire trying to find the girl he danced with the night he came there drunk. A black woman is finally cast in a decent, all be it still subservient, role. Her two kids are so precious, precocious, and cute that they rise above the unfortunate stereotypes of the era. This is a fun movie with lots of dancing and singing plus pretty good acting and excellent humor. "},{"Title":"Yes, but...","Date":"28 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Singer/composer Jim (Bing Crosby) has the modest ambition of a combination hostelry/show venue, open for just 15 days a year the public holidays, where there will be a show for each holiday. As the act breaks up, he discovers that his more ambitious partner, dancer Ted (Fred Astaire) has successfully lured away dance partner Lila who Jim had expected to accompany him. After a while starting his establishment alone, Jim finds himself in the company of talented singer/dancer Linda (Marjorie Reynolds) and romance develops. Then Ted arrives back on the scene...Holiday Inn is a slight romantic musical comedy featuring the pairing of Crosby and Astaire, and a bunch of songs by Irving Berlin. What could go wrong? Not much, actually. This monochrome period piece (a nicely colourised version is available) trundles along exactly as expected, with songs, dances, chuckles and music in all the right places, and winning performances from all concerned. It almost seems a shame to raise criticisms.Apart from the picky point of No wonder he's losing money when you look at the cost of the production value he's putting on stage for a single night, there are two main criticisms. One, the songs (many of which are themed for a particular holiday) come from the weaker end of the Irving Berlin songbook. And, two, the Lincoln number, delivered in blackface, demonstrates the casual and more or less inadvertent racial attitudes of the era fairly embarrassingly.Against this, of course, the film introduces the monumental White Christmas, against which no criticism can stand! "},{"Title":"Excellent dancing, good comedy, and a warm love story","Date":"16 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This movie, which is something of a Christmas tradition, has a magnetic appeal about it. Bing Crosby's singing is as melodious as ever, Fred Astaire is superb in his dancing. And who would not fall in love with Marjorie Reynolds in this movie? The Connecticut scenery and the snow, though all are fake, are beautiful and appealing. (I've seen both the updated version and the original B&W version.) There is a sense of escapism in this movie, retreating from NYC to go to an unforgettable inn in a provincial area. Who wouldn't want to get away from the hustle and bustle of the big city and go to a place where happiness and serenity are found? It is hilarious in places, and thus is decorative in more ways than one. Some of the songs are favorites, such as White Christmas, Abraham, and Happy Holiday. In the love story aspect of this movie, there seems to be great chemistry 'twixt Crosby and Reynolds. It is one which I will add to my Christmas repertoire, because it is such a wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"Can't go wrong, a tender song&#x85;","Date":"21 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" The 1930s produced a great many brilliant stars for sound cinema, voices and music having very much shaped that decade's movies. But by the 40s many of these acts were running out of steam in pictures that were either too samey or no longer suiting. To the rescue came a new idea &#x96; the team-up movie. Take two big stars, put them together on the same screen. Success! It might have seemed like a terrible clash putting the two most popular musical lead men together in a picture, but as I'll capture your heart singing(/dancing) acknowledges, the two stars of Holiday Inn complement each other well by being the best at the two opposite ends of the musical performance spectrum &#x96; Bing Crosby's warm, earthy crooning and Fred Astaire's light, ethereal dancing. Personally I rate Fred's singing quite highly, and posterity tends to agree with me. Crosby however had a great dramatic talent, and he proves himself fully able to handle the more poignant side of the romantic angle. That's not to disparage Fred's acting, and as usual he is allowing his grace and control to feed into a number of different moods. He even does a top drunken dance. As to their leading ladies, I was going to say Marjorie Reynolds has a lovely singing voice, but then I found out she was dubbed by Martha Mears, which was presumably just as well. She has a kind of earnestness to her performance though and she despite not using her real voice she is very much able to bring the necessary emotion into her act of singing. Virginia Dale, while passable, is sadly no Ginger Rogers. But Holiday Inn is not really about the women. The two leads here are Bing and Fred.Another coup for this production was the song-writing talent of Irving Berlin, who for my money was the best of that generation of pop composers. Berlin's ease with fluid song structures means he could come up with such whimsical efforts as I'll capture your heart singing which switches tone back and forth to suit the styles of Fred and Bing. Meanwhile numbers like Easter Bonnet and of course White Christmas are among Berlin's most beautiful, and it's fab to hear Crosby's golden vocal chords doing them the necessary justice.Holiday Inn sees Astaire reunited with the most prolific director of the Fred and Ginger movies, Mark Sandrich. Astaire and Sandrich had such a great rapport after all their years of working together. The opening scene with Fred wiping the snow off a sign is such and Astaire-Sandrich moment, this combination of smooth, unedited camera movements and normal actions turned into dance. And even for Crosby's more sedate numbers, he's excellent at overseeing the choreography of something as simple as putting out food in Let's Start the New Year Right to give it a kind of natural visual rhythm. Sandrich also captures the poignancy of the later scenes with some wonderfully still and sombre close-ups.As the 30s turned to the 40s and the old repetitious franchise movies made way for prestigious one-off productions, Holiday Inn is a perfect transition, containing all that was pure about 30s musical output but melding it into something a little grander. The dancing harks back to the best of the Fred and Ginger movies, where the choreography was inventive but not yet gimmicky (Astaire's firecracker dance being the finest example). And, dare I say it, Fred and Bob are a pairing equal to Fred and Ginger. No, they don't dance together, but really the movie is all about the chummy rivalry between them &#x96; two very different performers with different temperaments, but equal in likability. "},{"Title":"No Reservations ...","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" ... about recommending this to anyone with eyes and ears capable of homing in on Charm, Style, Song and Dance. It is, in fact, one of the better original musicals scored by Irving Berlin possible because it is not so reliant on his back catalogue. Astaire and Crosby play more or less Hope and Crosby, i.e. partners with a healthy rivalry in place and not above stealing each other's girl. The major difference between this and a 'Road' film is that the 'Road' films were tongue-in-cheek spoofs at Holiday Inn type musical comedies and generally offered more laughs than songs. This is an exceptionally fine score with one great ballad, Be Careful, It's My Heart, a worthy Oscar-winner, and one almost as good but not half so well known, Let's Start The New Year Right and, as if that were not enough the ultimate 'seasonal' song, White Christmas. Marjorie Reynolds is just right as the girl who almost destroys the friendship/partnership and it's a great pity she never again found a role so perfect for her. Astaire is, as always, beyond category and all in all this is about as feelgood as they come. "},{"Title":"Pleasant and with a nice theme song.","Date":"21 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Holiday Inn has the distinction of being the film that introduced us to White Christmas--a song that has since sold something like a bazillion copies. Not surprisingly, this crowd pleaser received the Oscar for Best Song. As for the rest of the film, it's mostly good--that is, all but the very racist minstrel number! Bing Crosby operates a bizarre establishment called Holiday Inn. The inn is closed most of the year as Bing performs, however, on his off days (the holidays), he and his friends (including Fred Astaire) put on a Broadway-style show in this rural spot. Sure, none of this makes any sense...just try to suspend your disbelief about this! When Fred loses his partner, Bing is afraid that Fred might try to take his new partner (Marjorie Reynolds) and the film ends up playing almost like a Hope-Crosby Road Picture, as each tries to win the girl's heart. Along the way, are LOTS of songs by Irving Berlin--most good, though the film might have done better to trim a few of these (particularly the one where Crosby and Reynolds are in black-face)--with a bit more emphasis on the plot. Still, it's modestly enjoyable and you can't help but love the theme song. Worth seeing but not a must-see unless you are a die hard Astaire or Crosby fan. "},{"Title":"still fun","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  I don't think this is a great movie, but it is a classic, to an extent. I cringe when people gush over the movie White Christmas and downplay this one. One is a clean, well-shot black & white movie with Crosby & Astaire, while the other is a staged, technicolor blob with the vastly overrrated Danny Kaye instead of Astaire. That's just not a fair fight. Is this a great Astaire movie? No, it's not in the same league as the great ones with Ginger Rogers, especially, in my opinion Swing Time. The Fourth of July dance routine is in that league, however. Is this  Crosby at his best? Maybe not. But the simple staging of the song White Christmas in this movie stands in stark contrast to the sappy finale of the movie by that name. It makes me cringe that people think the song was introduced in THAT movie ... grrr. Anyway, Holiday Inn has its blackface number, that is what it is from a different time, and the same can be said for the saber-rattling in the Fourth of July sequence. We wouldn't do that in films today, and they wouldn't have made Die Hard in 1942 ... as Fred might say, let's call the whole thing off ... "},{"Title":"Astaire, Crosby and a Very White Christmas","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Well, Astaire and Rogers weren't drawing the audiences in anymore, so who better to be a replacement for Rogers than.....Bing Crosby? Yep, it's Astaire and Crosby headlining this one, and the females in it just have to look pretty and sit back while the boys do all the work.Holiday Inn is a fun, mindless musical, with some senseless plot strands connecting the real reason for watching the movie--an assemblage of song and dance numbers each centered around a national holiday.Forgive it its corniness, forgive it its maudlin WWII propaganda sequence, and especially forgive it its nauseating black face number to celebrate Lincoln's birthday, and just sit back and enjoy it the way audiences at the time were meant to. There are plenty of showstopping numbers to make up for the movie's faults, like Astaire's 4th of July tap-dance number set to exploding firecrackers, the hilarious Washington's birthday number (though who makes a weekend out of celebrating Washington's birthday? Best not ask questions like these) and the comfy-cosy final scene, set to the song White Christmas (which, hard to believe, was not a song before this movie), and which is single-handedly responsible for keeping this film remembered as a Christmas movie when really Christmas hardly plays a role.Good innocent fun.Grade A- "}{"Title":"Not so happy holiday","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Less well-known I believe than its remake which put the big song White Christmas out front where it belongs and concentrated on the Christmas season to the exclusion of the other seasons referred to in the original, Holiday Inn is good in parts but fails in some important respects. Firstly, the combination of Crosby and Astaire, while good on paper, (he sings, he dances) doesn't really work, perhaps because they share similar dramatic personae and even the same physical appearance (short of stature, thinning hair, neither of them particularly handsome). Yes they each do what they do well, if not exceptionally in this feature, plus it's difficult to see Fred living up to the lothario-cum-heel character he's handed here. In that sense, the way that White Christmas removed the love rivalry between the two male leads (and the females too) and gave Crosby's straight man a quirky comedic foil to bounce off in Danny Kaye made for a happier narrative more in keeping with the seasonal feelings of goodwill supposedly underlying the film.Stronger playing or indeed casting in the female leads would have helped too and yes, it's impossible not to be offended by the patronising treatment of blacks in the film, which must be embarrassing now for all involved, especially that toe-curlingly awful song celebrating Abe Lincoln, even getting old Mamie, Crosby's faithful servant to sing out he set the darky free - absolutely awful. If they can take the liberty to colourise this film, they should equally feel free to de-colourise some of this repugnant dialogue too, which arguably they did with White Christmas for which, I suppose, we should be grateful. Otherwise, it's a decent Hollywood musical, not a great one but very dated, in more ways than one. "},{"Title":"Lacking A Certain Spark","Date":"25 December 2011","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I watched Holiday Inn simply because it had the song White Christmas in it, which I love. When it was over, yes the scenes with White Christmas were very good, but the film lacked something. It lacked charm. Oh yes, Fred Astaire and Bing Crosby were great, but there was no chemistry.The plot is that a singer, played by Bing Crosby, decides to open an inn, that's only open on holidays. The premise quickly gets old, as were dragged through holiday after holiday. The film delves into cheesy romance with a storyline about Majorie Reynolds, and if she should either pick Crosby or Astaire.Lacking the charm of other Hollywood musicals, such as The Wizard Of Oz, or Singin' In The Rain, Holiday Inn doesn't stand out, other than the fact that it's the film with White Christmas in it. If you are looking for a good Christmas movie, watch It's A Wonderful Life. Other than White Christmas, I only enjoyed one last thing about this film.There is a scene that takes place in Hollywood, which shows a lot more than I would expect about the movie making process at that time. It's really interesting to see all those old camera's and such. However, besides that, there really isn't that much to love about the film. If you want to see the song White Christmas, go on the internet, don't spend two hours watching this. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable musical with one sour note","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This movie turned out better than it sounds on paper a pretext to perform songs related to lots of holidays, which, if more modern, would smack of a marketing department gimmick. But, according to the credits, it was Irving Berlin who suggested the idea. How much of the credit for the plot goes to Berlin, I don't know, but the story line actually is pretty good, better than some omnibus musicals, and better than some of Astaire's older movies (though not Top Hat). I liked the way Bing Crosby shows up on the Hollywood set at the end, which is a reproduction of his Holiday Inn; he had been writing songs for the movie within a movie based on his Holiday Inn. For those who aren't familiar with older American popular music, there is something called The Great American Songbook, which consists of great classics by about eight of America's best songwriters. I think the other seven would concur that Irving Berlin was the greatest of them all. No one has written more enduring classics than Berlin, and he often wrote the words, too. Yet he had no formal musical education; he was a natural genius of the highest order. I saw Irving Berlin's photo and paperwork at the museum on Ellis Island, fittingly, near a display of Maria von Trapp, both immigrants to America. Ironically, he was not born in America, yet wrote some of America's most patriotic music, including God Bless America, and was Jewish, yet wrote perhaps the most popular Christmas song, White Christmas. With songs like White Christmas and Easter Parade, Holiday Inn might sound like a natural to show to children, perhaps a school class, especially around a holiday. But you should watch the movie first, because there is a little problem the racial stereotypes. The one that sticks out like a sore thumb is the Lincoln's Birthday song and dance number, which includes Bing Crosby and Marjorie Reynolds in blackface, along with black performers in some hokey costumes. The pretext is that Bing wants to hide Reynolds from Astaire, who is looking for his Cinderella dance partner. And then there's Louise Beavers, who plays a stereotyped black housekeeper, Mamie. Look at her extensive credits on IMDb, which included the starring in the pioneering TV series, Beulah in 1952. Plus there are her stage children, Shelby Bacon and Joan Arnold, who also play stereotyped black children. Beavers does not portray a bad person, a negative stereotype; on the contrary, she is a kind, considerate person. The problem is no human being would behave like that, naturally; as an actress she plays a stereotyped subservient black persona, and some blacks in actual life had to play similar personas, but I doubt all blacks behaved in such an artificial way, especially when living in a white household. I had relatives in the South who had a black cook, and she behaved like any other person, and was treated respectfully. The heavy Southern dialect was also a bit much, suggesting an uneducated person, given this was set in Connecticut. Aside from the stereotypes, the roles are not terribly negative, when you consider that Hollywood often stereotyped all sorts of roles, including Gus, the hick taxi driver in the movie. Hollywood musicals are not generally known for their realism. And Holiday Inn was made 70 years ago, during World War II, when audiences wanted escapist fare. I think if this is shown to children, there should be some discussion of the racial issues; perhaps it can be a learning experience for blacks and whites. But I think it would be a mistake to censor scenes from the movie or to refuse to show it, altogether. It is not that bad, and on the plus side, it is such a typical example of black stereotyping that it is classic. Another option, of course, would be to show excerpts of numbers like White Christmas or Easter Parade.Astaire was always trying to find new angles for his dance numbers. The most eye catching here is the Fourth of July number where he dances to the accompaniment of exploding firecrackers. There is also a creative piece where he shows up drunk at Holiday Inn, and stumbles into an unusual dance with Linda Mason (Reynolds), whom he is too drunk the remember the next day. This is a fun movie, but it is bittersweet because of the way they treated the black actors. It should be noted that Astaire was certainly not a racist, and had great respect for the black tap dancers whose performances he studied and admired. Thankfully, America has changed enormously, with people of all races in all sorts of jobs and positions of power. And this movie, by contrast, helps highlight how much progress has been made in 70 years. But, sadly, the attitudes of many Americans, including many in Congress, has not changed nearly enough. But Hollywood abandoned such racial stereotypes long ago, in case you hadn't noticed. One fine example is Lilies of the Field, starring Sidney Poitier made in 1963, nearly 50 years ago. I mention this because foreigners often seem to have all sorts of outdated stereotypes and prejudices about America. "},{"Title":"A seasonal classic","Date":"30 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I love Christmas and musicals, and thought this film would be a perfect combination. And it turned out splendidly, and as much as I like White Christmas Holiday Inn is better for me. The story I agree is thin and lacks credibility in areas, but with so many other brilliant assets you kind of forget about any misgivings. Irving Berlin's songs and score are superb(as always, I have yet to hear a Berlin score I don't like), and the dance routines are magical. There is some good direction and dialogue and the production values are little to complain about either. Bing Crosby is wonderful and the songs do justice to his beautiful voice, and Fred Astaire matches him perfectly and dances brilliantly. Marjorie Reynolds is also a beautiful, sympathetic and witty addition to the cast. In conclusion, a classic, perfect for the Christmas season. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A Holiday Musical Classic Of The Forties","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Considering the times this film was made( WWII Era) in the early forties, America  needed another Feel Good Escape Film, sentimental holiday classic hits by the  infamous Irving Berlin Russian composer, making it a classic musical during the  holidays. It's the basic showbiz love triangle story between the classy dancer  Fred Astaire, a fine actress Marjorie Reynolds, and the famous crooner BingCrosby, which Irving Berlin won Best Song Award. MOSTLY A MUSICAL WITH ATOUCH OF ROMANTIC COMEDY SENTIMENT THROWN IN. This isn'tSleepless In Seattle, nor When Harry Met Sally. Mostly dancing and singing  between Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire though out the film are the high points,  story line is fair. It's a fine musical classic of the times. Without Irving Berlin's  music, it's really a 5/10. After all, this was Berlin's idea. (just a side note). The 4th  main character is actress by Virginia Dale, it's no wonder she doesn't have much  of Filmography compared to the famous Ginger Rodgers, a Classic Dancer/ Actress. Ashame, she didn't play the love triangle part of Marjorie Reynolds which  did a fine job, but NO GINGER RODGERS. BTW, I like Gene Kelly's overalldancing/acting better than Fred Astaire anytime, I respectfully give credit to one  of the finest dancers of tap. Glad the black face stuff is done away with, Praise  the Lord! Overall 7/10.  "},{"Title":"A true classic, deserving of its fame","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I'll get two minor cavils out of the way right up front; buying into the plot where skinny, chimp-faced Fred Astaire is able to 'steal' women from Bing Crosby requires a willful suspension of disbelief. Fred was an amazing dancer and a genuine movie star, but next to Der Bingle he was well, definitely the runner-up. Also the blackface number was in poor taste by modern standards, and makes the movie show its age (at least a little). Other than that, when I finally saw this movie,I enjoyed it immensely. It's funny when it wants to be; it has plenty of one-liners and zingers that still work well; it's utterly charming; the production numbers still look great; and the movie showcases the strengths of its stars extremely well. I liked it an awful lot. Maybe part of the problem with modern cinema is that some of those first movies established the standards to firmly that later movies could only ape those standards. "},{"Title":"Critics have called it paper thin, and for once they're right.","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  About that paper thin business. Consider the story. It's the usual love triangle. Bing and Virginia are to be married and retire to a farm in Connecticut, deserting the bright lights of Broadway, so Bing thinks. On the other hand, Virginia and Fred have other plans, to continue in showbiz, so Fred thinks. Virginia, however, elects to marry a Texas guy in the millions and retire to Houston, or some place, so she thinks, but more of that later. Stuck with the farm, Bing decides to open Holiday Inn and work only 15 holidays per year. At this point, enter Marjorie, and both guys go gaga over her!For a leading man, der Bingle is given a surprisingly mean spirited character to play. He employs all sorts of underhanded tricks to sabotage Marjorie's potential career in order to keep her for himself and his 15 holidays. Luckily, she tumbles at last and heads for Hollywood with Fred and happiness and success, so they think. Guess what happens!Back to paper thin. There are attempts at humour that aren't funny, even by the standards of 1942. That blackface Lincoln Birthday sequence is a prime example. There's Berlin' music, but if you can remember any of it beyond White Christmas and Easter Parade, you're a better man than I am, Gunga Din. Of these, how many remember that Easter Parade was even featured, if you can call it that. It was almost thrown away, no production number for the Inn being involved. Fred has three dances, more or less, but the firecracker number is the only memorable one. His partnered dances have a great big noticeable gap. No Ginger! Neither Marjorie Reynolds nor Virginia Dale quite fill the bill.Although, they are co-starred, this turns out to be Fred's movie, once you get past White Christmas.  Bing Crosby is sabotaged by the unpleasant character he is given. You'll surely entertain the hope that he gets saddled with Virginia in the end, prime b...h that she plays. About that millionaire she was to marry? It turns out he was millions in debt, not in the millions, so she turns up on Bing's doorstep for the final production number. But you'll have to see for yourself just who gets whom.It is certainly a well mounted film in all respects with impeccable direction and editing. Pity there wasn't more meat to it, beyond White Christmas, that is.  "},{"Title":"Long Legs","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I happened upon Holiday Inn almost twenty years ago when the Spokane Public Broadcasting station showed it. I have been hooked ever since. This is a delightful musical filled with Irving Berlin music, breezy performances, wry humor, crisp photographic imagery, and maybe the most sly piece of special effects wizardry I've seen in a pre-computerized movie. The plot doesn't need much explanation--Crosby's a burnt-out singer who wants to get away from it all, so he buys a farm house and property and finds out that the simple life ain't so simple. He then turns the house into a Holiday Inn, a dinner club only open about 15 times a year. Throw in his lecherous former partner, Fred Astaire, enough female leads to keep Crosby's heart and Astaire's libido performing, and Astaire's manager, played cartoonishly by Walter Abel, and you've got a vehicle for some very fun--and two great--Berlin songs, White Christmas and Easter Parade. The only two flaws--one small and one awful--threaten, but don't spoil the sauce. There's a song crooned by Astaire, decked out in Revolutionary War finery that has some of the most creaky lyrics I've heard this side of Doctor Doolittle. I'd fast forward a few moments until Crosby, directing his house band, starts to mess with the music. The other, more serious atrocity is the whole Lincoln's Birthday song, Abraham. It's so politically incorrect, so awful in its black-faced humor that you have to just grit your teeth and go to the kitchen for a snack. I know, nag, nag, nag. Anyway, the high point of the movie for me is in Astaire's Independence Day dance number. Using little bags of powder, tiny explosives imbedded in the stage, film scratches, and sound effects, you'd swear he's tossing firecrackers around as he bobs and weaves through the music. I've seen the scene a dozen times and there are still moments that I just don't know how the special effects guys are pulling off the explosions. Finally, I have a VHS copy of this movie, but Amazon doesn't carry one anymore, only DVD. Although the tape is excellent, lucky for you if you get an even crisper and better sounding version on disk. You owe yourself a chance to see this long-legged period piece. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  I thought this film was disappointing.  Someone recommended it as a sort of companion to White Christmas, of which I am inordinately fond.  Unfortunately, it turned out to be vastly inferior.  For one thing, Crosby and Astaire never rose to the comic heights attained by the pairing of Crosby and Kaye.  The music was not as good, either, and the story lacked something to make it truly engaging.  Maybe if I had grown up closer to the time when this film was made, I would appreciate it more, but as it is, it did not strike my fancy.  My recommendation is this, if you want to watch a good Christmas film, watch something else.  There is definitely not a dearth of choices! "},{"Title":"Not as charmed...","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  I wasn't as charmed by Holiday Inn as many of the above commentators.  A few of the songs and dance numbers were good, but the movie really was little more than that a collection of song and dance numbers weakly tied together by an uninteresting thread of a plot.I know it was a period piece, but I was embarrassed for Bing and Marjorie Reynolds (and all the musicians and hotel staff) during the black-face Lincoln's birthday skit. And for Louise Beavers as Mamie having to sing how Lincoln freed the darkies. It was also telling that during the Fourth of July skit the song gushes about freedom while depicting bombers and tanks.  Oh, the good old days when darkies were darkies and freedom meant tanks.Song and dance aside, the most interesting part for me was the movie-within-a-movie segment towards the end.Perhaps those things can be overlooked if you're really into the dance and song.Other, better Christmas moviesRudolf the Red Nosed Reindeer (1964) Rankin & Bass versionA Christmas Story (1983)Miracle on 34th St. (1947)Other, better musicalsSinging in the Rain (1952)  "}{"Title":"Politically correct?","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This would be an excellent movie, if it weren't for the way it portrays African-Americans. It's not just THIS movie, but every movie until the mid 50's and 60's. Black people all speak the same they say you IS instead of You are. I knows, instead of I know, Sho' nuff, Yassuh, etc. When they are on the screen, the music will be jazz. The kids are all dressed like kids of slaves. I understand that the Abraham Lincoln birthday scene is often cut, when shown on TV. White actors in black face. The men are all like Uncle Tom, or better yet, Uncle Remus. Shuckin' and jivin'. Grey hair, bad back. Pickaninnies. God, help us, I am embarrassed when I watch such scenes. And the tragedy of it is, unless a black performer agreed to be portrayed like this, they didn't get cast. When and under what circumstances did the way blacks were portrayed on film change? When or whatever did it, I'm glad. Cos it's revolting. "},{"Title":"Unambitious little Christmas film musical","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" The script is barely usable, with a totally meaningless plot. Apparently, all this film wants to do is to entertain. Even then, it is less successful than what I expected (Perhaps due to the high 7.4 rating on IMDb as of this writing and my love for Hollywood musicals).Most of Irving Berlin's score and songs are good, with White Christmas being the stood up. The musical numbers are well-performed by Fred Astaire, Bing Crosby, and Marjorie Reynolds. The highlight of this film, however, is the great choreography. Without all these key musical elements, this film would never become a classic. Already burdened with a poor script, everything falls flat on Mark Sandrich's weak direction.This film provides very little laughs, and there are political elements in it which I was not comfortable with. Irving Berlin came up with the idea for this film, and his very idea appears to be flawed. There is no point to this film and it is not as entertaining as I wanted it to be.If you are a fan of Fred Astaire, and Bing Crosby, you will certainly enjoy the stuff they are doing in this film. Bing Crosby grows on me, but seeing Fred Astaire dancing is pure joy. Passable. "},{"Title":"Avoid","Date":"10 December 2011","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This movie, one of the most objectionable films ever made, exploits the brilliance of Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire to create a counterfeit classic brushing over the horror of the time when it was made. It plays like a tiresome Broadway review, because it is. This mess of over-romanticizing exploits the seasonal holidays to frame the immense talents of its leads but wastes that talent The film inflicted on us one of the most irritating holiday songs ever&#x97;White Christmas.I know that Americans needed diversion but this thin gruel of sentiment and silliness lacks the nourishment people needed and still need. Even Mr. Astaire's dancing is the worst he ever did in any film.The opulence in the characters dress offends the spirit of the time, while the blatant propaganda footage dates and limits any universal appeal this little mess might have had. The racist underpinning of the film only magnifies the immense failure. This is one of the most overrated movies ever. Avoid it. I give in a 2 only because of the leads. "}]