[{"Title":"Unusual, but sad story","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"51 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cary Grant plays a newspaper reporter who falls in love and marries Irene Dunne, whom he meets at a record store. While abroad in Japan, tragedy strikes for the couple, which sets the course for the story. It really is a simple story about how a married couple long for having a home and a family of their own. Grant surprised me with his family man role, quite different from the sophisticated characters he played later on in his career. His monologue during the adoption hearing was one of the best scenes in the whole movie and very well done. Irene Dunne was great in her role as his wife. The little girl who plays their daughter was too cute for words. It was also an interesting insight into how a couple struggles to raise their first child, which is something many people can relate to, no matter what the time period. It was also interesting the way Dunne went through all the flashback scenes in the movie by playing records that reminded her of their life together. Beulah Bondi (who played George Bailey's mother from It's A Wonderful Life) has a great supporting role as the head of the adoption agency who has doubts about the couple at first, but then grows to care a great deal for them. The ending was a complete surprise. If you like Cary Grant or old Hollywood movies, this is something different. Sad, but sentimental. Recommended.   "},{"Title":"Great watch on a rainy day","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"44 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just love this sweet old movie.  Cary Grant is gorgeous, Irene Dunne beautiful, Edgar Buchanan a lovable old codger. A story about falling in love and the deep inner desire to build a family with the one you love -- and the challenges and sadness that can be as great, but never really greater, than the happiness and fulfillment it brings.Falling in love, best friends, career challenges, pregnancy, miscarriage, infertility, adoption, death, divorce... it's all covered in this one sweet little movie.  And it's all told in a way that reminds us all how important music is as it sets the soundtrack to our lives.This is a wonderful movie.  It may not be Citizen Kane -- but it is definitely worthy of your time.  "},{"Title":"Classy Dunne and Grant movie","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"37 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Irene Dunne is a class act all the way. A real lady, and it comes out in this film. While she and Grant always look like movie stars in the film, you can't stop noticing that they look like movie stars, they do their job and do it to perfection. Only two A-level actors could carry this tear jerker off well. The adoption lady was also realistic and convincing. The little girl or baby, whichever children played them, were the cutest and sweetest I've ever seen in film. Irene Dunne cannot hit a false note, ever, it seems. She looks marvelous in everything she wears, be it a simple housedress or pajamas. Same with Cary Grant, he wears the clothes. The penny serenade theme and the way the camera plays with the records is really magic. This film is a gift to the audience. Grant and Dunne show their adeptness at establishing and making us believe they are an intimate married couple. Irene Dunne is at the height of sensitivity and softness here, a true lady with beautiful hair and hairstyles. What a movie. And one cannot forget our beloved Apple Jack, such a sweet soul. "},{"Title":"A truly sweet and sentimental film.","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"32 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I wasn't much of a Cary Grant fan until I saw this film for the first time about 10 years ago, and I also discovered the embodiment of grace and charm that is Irene Dunne as well. Cary Grant is at his most charming and gives a very amusing and, at times, very very touching performance as a new dad. When he gives his heart-rending speech to the child custody judge and begs to keep his adopted baby girl, it brings a lump to my throat every time I see it. Irene Dunne was a classy lady in anything she did, and can be as quietly funny as she can be dramatic, as she demonstrated in this film. She was a great straight-man, too, to Cary Grant's more animated role. I truly love this film. "},{"Title":"A Beauty","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"34 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the best films made. 1941 was a phenomenal year, not least for this film and Grant's marvelous performance. Call it melodrama, but it's the stuff of life, heartbreak and love and helpless vulnerability. How unfashionable.I could watch Edgar Buchanan wash that baby a thousand times. Find me one actor with enough life experience today to do that scene. Just one.Independent films today often seem to strive to make the point that human drama is about the struggles and relationships of private life. We call it sentiment when studios made films about this sort of drama and what's ultimately important on the most private level.  "},{"Title":"Cary Grant's best performance","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One well written movie of the 40's. To this day, this movie will hold your attention even though you will find no vulgarity, nudity or violence.Tragedy turns to comedy with tale of a writer and his newlywed desperate to settle down in a traditional American lifestyle, start a new business and have a family. Their innocence is refreshing, and the writer has such timing in the course of events that you find yourself wanting to help this couple diaper a baby!!!Cary Grant nails this performance with his heart-felt speech in front of a judge. (Get a box of tissue for this one.) The body/language between Grant's and Dunn's character make this movie charming and realistic.You find yourself laughing out-loud with the every-day-problems-of-life this couple gets themselves involved with......good for the whole family. A must see and a true classic.  "},{"Title":"A Generally Effective Bittersweet Story","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  With sympathetic main characters and an approach that is usually understated enough to avoid over-sentimentality, this bittersweet story works reasonably well most of the time.  Irene Dunne plays this kind of role well, handling a wide range of material while keeping her emotions and reactions restrained enough to be believable.  Cary Grant is better than one might expect him to be in this kind of role.  It's possible that Edgar Buchanan's performance might be the most important of all in holding it together, since he is ideal in providing some down-to-earth balance, whether his character is repairing printing presses or giving the young couple some tips on taking care of their baby.Director George Stevens does a good job with the pacing, and the story-framing technique with the various songs works pretty well.  While there may be a few moments when the sentimentality gets dangerously high, most of the time it remains balanced, and certainly more so than is the case with present-day movies of this kind.  It's far from flawless, but it is generally effective in telling the kind of story that takes a combination of sensitivity and restraint to tell believably. "},{"Title":"Grant,  Dunne & Stevens Eleveate This Soaper","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Talk about a simple storyline a couple wants to have kids. That's basically it. Once they (Cary Grant and Irene Dunne) have finally have one, the baby dies before birth. Then, they adopt a baby who makes it to about age six or seven and then dies after a quick illness.Near the end, when the couple is ready to divorce because they couldn't handle this tragedy, another baby is offered to them, they accept and live happily ever after. Some parts of this are stupid - certainly the divorce angle - but this soap opera works because of the actors. Grant is excellent in the male lead, adding some good, much-needed comedy in spots. Dunne is very believable in her role. Edgar Buchanan (Applejack) elevates this film with a very likable role. Beulah Bondi's Miss Oliver looks like the proverbial old battle-ax but proves to be a very caring person.Another good feature of this film is that it was directed by George Stevens, one of the best of all time.One thing I have yet to find a good print of this movie. Whether VHS or DVD, it's always a lousy transfer. When is a decent DVD going to come out? Beware of anything retailing for $7.99 and below. "},{"Title":"Another Cary Grant charmer with a lot of insights","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" George Stevens' heartwarming study of the trials and tribulations of a young married couple is how TV Guide describes this work of art,but you have to see this to understand how heartwarming a movie can be. As I watch this I am enchanted with Irene Dunne's and Cary Grant's performances. Even crotchety Edgar Buchanan (as Applejack) is a softy in this movie...I like his performance in this better than all his others. The insights to adopting a baby and early parenthood as it was and still is in some respects are truly the heart of this movie. Since I was adopted it is even more poignant for me. Cary Grant's plea to the judge to keep their child is one of his best moments in any film. Update 14 years to the day later,I am not as enchanted but maybe that's just me.I'm going to add the spoiler because it's such a major part of this movie and my life.The death of a child is the worst experience a parent can go through. Some don't recover as this couple almost didn't. I don't think many,if any parents would act like the ones in this movie with the news that another child was available for adoption,so that diminished the movie for me. "},{"Title":"Parenthood","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Julie Adams is seen going through recordings as the story unfolds; each song she plays brings back memories, and it represents a chapter in her life. Julie who has decided to leave her husband, Roger, remembers aspects of an unfulfilled life. The thing she most wanted in the world is denied to her being a mother. Not everything in Julie's life has been bad, as we get to know her. Julie was lucky in finding a man like Roger, who did everything possible for her, except give her the child she longed for.As Roger returns home from Japan, he establishes a small paper. He struggles to keep it going, but unfortunately, his business doesn't make it. It's at this juncture in their life when Roger and Julie decide to adopt. They are lucky in that the kind head of the agency, Miss Oliver, realizes they have all it takes to be good parents, even though their finances don't add up. When Trina, the infant girl, is offered to them, they decide to take the chance. Roger, who wanted a boy, has an emotional encounter with a judge that wants to take the girl away from him and Julie when his paper folds.As Trina, the infant girl, is brought home, Julie and Roger realize how ill prepared they are to take care of the baby. Applejack, who helps run the paper, saves them from their own awkwardness and shows the couple how babies are taken care of. Trina, who grows to be a sweet little girl, contracts a mysterious illness and dies. Her death, together with all the Adams' financial problems, breaks their marriage. We watch Julie preparing to do, but the providential call from Miss Oliver with the offer of a new orphan boy, serves to bring the Adams' together.George Stevens directed skilfully this melodrama. By emphasizing the financial problem of the Adams', and not dwelling in Trina's tragic loss, Mr. Stevens got away from the total tear jerker the material could have turned in the hands of another director. Irene Dunne and Cary Grant had appeared in two other comedies before. Without a doubt, Cary Grant steals the picture with his amazing take on Roger Adams, a man who is a reluctant adoptive father, only to have his heart stolen by Trina. Mr. Grant proved here he could have easily made a serious dramatic actor. Ms. Dunne is also effective as Julie, a woman who can't have children of her own. Edgar Buchanan is seen as the loyal Applejack, and Beulah Bondi appears as the kind Miss Oliver, the woman who brings happiness to the Adams. The film is worth seeing because of Cary Grant's invaluable contribution to the film. "}{"Title":"excellent performances but an odd ending","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cary Grant and Irene Dunne are very good in this bittersweet romance, mainly made up of flashbacks with the links between them being records from the past played by Dunne.  We see the couple through their first meeting, marriage, move abroad, and so on.  The central thread of the story is when they adopt a baby girl, Trina, who fills the void in their marriage.  When Trina dies as a child it seems there is nothing more to hold them together. Edgar Buchanan is excellent as uncle Applejack, the printer who knows how to handle babies, and the little girl playing Trina is cutesy cute in the nativity play scene.  Grant's best moment is in the judge's office when he pleads to be allowed to keep his adopted daughter (because she isn't like an automobile you take back when you can't keep up the payments).  The ending however is weak; another baby is found for them to adopt and all their troubles are over.  This feels rushed and doesn't really work.  Otherwise, a well put together film which is typical of the time it was made. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The interpretation of Cary Grant is very great and appreciable. The story is very nice. This is another of the excellent films made by Cary Grant, who I consider the best actor in the cinema's history. By the way, I must say that watching Penny Serenade on TV I have discovered a very clever actress, too, who I haven't known before, Irene Dunne. "},{"Title":"Lovely...","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very nice film.Cary Grant is really good and Irene Dunne is lovely, and all the girls that play Trina are adorable.It has a very beautiful message.It is about a couple, a very young couple that can't have children so they try to adopt a little girl...they fight hard to keep her, and they win the fight and sacrifice themselves to do so.But the little girl dies, and they both become distant to each other... If you ever have the chance to see it...please see it, it is lovely. Though I am not sure about the end, it just seemed too happily unusual(not everyone is THAT lucky) to my taste.8/10. "},{"Title":"Pulls Out All The Sentimental Stops","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Far from the comedy of The Awful Truth and My Favorite Wife, this pairing of Cary Grant and Irene Dunne pulls out all the sentimental stops to get you sad and keep you sad. A Penny Serenade is the chronicle of a marriage between the two World Wars of the last century. Cary is an aspiring newspaperman who meets Irene while she's working in a record shop. They marry and Cary takes an assignment in the Far East.The Japanese earthquake of the Twenties causes Irene to have a miscarriage and she can't have any other kids. They come home and this time adopt a little girl. A few years later, she falls ill suddenly and dies. The strain is too much for both of them.I think you get the idea where this is going, but under George Stevens's skillful direction Penny Serenade remains sentimental without descending into the maudlin. It's also due to the skill of the leads.Cary Grant got his first of two trips to the Oscar sweepstakes with this film. This was due to a great scene he has with a family court judge as he pleads for him and Irene to keep their child. There couldn't have been a dry eye in any theater this was playing in back in 1941. Grant lost the award to Gary Cooper as Sergeant York.In the supporting players mention must be made of Edgar Buchanan and Beulah Bondi. Buchanan is Grant's good friend who comes to work as a pressman when Grant starts a small town newspaper after coming home from the Orient. He has a wonderful scene showing the new parents how to change a baby's diaper. Beulah Bondi plays the wise and sympathetic head of an orphanage who's a very shrewd judge of people and the qualities they need for parenting.A lot of similarities between this and the 1970s film Pete and Tillie with Carol Burnett and Walter Matthau. "},{"Title":"Heartache! (spoliers)","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this film before Christmas when TV decides to play movies all day long and I get very easily distracted. As I have been studying a few Cary Grant film over the past semester I wanted to watch Penny Serenade because I thought it may help an essay I am writing currently. My mother also sat down to watch with me. At the beginning I was unimpressed to be honest but as soon as the story really gets going and the drama unfolds I was hooked. I cried when Irene Dune couldn't have children anymore, I cried when The adoption baby was bought out and I sobbed and sobbed when the little girl died. I wasn't expecting such an emotion attack but I was fully involved in the narrative. If you like Cary Grant or Irene Dune watch this, If you like very well acted dramas watch this, If you like films watch this, I seriously doubt you will be disappointed! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Uneasy Mixture of Comedy and Tragedy","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The title Penny Serenade refers to a popular song of the period, and it is popular music that provides the framework for this film. Julie Adams, a young married woman on the verge of splitting up with her husband, sits beside a pile of records. Each one has a special meaning for her, and as she plays them she is reminded of episodes from her past. (She originally worked in a record shop and first met her journalist husband Roger there). The film shows in a series of flashbacks Julie and Roger's first meeting, their life together after he was sent to be his paper's correspondent in Japan, how she suffered a miscarriage and how they adopted a baby daughter because she was unable to have children.Most of the reviews of this film that I have seen, both on this board and elsewhere, express the opinion that it is a romantic drama rather than a comedy like The Awful Truth and My Favorite Wife, two earlier films in which Irene Dunn and Cary Grant also acted together. This is not an opinion with which I would altogether agree. Although I have never seen The Awful Truth, there are moments in Penny Serenade which reminded me strongly of the pure comedy of My Favorite Wife. Indeed, I felt that the comic scenes in Penny Serenade were better done and more amusing than anything in the earlier film. I laughed out loud (something I never did with My Favorite Wife) at some of the scenes of Roger and Julie's life together with little Trina, particularly the Nativity play and the scene where Cary Grant is trying to change a nappy.The trouble with Penny Serenade is that it can never decide whether it wants to be a comedy or a serious drama. The early scenes of Roger and Julie's courtship and their days in Japan are all light-hearted. (Interestingly enough for a film which opened only a few months before Pearl Harbor, the Japanese characters are presented in a generally sympathetic way, which suggests that there was little hostility in America towards Japan at this time. The idea of some underlying enmity between the two peoples seems to have been an invention of the Japanese politicians and generals). Tragedy briefly intrudes with Julie's miscarriage, but when the Adamses adopt Trina this leads into the most comic part of the film.The plot then moves back into serious mode. Roger has given up his job as a foreign correspondent in order to become the editor of the local paper in a small California town. As the circulation of the local paper is less than a thousand this struck me as an unlikely career move, but it is one made necessary by the demands of the plot. The paper folds financially and Roger loses his job, which means that he and Julie are threatened with losing their adopted daughter because the adoption agency will only place children with financially secure families. Roger saves the day with an impassioned speech to the judge, and there is a brief return to comedy with the Nativity scene, before the final tragedy of Trina's death.The main flaw of the film is not so much that it is excessively sentimental, but rather that the comic and tragic elements do not sit easily together. The switches from one to the other are often abrupt. The scriptwriters seem to have been aware of this problem, as the sentiment is sometimes downplayed. Trina's death, for example, is simply announced in a letter from Julie to the head of the adoption agency without any heart-wrenching deathbed scene. The ending of the film, in which Julie and Roger's marriage is saved when the adoption agency offer them another child to adopt, is a particularly implausible way of providing a happy ending. That the loss of a child could have brought them so close to divorce within a few days suggests that there was something seriously wrong with their marriage in the first place, and the idea that their grief could be so completely and suddenly overcome by the adoption of another child seems a very unrealistic view of the psychology of loss and bereavement.Despite my reservations, I have given this film a mark of six, partly because it is in parts very funny and partly because it is very professionally acted, particularly by Cary Grant, Irene Dunn and Beulah Bondi as the lady from the adoption agency. Grant is very good in the comic scenes; he was normally better at comedy than at serious drama, although there are exceptions such as his work with Hitchcock. My overall impression, however, was that it was an uneasy mixture of comedy and tragedy that did not quite hang together as a coherent whole. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Cute at first, but the end cost the movie all its appeal for me","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The first 3/4 of the movie is cute, but nothing to rave about boy meets girl, they eventually falling love, marry, she becomes pregnant and everyone is happy. Then disaster strikes in the form of an earthquake causes her to miscarry and her injuries are such that she will never be able to have a child. They are sad but stick together through it, and they eventually put their lives back together again. They decide they still want a child so they adopt. When they get to the adoption agency, a kind adoption lady presents them with a baby girl and they fall in love with the child and decide to adopt her. You see the adoption process and how happy they are. It is cute to see them learn how to take care of a baby. Their financial situation changes when the child is about 2, and before the adoption is final, the adoption head honchos threaten to take her away, because now they are poor. A stirring speech by Grant (and the faith of the kind adoption lady) convinces said honchos that Grant and Dunne are still good parents and that their child will never starve. They are allowed to keep the child, who we next see as sweet a little girl as anyone could wish for. Now as I said, up to this point, everything has been fine, some downs, but they've worked out their problems and are a happy, functioning family unit. As a whole the movie up to this point has been as cute and sweet as their little girl.Then BAM, the next minute the kid is dead (no warning to the audience that the kid is sick, just BAM dead of something or other). They are too grief stricken to help each other, and instead tear themselves and each other a part. It's only been THREE DAYS since the little darling's death, and they are splitting up because they just can't handle the grief (this explains why Dunne is packing to leave Grant throughout the current time scenes in the film). Dunne wrote to the kind adoption lady telling her their tragedy as soon as the girl died, and before Dunne has a chance to leave Grant for good, the adoption lady informs the couple (who have yet to make up and are just as miserable as ever - remember it has only been three days since their little girl died) that the agency just got in a sweet little boy (two years old, golden curls, the sort of kid they thought they wanted to adopt before they saw their baby girl), and would they be interested in seeing him? Now suddenly, everything is a-okay, and they have plans to turn their daughter's room in to the perfect room for a little boy. Nothing, has been resolved in their marriage. Before they found out about the boy they were in the middle of deeply grieving for their daughter, in fact they were so grief stricken I thought for sure they were going to turn the little girl's room in to a shrine or something. Then they hear about this little boy, and it's like their little girl never existed. In short, the ending is unnecessarily tragic in the little girls death alone, more so when her death splits Dunne and Grant apart, and ruined both by the fact that the couples problems are not fixed at the end of the movie, just papered over, and the treatment of a loss of a child as something a kin to the loss of a goldfish. Oh you lost your child? that's sad, but not a real problem. Just never you mind that and buck-up mom and dad, here's another. It is as though the movie is almost a warning to parents, enjoy them now because the little ones you love maybe taken from you at any moment, except, just kidding, that does not really matter because you can always have another and poof your grief will be gone. Basically, if you stop the movie at the Christmas when the girl is six, it is not bad, it's a cute film, though not worth its rave reviews. The last twenty minutes or so ruin it, turning a tolerable film in to something that I just can't take. "},{"Title":"Great movie except for the ending","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After 65 years, this film still rings true in many ways. Several people have mentioned the bathing the baby scene, but my favourite is the alarm clock scene. One thing I appreciate is that Dunne and Grant's new baby actually looks fairly new, jerky movements and all - maybe not 5 weeks old, as stated, but definitely younger than the usual Hollywood newborn. I'm sure that at the time, this movie was quite educational for many people like the two main characters, who thought that you adopt a baby by going to the nearest orphanage, picking out the one you like, and walking out with it. I only wish the filmmakers had taken the opportunity to really underline the fact that *everybody* wants a 2-year-old with curly (preferably blond) hair, blue eyes, and dimples, but what about the 99.999% of less perfect children very much in need of a good home? The film does slide toward melodrama on occasion - did it take a full-blown earthquake for Irene Dunne's character to have a miscarriage? One thing I noticed is that this film actually shows a married couple sharing the same bed! Mind you, Irene Dunne is lying on top of the cover with her dressing gown on, tensely waiting for the baby's next feeding, while Cary Grant is off to sleep, but I still wonder how it got past the Hays office. The little girl who plays 6-year-old Trina is not *too* saccharine (except for her voice), but at the end of each speech, she is obviously remembering that she's been told to Smile, dear, smile!.What ruins it for me is the ending - their little girl has been dead for only a few *days*, and her parents are ready to start with another baby. IMO, at this point, any normal parents would react with revulsion to the thought of replacing their dead child. As another reviewer mentioned, in this film it's like replacing a dead goldfish. If only the filmmakers had implied that several *months*, or better yet, a year or more, had passed, and shown the couple finding each other again first, it would have been much more believable and touching. BTW, several reviewers have mentioned the poor quality of the DVD or video they watched, but the one I had from Triton Multimedia was, not outstanding, but quite all right. "},{"Title":"When you're only option is adoption.","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There are so many things to recommend about the film Penny Serenade. This is a heart tugging yet not sappy story of a couple who realize they need a child to keep them together and their only option is adoption. The Cary Grant character starts off wanting nothing to do with children and ends up having his adopted child being his raison d'etre. There are many familiar yet well executed themes adopted children can be just as loved as birth children; you don't have to have lots of money to be a good parent. Another thing that is very impressive about the film is a unique film technique for its time. The plot is revealed through flashbacks which happen while the Irene Dunne character is playing phonographs the record spins and dissolves into the scene from the past. I found this transition technique quite effective and ahead of its time. The other thing that stands out is the casting of the young actresses that play their daughter. All 3 are adorable, but not in an annoying, mock precocious, Shirley-Temple way. Finally, this film is billed as a change of pace from the Dunne-Grant comedies like The Awful Truth but the awesome truth is that this film has hilarious moments. Grant is is fine comic form, especially in the early morning feeding scene. You can find the DVD Penny Serenade in the bargain bin at many stores which in a way is an insult but a great opportunity for you to add this great film to your DVD collection for pennies. "},{"Title":"Memorable Film In Need Of Restoration and Re-Release","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Directed by George Stevens and starring Cary Grant and Irene Dunne, PENNY SERENADE was among the most admired films of 1941. But it seems the film has now drifted into public domain, and the result is incredibly dire a very muddy soundtrack coupled to a picture that shudders and shakes so that you can barely stand to look at it.This a great pity, for PENNY SERENADE is a fine film that deserves much better. The concept is simple as wife Julie (Irene Dunne) packs to leave her husband Roger (Cary Grant), she plays the various records the two have collected over the years. Each recording recalls the various phases of their lives their chance meeting, their rather unexpected marriage, early years spent in the far east. But they are unhappy in their inability to have a child--and so they return to the United States to adopt. But their happiness ends in tragedy, a tragedy which neither seem able to surmount.The story is sentimental melodrama, of course, but it transcends its own genre. George Stevens was one of the great directors of Hollywood's golden age--director of such diverse classics as A PLACE IN THE SUN, SHANE, and WOMAN OF THE YEAR. In lesser hands the film might have been reduced to pure soap, but he strikes the perfect balance between charm and tearfulness. The leads are equally perfect, with both Irene Dunne and Cary Grant (who were memorably teamed in such frantic screwball comedies MY FAVORITE WIFE and THE AWFUL TRUTH) discarding their broad comedic skills in favor of plausible humor and sincerity. The supporting cast, which sports nice performances by the likes of Beulah Bondi and Edgar Buchanan, is also very fine, the script is quite good, and the cinematography both functional and elegant.But all this counts for nothing if you cannot actually stand to watch the truly awful VHS and DVD versions available. And they really are that bad. Over the years I've picked up several copies of this film released by several companies--Madacy, Laserlight, and most recently Front Row--and although the transfers vary a bit from company to company they are never more than extremely bad and quite often down-right unwatchable. This is a film in desperate need of restoration, and until it receives that you're better off looking for it on the late-late show--for I can almost guarantee that the print you will find there will be superior to virtually any home-market release you can lay hands on.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT "}{"Title":"One of the all time great romances","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cary Grant and Irene Dunne are ideally matched in a movie quite different from their screwball comedies.  They have marvelous chemistry together. The dialogue is marvelous as the couple travels from young and carefree to bitter and cynical.  Edgar Buchanan is marvelous as Applejack.  If you want to see great acting and are in the mood for a good cry, watch Penny Serenade. "},{"Title":"Ozu Quake","Date":"7 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Separate this into two components. One is the story about a couple and their adopted child. It is a sad tale, probably not suitable for aspiring parents. The other component is the framing. This is the first film where the filmmaker tried more formal compositions in the service of the narrative. You can see the influence of Japanese master Ozu in this. To appreciate how Stevens' personal history is woven into this, consider the following timeline.By 1937, Ozu was already a talented Japanese filmmaker. I think of him as Doyle or Roeg, someone with a revolutionary eye, rooted in cinema. Dejected by the lack of popularity in his ideas, he was drafted into the Japanese Army where for two years he saw first hand the brutality of his people in China. Returning to film in 1939, he started recirculating prints. Stevens was interested in non-Hollywood cinematic techniques. He encountered Ozu &#x97; what we now call early Ozu &#x97; through a San Francisco connection by 1940. The Ozu camera was not dogmatically frozen by then, but the terms of narrative composition through katachi were. Wells was making Kane, with a relative of Stevens. Hitchcock had moved to Hollywood and circulating ideas about the importance of the emotional eye.Stevens made this film in direct homage to those ideas. He even went so far as to make the Dad a reporter sent to Japan! There, he experiences the Sanriku earthquake of 1933. Coming home to San Francisco pregnant, the couple lose the baby. Stevens had wanted to make a film based entirely on Japanese themes. The story here adopts the Hollywod conventions instead, with a simple preface in Japan.The on-screen couple adopt an American child.If you watch this for the framing, the composition and the camera placement, you will find it every bit as advanced visually as Wells and Hitchcock. That the story conventions ruin it matters little. Only his understanding of lighting is less experimental. All the walls here are Japanese walls. All the staging is in one plane with a separate background or foreground 3-d scene. Those who fawn over Fassbinder should take a look here at the craft of this.Ozu, incidentally would return from the horrors of war he had seen determined to matter. He did, though embarrassed by his nations' genocide, he became a drunk in making what are true masterpieces. Stevens would volunteer for war himself and become the main documentarian of the German holocaust. He also would return with a similar purpose. For me, this minor picture, this hanky-puller, is something of a touchstone where the cinematic worlds of Hollywood and Shochiku. Shortly after this film was released, Japan attacked Pearl Harbor and a period of racist rejection of everything Japanese begun, and the San Francisco folks locked in concentration camps. The postwar connection would be through Kurosawa.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"A Sincere and Fulfilling Slice of Life With Two Incomparable Leads and an Incomparable Director","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cary Grant and Irene Dunne were the cream of the crop of silver screen romantic duos. Drawn out by the incredibly sensitive nature of George Stevens's direction, they reveal great versatility in the dynamics of their on-screen repertoire, playing a couple who meet, suffer tragedy, and experience great highs and exasperation alike. What I find funny is that I do not want to describe the story very much at all for fear of diminishing the effect of going through the experience freshly without any knowledge of it, but the film is nothing more than a film about a middle-class couple trying to start a family! That's the movie! There is nothing dull about it, either. Stevens, perhaps the ablest filmmaker of the era next to Hitchcock, saw the profundity and catharsis in it, and the receptive, insightful control and room to allow his particularly personal vision to make it feel like the experience cinema is meant to be, a chronicle ensuing the life-changing happening of falling in love, and the innate personal longing to make a family and a home with the one you worship, and the trials and grief that can be as intense, though never really more, than the pleasure and gratification it begets.There is not a single insincere frame in this picture. Even its story being told in flashbacks is done to remind us how significant music is as it synchronizes the soundtrack to our lives. In effect, whenever music plays in the film, and it is predominantly source music rather than underscoring, there is a magnified reaction on our parts. Moreover Grant and Dunne's urge to settle down in a traditional American lifestyle is a minor supplement to their purely individual intentions behind it. Their innocence, their artless simplicity, is refreshing. The screenwriters, Martha Cheavens and Morrie Ryskind, have unspoiled grace in their phasing of the sequence of narrative that you become interactive with the characters.Aside from the inimitable lovability of the beautiful, graceful, flexible, hilarious, touching and gifted Irene Dunne, Cary Grant is pitch-perfect in his entirely assured performance, especially during his moving monologue in front of a judge. The energy between the two create such endearing realism. You become aware of yourself laughing out loud with the day-to-day surprises and farcical obstacles with which they get involved. "},{"Title":"Family misfortunes","Date":"8 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm a fan of Grant and Dunne's two previous screwball comedy features, The Awful Truth and My Favourite Wife. This movie is however a million miles away from those comedy classics being an old-fashioned weepie about a couple who come together later in life and who despite the initial resistance of Grant's character to fatherhood, suffer the loss of their first child in pregnancy (due to a surprise earthquake in Japan, yep, go figure it!) and who later adopt a baby girl who unsurprisingly becomes the centre point of their lives.As a childless husband, I found I couldn't relate to the tribulations of this couple who in the end can only co-exist if there's a child to act between them as the family glue, the happy ending emanating unsurprisingly from another phone call from the orphanage just as they're about to separate for good.It's all very sincere and earnest, but it's also very slow and undramatic, high-points of the film being Dunne's excruciating attempt to put a nappy on the baby and the couple's adoring attendance at the now infant girl's first Christmas nativity.Edgar Buchanan as the silly-named Applejack gets a sympathetic part as their best friend and Beulah Bondai likewise as the orphanage matron who they win over to their side despite their struggling poverty.Grant and Dunne try hard to put across this sentimental tosh with conviction but they seem too old for their parts and occasionally come over as gauche and unconvincing. Grant gets a big scene where he tries to convince the by-the-book orphanage governor to let them keep their child, but like so many other scenes, it goes on too long, lessening its dramatic input. Director Stevens uses as the, I hesitate to call it narrative drive, dissolves of Dunne playing their tunes on record discs, this gimmick palling quickly as the dull story kicks in.While I was pleased to finally see a rarely screened Grant movie, it probably isn't one I'll want to see again. It's not a terrible movie, but it is, alas, quite a boring one. "},{"Title":"a film with possibilities, but sentimentally overdrawn and underwritten","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" **warning definitely includes spoilers to the story! Having been a Cary Grant fan for some time and more recently an admirer of director George Stevens I was eager to watch Penny Serenade. I find that, unfortunately, I have to disagree with most of the other listed comments.That Cary Grant and Irene Dunne are wonderful actors, there can be no dispute. However, it is the screenplay that is at fault here. Both main actors are luminous and riveting, but they are either burdened with lines that fall flat or, in many instances, with a lack of words and dialogue.***spoiler*** While in Japan, the newlywed couple are caught in an earthquake and the pregnant Julie (Dunne) miscarries. The word is never mentioned, which I found hard to believe. I am supposing that this must have been due to the censorship code of the time.***spoiler*** After their adopted daughter Trina dies, there is an appalling absence of dialogue between husband and wife. Julie and Roger (Grant) are left without words, sitting in silence, supposedly to convey despair and sorrow. I found this such an unimaginative way to handle what the couple was experiencing. A series of brief scenes in which Dunne tried to talk with her husband in ordinary day-to-day situations might have better depicted Grant's withdrawal and depression.The gimmick of using different songs to lead into flashbacks of various stages in the marriage was heavy-handed, stilted and trite. I think that the movie might have been better organized if the story had simply played in sequence from past to present. It put too much of a burden on Dunne to do what little acting she could as she put one record on the turntable after another. After the second record, I no longer found it credible that she would play those songs and temporarily relive all her heartbreak, considering the fact that she and her husband were on the brink of divorce and she was getting ready to leave him. I can only suppose that in 1941 this idea was more workable and more acceptable for the audience of that time.The actress who played Katrina at age six had a forced smile that did not seem natural or genuine. The couple of times she smiled at the end of her lines was distracting. She was trying too hard to be cute.In some scenes it almost seemed as if Dunne and Grant were told to improvise their lines and it was clumsy. Here I think of the scene when Miss Oliver from the orphanage comes to the apartment to check on them for the first time and the scene in which they go to the orphanage to see the baby for the first time. Even Miss Oliver is not given sufficient, credible lines. In describing the infant Katrina to the couple, all she can say is she is like no other child two or three times. It was wearing. The scene when they take the five-and-a-half week old Trina home from the orphanage was overlong and overplayed. Grant seemed very uncomfortable, while Dunne managed her way. The scene where several of the men who worked on Roger's newspaper were in the apartment watching the nervous and inept Julie washing and diapering her baby was, again, overplayed and overdrawn, especially the repetition of the cracking of the peanut shells as a distraction to Julie and wearing on her nerves.As many have said, the highlight of the film is Grant's scene with the judge, pleading that his daughter not be taken away because he is out of work. It is such a powerful and wonderful scene, which, for me, only emphasizes the fact that so much of the rest of the movie is weak by comparison.As for the director, I think it is fair to say that films like A Place in the Sun and Giant were far more successful and far better achievements artistically and dramatically.I can really only recommend the film because of Grant and Dunne. They have done much better work in other films. I was surprised to learn that Grant was nominated for an Oscar in this movie. "},{"Title":"Wonderful description of everyday life","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A very fine movie, that surprised me positively. I was a little puzzled in the beginning, not being able to figure out Roger (Cary Grant)'s character, but slowly the story got under my skin. It turned out to be of general interest in the description of the ups and downs in a young couple's life, and even if the movie is more than 60 years old it has a message to tell all of us. Having known myself some of the terrible problems that Roger and Julie (Irene Dunne) experience, it impressed me to see how the director maintains a proper balance between the sentimental and the realistic atmosphere.Grant demonstrates convincingly, how he also masters a passionate (and slightly sentimental) role - probably being best known for his parts in screwball comedies and Hitchcock-movies, this might surprise some people, including myself. Also, I like the acting of Beulah Bondi and Edgar Buchanan in two important supporting roles. They add to the credibility - and curiosity as well What is actually the connection between Applejack and the young couple?. You could also mention the conscious use of the camera - I particularly noticed a scene where the camera is placed on the stairs, thereby filming primarily the legs of the Roger and Julie. My main reasons for only voting 8/10 is that Dunne and Grant lack the youth needed by their roles. Especially Dunne, though beautiful as always, has an aura of experience that does not match the role's innocence and helplessness. Second, the end of the movie is difficult to believe.But after all, it is a highly recommendable movie for all lovers of everyday dramas. "},{"Title":"Ultra-Sentimental Classic -- Keep your Kleenex handy!","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This DVD version of the classic tear-jerker Penny Serenade may only be a standard production (considering recent technological advances in digital entertainment), but all of the delightfully sappy soap effect of the 1941 original remains 100% in tact. A few little gimmicks include a cute interactive trivia game that doesn't show you the answer until you guessed correctly.Irene Dunne and Cary Grant are perfectly matched as the young couple whose years together are chronicled through the countless special songs they shared in a massive record collection. The tragedies and joys are all mirrored in the songs. When the couple's happiness seems doomed after losing their unborn child, adopting a little girl brings an abundance of sparks back. When this child dies at a young age, Grant's despare seems to be too much to weather, and Dunne sees no alternative but to leave.The miracle (even if somewhat predictable) at the end is nothing short of Hollywood Magic. Though a relatively lackluster production (certainly with Hollywood Golden Era's glamorous image), Penny Serenade easily makes most top 10 tear jerker lists. A rare gem  "},{"Title":"Good, but not great","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie to be of good light entertainment value, but it is a little below the standards I had come to expect of both Cary Grant and Irene Dunne. However, their characters are portrayed with natural ease and charm.The movie is told with Dunne's character, a woman contemplating divorce, reminiscing on happier times with the record she first listened to with her husband spinning. I found this puzzling at the start, but I was merely irritated by the end. There were a few bright moments of comedy, notably the first night of parenting their adopted child. But with elements of drama combined, I was confused when the movie continually lapsed into comedy, then back to tragedy. Comedy was something, described in the words of Dunne herself as Too easy. This is the first comedy performance of hers I have watched. However, I still prefer her dramatic performances in I Remember Mama and Anna and the King of Siam. As for Grant, Bringing Up Baby, The Philadelphia Story, Holiday and His Girl Friday are much better value for your time.I'd recommend this movie to audiences who appreciate good old fashioned romance. Just start with An Affair to Remember first. Rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"Penny For Your Thoughts...","Date":"11 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" First and foremost, the idea of telling the whole movie through flashback was brilliant. Every record represented a different time and brought back significant memories. The wipe with in the record to the next scene was a bit awkward sometimes, but it was 1941. The movie was actually quite good but the ending was very off putting. I wouldn't say it ruined my entire experience, but it certainly came close. I was right with these characters the entire time until the writer decided to jump to shark. It is a happy ending but definitely not realistic. Their solution to the problem was more suited to replacing the family dog, not their child. "},{"Title":"Plugging Along","Date":"11 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cary Grant is one of my favorite actors of the twentieth century, and thus, it is difficult to give this film a bad review. It is not that it was poorly made or the actors were inadequate, but I think the storyline used nostalgic sentiment as a sort of crutch to move along, and that often happened quite slowly. The use of flashback is well done, but seemingly overplayed. The photography in the film was not really above-average, but I also don't have any complaints with it. I suppose if nothing else, Penny Serenade is a perfect example of how pace and editing can make or break a movie, and for me, it didn't quite make it. "}{"Title":"Things haven't changed much","Date":"19 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie very well prevents itself from becoming a soap opera. The story has a stark realism to it that makes one realize that things weren't that different almost seventy years ago. Dunne and Grant play a couple who ends up adopting. Dunne is a pretty easy-going, sensible woman, but Grant shows a tendency to be rather flighty and impulsive. After some hard lessons in life, including losing their baby during an earthquake in Japan (making it impossible for them to also have any natural born children as a couple), the two move to a nice, small town in northern California.They then decide to adopt a child, but not without difficulty. It is very difficult to adopt, and they are put on a waiting list. Through the help of a kindly adoption worker, they are able to adopt a little girl. It is very realistic, how the father (Grant) doesn't warm up to the idea of raising a girl. Yet, both parents instantly fall for the little girl. Thus, begins their adventure in raising a new child.An old friend and colleague from New York City (Buchanan)shows up one day. The couple is trying to run a small town paper. They need all the help they can. Their paper's circulation remains a constant 908. Their old friend, is an former orphan/adopted child and he knows more than the couple about raising babies. In fact, he shows them both how to make a proper diaper.However, two challenges are ahead. First, they have to close down the paper until they get their finances together. Because they don't hold jobs, they are forced before a judge to plead their case. This is real life in 1941 and 2008. Once that challenge is matched, they lose their daughter to a sudden illness. It almost breaks up their marriage, but the adoption worker saves the day by calling them with news that she found a boy for them to adopt.The movie is very good. At times, it gets almost too sentimental, but it always saves itself from that by bringing the real world into the film. There are real challenges in both the marriage and the adoption. They aren't rich. They worry about finances and the difficulties of raising a child. It is real life. "},{"Title":"Kleenex anyone?","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" You had better bring some... though not the standard light-hearted fare Dunne and Grant had performed in before, this film is a classic example of an American tear jerker. The film winds you though these flashbacks while you wait to fall deeper into their despair, knowing it will happen. It's like hitting some cute furry animal and then standing there.. watching it... you'd know whats coming.A great story and dramatic comedy its very well acted... films such as 'Terms of Endearment' and 'Beaches' learned their lessons here.If you enjoy this film, I definitely recommend the Grant / Dunne 'screwball' comedy My Favorite Wife. "},{"Title":"An all time Favorite","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This wonderful film has been a perennial favorite of mine, ever since I first saw it as a small boy.It's kind of strange that this film made such an impact on a little kid, because there's either no action or adventure and there are no showy melodramatics; it's a sensitive film not a sentimental one, if you know what I mean.Penny Serenade is an utterly touching account of the lives of an average middle-class married couple, showing their longings, dreams and deceptions; their joys and their sad moments; life in itself, poignantly played by the two leads.The movie depicts in a very real, truthful way, everyday vignettes in the lives of this couple since they first meet, with plenty of dialogue (some viewers may find it kind of talky), but nonetheless of a very honest kind.Irene Dunne and Cary Grant give so much truth to their performances; the situations in which they are involved ring so true and are so real and touching, with no contrivances or artificiality of any kind. The film is devoid of any fake and this makes it much more striking. Their performances are really impressive and only very skilled actors, like Dunne and Grant, can deliver so well in drama as well as in comedy.George Stevens, one of the best Hollywood directors, demonstrates his huge talent in this wonderful film.Excellent and touching performances by Edgar Buchanan as a friend of the couple with a heart of gold and dear Beulah Bondi, as a sweet lady who runs an orphanage.Superior film in all aspects. "},{"Title":"Grant and Dunne Reign Supreme in an Unabashedly Sentimental Marital Soap Opera","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The assured hand of master filmmaker George Stevens makes the third and final pairing of Cary Grant and Irene Dunne more than an emotionally satisfying experience. Unlike the first two films - Leo McCarey's The Awful Truth (1937) and Garson Kanin's My Favorite Wife (1940) - this wholly sentimental 1941 tearjerker is not remotely a screwball comedy. That's not to say Grant and Dunne do not exude their customary charm and grace in their roles. They do in spades and continue to show the easy rapport that made them so compatible in all their films together. The film is also an early, uncommonly mature look at the challenges that arise with marriage and adoption, a precursor to later accomplished films like 1967's Two for the Road.Written by Morrie Ryskind (who wrote the classics, My Man Godfrey and Stage Door), the time-spanning story of Julie and Roger Adams is told in flashbacks as Julie plays her collection of 78's on an old Victrola. Just as she is about to leave Roger, the songs spark memories of defining episodes from their courtship and marriage. The early part of their relationship is played out fully with the stars' wit and charm as Roger attempts to pick up Julie by buying a pile of records at the store in which she works (even though he doesn't have a record player). They marry, and when he gets a career break as a reporter in Japan, she joins him and announces her pregnancy. This brief interlude is most amusing in hindsight as it shows a very stereotypical view of pre-WWII Japan right out of Madame Butterfly (the film was released a mere eight months before Pearl Harbor). In an intriguing display of early special effects, the 1923 Tokyo earthquake destroys their home, and she loses her baby and any chance of future conception.This intractable loss becomes the impetus for the rest of the story, as they come back to California and attempt to adopt while running a local newspaper. They eventually adopt and raise a daughter from infancy, Trina, but further tragedy ensues to a palpable breaking point. As the classic film stars that they truly were, Grant and Dunne show how skillfully they can balance drama and comedy with a heavy emphasis on the humanism of the characters. Grant, in particular, has a heartbreaking scene where Roger begs a judge to allow Julie and him to keep their baby daughter despite their dwindling economic circumstances. Edgar Buchanan (long before his lazy Uncle Joe on TV's Petticoat Junction) and Beulah Bondi provide able support as their devoted friend Applejack and Miss Oliver, the compassionate adoption agency worker, respectively. With no extras, the 2002 DVD has a decent enough print, though the film is in need of a more through restoration. "},{"Title":"Beautiful little film.","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My all time favorite movie. Okay, one of my favorites... Cary Grant and Irene Dunne lose a baby...then adopt a baby only to nearly lose her in a court battle...then SHE DIES...they nearly divorce...and then (finally) they get the blue-eyed blonde baby boy they'd initially requested from the adoption agency and (presumably) live happily ever after.The chemistry between Grant and Dunne is charming (see My Favorite Wife for further evidence of this) and the supporting cast is excellent with Edgar Buchanan as Applejack and the always wonderful Beulah Bondi as Miss Oliver. Eva Lee Kuney, who had no known acting roles after the late 1940's, was adorable as Tina and steals every scene she's in. The camera loved her.Penny Serenade is on my short list of movies I watch whenever I'm having a girl day and all I want to do is sit on my sofa with my doglet on my lap and eat ice cream and have a good cry. "},{"Title":"Expertly-done tearjerker","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A strong contender for the ultimate Hollywood tearjerker, director George Stevens' (best known for 1939's GUNGA DIN and 1956's GIANT) genteel parental drama never resorts to easy manipulation or overbearing sentiment, but manages to involve audiences through a tightly-constricted script and top-notch performances from its leads. The simple story is wisely left uncluttered, with no attempts to artificially inflate the proceedings with unnecessary thematic distractions. Stevens cleverly revitalizes the often-utilized flashback device by book-ending the sequences with the effective visual of records being played on a turntable. Stevens also pulls tremendous performances from his principals.Cary Grant and Irene Dunne had long been a favorite screen couple in the madcap screwball comedies THE AWFUL TRUTH (1937) and MY FAVORITE WIFE (1940), and here the duo both deliver absolutely tour de force dramatic performances that is far removed from their typical fare of the time. Grant was nominated for his first Academy Award as Best Actor for his heart-wrenching portrayal of a man that seems to repeatedly lose everyone he ever cares about. Grant's emotional-yet-refreshing-restrained courtroom plea is unarguably one of the most touching scenes in film history, and the always-terrific Dunne is every bit his match in a subtle and conflicted portrayal that always hits the right notes. Intelligent and moving, PENNY SERENADE is a perfect reminder of just how effective sentiment can be when crafted with high expertise and professionalism.Get your handkerchiefs ready, you may need a whole box full! "},{"Title":"Very Sentimental","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As Julie (Irene Dunne) prepares to leave her husband Roger (Cary Grant), she plays the various records the two have collected and enjoyed over the years. Each recording recalls the various phases of their lives their chance meeting, their rather unexpected marriage, early years spent in the far east. But they are unhappy in their inability to have a child--and so they return to the United States to adopt. Their life seems to be filled with misery.As much of a classic this is, I must admit that some scenes do drag on for far too long and it is a bit depressing (but some people like that sort of thing). This is a perfect drama for Dunne and Grant - a great transition from The Awful Truth (1937), a screwball comedy. They definitely hold their own - I was especially impressed with Dunne's dramatic acting ability. The supporting cast, which sports good performances by the likes of Beulah Bondi and Edgar Buchanan. The script is great, and the cinematography both logical and elegant.This is a fine film (however, the DVDs are absolutely terrible! It needs the Criterion version - BADLY!) and is known as one of the most admired films of 1941. Don't forget a hankie or Kleenex, you'll need it. "},{"Title":"Touching","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very original format.  Wasted no time in moving with the flow of real moving story.  Not predictable at all.  Got hooked watching TV and was surprised. Back to basics movie; touches the soul.I was surprised to not have heard of Irene Dunne.  Beautiful actress who played this part with natural skill.  Cary Grant was also very convincing.  "},{"Title":"Classy Tearjerker","Date":"24 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" At the start of the film, Julie (Irene Dunne) is preparing to leave her husband Roger (Cary Grant). She begins listening to records, each of which reminds her of her past with Roger that has led them to this point. This is the tearjerker to end all tearjerkers. It's a pretty depressing movie, I have to admit. What saves it is the beautiful acting of the stars and solid direction from George Stevens. The use of music to mark different points in their life was pretty inspired for the time. As I said, the stars turn in beautiful performances. Grant is especially good in one of his better soap operatic roles. It's not the sort of film he was best known for but, as with most genres he tackled, he knocks it out of the park. Dunne is also terrific. Nice support from Edgar Buchanan and Beulah Bondi. It seems a little more like a mid-'30s picture instead of one from 1941. These sorts of soapers were very big in the '30s. Grant and Dunne fans might be disappointed that this is nothing like their two prior screwball comedies. But it's a very good movie of its type. The question is whether you like the type. "},{"Title":"Interesting and thought-provoking drama with some touches of humor about newlyweds adopt a child","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This weeper movie turns out to be a simplistic tale , however provides an enjoyable time . Nostalgic and sensitive picture with brooding drama , adequate cinematography and evocative musical score . Well thought movie in which the couple's big dreams give way to a life full of unexpected sadness and unexpected joy . Sensitive film which deals with interesting issues such as family life , couple relationship , sons , death and many other things . The story is plain and simple , nonetheless results to be a moving experience . It is a tearjerker about an agreeable couple who looks rather stiff and maudlin nowadays . This over-expended weepie flick relies heavily on the relationship between Gary Grant and Irene Dunne but this does not get bored or spoils the tale . Slightly overrated but excellent all the same time , the picture is enjoyable and entertaining , but overlong . The story is narrated with great sense and sensibility , the intelligent screenplay was written by Morrie Ryskind and based on a story by Martha Cheavens . Sensational protagonist duo , Gary Grant is extraordinary , as usual , and Irene Dunne is magnificent . They don't make'em like this anymore and no one plays Grant better tan Grant . Only these big stars like Grant and Dunne could play material like this . Irene Dunne often said that this was her favorite film because it reminded her of her own adopted daughter . This is third of three movies that paired Cary Grant and Irene Dunne. Support cast is frankly excellent such as Beulah Bondi as Miss Oliver , Ann Doran as Dotty 'Dot' and special mention to Edgar Buchanan as uncle Applejack Carney Pleasant musical score by Frankie Herling , including some songs as leitmotif . One of them is the song that was playing when she and Roger first met in a music store. Other songs remind her of their courtship, their marriage, their desire for a child, and the joys and sorrows that they have shared. Atmospheric cinematography in black and White , though also available colorized . Cinematographer Franz Planer started the film but became seriously ill and had to withdraw , he was replaced by Joseph Walker. There are many of the versions of this film available on the market are either severely and usually badly edited and/or of extremely poor quality, having been duped from second- or third-generation or more copies of the film. This stunning film with great sense and sensibility was compellingly directed by George Stevens ,considered to be one of the best American directors . He filmed all kind genres such as , drama  The diary of Anne Frank , A place in the sun , Giant , Alice Adams ; Comedy  Vivacious lady , Talk of the town ; Adventure  Gunga Din ; Western  Shane , Annie Oakley , and Historical  The greatest story ever told . "}{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My grandmother introduced me to this movie when I was a child.  I loved it then and I still love it today.  Dunne and Grant were believable as a childless couple.  This is a must see for anyone who needs an honest to goodness soul-wrenching cry. "},{"Title":"One to watch again and again","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Once upon a time they made love stories where the actors kept their clothes on. They made statements about the human heart that did not require foul language, car chases, or blowing anything up. This is one on them. I think I first saw this movie when I was about 10 and have no idea how many times I've seen it since. I had to share it with my nieces.Cary Grant and Irene Dunne are exceptional. They believably go from comedy to tragedy to romance. The threads of old music pull the it all together beautifully. It's one of those movies that starts out with popcorn and ends with Kleenex. If you can watch this one and not blubber, you're visiting from another planet. o) "},{"Title":"More true than true life.","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cary Grant grows from a self-centered, insensitive clod into a tender, caring husband and father.  Much of the drama comes from the splendid camera work.  We feel like we're peeping into the couple's private life.  Note especially the way we view the suspenseful scene on the printshop stairway when he returns after pleading for the child.  And the closing scenes always make me blubber! "},{"Title":"Sentimental tripe","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Slightly overlong and somewhat overblown marital saga of 2 cursed lovers (Grant and Dunne) who lose their adopted child to illness.  Well written, but the plot seems forced and stale, and it's only the presence of the two great stars which lifts this film above the level of mediocrity.  The ending is particularly unconvincing. "},{"Title":"rather bland start","Date":"15 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Julie (Irene Dunne) is leaving her husband Roger Adams (Cary Grant). Her friend Applejack Carney (Edgar Buchanan) tries to help. She plays some records which reminds her of their happier days. Roger first meets Julie as a sales clerk in a record store. Applejack warns her about dating newspaper man Roger. The newspaper takes him to Japan and he asks her to marry. An earthquake in Japan causes Julie to miscarry. She can't have children anymore. Roger's small newspaper is struggling and money is tight. They adopt a little girl but the struggle continues and then the girl suddenly dies.This movie lacks a drive to move the story at the beginning. The first section is pedestrian and slow. Dunne and Grant are basically 40 year olds doing the young love story. They are rather bland and Grant isn't allowed much comedic leeway. The earthquake shakes things up a bit literally. The story stops being so bland. As adoptive parents, they show a bit more color. Roger is reluctant and Julie is eager. They start to have better chemistry. They get to do some fun bits like the alarm clock. The emotional content is also heightened. However the final act is rushed. The audience needs time to process the death. The letters are also hard to read. The death occurring off-scene is somewhat expected for the time. However it does take away the big cinematic move of the parents finding their dead child. It's better to take out most of the courtship. That's not the interesting part of the story. "},{"Title":"Decent and sentimental, but not Cary Grant at his peak","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a very old-fashioned type of movie, so you have to be prepared for that when you sit down to watch it. It certainly seems older than 1941! But it rather nicely shows -- in episodic style -- the trials and tribulations of a marriage.Ironically, Cary Grant -- my favorite actor -- was nominated for an Academy Award for his role here, although I don't feel it's a stellar performance at all. Decent, but not stellar. And, Grant's character is not totally likable...but perhaps realistic. I guess I'd rather a nomination went to Irene Dunne, who shines as the wife. One of my favorite character actresses also shines here -- Beulah Bondi -- as the head of the adoption agency. Edgar Buchanan, not usually one of my favorites, does nicely here as a surprisingly sensitive newspaper printer and friend of Grant and Dunne.Generally speaking, the film drags a bit. The earthquake scene, though brief, is quite well done. It's a very sentimental story, and you may just shed a tear. It's nice to see a better print now on TCM. The film fell into the public domain, and for a while only poor prints were available for watching.Worth a watch, but far from my favorite film of either Cary Grant or Irene Dunne. "},{"Title":"Very Depressing But Also Brilliant","Date":"11 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Penny Serenade is basically the movie version of life for people. Love is pressed into the wall by problems both internal and external. Their attempts to create a family was staring to crumble and left them on the verge of divorce. This movie tend to be magnificent when it comes to showing these problems and how the couple try to handle them together, even though it affects their relationship. The emotion really shows between the two and the facts about marriage are proved quite true by their actions. The movie itself seems interesting in the black and white format and if yo have not seen this film or ever wanted to see it again, do so now! "},{"Title":"my thoughts","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" this movie was very cute but also very sad, this poor couple is very much in love and want nothing more then to have children to love as well. but there's nothing but disater for them when they loss there unborn child in a earthquake, then finally able to adopt a little girl and go through so much just to keep her only for her to fall ill and die. this tears them apart and they almost split up when they get a call that there is a two year old boy that they can adopt and they are so over joyed that all the pain they felt moments before almost vanish. some of my favorite scene's where when they first bring there baby girl home they are trying to be quite but the stairs creek and just the angle of the camera and the look on there faces as they run up the stairs so not to wake the baby is just precious. "},{"Title":"sad movie","Date":"2 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" this movie was very unusual story but also sad. The fast marriage then adopting the baby (Trina), to fill that gap in the marriage, then finally the loss of her. this movie did not really keep my attention it seemed to drag on which is a turn off for me. the editing in the movie had some glitch's it seemed to jump or hesitate, though they are not that noticeable. Another thing I saw the lighting seemed to bright in a couple of scenes, and yes it is black and white but when there is to much light, it makes it easier to notice because there is not the other colors to blend into. Over all it was interesting movie again dragging at some parts, but its plot was quite complex and sad. "},{"Title":"Great/ Very sad movie","Date":"27 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This whole movie is full of disappointments and sorrow, it follows the trouble of Julie and Roger Adams who are constantly screwed in life's journey. The movie is black and white but has a very clear picture and pretty good sound quality for a 1941 film. The movie is shot mostly indoor so the lighting is adequate. The only complaint that I have for the movie is that it's two hours long. It's a little drawn out and doesn't really need the whole two hours that it fills up. Some scenes could definitely be pulled out so that the film is easier to sit through in one sitting. Overall I rated the film an 8 out of 10 because it's a very sad and developed story, the only complaint that I have is the length of the film. "}{"Title":"Penny Serenade","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" With a well organized story line and a decent amount of sympathy this film comes across to me as the ever so common love story. Most of this is due to the fact that a movie like this one comes to theaters about 5 times a year now a days, but put in perspective of the early 1940's and you got yourself a film with quite uniqueness. The amount of over dramatic scenes was found a bit to often but again compared to movies today it was a nothing out of the ordinary. I'd have to say the actors sold their roles and were very believable. Now what made this film different from many of the films out there was the way Dunne went through all the flashback scenes in the movie by playing records that reminded her of their life together. It was a very strong idea that got the concept across fairly easily. "},{"Title":"A movie that, like the adopted baby, is love at first sight.","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There is no doubt in my mind that any movie that uses old music to flash back to the points of importance in any story will be an interesting one. Old music has been often used to explore emotions in movies, and Penny Serenade is probably the first to do it so well. The story starts as wife Irene Dunne is about to leave husband Cary Grant, feeling that they just don't need each other anymore. Listening to You Were Meant For Me, she flashes back to when they first met, how he bought 27 records (not even having a record player) just to meet her. They begin dating, and on New Year's Eve, he proposes. They end up in Japan where a horrendous earthquake brings on tragedy with grave consequences, leading them to decide to adopt a child.Thanks to understanding adoption agent Beulah Bondi, they end up with a baby girl, which leads to an amusing scene where Dunne gets frustrated while the neighbors and Grant's employees from his small newspaper watch her bathe and feed the child. Petticoat Junction's Edgar Buchannan is Grant's kindly Uncle Apple Jack, who is their emotional support in times of trouble.Excellent writing makes this drama touching, featuring many comic moments, not surprising considering that Grant and Dunne were in The Awful Truth, one of the best screwball comedies of the 1930's. After divorcing and finding each other again in that movie, Grant and Dunne explore every aspect of a typical marriage. Having just made Love Affair (later re-made with Grant in the role played by Charles Boyer), Dunne was hot, and along with Myrna Loy and Claudette Colbert, represented what America deemed the perfect wife and mother to come home to. Of the dozens of films she made, many of them were later re-made, but not Penny Serenade. You can't improve on perfection.Another famous sequence is the Christmas pageant where their young daughter Trina does double duty as a stage hand (moving clouds and stars) and singing a solo of Silent Night as an echo. This sequence, a favorite among Christmas movie buffs, leads into the dramatic finale that transitions the film from light comedy to tear-jerking drama which ultimately leads into a triumphant finale for Grant and Dunne with Bondi (as she is once described) as a fairy godmother of sorts. "},{"Title":"Just a memory","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Classic movie actor Cary Grant took some time to find his screen persona. He started out with middling success in the early 30s, touted as an alternative to Gary Cooper of all people. Eventually, producers woke up to his comic potential and by the time of his first pairing with Irene Dunne in 1937's The Awful Truth he was established as a clever, sophisticated comedy star, and it was in comedies that he flourished. However with Penny Serenade he maintains the personality that had become so familiar to audiences and channels it for this poignant drama, with overwhelming effect.Grant had already done a couple of pictures with Irene Dunne and the rapport between them pays off in giving them the feel of a long-standing couple. One gets the feeling that this could be any other two Grant and Dunne characters (admittedly not the couple from The Awful Truth; not posh enough), in a different phase of life. The screenplay by Martha Cheavens and Morrie Ryskind is, despite its melodramatic appearances, refreshingly mature. The question of children does not often come into romantic dramas, and if it occurs at all the birth of children is often shown as a by-product of a relationship, inconsequential or even the pawn in a dispute. Penny Serenade however deals boldly with the subject of adoption and explores the yearning for parenthood in its own right. True, the sequence of events is very neat, but that's just good, concise screen writing. And the story is not without its inaccuracies; some of the laxer attitudes taken by the adoptions services would, I'm sure, not have passed muster even in 1941. However, it is the sequence of thoughts and emotions that Grant and Dunne go through that are very much true to life, and this is what matters most.A great deal of the tenderness of Penny Serenade comes from the assured touch of its director George Stevens who, like Grant, was from a comedy background. One of the key things about Stevens's direction here is the way he takes you by surprise with the picture's emotional content. At the beginning of the picture, as Dunne wanders through the apartment, we see her pass the open door onto the child's room, and we feel a little tug even before we know what the picture will really be about. A real moment of genius comes in the record store scene where Dunne and Grant first meet. Stevens often shot locations at such angles that you couldn't really work out the size or layout of a set, and this is true here. We get from the two camera set-ups at the beginning of the scene that Dunne is inside the shop and that Grant is outside looking through the window, but we cannot tell where Dunne is in relation to that window. Then, when Dunne gets up and fixes the record, her eyes suddenly flick up and know she has realised Grant is watching her. We join her in the surprise of that instant, the arrangement suddenly falls into place and the moment is very powerful as a result. Stevens uses a lot of close-ups, far more than was typical for this era, and he does it to make us forget about backgrounds and focus solely on the glances and expressions between characters.But it's perhaps in its teasing links with comedy that Penny Serenade finds its greatest poignancy. Stevens had an unusual approach to comic relief scenes, often filming them in a long drawn out, almost neo-realist fashion (a good example is in the final scene of Woman of the Year). The lengthy sequence of Trina's first night with her new family is of course played for laughs, but it also demonstrates very authentically what a baby's parents will go through at that stage, and crucially shows Grant's development from the cynical grump who wanted a boy into the proud and protective daddy. And Grant himself, by showing us the human side of his sometimes grouchy yet ever likable comedy persona, makes his performance all that more affecting. It is in a way because we can laugh at him engaged in a battle of the sexes with his ex in The Awful Truth or having to look after a leopard in Bringing Up Baby that we can now cry at him defending the right to keep his daughter. Before this he was smart and competent comedy player, but Penny Serenade shows him at his fullest potential. "},{"Title":"A Well-Done Film about the Anatomy of a Marriage!","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't know where the title, Penny Serenade, came form but it doesn't matter to me. The cast is legendary like Cary Grant and Irene Dunne, Hollywood immortals, with a stellar supporting cast like Beulah Bondi and Edgar Buchanan. The story is about a marriage between Roger and Julie Adams. They first marry and settle in Japan. When a Japanese earthquake hits, they return home and learn that Julie can't have any children. Roger becomes a self-publisher of a local newspaper and they live happily above the business. Julie wants to be a mother and even through adoption, Roger does too. It doesn't matter to either one of them that the baby won't be their own. Anyway, Beulah Bondi plays the adoption agency head and soon they get their beautiful child but it's not without tragedy and despair. But still, Roger's speech to the judge is worth watching. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Tearjerker","Date":"28 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I would rate this as the best film that Cary Grant acted in and though he and Irene Dunne were known mostly for their bedroom farces this film showed them differently. Both artistes are at their best amply supported by Beulah Bondi and Edgar Buchanan. The storyline is way ahead of its period as the issue of adoption is more relevant amongst childless couples today. Irene Dunne without any dialogue emotes superbly and the scene where she gazes at the picture of a chubby baby needs no voice as her face says it all. Cary Grant shows his histrionic talents as the carefree husband who is not very interested in a baby but is prepared to adopt to please his wife. He later transforms into the doting father after the arrival of Baby Tina insomuch that the daughter becomes his most prized possession. I can empathise with this character as before my son was born I had the same disposition which changed after his arrival.The scene where Cary pleads his case with the Judge for possession of Tina can bring a lump to any cynical throat. Edgar Buchanan offers superb support as the all endearing bosom pal who suffers the trails and travails of the couple. The scene where he shows the foster parents in detail on how to wash the baby is a classic which I don't think has been repeated in any film since. Beulah Bondi gives a convincing performance as the Social Worker and the scene where she reads the letter sent by Irene Dunne informing her of the rift between her husband is particularly a stands out. The recounting of the story in flashbacks accompanied by gramaphone records is also unique and never dreary. A must see and my vote for inclusion in the list of the top 100 movies of the century. "},{"Title":"Like molasses, slow and sweet with a great pay off","Date":"1 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Irene Dunne and Cary Grant play a couple that have a whirlwind courtship. When they first meet he's a journalist who's irresponsible with his money and doesn't like children. She's more conventional and practical, and here as in life opposites often attract and come to some middle ground. This is nothing more than the story of a marriage with quite a bit of heartbreak along the way. To say much more than that would give the plot away. The movie starts at the end as Irene Dunne's character prepares to leave town and her marriage behind. She is going through a stack of records and reminiscing, thus the title Penny Serenade as we get a flashback of the couple's life together and what brought them to the point of separation.This film moves quite slowly, but every scene, no matter how small, has significance as you grow to really care about this couple and what happens to them and feel sad that they have been so thoroughly mugged by life that they feel they must part. Beulah Bondi and Edgar Buchanan play good friends to and in a way guardian angels of the couple who realize that these two have something special together that is worth saving. Highly recommended and a sentimental favorite of mine. "},{"Title":"Directors LIke to Manipulate You - Enjoy the Ride","Date":"18 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I would recommend this film heartily. It's very much worth the ride.Still. there was something different in this film, but I can't put my fingers on it. A survey of previous reviews does not help me much. There is a quiet brooding over the story that still haunts me. I think it was the fact that the story opens with the wife planning a divorce, so we know all along that something bad has happened to get them to this point. So as we cycle through the flashbacks, there is an awkward tension created. Maybe this was intentional.Score one for the director.What stood out through the film was the sense of longing and pain, evident in the under currents. As Chaplin said, Life is desire. And this couple desires a lot of simple basic things. Yet they convey an eerie sense of futility in their quest.There are times when I was yelling at either one of them for their bonehead decisions and futile behaviour.Score another one for the director.I felt a great deal of uneasiness, a kind of sympathetic pain for the couple experiencing a cascade of sorrows. I wanted to look away from the screen.Score another one for the director.As you watch this amazingly real story, see if you can find a basis for this couple to heal their life. See if you can guess where this is going.I guarantee it will be worth the ride.And Edgar Buchannan was ideal as the versatile uncle. What a guy! "},{"Title":"Perhaps Grant's best film performance....","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a film from another place, another time, when the world was something of a kinder, gentler place. Boy meets girl, they fall in love, and they get married. His work takes him to Japan. His already pregnant wife arrives several months later, and they are both ecstatic at the prospect of having their first child...until fate most unkind steps in...in the form of an earthquake. Both survive, but the fetus does not. Further complications have it that the mother will never again bear children. To keep the marriage afloat, they adopt. Grant can't get with it at first, but as time marches on, he finds himself more in love with children than his spouse. They endure the hardships of life, short finances and the lot, as well as navigating the ups and downs of childhood for their precious baby. Fate steps in again...and the child dies...and along with the child the marriage seems to be over as well. It seems hopeless at that moment...but fortuna has the final say-so in the matter. The performances in this film are genuine and believable. Irene Dunne is terrific as the wife, and Edgar Buchanan, long before his Uncle Joe heyday, delivers solid support as Apple-Jack. But the kudos here belong to Grant. Forget The Philadelphia Story or His Girl Friday or He Done Her Wrong. I have not seen all of Grant's films, though I have seen many of them...some of them relatively obscure, in fact. But of all the Grant films I have seen, including North By Northwest, this truly is Grant's magnum opus. If you don't feel any empathy for a doting father pleading to a judge not to take away his child...maybe you are from another planet. This is not a new film, nor a new situation, but the stellar performances stand the test of time and speak to us down through the decades. I don't think a film like this could be made to-day, I don't know who could interpret the roles with same passion as Grant and Dunne and Buchanan. And George Stevens would go on and give us even more directorial triumphs, most notably Giant, among others. This film is a tear-jerker. If you are sensitive and sentimental, you will love this film and you will be deeply touched by it. I recommend it as a departure from the breakneck cinema we have to-day because of its humanizing qualities. We cannot live in the past...it's gone..over and done with...but, thank goodness, we have some very fine relics and re-minders and examples of love and caring that seem--at times--unreal, but which actually existed and which tend to bring us back in touch with the warmer sides of life and of ourselves. See this film. "},{"Title":"Emotional Roller-coaster Ride.","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Roger Adams (Cary Grant), a newspaperman, meets and falls in love at first sight with Julie Gardiner (Irene Dunne), a young woman who works in a record store. A whirlwind romance follows shortly thereafter and eventually the two end up quickly marrying before Roger leaves to be a foreign correspondent in Japan. Soon we learn Julie is with child and all seems happy until something unexpected takes that away from them. Shortly thereafter, the couple returns to the USA and Roger starts publishing a brand new newspaper in a small country town but they still find something sorely lacking in their lives and ultimately decide what they need is to adopt a child which presents many unexpected challenges and hurdles by no means easy to overcome.This soap opera/romance is one that's sure to appeal to most female viewers but really everyone will be able to relate. Music plays a key role here working as a sort of trigger to our heroine's memories which establish each new setting and unique emotional challenge that awaits our newly married couple in their desire to start a family. The music is very well chosen and accentuates every scene in which it appears. In the end, this one proves a real tearjerker and if you're something of a softie, it may cause the tears to roll down your cheeks so some may want to have tissues on hand if they watch this. Cary Grant, actually nominated for an Oscar for his role here, and Irene Dunne both prove superb leads who very effectively get the audience to really care about and feel for what happens to their characters. I have to admit, I'm not usually one attracted to this type of movie, but finding a copy of it relatively cheap, I decided to check it out and I was very impressed with it in terms of the attention paid to establishing romantic settings, building character relationships, presenting realistic hurdles and challenges for our lead couple to overcome and most of all for its ability to send an audience through a real roller-coaster ride of emotions. "},{"Title":"Sentimental, lovely Grant-Dunne film","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Penny Serenade' is a sentimental offering that never fails to reduce me to tears with every viewing.The great Grant-Dunne team pull off another triumph in their roles as the married couple. After a series of joyous highs and heart-wrenching lows, Julie Adams (Dunne) is contemplating divorce from her husband Roger (Grant). She plays back the musical records that all signify a certain important event for her and her husband, and the emotions and memories flood back to her. Very reminiscent and nostalgic.Cary Grant's gives one of his best performances ever as Roger Adams. He plays dramatic as well as comedic here, including a desperate plea for his child that reduces Grant to tears and will probably reduce you to tears too. I never thought that Grant would be an effective crier on screen, but he was great. He runs through the whole gamut of emotions in this film. The lovely Irenne Dunne is always wonderful, but she's particularly good here as Julie. Grant and Dunne look Hollywood, but we can believe them as genuine married couple because of the affection and genuine warmth to be found in their performances.'Penny Serenade' also touchingly deals with the subject of adoption in an honest yet sympathetic manner. Who can forget Grant and Dunne's desperate search for a child, and their nervousness when they do find a little girl? Dunne is terrified of bathing the child for fear of drowning her, and we really feel for her and understand her fear. In one of the most beautiful moments to be found in the cinema, gruff old Applejack tenderly shows the couple how to bathe the child.I think this is a more of a woman's picture than a man's, indeed it is a 'weepie'. It is slow-paced at times and has a tendency to drag endlessly in places, but the overall product is more than satisfying.8/10. "}{"Title":"Special Delivery","Date":"31 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I think of the classic actors in Hollywood, I immediately think of Cary Grant. Not only was he great at portraying that smooth and classy guys on the screen, he just seems like a great guy off screen. In Penny Serenade, Grant showed depth that I haven't seen in the close to a dozen films I had previously seen from him. I think his performance here surpasses the likes of North by Northwest, Notorious, The Philadelphia Story, and even Charade. Considering those are some of my favorite classic films, that's saying something. Penny Serenade was early on in his career too, which makes it even more impressive. The more important thing is that the film itself is also just marvelous.It tells the story of a young couple who look to take their relationship into parenthood when a serious of very fortunate and very unfortunate events start to occur. Sometimes in great classic films the one glaring issue can be that the chemistry between leads isn't good enough to be believable. But with Penny Serenade, it's just the opposite. This being my first encounter with Irene Dunne's acting, I instantly wanted to go back and dive into her other roles because of how impressive she was as Grant's wife. Both Grant and Dunne showed what seemed to be true emotion and gave this film the heart that it needed. Especially due to some of the tragic events that take place throughout the film. I never felt that I was watching actors play roles, I really felt as though I was watching a newly wed couple attempt to take on parenthood and all the joys and troubles that come along with that.The film has a Citizen Kane like flashback storytelling technique that although can be distracting at times, really gives the characters an emotional weight and stakes that may not have previously been present. This film is definitely not for everyone as it involves tragic circumstances, but there's also a tremendous amount of joy to be had here. That's all a tribute to the chemistry between leads and the really well paced script. It's a bittersweet story.+Grant's depth +Dunne and the chemistry between the cast +Bittersweet+Well paced -The ending is pretty Hollywood-ish 8.7/10 "},{"Title":"Two Anti-Divorce Movies","Date":"28 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Julie's marriage to Roger is on the rocks and they are about to separate. When she is by herself, she plays a succession of records associated with different stages of her relationship with Roger. With the playing of each record, the tune becomes the background music of a flashback, beginning with when they first met, and at important stages in their lives. But the flashbacks show us what a great marriage they have, so we figure something really bad must have happened to cause these two to separate. After an accident, Julie is no longer able to have children, so they adopt a girl. At first I thought that somehow Roger was going to be responsible for her death, by accidentally running over her when she runs out into the street. She does die, but it is clearly not anyone's fault, not even accidentally so. Furthermore, her death is not even seen, but only mentioned in a letter, followed by scenes of the two of them being silent and sad. We never really believe that they are going to get divorced, and they don't.The plot of this movie is similar to The Marrying Kind (1952), where another couple is about to get a divorce. Instead of records playing tunes from the past, the divorce judge, who can see that they have a good marriage, questions them, and their story is told in flashbacks, revealing what a good marriage they have, making us wonder when we are going to get to the part that made them so miserable. Once again, we find that a child died, this time by drowning; once again it is an accident for which neither of them can be thought to be responsible; and once again we can see that this is something that they will eventually get over, and so they do not get the divorce.The moral of these stories seems to be that people who are in an unhappy marriage should stay together and work things out. There is something irritating about the way both movies are dismissive of just how miserable a marriage can be, as if married couples who want a divorce simply don't realize how much they really love each other. "},{"Title":"A look at how life can be unkind, and at the same time wonderful.","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cary Grant and Irene Dunne give unforgettable performances in the this simple tale. Grant plays a small time newspaper man who is determined to run his own show. This leads to money troubles which puts undue pressure on his marriage. This is a 65 year old film but the same struggles face us today.This movie touches on the subject of adoption. It handles it in a loving and emotional way. Grant and Dunne deal with real and difficult issues in a realistic and wonderful manner. The children used to portray their adopted child over the years were excellent, as was the case for the whole cast. Hats off to George Stevens. The film had funny moments and some very emotional moments. It required actors with range. That speaks volumes to the level of acting in this picture. The scene that hits this point home is the one in which Cary Grant is confronting a Judge while his young daughter is in the room. This is acting at its highest level. It earned Mr. Grant an Oscar nomination. If you want to see a picture that pushes a story line backed up with actors that can handle it, this picture is for you. "},{"Title":"I'll Never Cry At That!","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hah, I proclaimed to my mother, I'll never cry at that. How anyone could cry at a love story is beyond me.Boy, was I wrong.This movie is not only an excellent movie of itself, but wonderful for long time Cary Grant fans that wish to see a role that isn't a screwball comedy. If you're a true fan, chances are you've already seen this. This movie is told in flashback fragments, as Irenne Dunne uses records to display the story of her life. As the first song rolls by-You were meant for me, I was meant for you- a painful love story unfolds before our eyes. It is so much more than a love story, more like a life story that begins less than halfway through. The plot becomes so emotional, that at times we wonder if the traditional happy ending is going to be forsaken...With that I'll leave you to decide if this is worth seeing for yourself! "},{"Title":"Penny Serenade.","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When people of the generation of the late 30s and 40s say they don't make them like that anymore they are talking about movies like Penny Serenade. Granted that the style and conventions of film (and literature) must change with the times in what way have the new conventions contributed to better art or entertainment. In the rush to let it all hang out, subtlety and nuance (not to mention wit) have been erased in the name of a representation of reality as perceived and and humorlessly portrayed by the dour filmmakers of today. I happened to see Penny Serenade shortly after watching In the Cut (a highlight of which was Meg Ryan masturbating) and Thirteen ,children discussing the merits of putting rings through navels and genitalia. Films like those are as far removed from the median reality as Penny Serenade was from the grit of the Depression. The difference was that the latter could leave you smiling "},{"Title":"What a pity!","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why didn't Cary Grant win an Oscar? Perhaps his performances aren't valid? Cary can play drama, as well as screwball comedy but ,perhaps , not so well to deserve an Academy Award! What a pity! I think that he played one of the best character of his whole career just in Penny Serenade! Cary Grant's interpretation is in this movie really great and the story is so touching... This is another test of excellent ability given by Cary Grant, that I consider truly a great actor. What a pity! And now it's too late!  "},{"Title":"Dreary and horribly manipulative","Date":"23 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Two people meet (Irene Dunne, Cary Grant), fall in love and get married. She gets pregnant but has a miscarriage. They adopt a baby girl and love her completely. Then the kid dies and tears them apart. It all leads to an eye-rolling finale that had me hating the movie a LOT! Supposedly this is loved by tons of movie goers but I can't see why. The first hour is slow with painfully clichd dialogue and laughably ridiculous symbolism. I actually broke out laughing when it was made clear that Dunne had a miscarriage by having rocks falling on her! It's also deadly dull. You've seen these characters and have heard this dialogue before. Only the considerable acting talents of the two leads make it bearable. Then the kid comes in and the film ruthlessly manipulates the audience to cry again and again. Sure I cried but the script is the equivalent of someone grabbing you by the throat and making you cry! I object to being forced into it. It leads to a finale which was so utterly ridiculous I was both slack-jawed AND offended. Also the film is VERY VERY slow and far too long. People love overly sentimental and unrealistic garbage like THIS??? This gets five stars for a few reasons Dunne and Grant were cast against type and are great. Totally believable all the way through--Grant was even nominated for an Academy Award for this. Grant's speech in front of a judge is incredible and the only true tear-jerking moment where I felt I wasn't being forced. Also we're spared seeing the kid dying (it's related through a letter). Edgar Buchanan as Uncle Jack and Beulah Bondi as Miss Oliver are very good in supporting roles. Also the song choices are appropriate and pretty good. Still this is a dreary, manipulative and depressing little film that gives good tear-jerkers a bad name! "},{"Title":"Thank heaven for George Stevens!","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film would have been a pile of mush if it hadn't been for the master story-teller, director George Stevens.  He never goes for the obvious, but tells the story in such a manner that you are immediately pulled into it. Cary Grant was nominated for an Oscar and he is wonderful in this.  "},{"Title":"You won't find a better utterly shameless tear-jerker.","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Shameless, utterly shameless.  After an on-cue earthquake renders Irene Dunne barren, she and spendthrift hubby Cary Grant  try to adopt, which just begins the mawkish tear-grabbing.  Granted, if you must sit through a weepie, there's no better company than Grant and the radiant, under-appreciated Dunne, with Edgar Buchanan fine as comic relief.  Expertly done, but reprehensible nonetheless. The biggest shame of all -- Grant was Oscar-nominated for this, and for the even weepier None but the Lonely Heart, but never for any of his immortal comedy performances.  "},{"Title":"A Matter of Record","Date":"26 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" PENNY SERENADE (Columbia, 1941), directed by George Stevens, is not a musical in the tradition of similar sounding titles of the period as Broadway Serenade (MGM, 1939), Sun Valley Serenade (20th-Fox, 1941), Footlight Serenade (20th-Fox, 1942), Lake Placid Serenade (Republic, 1944), among others, but a dramatic story involving two young people. Having made audiences laugh in THE AWFUL TRUTH (Columbia, 1937), and MY FAVORITE WIFE (RKO Radio, 1940), Irene Dunne and Cary Grant team together for the third and final encore that offers humor, sentiment and tearful moments that rank this their most popular of the three for which they appeared.PENNY SERENADE begins with Julie Adams (Irene Dunne)returning home with her decision of leaving her husband, Roger (Cary Grant). Before packing, her collection of records in a scrapbook titled The Story of a Happy Marriage sets Julie through her Penny Serenade as she reminisces while listening to old tunes connected to various chapters of her life. The first song, You Were Meant For Me, introduced in the late twenties, is the recording played in a music shop where Roger passes by, taking an interest in one of its workers, Julie Gardiner. After buying 27 records without even owning a phonograph, Julie realizes his intention, followed by a six month courtship and finally marriage. Roger, a newspaperman by profession, is assigned to a new job as correspondent in Japan, where he takes his new bride. Poor Butterfly becomes the tune associated with their stay in Japan where an earthquake causes the miscarriage of Julie's unborn child. Unable to birth any more children, the couple settle in San Francisco where Roger establishes his own newspaper business, The Rosalia Weekly Courier, becoming his own boss and publisher. Applejack Carney (Edgar Buchanan), a close friend of the couple, arrives from Brooklyn to assist Roger as press agent, better known as printer. Through Applejack's suggestion, the couple consider adopting a child of their own, and through the kindness of Miss Oliver (Beulah Bondi), head of the adoption agency, the couple do adopt a child. All goes well for the next few years until an unforeseen circumstance takes place that puts a burden on their marriage.With flashback episodes tied together with musical chronology through much of its 118 minutes, the only debit to PENNY SERENADE is having Irene Dunne appearing in 1941 head-dress and costumes in segments not accurate to the actual time-frame of the 1920s and 30s. While Dunne deserved an Academy Award for her sensitive performance, it was Cary Grant who was singled out for that honor as Best Actor. Grant's nomination, no doubt, comes from his moving appeal to the stern judge (Wallis Clark) not to have his child taken away due to his lack of financial support. Who wouldn't be moved by this and Beulah Bondi's excellent support. Another standout is Edgar Buchanan, who should have been nominated in the supporting actor category, especially for one delightful scene where he demonstrates to the adoptive parents how to bathe an infant. Not to disappoint fans of either Dunne or Grant, they do share some moments of comedy, such as their initial meeting, courtship, and their first night after bringing home their adopted baby and what not to do to disturb her sleep.Others in the cast worth noting are Ann Doran (Dotty); Leonard Wiley (Doctor Hartley) and Eve Tee Kuneye as Little Trina, whose upside down smile and echo rendition to Silent Night in a Christmas play certainly makes this worth viewing. It's also the reason why PENNY SERENADE often plays on television during the Christmas season.A public domain title, PENNY SERENADE was certainly one movie easily accessible in the early 1980s during the advent of video cassette rentals and cable television broadcasts. Since then, it's been presented on many cable networks as American Movie Classics, Turner Classic Movies (with restored Columbia Pictures logo inserted prior to closing credits which have been missing for many years), and, in some cases, public television. It's also available on DVD in both black and white and colorized formats.While PENNY SERENADE has an original premise not commonly found in movies up to this time, it's certainly a sentimental journey back to the days when movies captured your heart through the involvement of a young couple going through trials and tribulations in their daily lives, and getting to wonder whether or not they are really meant for each other. (****) "}{"Title":"Timeless Real Life Drama","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen this movie a dozen times and never get tired of it, it's one of the best movies ever made for many reasons. First the characters are real, and go threw all the ups and downs of real life and have the true reactions, no fluff, no fairy tale, just sincere emotion. I know this because I've been threw some of the same situations. Second the actors are stunning, you believe they really are those people and you have to hurt with them and root for them and be happy for them, no way can you not cry both happy and sad tears watching this movie, its well worth the over 2 hours it runs, a classic for sure, please see it and love it as much as I do. "},{"Title":"Masterful storytelling at its finest","Date":"4 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember first seeing this film on the early, early morning movie as a very young child in the 1960s. It was the first Irene Dunne movie I ever saw and she was of particular interest to my older family members since she hailed from our hometown of Louisville, KY. I think the most masterful scene (the one that displays George Stevens' qualities as an auteur the best) is the train sequence when Roger and Julie have just been married but Roger must leave immediately to take up his assignment in Tokyo. To leave Julie without benefit of a honeymoon is too much for both her and the audience to bear. What complete romance, he makes good his promise and gets her off at the next stop. Notice the sign on the train platform viewed from the train window indicating just how far this young couple has traveled through the night on their impromptu honeymoon. They are in and we are out. All is left to the imagination and there is nothing more romantic nor sexier than that. And lo and behold, when Julie is finally reunited with Roger in Tokyo she informs him of their impending parenthood. A successful honeymoon indeed! "},{"Title":"Selective Memories...","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Grant and Dunne give terrific performances, but the film is VERY selective about the events it shows versus the events it leaves out... Perhaps that is the point; to show us that when our memories are tied too closely to music, they end up something of a muddled mess... The script spends ages on silly sequences with creaking staircases and a baby being given a bath (much as I loved the character of Applejack, the scene doesn't need to go on so long to show the audience that he is a more 'instinctive' parent than either one of our main couple prove to be... ) and yet, the most meaty plot development - the death of a child - is handled IN A LETTER?! Perhaps the Hayes Code couldn't be too graphic, but surely there are more poignant ways of communicating such a tragedy? It's the same with the resolution, too - they are broken up by the loss until they get the offer of a second child... and then the movie acts as though this is the fix that cures everything!! We've invested our time in a kid you're prepared to forget about as soon as another one comes along; another one that we DON'T EVEN GET TO SEE! Pick a tone and stick with it; it's by turns both screwball and tragic - and it does neither one of them very well. There're a lot of good scenes played well by the main couple, but these little snapshots don't all blend well into a satisfyingly cohesive, whole movie. "},{"Title":"Product Placement Galore","Date":"23 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" RCA Victor could have subsidized this Columbia release. It looks as if by 1941 the only recording company in business was RCA, for every single disc Irene Dunne plays for almost two hours, during this over sentimental account of a couple searching for a child, is on that label. George Stevens' film starts promisingly but becomes dull with its structure device (every time Dunne plays a record, she remembers a stage of her married life), and very silly with cute babies and smiling little girls, that the whole product loses impact. Dunne and Cary Grant are good as usual, but Grant has more opportunity to elaborate a performance, and Dunne has little opportunity to display her winning charm; while Beulah Bondi and Edgar Kennedy provide excellent support in key roles. These four performances make the film somehow worthwhile, but for me that was just it. "},{"Title":"tear jerker","Date":"11 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a phenomenal movie. I loved the way they portrayed the struggles of a couple who are raising their first child. George Stevens does a wonderful job directing this. If any other director tried to do what he did, the film would be a miserable tear jerker. It's unfortunate how realistic this movie really was, but yet it ends happily which is exactly how people needed their movies to end in the 40s. George Stevens really attempted to compose this film with a lot of respect to the narrative. The story here was more important than the actual film making. There are many flaws and cheap screw ups, but that's not something the audience is looking for. It's an emotional, happy, drama, and it doesn't matter how bad the movie is made quality wise. It was made badly though, it just had some flaws. "},{"Title":"What the Stork Wrought","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After an obvious tragedy, Irene Dunne (as Julie Gardiner) announces she will leave husband Cary Grant (as Roger Adams). Flashbacks tell the story of their marriage&#x85; The co-stars are attractive, and act amicably for director George Stevens. His sensitive portrayal of a tentative father got Mr. Grant an Oscar nomination. And, Ms. Dunne certainly had some preliminary consideration. But, this story is dreadful. You know, from the opening peak Ms. Dunne takes at her nursery, what this is all about. So, by the time their second child arrives, you're just waiting for a piano to fall on the little tyke. It's perverse, popular, and performed well.****** Penny Serenade (4/24/41) George Stevens ~ Irene Dunne, Cary Grant, Edgar Buchanan, Beulah Bondi "},{"Title":"Charming and sweet; a great tearjerker.","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" George Steven's 1941 melodrama Penny Serenade drags on for a bit too long and has some unnecessary scenes. But, the strong acting and directing carry this film as it presents us with the story of the beginning and end of a marriage that seems to exist only to have children. Cary Grant and Irene Dunne are marvelous as the couple who fall in love, get married, and seem like any other couple we've seen in the movies before. However, Dunne becomes increasingly insistent with the idea of having a baby. She does, but an earthquake gets rid of that. They move to San Francisco and begin looking into adoption. They find one and start to struggle with the responsibilities of parenthood. If anything, this film is very much anti-abortion. It demonstrates how there are many couples willing to have kids but unable to physically. It may not be completely believable and the ending is somewhat askew, but for the most part it works in convincing us just how difficult it is to give up your own happiness and success to take care of a mini-human being. This film really opened my eyes to how much we should be grateful to our parents. The directing is solid by Stevens, and the acting is terrific. Grant in particular gives a very un-Cary Grant performance. He even breaks down and starts to cry in one scene. This certainly isn't the best of any of their careers, but it has a good message and a good heart. For the romantic in you, see Penny Serenade. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, Engaging, Delightful Move about (!) a Family","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Romance and the real world collide in this tale of a charming, sensible, nave girl who meets and marries a charming, careless, irresponsible, nave guy. The two then weave us a tragicomic tale that is really amazingly convincing.I just watched this movie tonite for the first time and was simply captivated from beginning to end. Truly a bittersweet tale of unexpected tragedy and unexpected hopes fulfilled, all laced by the kind of humor and poignancy that only Morrie Ryskind can bring to a script, and only Cary Grant and Irene Dunne can bring to their characters, and only George Stevens can unite on the screen.This movie is tightly woven together, yet is full of so many well-crafted scenes and vignettes that stand on their own as sheer delights. These micro-scenes were etched carefully and lovingly and give to much of this film an almost mosaic-like quality for the vivid beauty of the pieces yet fit together so well.The conceit of beginning the story at a penultimate state of despair, then using flashbacks to walk us through the stages of development of this couple and family, to bring us up to date, and then walk us on to have us arrive at a surprise ending of hope, is to me very engaging, very appealing framework.And within this framework, it's all there impulsive romance at the beginning; challenging examination of work-life and finances; then the adoptive baby; walking us through the years of growth up to the time of our little family with a young child; then the shattering loss of the child; bleakness and despair; and suddenly the embers of the family are fanned anew when a new child is introduced. Everything is laced together by episodes of humor and fatalistic despondency.All is very convincing. Has there ever been a more engaging and convincing depiction of a young couple dealing with an infant? Has there ever been a more poignant and convincing depiction of a family after loss of the beloved child? Even the title of the movie is a perfect gem, a perfect microcosm of the movie. Thus Penny that's not much money, is it? No wonder for this is no well-to-do family and no extended family. It's a family living on a shoestring; and yet, partly for that very reason, it's a family with a homeliness and familiarity that is all the more appealing like a well-worn penny, lucky when found, and finding a humble but effective employment every time we are charged some amount ending with a penny or sixpence &#133; $2.21 or $33.26. As for serenade winsome, sentimental, distinctively un-distinctive and spectacularly unspectacular, this is a quiet, winsome melody of a tale. Or rather a winsome medley of songs as interconnected and as full of meaning and as bitter-sweet as the songs that Irene Dunne plays on her phonograph as she relives her memories throughout the movie.I don't want to end without taking a look at the historical setz im Leben of the movie. And from a historical standpoint, this movie stands in the great post-war tradition of affection for the domestic and the prosaic and the plain. It also stands in the great post-war vision of family life as a nuclear family, a family that is seriously impaired, and fortunately repaired through the challenging but kindly involvement of an urban child welfare agency of an avuncular social welfare system. In this respect, as in all others, it may be said of this movie that it is set in the best of times and the worst of times. "},{"Title":"super-duper depressing","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The first time I tried to watch this film, I did so with my wife. However, the plot was so incredibly depressing she begged me to turn it off, so I did. I think we were thinking we'd see a light comedy like another Grant/Dunn film we love, MY FAVORITE WIFE.A little bit later, I watched it--forcing myself to look past all the death and mayhem to the rest of the movie. Well, considering it stars Irene Dunn and Cary Grant, it was an excellent film--with superb acting from both of them. And, the story did not continue to be so unrelentingly depressing. However, if you are clinically depressed, then this movie is NOT for you, as it covers a myriad of sad topics including the death of their young child. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorites, partly because I identify so strongly with the couple early in the movie (being an adoptive mom myself). The tragic plot twist that happens later probably wasn't that uncommon in the thirties and forties (remember antibiotics weren't so available then).  "}{"Title":"The Crying Cary Grant","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In the same way that Cary Grant cries for the first time in 'Gunga Din', he repeats himself by doing the same thing in 'Penny Serenade' when he is trying to adopt a child. Grant just does not convince the audience that he is a serious actor, but his attempts have been noted by Alfred Hitchcock who uses him for his next film. Grant teams up again with Irene Dunne after their success together in 'My Favourite Wife'. 'Gunga Din' and 'Penny Serenade' are a showreel for Alfred Hitchcock to demonstrate that Grant has the potential to be a serious actor. "},{"Title":"Serenade In Blue","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It seems that once again I find myself out of step with the majority - of those I've read - in failing to succumb to the charm, style, skill that apparently has other posters rolling over and playing dead. Ironically I found what on paper must have seemed a stylish gimmick - having the camera Iris In/Iris Out on the label in the centre of the records somewhat negated by what seemed to be clumsy transitions. I found it difficult to believe that Grant and Dunne were really that much in love and Grant's heart didn't seem to be in the negative elements of the character's personality, as if the writers had decided they needed SOME kind of conflict so let's make him irresponsible - actually he did this character so much better in 'Holiday' three years earlier and at times appeared to have mislaid the technique he brought to THAT character and, perhaps because the camera was turning and Stevens had yelled 'action' he had to do the best he could from memory. In many ways it seems a much EARLIER film than one made in 1941, something of Alice Adams vintage. I hate to be so negative about a film that has obviously been enjoyed by lots of people but you have to call 'em as you see 'em. "},{"Title":"If you haven't been to confession lately, this movie's good for about two thousand recitations of the rosary","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yuck.  See Cary Grant's wife, Irene Dunne, fall victim to that epidemic Hays Office malady, The Miscarriage Resulting In Permanent Barrenness.  See Cary and Irene reluctantly decide to adopt a child, upon which they meet Beulah Bondi The Benevolent Orphanage Director, whose mission in life is to supply privileged infertile couples with the offspring of unwed mothers who are apparently considered so wretched that their existence is not even worthy of mention, let alone discussion (hence, Cary Grant declines to go over his newly adopted daughter's history.  Yeah, now, THAT'S believable...)See darling Baby Biffle, the aforementioned newly adopted daughter, get her first bath from Uncle Joe, who apparently was on vacation from the Shady Rest in the 1940s.  Then, see Biff morph into Eva Lee Kuney, probably the most revoltingly saccharine child performer in the history of film, only to succumb (tragically? well, maybe not) to 1940s Disease, that unspecified, always-fatal malady.See Cary and Irene's marriage fall down and go boom.  See them planning to split up, until Beulah Bondi rushes in with another adorably adoptable waif of unmentionable origins ... blech. "}]