[{"Title":"Much ahead of its time and still powerful","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"78 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Watching Ossessione today -- more than 6 decades later -- is still a powerful experience, especially for those interested in movie history and more specifically on how Italian filmmakers changed movies forever (roughly from Ossessione and De Sica's I Bambini Ci Guardano, both 1943, up to 20 years later with Fellini, Antonioni, Pasolini). Visconti makes an amazing directing début, taking the (uncredited) plot of The Postman Always Rings Twice as a guide to the development of his own themes.It strikes us even today how ahead of its time Ossessione was. Shot in Fascist Italy during World War II (think about it!!), it depicted scenes and themes that caused the film to be immediately banned from theaters -- and the fact that it used the plot of a famous American novel and payed no copyright didn't help. Ossessione alarmingly reveals poverty-ridden war-time Italy (far from the idealized Italy depicted in Fascist Telefoni Bianchi movies); but it's also extremely daring in its sexual frankness, with shirtless hunk Gino (Massimo Girotti, who definitely precedes Brando's Kowalski in A Streetcar Named Desire) taking Giovanna (Clara Calamai), a married woman, to bed just 5 minutes after they first meet. We watch Calamai's unglamorous, matter-of-fact undressing and the subtle but undeniable homosexual hints between Gino and Lo Spagnolo (Elio Marcuzzo - a very appealing actor, his face not unlike Pierre Clémenti's, who was shot by the Nazis in 1945, at 28 years old!)...In a few words sex, lust, greed and poverty, as relentlessly as it had rarely, if ever, been shown before in Italian cinema.All the copies of Ossessione were destroyed soon after its opening -- it was called scandalous and immoral. Visconti managed to save a print, and when the film was re-released after the war, most critics called it the front-runner of the Neo-Realist movement, preceding Rossellini's Roma CIttà Aperta and De Sica's Sciuscià. Some other critics, perhaps more appropriately, saw Ossessione as the Italian counterpart to the poetic realism of French cinema (remember Visconti had been Renoir's assistant), especially Marcel Carné's Quai des Brumes and Le Jour se Lève, and Julien Duvivier's Pépé le Moko. While Ossessione may be Neo-Realistic in its visual language (the depiction of war-time paesan life in Italy with its popular fairs, poverty, child labor, prostitution, bums, swindlers etc), the characters and the themes were already decidedly Viscontian. He was always more interested in tragic, passionate, obsessive, greedy characters, in social/political/sexual apartheid, in the decadence of the elites than in realistic, everyday- life characters and themes, favored by DeSica and Rossellini. In Ossessione we already find elements of drama and tragedy later developed in many of his films, especially Senso (Visconti's definitive departure from Neo-Realist aesthetics) and Rocco e Suoi Fratelli...Even in his most Neo-Realist film, La Terra Trema, he makes his fishermen rise from day-to-day characters to mythological figures.Ossessione is a good opportunity to confirm the theory about great artists whose body of work approaches, analyzes and develops specific themes and concerns over and over again, from their first to their last opus, no matter if the scenery, background or time-setting may change -- Visconti may play with the frame but the themes and essence of his art are, well, obsessively recurrent. Ossessione is not to be missed you'll surely be fascinated by this ground-breaking, powerful film. "},{"Title":"Fascinating retelling of a James M. Cain noir classic.","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"48 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'll be upfront - I know nothing about Italian neo-realism, and the only Visconti movie I'd seen prior to this was his silly but enjoyable nazisploitation classic 'The Damned'. But I'm a great fan of James M. Cain's pulp crime classic 'The Postman Always Rings Twice', and this superb retelling of it fascinated me from beginning to end. A few crucial plot points are changed, an interesting supporting character (The Spaniard) has been added, and the movie has a very different tone from what Cain fans might expect.  The original novella, and the subsequent Hollywood versions of it (in '46 and '81) are thrillers, 'Ossessione' isn't. It's more of a story of a doomed love affair. The basic plot is the same - a drifter has a passionate fling with an unhappily married woman and helps her murder her husband - but Visconti approaches the material in a very different manner. The movie is brilliantly filmed, and the acting by the three leads are first rate. You really get a genuine insight into 1940s Italian working class life. The character of The Spaniard adds an interesting touch to the story with a possible homosexual relationship between Gino and himself. It's very subtle but it's there if you look. I thought making Giovanna pretty but not a complete bombshell like Lana Turner added to the realism and credibility of the story. I also was impressed by the small role played by the dancer/part time prostitute Gino buys an ice cream for towards the end of the picture. She doesn't get much screen time sadly, but she is really wonderful.  The movie is surprisingly frank for the time and period (Mussolini's Italy), much more realistic and earthy than Hollywood movies of the same period. If you are looking for a straight forward thriller then the Lana Turner/John Garfield version of 'The Postman Always Rings Twice' is probably the better place to start, but if you want to see a brilliant drama then this is the superior movie in my opinion. "},{"Title":"A haunting tale of greed and desire.","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a haunting, powerful Italian adaptation of James M. Cain's novel The Postman Always Rings Twice directed by the great Luchino Visconti. What is so interesting about the film is that in every way it transcends it's source material to become something bolder and more original (interestingly Camus also credits Cain's novel as the key inspiration for his landmark novel The Stranger). The film has a greater power and intensity than the novel because Visconti is able to create the filmic equivalent of Cain's narrative structure but offer a more complex exploration of gender. Cain's very American novel is also uncritically fascinated with the construction of whiteness (the lead character Cora is obsessively afraid she will be identified as a Mexican and embarrassed that she married a Greek immigrant), which is   not relevant to the Italian rural context that Visconti is working in. This allows the class antagonisms to take center stage and dance among the embers of the  passionate, doomed love affair of the two main characters. This film is a complex, suspenseful, rewarding experience.  "},{"Title":"Marvelous","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Visconti's first feature, Ossessione is an adaptation of James M. Cain's The Postman Always Rings Twice. Now, I'm not familiar with that book or the other film versions, but I am a big fan of Cain's Double Indemnity (much more so than I am a fan of Billy Wilder's film version of it, in fact). The two novellas seem like they must be very similar. Both involve an illicit love affair where a ravenous wife complains to a morally weak man that her husband is worthless and mean to her. Giovanna, the woman in this Italian version, played very well by Clara Calamai, is not evil incarnate like the wife in Double Indemnity, but she seems very spoiled. Her husband (a great performance by Juan de Landa) is a bit cruel to her, but she strikes me like she is at least as uncompromising with him. He's older than her and unattractive, so she's rather fickle. When Gino shows up, a young, muscular man, it takes her about five minutes to get him into bed. She sweats she wants to be with him forever, but she's stuck with her husband. They break up at first, but when they meet again, they (apparently, although this is intentionally vague) plan to murder the husband. They are successful, and they move back to the woman's home town to run the bar that her husband owned. Gino is very unenthusiastic about this idea. He wants Giovanna, but the one thing that he certainly doesn't want is to sit around in one place for the rest of his life. Their relationship quickly crumbles. Ossessione is a very complex film with complex characters. It's always fascinating, but it does go on a bit too long. At two hours and twenty-two minutes, I can't, for the life of me, figure out how it took that long! This is partly due to the neorealist stylistics that Visconti was inventing within this film. It was, after all, the first film that won that label. We see a lot of the action prolonged as it would be in real life, without any hurrying to the next plot point. I've seen many of Visconti's films, and the only one I like better than this one is Rocco and His Brothers (1960). His direction is as great as it ever was, with the camera moving brilliantly and the editing perfect. I also feel the need to point out the film's best performance, by Dhia Christiani as a young (exotic) dancer and part-time prostitute named Anita whom Gino meets after he begins to try to break away from Giovanna. She's only in the film for maybe five or six minutes, and she has only a few lines. It's shocking how much Visconti and Christiani are able to do with this character in such a short time. She's absolutely heartbreaking. 9/10. "},{"Title":"You could watch it ten times and still delight in its nuances.","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow! The sort of movie you could watch ten times and still delight in its nuances.  Absolutely incredible! If this was Visconti's debut film, i shudder to think what would happen if he got any better from film to film. The only other one of his i've seen (at time of writing) is Death in Venice - which was absolutely incredible more dazzling visually than Ossessione (Obsession). One of the most beautiful films i've ever seen, but its story was not as involving as Ossessione. If you click on miscellaneous on this page's links, there are stills from the movie on those websites. They won't really do justice to the experience of the movie such graceful camera movements, such beautiful composition, such wonderful faces, such terrific characters, such a great story development, the first movie adapted from James M Cain's The Postman Always Rings Twice.I can't believe this was made in 43, eight years before Brando was supposed to have introduced realistic acting to the world with Streetcar Named Desire (1951). The actors in this may not have used the method technique, ie they may not have truly felt everything themselves (i don't know anything about it) - but they're some of the best, most genuine and realistic performances up to this date in cinema. Also, eight years before Streetcar Named Desire brought a new sensuality to the screen, Ossessione was electrifyingly sensual! The most sensual thing since the beginning of cinema! Yes, i'm being superlative, but Ossessione was just that terrific.The reason Ossessione didn't cause the impact Streetcar did was that it was made in fascist Italy and banned by Mussolini, and re-cut in America. American audiences didn't see its full glory till 59, eight years AFTER Streetcar.I won't say any more about it - just writing to tell you its one of the best, most beautiful and exciting movies i've ever seen, and tell you to go out and see it! Like another reviewer, i'm going to buy it as soon as i can find it! "},{"Title":"Obsession","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Luchino Visconti was light years ahead of his contemporaries. The great directors of Italy of the 40s and 50s were men who understood the medium, but it was Luchino Visconti, a man of vision, who dared to bring a film like to show what he was capable of doing. He clearly shows his genius early on in his distinguished career with Ossessione, a film based on James Cain's The Postman Always Ring Twice, which was later made by Hollywood, but that version pales in comparison with what Visconti achieved in the movie. Luchino Visconti and his collaborators on the screen included an uncredited Alberto Moravia, a man who knew about the effect of passion on human beings.The film has been well preserved in the DVD format we watched recently. The film is a must for all serious movie fans because we can see how Visconti's vision translated the text into a movie that rings true in a plausible way, something the American version lacked.What comes across watching the movie, is the intensity which the director got from his key players. The magnificent Clara Calamai does an amazing job as Giovanna, the woman who has married an older man, but when Gino appears in her life, all she wants to do is rid herself of the kind man who gave her an opportunity in life. Giovanna is one of the best creations in Ms. Calamai's achievements in the Italian cinema. The last sequence of the film shows Ms. Calamai at her best in the ironic twist that serves as the moral redemption for the monstrous crime that was committed.Equally excellent is Massimo Girotti, one of the best actors of his generation who appears as Gino, the hunky man that awakens the obsessive passion in Giovanna. Gino is the perfect man for Giovanna, something that Mr. Girotti projects with such ease and sophistication not equaled before in the screen. Mr. Girotti makes the man come alive in a performance that seems so easy, yet with another actor it might not have been so apparent. Juan DeLanda is seen as Giuseppe, the older man who fell in love with Giovanna. In fact, his character rings truer than his counterpart in the American film, where he is seen more as a buffoon.The film is beautifully photographed by Domenic Scala and Aldo Tonti. They gave the film a naturalistic look that was the way Italian directors of the era favored. The original musical score of Giuseppe Rosati is perfect. Visconti, a man who loved opera and was one of the best directors, also includes arias by Bizet and Verdi that fit well in the context of the movie.Ossessione is a film to treasure because we see a great Luchino Visconti at the top of his form. "},{"Title":"A gripping glimpse into the psychology of murder, greed and desire","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  (Some spoilers)  I have not read the James M. Cain novel (`The Postman Always Rings Twice') on which this movie was based, so I cannot compare this film version to it, but I have seen and love the 1946 US version (also entitled `Postman').Even better is this gem from Italy, which, I have read, was `mutilated' in editing because of too many blatant references to the Fascist regime.  Well, no matter &#150; what is left is a fine piece of cinema, apparently the forerunner of the neo-realist movement in film-making.  One can certainly see why &#150; despite whatever harsh editing did go on, a pervading sense of societal and cultural, as well as personal oppression remains, hanging heavy over the protagonists, who therefore face many limits in life.Consider Gino, the young drifter, not well educated, unemployed, and resorting to stowing away, stealing and conning people in order to get by, his one pair of shoes so threadbare as to be virtually useless.In Giovanna, he sees a way out, yet he should have kept going, as Giovanna is oppressed by her loveless marriage to an older man with some money, her job (working at the trattoria for her husband, slaving away behind the bar and in the kitchen), and her sex.  In the past, she had limited options, and decided to marry the restaurant/gas station owner (Giuseppe Bregana, played by Juan de Landa) anyway, knowing that he would not make her happy.  She tells Gino that she feels sick every time Bregana touches her.On the pretext of helping Bregana fix his car and sending him into the village to buy a needed part (which he has in fact pocketed), Gino wins Bregana's favor (promising also to fix the broken water pump &#150; water symbolizing life, or lack thereof) and is left alone with Giovanna.  They immediately start a heated, passionate, yet volatile love affair.Gino soon feels stifled by the relationship, and feels the need to move on again when Giovanna proposes that they dispose of her husband.  Wanting no part of it, Gino leaves town on a train ride that he cannot afford, kindly paid for him by another gypsy-type man named Spagnolo, a fellow train passenger.  To Gino, Spagnolo represents a sort of freedom, and they become friends (Spagnolo also symbolizes Gino's morality and conscience), traveling and finding work at a carnival together. Finally Gino has steady employment.  To his dismay (he is not yet over his love for Giovanna), a month has passed when Bregana and his wife go to the carnival and Bregana persuades Gino to go `back home' to live and work with them again, as he is handy to have around.Too weak-willed to resist, knowing this will reunite he and Giovanna, Gino agrees and goes back to stay with the couple.  After a while he gives in to Gina's demands to get rid of her husband.   Once the evil deed is done, Giovanna becomes more cold-blooded than ever, seeming to have very little conscience, while guilt and shame eat away at Gino for hurting a man who never did him any harm.  As much as he wants to leave her &#150; he does again briefly, they are now inextricably linked, and must face the consequences.I liked the way the Spagnolo character came back into Gino's life to act as a judge of his misdeeds &#150; that was very good, and interesting, adding another dimension to the story.While the '46 U.S. version with Lana Turner and John Garfield gets a bit lost in a quagmire of peripheral characters, especially the cops and the lawyers, Ossessione does well to concentrate much more on the psychological effects of the crime on the lovers alone.  This gives the final outcome even more potency, and makes a powerful statement reinforcing the helplessness inherent in the society in which the characters must live.A minor quibble  The amount of time (hardly any) that elapses before undying love is pronounced by the lovers, how quickly they kill the husband (there is no botched first attempt as in the U.S. version); Gino's very quick-to-escalate relationship with the dancer/hooker &#150; they quickly profess their love as well, and she is willing to risk a great deal for a man she just met! &#150; all rather unrealistic, isn't it?  I found this time-frame problem quite distracting &#150; it made me think that I must have missed something somewhere.  Otherwise, well worth the viewer's time.  The acting and direction were both uniformly good throughout.  Recommended.  "},{"Title":"Ossessione digital restoration","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ossessione is in very bad state but is now undergoing a full restoration at Digital Film Lab in Copenhagen. The material used is a Master positive 2nd generation originally from the print Visconti managed to hide from the fascists. It has been scanned on the Spirit 4K (as 2K RGB data) then processed using DaVinci Revival restoration software. After this the rest is manual labor and we do not anticipate finishing before early spring. Sometime next year it should be available on DVD and hopefully also released on HD DVD. This film is beautiful and we hope the restoration effort will be enjoyed by many generations to come. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece The Original Story of `The Postman Rings Twice'","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Gino Costa (Massimo Girotti) is a young and handsome drifter who arrives in a road bar. He meets the young, beautiful and unsatisfied wife Giovanna Bragana (Clara Calamai) and her old and fat husband Giuseppe Bragana (Juan de Landa), owners of the bar. He trades his mechanical skills by some food and lodging, and has an affair with Giovanna. They both decide to kill Giuseppe, forging a car accident. The relationship of them become affect by the feeling of guilty and the investigation of the police. This masterpiece ends in a tragic way. The noir and neo-realistic movie of Luchino Visconti is outstanding. This is the first time that I watch this version of `The Postman Always Rings Twice'. I loved the 1946 version with Lana Turner, and the 1981 version, where Jack Nicholson and Jessica Lange have one of the hottest sex scene in the history of the cinema, but this one is certainly the best. My vote is ten.     "},{"Title":"stark, gritty peek at life in italy  during wartime.","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  fascinating look at fascist italy and the people who carved out a  life under mussolini. street scenes and lifestyle glimpses alone are worth watching. combine this with a masterful plot and premier acting and you get a film that you will want to watch again . .. and maybe again.  "}{"Title":"A daring debut, fusing melodrama, film-noir, and a realistic approach later to flourish after the war...","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ossessione, adapted loosely by first time director Luchino Visconti, is no less outstanding with usage of mis-en-scene, music (both diegetic and non-diegetic), and the acting. I didn't know what to expect Visconti to do in his approach to the material, after seeing La Terra Trema and seeing how sometimes his political motivations snuck in a little bit. But this is a totally character and emotional based drama, bordering on melodrama (however, without the conventions that bog down lesser ones), and with the style in the finest path of the budding film-noir movement, Visconti creates a debut that's as involving as any other neo-realist film. Neo-realism, by the way, could rightfully be claimed as this being a forefather (along with De Sica's The Children Are Watching Us), which that would take shape after the war. Although love and romance is more in play here than in some of the more famous neo-realist efforts, it's dealt with in a bare-bones storytelling fashion, and it's laced with other familiar themes in neo-realism (the lower-class, death, desperation).Aside from the story, which is simply as it is described on this site, the artistry with which Visconti captures the images, and then layers them with objects (a shawl over Gino Costa's profile when in guilt), shadows and darkness that tend to overcome many of the later scenes in the film (usually over Gian and Giovanna), and the feel of the Italian streets in many of the exterior scenes. Domenico Scala and Aldo Tonti (who would lens some of Rossellini and Fellini's films) help in envisioning the look of Ossessione, which is usually moving in on a character, then pausing to read as much emotion on their faces, their voices and mannerisms lovely and ugly, sad and dark and romantic. I think I've just scratched the surface on how effective it was that the film itself was moving me along, even as I was in fear of the futures of the two leads. The two leads (Massimo Girotti and Clara Calamai) portray all the compelling, truthful, and near-operatic emotions, and the key supporting actors are also without their attributes. It's a brilliant, crushing adaptation, and it points as a striking signpost of what was to come for Visconti in his career. "},{"Title":"Traumatic but absorbing ride","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unhappy people in unhappy circumstances.  Gino is a drifter.  Not because he has no talent.  He is a lost soul looking for an undefined future and is determined to not be tied to anything until he finds his personal nirvana. Giovanna wants the security of being settled, but is unhappy with the man who made it possible.  She too, is a lost soul in search of an undefined future.  With only passion as a common denominator, they cast their lots with each other and start in motion a chain of events that brings none of the joys anticipated.Don't expect this movie to be a study of life in WWII Italy.  Though made during the war, it is never an issue. Indeed, with the prevalence of young men throughout the movie, it is more likely an image of pre-war Italy. And although some reviewers speak of subtle references to homosexuality, such is unnecessary in describing the Spaniard.  Identical scenes in American Westerns are understood to be simply friendship and the necessities of circumstance, i.e., one bed and two people in need of sleep.Every nuance of the movie hinges upon the passion of Gino and Giovanna, complicated by his desire to be going somewhere, anywhere, and her desire to remain settled.  It's a traumatic but absorbing ride, even with the distraction of reading sub-titles.  "},{"Title":"Masterpiece saved","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A masterful treatment of James Caine's The Postman Always Rings Twice as Luchino Visconti's first film shot primarily around Ferrara in a soulless war-torn Italy. The original negative was thought destroyed but Visconti saved a print and fortunately we can see this early neo-realist work today. A ruggedly handsome Massimo Girotti and Clara Calamai (who had recently revealed her breasts in La Cena delle beffe (1941), star as the sensually-charged and ill-fated lovers who plot to kill her husband. Unusual ending in which, although crime does not pay, one pays in a way not directly linked to the crime. Excellent direction, script, acting, and cinematography. Reportedly not as good as the French Le Dernier tournant' (1939) but probably better than the US version (1946) featuring Lana Turner and John Garfield in the lead roles. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Another ITALIAN FILM MASTERPIECE!!","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  TCM  is keeping me awake all the time... they keep coming up with films Ive never heard of  ... Senso.... now  Ossessione... a very early film by Visconti!!... wow... the Italian version of The Postman Always Rings Twice...brilliant!!  beautifully acted  and directed ...Never heard of either leads  who were excellent, Clara Calamai,as Giovanna, and especially, Massimo Girotti as Gino... what a sensual man  !!  more muscular and attractive than anyone else on the screen in 1943!!!  His look was ahead of its time...many male stars from the 1950s were probably inspired by him... he should have been a major world wide star!! The film is much better than the Jack Nicholson/Jessica Lange version and less glossier than the MGM version (which I really like)  with John Garfield and Lana Turner  remember that white outfit ? who can forget.... This Italian version is different ..more realistic  and with a very different ending... see it  watch it...Im going to buy it !! "},{"Title":"Music for the eye and ear","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" To get in touch with the beauty of this film pay close attention to the sound track, not only the music, but the way all sounds help to weave the imagery. How beautifully the opening scene leading to the expulsion of Gino establishes the theme of moral ambiguity! Note the way music introduces the characters as we are led inside Giovanna's marriage. Don't expect to find much here of the political life of Italy in 1943. That's not what this is about. On the other hand, if you are susceptible to the music of images and sounds, you will be led into a word that reaches beyond neo-realism. By the end of the film we there are moments Antonioni-like landscape that has more to do with the inner life of the characters than with real places. This is one of my favorite Visconti films. "},{"Title":"Crime and Repentance - A Socialist's Point of View","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A deplorable social condition triggers off the catastrophe An impoverished Giovanna has ended up in the gutter, but still has an ace up her sleeve beauty and youth. Bragana, a fat-bellied gas station tenant, who has been getting on in years, picks her up from the street and offers her bed and home together with his clumsy affection. But the physical contact that Giovanna is now exposed to only gives her feelings of disgust, and consequently she does not see a benefactor in him but a tormentor whom she has to get rid of.The arrival of Gino, a young migrant worker, finally provides her the longed-for opportunity. And you don't have to ask her twice At the very first encounter she gives him the feeling of being physically desired, and a little later she lets him seduce her without offering any resistance.The developping partnership has to submit to the strict rules drawn up by Giovanna though. Gino's yearning for freedom is suppressed, his desire to leave the place with Giovanna and start a new life far away from the fatso is pushed aside. Giovanna aims at another goal to get Bragana killed, to inherit and, in addition to that, to collect the insurance premium. In her hands Gino degenerates into a self-sacrificing tool. Being completely at the mercy of this woman he turns into a cold-blooded killer.But in contrast to Giovanna he questions the committed crime on a moral level. The very taking over of Bragana's place, which includes the sleeping in the bed of a dead man, causes a deep loathing of himself. And later, after he has found out about the forthcoming payment of the insurance money and seems to see through Giovanna's cunningly devised plan, he also executes a physical separation from his lover and finds comfort in the arms of a prostitute.If Visconti's film ended at this point, it could easily be classified as a condemnatory portrait of a cool, calculating and unscrupulous woman with a slight touch of social criticism.  But then the last sequences make this carefully built construct of ideas collapse. At last Giovanna feels remorseful about what she has done, and by the uncompromising revelation of her innermost feelings she succeeds in inflaming anew Gino's love. Her violent death by an absurd road accident then does not only leave him helpless at the mercy of an arbitrary fate. It also affects us, while we realize that none of the acting characters is to be made responsible for their disaster. The culprit is just the state of a society that determines the way of the individual unalterably right from the start. "},{"Title":"Some viewers still crazy about its magnetism and realism","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" When people nowadays hear of a 1940s drama, they usually appear to create a distance of irony claiming that it's another tearjerker with great stars in the lead of tragic, melancholic roles. This opinion, however, does not resemble Neorealist movies, in particular this one directed by Count Luchino Visconti. OSSESSIONE as his debut once censored and once cherished as nearly a realistic masterpiece is still loved by some people and strongly criticized by others. The contradictory opinions about the film that have appeared in these 65 years seem to have been caused by the content of the movie itself, exceptionally controversial for modern times as well as the past. At the same time, while being based on the novel by James M. Cain, THE POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS TWICE, it is one of the most genuine screen adaptations where director remains his own style, view, his own art. I have seen the film twice and the second viewing led me to very detailed analysis part of which I'd like to entail below.First, Visconti's movie seems to touch all psychology and actions that people may do in life, in particular those absorbed by desire. These people make such tragic decisions in spite of terrible consequences they are bound to face. Gino (Massimo Girotti) a traveler with bear like shoulders turns up at the crossroad of a motorway near Ferrara and enters the tavern. Although many people go there to have a meal, Gino occurs to get something more - much more the indefatigable desire of beautiful Giovanna (Clara Calamai) a woman already married to an elderly man who runs the bar, Mr Giuseppe Bragana (Juan De Landa). Her body and her song possess his mind totally and from the moment of their first love, the couple plan to get rid of the old obstacle and build up a new life together... However, are people bound to wrong deeds in face of desire? Can one build love upon murder? What is love and what is loyalty? Does desire lead to a dangerous addiction or even obsession? Such questions intensely arise while watching the movie, when, to the core, the viewer is supplied with an insight into characters. We have to love each other affectionately answers Giovanna seemingly giving a cure to all crying conscience but may desirous love justify and cure everything? Isn't it what we both wanted says one of the couple... it occurs that it's not. Therefore, the content of the film appears to be very dangerous if not analyzed with intellect and heart. Yet, it constantly remains thought provoking.Second, OSSESSIONE has a very strong point that talks to modern viewers brilliant moments and marvelous cinematography, which go in pair with memorable sequences and visual power. These make a modern viewer realize that a film made almost 70 years ago is absolutely entertaining to watch. They range from tasteful erotic images to purely technical shots. Who can possibly skip that moment in Ferrara where Gino meets a beautiful girl, a sort of Ragazza Perfetta (perfect girl), a dancer Anita and buys her ice cream. His desires show him totally different direction... Do viewers remain indifferent at Gino-Giovanna's first meeting? The first focus of camera is on Giovanna's legs seemingly representing carnal desire over love that Gino experiences. A marvel of shot is Gino and Giovanna leaving the investigation room and the closeup of their shadows that directs our attention towards their suspicious look.Third, OSSESSIONE can boast outstanding performances both from the leading pair as well as the supporting cast. Massimo Girotti once said in an interview that working in this movie had been one of the most difficult jobs he had ever done; yet, consequently, what comes out is a flawless acting. He portrays a bisexual man torn within desires who commits a crime but cannot stand any of the objects that remind him of his victim, which represents conscience. His bisexuality is indicated through the character of Lo Spagnolo (Elio Marcuzzo) whom he meets in very surprising circumstances in the train for Ancona. Clara Calamai, who was cast in the role after eminent Anna Magnani had refused, fits very well to the role and we may claim that there is a true chemistry between the couple. They are both very convincing. Besides, I liked Juan De Langa in the role of Bragana he portrays an old husband not affectionate to his wife and still crazy about high art. In some of his most witty moments, he asks his wife to wash his back or walks in the empty streets singing his favorite opera songs after sort of karaoke performance.In sum, we, as modern viewers who are capable of critical view, have to look at this film very objectively. It is art for sure thanks to the aspects aforementioned, it is a powerful story as well thanks to the controversy it carries; yet, is it educational? Visconti was not Fellini who said that he did not carry any message for humanity. In such case, his films would only entertain (which is, of course, not entirely Fellini's style, too). Visconti always had something to convey. What did he want to say here? Is the film against bad marriage? Or is it against wrong actions of people absorbed by desire? The final shocking moments say for themselves. Though you don't have to agree with the vision, OSSESSIONE is really a wonderfully realistic film, one of Visconti's best 8/10 "},{"Title":"The postman always rings best  in Italy","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" First thing to bear in mind is that it is the second version of Cain 's Postman always rings twice .The first version was French and made in 1939 by Pierre Chenal with satisfying -but not outstanding -results.Two American Versions were to follow Visconti's ,Tay Garnett's film starring John Garfield and Lana Turner being the best of the two ,in spite of Jack Nicholson's and Jessica Lange's talent.Luchino Visconti's ossessione beats them all.It features the best tramp,Massimo Girotti ,although John Garfield is a close second.Unlike the three other movies,it's not really a thriller,it's rather a psychological drama where James Cain's story often sounds as if it had been rewritten by Patricia Highsmith -which the presence of the gay Spanish man reinforces-.The lack of of picturesque in the depiction of Italian life predates Neorealism which officially began just after the war.Unlike Chenal's and Garnett's works ,you will not find here any suspensethe accident does not interest the director at all;nor the investigation.The movie deals with Gino's obsession first his desire for Giovanna ,then with his remorse when he hears and sees his victim everywhere in the house.It also depicts Giovanna 's obsession to live her passionate love while staying a respectable lady ,to stop being invited by men;and to a lesser degree Lo Spagnolo's  in a very short scene ,he lights a cigarette and his match lights Gino's body.Ossessione is a masterpiece of Italy's fascist years,at a time this country did not produce many great works.They say it shocked a lot of people. "},{"Title":"Doomed to unhappiness","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Gino, a wanderer, falls for Giovanna, who married an old man to free herself from a life of suffering and sacrifice. The two plan to run away but Giovanna is not ready for an uncertain future and prefers to let Gino go. Separated, they are unhappy the memories of the days spent together and the hope, collapsed, to freely live their love torment them. In Ancona, they find each other and they decide to simulate a car accident to get rid of Giovanna's husband. Happiness is a short step from them the plan works perfectly but the police still have serious suspicions. Giovanna convinces Gino to live in her home, but Gino is invaded by the memory of the man whom he has killed and can't forgive himself nor Giovanna, who tries to reestablish their relationship damaged by circumstances.Remorse and guilt have the better on Gino, who starts to question Giovanna's emotions for him and accuses her to have used him to take possession of her husband's life insurance. Gino desperately tries to start a new life but he knows he's tied to her. When Giovanna reveals to be pregnant, Gino spends a night wandering and, the next morning, he's ready to finally live happily with the woman he loves. The life they had taken away, is now given back to them.While they're running away, towards a new life and far away from the monsters of their past, they run off-track with the car. Giovanna doesn't survive the accident and Gino, reached by the police, is arrested.This is a tragic film that doesn't allow their protagonists to be happy and puts them in front of higher obstacles that lead them to their own destruction. Gino and Giovanna's love is nothing but their own curse. "},{"Title":"Earliest Attempt at Neo-Realism","Date":"2 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This Visconti film, based on an American pulp novel, is interesting largely due to the fact it is considered to be the first neo-realist piece. Indeed, Visconti well and truly transcends his dubious source material to create an innovative film that, to some degree, reflects the darkness, brutality and turmoil of Fascist Italy.Relying on minimal lighting, a small cast and a large amount of location shooting, a sense of realism is conveyed though, at times, this clashes with the melodrama of the sordid narrative. Also, at times, there is a threat that Visconti will veer into film noir territory though, thankfully, he never quite does so.The acting is solid though the character of the husband, a fat capitalist, is more of a caricature than anything else.Unfortunately, pacing problems ultimately undermine the story and any tension that may be building in the narrative dissipates due to the slow tempo.The bleak scenery of poverty-stricken rural towns and dock sides reflects the moral squalor of the characters and perhaps shows how one feeds on the other, with economic downturns leading to a break-up of the social fabric.Nevertheless, the brutally ironic conclusion reinforces the theme of the transience of life and how suddenly violent death can ensure.The music is suitably minimal and the acting is serviceable but ultimately the film lacks any kind of moral centre. Later neo-realism would rectify this shortcoming in the character of the young son in the Bicycle Thieves and the eponymous hero of Umberto D. but here Visconti presents a totally amoral world with only the largely characterless police representing a distant authority that can enforce any order. Perhaps rightly given the political circumstances under which the film was made, they are a remote, almost mechanical presence.Ultimately this is a strong film but one that is almost fatally undermined by its slow pacing. Still, most people will gain something of interest from it provided they do not expect a masterpiece of anywhere near the same calibre as the Bicycle Thieves. "}{"Title":"Exhibits all the hallmarks of early genius","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Visconti's first film has all his trademark visual flair and immaculate technique, accompanied by compelling performances from Massimo Girotti as the handsome drifter and, best of all, Clara Calamai as the fabulous, frantic Giovanna. Remade several times as 'The Postman Rings Twice' but never bettered. Can't believe this was the man's first film! It shows the confidence of someone at the zenith of their career. "},{"Title":"Of course I liked it","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ossessione, meaning Obsession, is based on James Cain novel The Postman Always Rings Twice, which is my namesake on IMDB, so it was a near guarantee that I was going to love this movie. I did. This film is full of everything that would get it banned in Italy in the 1940's passionate sex, brutal violence, tension and intrigue. It's a simple story and one that has been given the variation treatment throughout many Film Noir films, but things are not what they seem. Ah, marvelous! "},{"Title":"The postman rings twice in Italy, too!","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, I'd heard from somewhere that Ossessione is a precursor to the Italian film genre, and particular favourite of mine, the 'Giallo'...but actually, aside from the fact that this is a thriller that was made in Italy; the two have pretty much no relation. In the sixties and seventies, Italian film-makers would get themselves a reputation for ripping off just about every successful American film released. They've not done that here, but Ossessione does follow almost the exact same story as the later American film 'The Postman Always Rings Twice', without giving the book's author, James M. Cain, so much as a credit! Anyway, the plot focuses on Gino Costa, a handsome drifter who, by chance, stumbles upon a café where a woman named Giovanna Bragana works. He soon learns that she's married to Giuseppe; a big fat annoying man, whom Giovanna can't stand to have even touching her. He wants the pair of them to run away together, but she's not so keen on the idea. However, fate ends up intervening and her plan to have her husband murdered is successful...Despite the fact that the film loses some credibility for not crediting the author whose story it's based on, it has to be said that director Luchino Visconti implements the film noir style well, and in a way I even prefer the atmosphere of this film to some of the bigger American noir classics. The story is, as you would expect, extremely strong and the Visconti manages to pull good performances out of his cast. Visconti drags the film out a little bit too much, however, and with a running time of almost 135 minutes, I felt that the story was too thin to warrant this kind of length. I almost feel guilty for levelling all this criticism at Ossessione as it IS a good film, but it's not a 'great' film. The relationship between the two central characters is never really explored properly, and it seems like the film is keener to distract us from it rather than let us into the characters' heads. There's not much mystery to the plot as we pretty much always know what's going on, and by not always focusing on the characters themselves; the film is not as interesting as it could have been. Still, it makes for an interesting viewing and comes recommended for that reason...although it's not as good as the 1946 version of the same James M. Cain classic. "},{"Title":"A truly innovative","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" With such an encompassing and honest director at the helm, the film set off an entire new manner and means of production. A true harbinger and testament to the effectiveness of simplicity and sensitivity, a story of love and sadness, turns towards a larger question of dynamics and relations. Amidst the barren and dismal plains of a seemingly forgotten place, two people find each other and fight to hold onto each other. Effective camera work, true performances, contrast the works of the time, playing the power of down and stripping all lavish and outlandish methods of editing to focus on the language of blunt and direct shooting. He was ahead of all the others, and after this film, no other film would be made the same way. If anything, modern cinema is captured in this very work, even before the conclusion of an ongoing war that would further set off great changes. An historic piece in itself, aside from an invigorating and enticing story. "},{"Title":"Ossessione (Obsession)","Date":"3 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This Italian film is one I found in the 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die book, I obviously wouldn't have known about it otherwise, so I hoped for the best, directed by Luchino Visconti (Senso, Rocco and His Brothers, The Leopard). Basically Gino Costa (Massimo Girotti) is a young and handsome wandering tramp / drifter, he arrives by chance at a small roadside inn / restaurant and filling station, run by beautiful young Giovanna Bragana (Clara Calamai). Giovanna is in an unhappy marriage with the restaurant owner (Juan de Landa), a fat old man who she finds disgusting, she only married him for his money, and she is inside screaming when he touches her and desperate to get away. Gino initially leaves town, but unable to get Giovanna out of his mind he subsequently returns and they start a passionate affair together, she refuses to run away with him, but they conspire together to get rid of the husband. Gio and Giovanna work together and murder the husband, then attempt to live happily ever after, but Gino is haunted by guilt, and when the long arm of the law does come calling to disrupt the couple's lives, Gino is convicted of accidental death, despite ironically getting over the actual murder. Also starring Elio Marcuzzo as Giuseppe Tavolato - The Spaniard, Dhia Cristiani as Anita and Vittorio Duse as the Lorry Driver. The story is based on the book The Postman Always Rings Twice, and is full of interesting working class characters and drab settings, but this film was apparently so controversial it was banned by censors of Benito Mussolini, and fascists burned the negative, however the director managed to save a print, it has been credited as creating the Italian cinema movement of neorealism, it's a worthwhile drama. Good! "},{"Title":"An air of despair and forlornness hangs over every frame","Date":"16 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" My third VIsconti film. I don't think I would watch another one of his films in the near future.I prefer the American version of Cain's novel. That was a lot more dynamic and entertaining.Parts of Ossessione were overtly dramatic. The use of background score was very jarring at times. The many scenes of brutal realism were too long and boring. Visconti uses long shots for the desolate Italian countryside. I wasn't all that impressed by the animal lust (according to some reviewers) portrayed by the two characters .But if I was asked to list the positives, the performances were excellent. The characterization was fantastic - two tortured souls unable to find pleasure or happiness in any sort of environment. This aspect of the characters is foregrounded just after their first love making session when the female lets it out that she is never going to leave this place because it would mean more dinner invitations from strange men.An air of despair and forlornness hangs over every frame(especially towards the end). Visconti lays it on thick that these are doomed characters.The war-time Italy in this film is in direct contrast to the prosperous post-war one in Dino Risi's Il Sorpasso (1962). Both films had somewhat similar endings.i think its time for a temporary divorce between Visconti and me.(6/10) "},{"Title":"Much better than its Hollywood adaption","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A double-bill of two vintage films adapted from James M. Cain's 1934 novel THE POSTMAN ALWAYS RING TWICE, 1946's Hollywood B&W version and Visconti's groundbreaking debut in 1943, while intentionally evade the less-championed 1981 remake with Nicholson and Lange. The 1946 film, directed by the prolific journeyman Tay Garnett, is a less riveting Film-Noir compared to Billy Wilder's DOUBLE INDEMNITY (1944, 8/10), virulently extends the mismatch of the married couple Cora and Nick by casting the stunning beauty Lana Turner and the nondescript good fellow Cecil Kellaway, bar the gaping age difference, they don't belong together in any universe. The interloper is the shifty-looking drifter Frank (John Garfield), the unscrupulousness is all on his face, and driven by lust he falls for her at the first sight. But as the code of this specific genre, the evil thrust is almost inclusively kick-started by the female-fatale, I wanna be somebody!, as Cora contests, she is stuck in a miasma and Frank is the last straw. As the title suggests, there are two attempts of murder (poor Nick), after a botched first one, in order to facilitate the second one, the film hastily piles up all the stimulus, including a horrid one when Nick decides to wrap up their business and move back to his hometown in Canada, and wait for the worst part, Cora will be coerced to attend to Nick's bed-ridden sister. Nick must die, there is just no other way around. It is a cheap shot. After a fine touch with echoes, Nick is dispatched successfully, then the film spirals with its poorly contrived script including the cringe-making mediation of the justice system and the worst double-cross scam from the DA Mr. Sackett (Ames), who has been ominously introduced in the very beginning of the film. Yet, we must buy it and the two get away with the murder. (An honorable mention to Hume Cronyn's remarkable impersonation as the vile attorney). But wrongdoers can never be spared in the mainstream media at then, unexpectedly, one almost steps into the trap of a bolder and more wicked twist when they return to the beach and swim to their strength's extremity, however, it is only a bluff, the ending is more self-righteous and insignificantly self-serving. Right near the opening scenes, the glaring fake backgrounds almost haul me out of the context, some oldies are simply can not be taken too seriously with today's standards, thankfully, Lana Turner can pacify the sketchy slackness with her engrossing portrait of a woman at the end of her tether, she is good, but not in the same league as Stanwyck's excellence. By comparison OBSESSION, made 3 years before the Hollywood version, is an audacious maiden work which injects tremendous pathos into its two main roles with strenuous character- dissections assisted by onerous fieldwork. Visconti ditched its original title and transposed the story in a village near Ancona with authentic settings, an accepted trailblazer of Neorealismo movement and a tour-de-force of chiaroscuro finesse. A thirty-some Giovanna (Calamai) is the wife of a trattoria owner Giuseppe (the opera chanting Juan de Landa), distressed by Giuseppe's negligence and ill-treatment and disgusted by his obesity, her passion is instantaneously ignited when she meets Gino (a masculine-built and smoldering hot Girotti), a diddling young tramp in his 20s, they sleep together the very afternoon of the day, with a ballsy nuance, the advances are in fact instigated from the female part. For Gino, a mature and attractive woman is like an oasis in the desert, but he is much wiser (and more sensible) than Frank, when Giovanna bails on their elopement, he has the balls to leave her for good, gets going on with his fellow itinerant Lo Spagnolo The Spanish (a prematurely- deceased Elio Marcuzzo), this interlude is not in the novel, but Visconti never miss a chance to enhance the ambiguous rapport between men, and here, it has been teased out brilliantly with the side-by-side sitting which will appear again with a different undercurrent. But destiny has its own plans, Gino reunites with Giuseppe and Giovanna during a festival, and this time he has no strength to resist the temptation, after the festive cacophony, including a jolly episode of Giuseppe contests in a singing competition, en route to their trattoria, out of an act of passion, they fake a road accident and Giuseppe is killed. After that, without the distracting offshoots of courtroom drama and the conceited detectives or snooty lawyers, the film fixates on the aftermath where they have to live on with the consequences of their unforgivable deeds, especially for Gino, he is not the type of person who can hatch a murder scheme, he is seductive but never lethal. Yet, his love for Giovanna is too intense and it overpowers his soundness of judgment, Girotti proves he is not just a burly stallion, unlike Garfield, Gino's psychological fluctuations are potently presented, and his fling with a plain-looking prostitute Anita (Cristiani) indicates his unsophisticated nature.As for Giovanna, she is an ordinary wife who needs to break out her mundane life with a man she doesn't love, at the same time, she is afraid of uncertainty, especially under the WWII backwater, she should be content but she couldn't, especially when lust presides. Calamai is less glamorous but more impressive to exert her conversion from a sulky, manipulative housewife to a vulnerable and pitiful captive for the man she wholeheartedly loves. Their reconciliation is genuinely touching and the abrupt ending is much more plaintive and sob-inducing. There is alway a mixed feeling after a double bill because you cannot love or hate them equally, confessionally, Visconti's debut would not be so exceptional if I had not watched the Hollywood adaptation beforehand, peer comparison does have its direct effect, I should try it more often. "},{"Title":"The Italian 'The Postman Always Rings Twice'...","Date":"6 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've always enjoyed the story that spawned two Hollywood adaptations, largely laden with sex, written by James M Cain, both called The Postman Always Rings Twice'. The first film made of it was the French 'Le Dernier Tournament', in 1939.Luchino Visconti's debut feature, here, 'Ossessione' is accredited as being the first of the Italian 'Neorealism' movement. As is widely known, Mussolini's censors banned the film and the Fascists burned the original negative. Visconti saved a print from destruction and may explain why this transfer (the only one?) looks similar to films we usually associate with those of the mid-late 1920's, it being so poor.Not only grainy, it almost pops in and out of focus and has scratches permanently weaving over it. The film flickers with changing amounts of light. The sound isn't much better. Despite all these technical deficiencies it is always hugely watchable and ultimately enjoyable.Unlike those two Hollywood versions, that as I said were sexed-up, Visconti's PG certificate version is a lot more innocent and stops at kissing, which is still quite daring for its time. The rest of the story is filled up to its 140 minutes with Italian life, its people and culture, all vibrantly shot and revealed and so, marks a real contrast with the U.S versions.The three key actors, Massimo Girotti as the handsome drifter (later played by John Garfield & Jack Nicolson), Clara Calamai as the beautiful wife (later, by Lana Turner & Jessica Lange) and Juan de Landa, the husband (later Cecil Kellaway & John Colicos) - are all well cast and play their parts well.Apparently, it was the way that the working-class were portrayed, with loose morals that upset the Fascist censors. Thank goodness this didn't put off Visconti who later went on to make some of the most noted films in Italian film history, such as The Leopard and Death In Venice. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"31 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A beautiful couple. Ambiguous love story. Fat husband and proletarian Prince Charming. In fact, Luchino Visconti mark. Precise, deep and delicate. A film without definition. Not impressive, not great. Only a meditation about desire, feelings and music as axis of a life. About an Italy from many others, a way and sense of life. Measure of love and its ordinary price. So, it is not adaptation of a novel and not biography of a murder. It is a dusty tale of a man for who shadows are more important than rules of society. Map of a small and insignificant world. Nothing new, nothing special. Just long chain of victims. And classic music as window to a minimum sense of days. An experience and a break after powerful stories of Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Great unofficial version of the The Postman Always Rings Twice is perhaps a tad bit overlong.","Date":"8 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Oh, those sneaky Italians. It's not the first time they based a movie on source material without the permission or knowledge of the, in this case, author of the novel. Of course this is not something that is typically Italian but got done quite a lot in the early days of cinema, mostly because they often thought they would be able to get away with it. James M. Cain's publishers managed to keep this movie off American screens until 1976 but nevertheless the movie itself has grown a bit into a well known classic.The movie is not as great to watch as the 1946 American version but it's a great movie nevertheless. This of course not in the least is due to the movie it's great strong story, that is an intriguing one and provides the movie with some great characters and realism. It follows the novel quite closely and is therefore mostly the same as other movie versions of its story, with of course as a difference that it got set in an Italian environment.Leave it up to the Italians to make a movie about life and the real people in it. These early drama's always have a very realistic feeling over it and are therefore also quite involving to watch. Unfortunately the movie lost some of its power toward the end, when the movie started to feel a bit overlong and dragging in parts. The movie could had easily ended 15 minutes earlier.Nevertheless, I don't really have much else negative to say about this movie. It's simply a greatly made one, based on some equally great and strong source material. Quite an impressive directorial debut for Luchino Visconti, who continued to direct some many more great and memorable Italian dramatic movies.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"Catalyst for Neo-Realist Films","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Audiences today will probably watch a film like Ossessione and not really consider how unprecedented it was during the time when it came out. The structure of the film really divorces from sap-happy Hollywood conventions&#151;as well as other major theatrical elements. It relies more upon depicting reality in a very grim and sober light. Films of this nature&#151;the neo-realist films&#151;were made to reflect the darkness felt during post-World War II times. Ossessione tackles some fairly provocative issues that were probably unseen on screen prior to the war, including adultery, conspiracy, murder, pregnancy, etc. Aside from the one crane shot and certain musical swelling moments, the film aesthetic is very raw and gritty shot on-location, uses natural lighting and most likely non-popular actors. All of these elements helped convey the issues explored in the film, yielding the following theme Negative karmic repercussions will haunt those who deliberately act immorally.The two leads&#151;Gino and Giovanna&#151;are polar opposites, yet both carry the mentality we're bored and we want to be entertained. Gino is a drifter; a lone traveler who embraces life and its constant fluctuations. Giovanna is a bored house-wife cemented in the familiarly of marital permanence she doesn't want to leave her home and husband, but would rather remain where she is because it's safer. Gino's lifestyle represents the ideal lifestyle Giovanna craves; the only difference is that she's too afraid to live it herself&#151;that's why she falls in love with Gino he represents everything she wants but doesn't have the courage to get. She wants to live in a world free from the monotony of living with her corpulent husband&#151;Gino is the perfect ticket into that world. The affair that ensues between the two most likely left audiences back in the 40's feeling somewhat uneasy. I mean, films prior to the neo-realist age never showed such scandalous behavior on screen before. To say the least it was probably a bit alarming.In conjunction with the theme, the neo-realist style helps show the negative repercussions of adulterous behavior. Succinctly put, adulterous behavior (as shown in the film) leads to depressing and ultimately deadened lives. When Gino and Giovanna conspire with each other to eliminate Giovanna's husband, karma comes to haunt them like a plague after the deed is done. They return to their home the atmosphere is dark and biting (as can be expected from the neo-realist style). They are not happy; they're actually more depressed. They thought that by eliminating Giovanna's husband that they'd live happier lives, but they were duped. The film ends with Giovanna's death&#151;it being in karmic similitude of her husband's death. I think this is a very satisfying ending for several reasons. Here's why.There's a lot of talk as to whether or not evil should be depicted on screen, and if so, to what extent. I think depicting evil is very necessary if and only if the evil depicted is not being glorified, but rather shows what negative consequences evil actions have. As the subtext of Ossessione asks, is adultery and murder evil? I think the film eagerly responds yes! The adulterous behavior between the two reveals how unhappy they are. Ironically though, towards the end of the film when they seem to be healed of their depression and are seen basking in each other's arms inside the car, the author of the film shows that their happiness is, in fact, a façade the car crashes off the cliff and into the river, killing Giovanna; the police arrest Gino. I think it was the author's intention to say that even though people sometimes try and justify their immoral behavior, in the end karma will come back to haunt them. I agree. I think the two got what was coming to them because they both were incredibly selfish&#151;always wanting instant gratification and not willing to endure through hard times. This was especially made clear after the first sign of difficulty that Gino and Giovanna experience in their relationship he can't handle the pressure of living in Giovanna's husband shadow, so he leaves Giovanna and sleeps with another girl. Such is typical of the insatiable, hedonistic personality.All in all, the film seemed very risky for its time. The audience, however, was prepared to see such a film because of the sobriety the war brought. Those pre-war, happy-go-lucky films were no longer being believed. Movie-going audiences were ready to see and contemplate difficult films with complex characters they wanted to see characters whose lives were entangled in so-called 'sin' because it was a reflection of their own life problems. Ossessione, then, acts as a great catalyst for where the future of film was heading. That is, a lot of the naturalism pieces we see today can be said to have been influenced by the neo-realist film movement. "},{"Title":"Visconti's impressive debut","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Luchino Visconti's debut film, this Italian noir is generally credited with launching the Neorealist movement&#x97;well, it says so right on the back of the box&#x97;and is a sometimes penetrating, sometimes lugubrious portrait of lonesome individuals in moral flux. In Fascist Italy, an assortment of characters&#x97;including an ingenuous drifter who espouses Communist virtues&#x97;embody the remote desperations of a country searching for its identity from without, drifting phantasms longing for a soul. Although Visconti's compassion for the disenfranchised and his ability to express their lamentable conditions was already well-developed, the spider web of deceit here is too tenuous&#x97;Gino is so unhinged to begin with that his undoing seems less a matter of fate or manipulation than a self-fulfilling prophesy&#x97;the cosmic irony too didactic, the illicit relationship too strained with bathos. All the same, it's incisive and essential, although its actual impact on film history is certainly debatable. "},{"Title":"First version of Ruth Snyder-Judd Gray murder...","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Ruth Snyder - Judd Gray murder in 1927 inspired Ogden Nash to write a Broadway play called Machinal. More famously, it inspired James M. Cain to write two short novels which anyone who has actually reached the point where they are reading this review would be familiar with - Double Indemnity and The Postman Always Rings Twice. Both became film noir classics of the 1940's, Double Indemnity being arguably the most perfect noir ever made. Some of the real-life elements of the Snyder-Gray story were captured by Cain - the old age and indifference of Albert Gray, Ruth's high sex drive, Ruth and Judd's passionate affair and complicity in the murder and that famous double indemnity insurance clause. Missing elements included the fact that the actual setting was a very urban Manhattan - Albert Snyder being a respected newspaper editor. The numerous incompetent and failed attempts were also ignored in order to cut to the chase.Cain's Double Indemnity was filmed perfectly by Billy Wilder - let's ignore Stanwyck's ridiculous wig as one of those interesting accidents of film lore! The Postman Always Rings Twice, however, was filmed thrice and Ossessione, an Italian version and Luchino Visconti's first film, was the first of three versions. Before commenting on it, I'll recommend the Lana Turner - John Garfield version of 1946 in its entirety and five minutes of the 1981 Jack Nicholson - Jessica Lange version for the great sex scene on the dining table.Ossessione is not as noirish as The Postman Always Rings Twice. It has a strong neo-realist look which makes it a great movie, but a lot of the essential noir elements are missing. It does not have low-key lighting and unconventional camera angles. The dialog is not hard-boiled and instead the film concentrates more on characterization. This is the longest version of the story and goes deeply into characterization. Its also a lot more sexual than the Lana Turner version. We have a very obvious adulterous relationship and Giovanna is very obviously a nymphomaniac. A new character is introduced into the story - La Spagnola - with very obvious homosexual overtones. There is also a small, but very well-played role for a dancer who moonlights as a prostitute.This is a far greater study of the working class than of crime. The audience really gets the feeling of poverty and grime. The drifter is a complete tramp, the wife is no Lana Turner and may even have been a prostitute before marriage. Her husband is an obscene capitalist - obese, rude and arrogant. I think the casting was brilliant for this film. My only beef is with the overlong running time. Everything is drawn out too long and it would have been more effective if it had been more economical. Nevertheless, fans of noir and realism will definitely like Ossessione, as I did. "},{"Title":"the economy of articulation, editing time from a precise roll of images, in the cutting room","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched Ossessione (1943), dir. Luchino Visconti, black and white, 142 minutes. Last night. From reading a previous comment to IMDb, I know that the story was based on the James Cain Postman always rings twice, and I read that Camus used the Cain book as a basis for L'étranger.I don't know where this filming fits into the Italian neo-realism epoch, or era, perhaps it's a precursing spectacle, by a few years, but to my attention it was a successful show, because of the way that black and white `reads' in these colorized days and times. I wouldn't deny, or repulse!, a charge, of sympathies, growing partial to luddite jan-ass reflection, contrarian, even atavistic.Something about the crisp editing, especially articulate, perhaps due to the resource of precise images rolled on the original cutting negative, i.e. the physical source material for the articulation, was immensely engrossing to me.Another way to say this is, I understood the movement of this simple rendering of a few people in a social and economic context, and contest. No committees met behind closed dores for a collaboration of `unvarnished' agendas no unhelpful vicepresidential distortions of how to contain the truth in this production; the unvarnished truth was out (as in The stranger, too, it was never hiding!); of course, a committee did write the story, from the credits I've read.In this film, events happen like distinct, or perceptible chapters. The pages turn. (This modern day of color, on the other hand, presents such convolutions and metasubtleties of narrative or is it? that my linear brane can't follow the hip or heavy action --mea culpa, my conceptual failings due to beer probably, or my little native endowments).Anyway, the point of this airing is that I was directed to a considerationof devices, of `story line' (whether in a written piece, or a film), to assemble selected items that come forth into a full narrative(a plenitude, in the sense--the illusion, really--of seamless time)through a collaboration of `audience' and `actor', or reader and writer . .., even of dancer and dance, (to verge on a meta-something more contemporary)--the ingenuity that transports; and a production that understands,--the Gk. theatre rules against the presenting (or representing) murder on the stage before the very eyes paired with the audience-spectators seated semicircle on the stones in the amphitheatre.--The upshot of this musing being thatit's alarming what we read into the storyline, as it unrolls(Plato freeked about it and, just like a Republican, banned poets--in his ungruntled mind, at any rate);Visconti made a virtuoso (I would say, democratic) use of the collusion--that tacit dialectic of argument, on the silver screen and back onto the the individual's retinal pair of screens. The shadows from the videotape (that came out, in my t-viewing cave last night) were intelligible, and ******* . . . now, touching on the aspect of `time' in imaginative work, drama, narrative in film or in written words--(it is functional, active by a collusion--a con-spiring--of sender and receiver) and`time' as it worksin the specific movie Ossessione is not particularly special, in the Visconti cut I saw;is an aspect not at all deriving from self-conscious technique or editing--just a given kind of condition,having to get X amount done in EX amount of writing or recording--and so, the conventional aspect of time, here, is incidental to the film, as a pedestrian may move down the road, or cross the street.However--just to give my musing some substance, some little backing-up--by contrastconsider, Proust's researches into lost time there you have quite the other side of the coin(there the aspect, time, is of a weight the pedestrian wouldn't bear, as he walks down the black and white road).I think this will give you a fair prep, all in all, for having a look-see at a remarkable film. I trust I haven't given away any secrets. I study not to be a spoiler.  "},{"Title":"So very, very different from the Hollywood film","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a ripoff of James Cain's novel, THE POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS TWICE. Apparently, the director and producer never bothered to pay for rights to this story--perhaps the fact that we were in the middle of fighting the Italians in WWII might account for their forgetting to consider royalties! Despite this, the movie isn't really just an Italian version of the Hollywood movie. In some ways it's a lot better and in other ways, it is definitely not.The three central characters in this movie are really pretty ugly people. In fact, the male and female lovers are a bit icky-looking. The male lead is pretty ordinary except for his profuse body hair (particularly on the back and shoulders) and his lady love is, to put it frankly, unattractive. They are a very, very far cry from Lana Turner and John Garfield in the Hollywood version. And the ill-fated husband is really, really obese and loves to walk around shirtless--and his counterpart in the American film, Cecil Kellaway is definitely better looking (and probably better looking than the other two Italian leads, actually). And this unattractiveness is generally a reason I actually preferred the Italian film--since I just could NOT imagine a finely coiffed dish like Lana Turner in the middle of nowhere married to Kellaway--I am 100% sure she would have had dozens of better offers! Whereas, the Italian wife frankly might NOT have been able to do much better and this made the marriage actually believable.Part of the Italian film's believability comes from the blunt way it handles sex. The sanitized American film tries to make you believe that although Turner and Garfield kill Kellaway, they never actually get around to sex! This is pretty silly and totally unrealistic. In addition to the casual sexuality of the film, it's also pretty casual in showing the seamy side of life--with lots of sweaty people, a fly strip hanging over the kitchen table and everyone appeared to need a bath.The movie is also pretty fast-paced compared to the over-long American film. And what you get due to brevity isn't all good. The film lacks a lot of the style and polish of the American film--with grainier footage, relatively poor orchestration and sets. It sure ain't a pretty film, but the Neo-Realistic-like style makes the film seem more realistic. But it cannot make up for the short-cuts in the plot. Many of the plot elements in the later American version are either missing entirely or glossed over. And the ending seems a lot less interesting than the American film--and misses the entire human nature dilemma when Turner and Garfield turn on each other like rats (the best part of the American film).So which is the better film? Well, a lot of this probably depends on you. As for me, the Warner Brothers film was simply too polished and too unrealistic (though many like this style and may dislike watching films with subtitles)--but it packed a great ending. And the Italian film was much, much more realistic--until the crappy ending that seemed too rushed. So neither film is exactly great, but I'd give my nod to the Italian one being a bit better. It's too bad they couldn't have combined the best elements of both films into one exceptional film. "},{"Title":"Unauthorized and Overlong","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In this unauthorized adaptation of James Cain's The Postman Always Rings Twice, a drifter falls for the wife of the owner of a roadside inn and the two plot to murder him. While the 1946 Hollywood version of the book wisely focuses on the lovers, this Italian version includes subplots involving the drifter's friends that make it drag and go on much too long. Not helping matters is the poor quality of the print, which comes from Visconti himself after the original negative was destroyed. The flickering images make it look more like a silent film than one made in 1943. This is not a bad directorial debut for Visconti, but his screenplay is not only plagiarized but rambling. "}]