[{"Title":"Ugly duckling turns into a swan","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"70 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  At the height of WWII, Hollywood produced a lot of excellent melodramas. These were the vehicles the studios created for its stars of that era. It was either a Joan Crawford picture, or a Barbara Stanwyck, or a Bette Davis one, since their presence, bigger than life, was the only reason to bring these stories to the big screen.Take this one, for instance, under the direction of Irving Rapper. It had all the right elements, yet it was chaste enough to pass the censor. Undoubtedly, this movie owes a lot to the fantastic score by the talented Max Steiner who was a genius. Mr. Steiner's music plays the haunting melodies with such flair, we feel we are listening to a great symphonic work.The story, by today's standards wouldn't raise an eyebrow. At the time it came out, it was a different thing. After all, Jerry was a married man with a daughter and a situation that had no easy solution then. That makes Charlotte Vale suffer after she found her soul mate aboard the ship that served to free herself from a despotic mother.Bette Davis plays Charlotte to perfection. Her scenes with Paul Hendried lighting the two cigarettes is something to cherish by film fans. The chemistry that Bette Davis shared with her leading men was no small accomplishment. She was an actress that knew how to pull the heart strings of the general public. She had such a charisma and power to lose herself in all those strong women she played through the years. The transformation of the plain Charlotte to the smart woman, who embarks on a tour to begin a new life, is something out of a fairy tale, but Ms. Davis pulls it with great panache.The rest of the cast was excellent. Claude Rains, Gladys Cooper, Bonita Granville, Ilka Chase! They only come once in a lifetime. No one in present day Hollywood comes near to that. It was perfection. "},{"Title":"Wonderful on DVD","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"72 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this wonderful film in the early 1960's on television - made in 1941 is seemed old fashioned, slightly stilted and truly from another time.Later on in the seventies and eighties I'd watch the occasional late nite re-run on TV and it just seemed camp.In the nineties I bought the video - something to keep. A little bit of cinema history.Last week I bought Now Voyager on DVD and was completely blown away!Perhaps it's because I know the story so well, but I was able to appreciate the movie on several different levels such as cinematography, direction and editing.Bette Davis was always the prime reason for watching but I never realized what a fine naturalistic actor Claude Raines was. His scenes with Bette Davis exude intelligence and warmth.I stopped to consider what a 2004 remake might look like - who could play the leads? Who would direct? What would the score be like?With no disrespect to anyone in the movie industry, I don't think a remake would ever be possible.The actors and technicians on this movie were truly masters of their craft.I defy anyone who watches the first ten minutes not to be hooked until the closing credits.  "},{"Title":"Now, Voyager -An Excellent Expedition","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"66 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After seeing this great film, I realized that not every mother wants the best for her children.Gladys Cooper gave a brilliant performance as the outrageously domineering mother. Her best supporting actress nomination was well deserved. It's a pity she lost the coveted award to Teresa Wright, the tragic daughter-in-law in Mrs. Miniver. Obviously, Oscar voters could not bring themselves to vote for such a wicked mother that Cooper portrayed. (The following year Cooper gave another brilliant performance as the wretched nun in Song of Bernadette. She lost the Oscar because who would vote for a vicious nun?)No words are adequate to describe the outstanding Bette Davis performance in this film. Sorry, Greer Garson, Bette deserved this Oscar as she did so many. Her change from a hopelessly-drawn spinster to a ravishing beauty with all its torment can never be forgotten. Thank you Claude Rains for your excellent portrayal of the psychiatrist. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Soap-Opera Filled with Subtext.","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"63 out of 92 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" How many people can relate to Charlotte Vale? Many, for I'd assume it'd be hard-pressed for anyone not to at one point in their life gone through a period of dejection, rejection, and evolve until finally the inner self comes out shining.And what a character evolution this is. Charlotte Vale, played expertly and with fantastic repression hiding an enormous passion and will to live by the great Bette Davis as a woman who's life has been all but destroyed by her domineering, selfish mother (Gladys Cooper) until she meets kind Dr. Jasquith, a psychiatrist (Claude Rains) who makes her take the first steps to recovery. A physical transformation ensues from dowdy to chic, and on a cruise -- temporarily posing as Ms. Beauchamp -- she meets Jerry Durrance (elegant, smoldering Paul Henreid with sad eyes that virtually talk) with whom she begins a tentative acquaintance with that turns to love. Once home and deciding on an independent life away from her mother she takes on a younger version of herself, Tina, played poignantly by Janis Wilson, whom Charlotte learns is none other than Jerry's daughter. Nevertheless, Charlotte tutors Tina back to mental health, and even while she rejects the marriage of a certain convenience to Elliot Livingston (John Loder) since she cannot forget Jerry, she decides to remain independent despite of the hinted possibility of not fulfilling her affair with him at the end. The last scene, with Henreid and Davis gazing into each other's eyes as he lights up a cigarette for the both of them, and Davis' last line, Don't let's ask for the moon -- we have the stars, is cinematic romance at its finest.Irving Rapper, one of Hollywood's gay directors, could not have made a gayer film than this and my view is not controversial Hollywood did not allow overt films about homosexuality back then, unless the man was a fop and a much secondary character meant to be the butt of fag jokes. Writers and directors alike decided to somehow incorporate a gay element without making it clear off the bat and devised stories that were strongly symbolic in nature. And while Olivia Higgins Prouty's novel was not intended to be interpreted as such, her quoting of Walt Whitman's Now voyager, sail forth to seek and find is interesting when Whitman himself was homosexual. Plus, the added element of Charlotte Vale's damaged persona by her mother who forced her into total repression -- something very close to many gay men and women -- and her ultimate transformation into a complete person due to her inner strength has also been a recurring gay theme.But despite this view, the fact remains that NOW VOYAGER is a consummate woman's picture, a superior weepie that hasn't aged due to its themes of mental cruelty within family members and one person's quiet courage to take on the world and resume her own sense of identity despite years of baggage. Another version of parental abuse would re-surface as the Mexican drama LIKE WATER FOR CHOCOLATE but aside from the mother-daughter relationship, the stories are completely different even in tone and cultural values.Bette Davis received another Oscar nod for her role here as did Gladys Cooper, but the entire cast lends good support, from Ilka Chase and Bonita Granville as Charlotte's cousins down to Mary Wickes in a small yet funny role as a nurse tending to a bed-ridden Cooper and being a small agent in allowing Davis' Vale to go on with her life. "},{"Title":"excellent film with excellent ensemble","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"46 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In the 1942 screen adaptation of the 1941 bestseller by Olive Higgins-Prouty, Bette Davis and Paul Henreid provide excellent, subtle performances as Charlotte Vale (self-described Spinster Aunt) and J.D. (Jerry) Durrance, the married man she meets, befriends, and with whom she falls in love on a cruise following a transformative stay at the Vermont Sanatorium operated by Dr. Jaquith (Claude Rains). Reviewers often speak of the themes of self-sacrifice and relate it to the war, which would have been an attractive reason to make the film, but the reality was that the novel was a popular best-seller, Higgins-Prouty's earlier novel, Stella Dallas, was also a popular film (and later a radio series), and the studio stood to do well financially if the movie turned out well. Hal Wallis' deft hand as producer is seen here, especially in his choice of Orry Kelly as costume designer for Bette Davis. He and the studio worked within the limits of censors' requirements, which indicated that there could be no intimation that the two main characters had sex (which was implicit in the novel but never explicitly stated, where the behavior between the two in the love scenes were generally glossed over most of the time), and that they could not share the same blanket in the scene where they are in a hut on a Brazilian mountain, stranded. They also had to change locales for the story, because the novel had the sea voyage set in and around Italy, Gibralter, etc. In spite of any restrictions placed on the filmmakers and actors, the film followed the novel very closely, especially with respect to dialogue. The big point of contention has always been who invented the two-cigarette lighting gesture that Paul Henreid became famous for later? According to some, George Brent and Bette Davis did something similar earlier in another film, and according to Paul Henreid and Bette Davis, there was a cigarette exchange ritual in the script which was sort of awkward, so they improvised based on Paul Henreid's experience with his wife on car trips. The latter seems likely, as there was a cigarette-exchange ritual in the novel (Jerry would give Charlotte a cigarette, lighting hers and then his own on one match, and then they would exchange cigarettes with each other so that Charlotte smoked the one that had been in Jerry's mouth and vice versa), which would have been slightly awkward in practice.All in all, this is a truly excellent film with great production values, true to the novel on which it was based, and a wonderful ensemble cast. "},{"Title":"Bette Davis Transforms into a Raving Beauty","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"38 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Now, Voyager is arguably one of the best of all motion pictures by Bette Davis. As Charlotte Vale, a rich Bostonian smothered by a mother who had her late in life, Davis plays a frumpy, low-esteemed, near recluse of a woman. That is, until her cousin intervenes by bringing a psychiatrist, Dr. Jacquith (Claude Rains) into Miss Vale's life.Miss Vale's cousin and shrink conspire to bring her out of the steel shell her domineering mother (Gladys Cooper) has encased her within. Their idea is to send her on a cruise with the doctor's advice to learn everything, do everything, engage everyone. The results are a remarkable transformation of a woman who believed she was an 'ugly duckling' into Miss Bette Davis as a sizzling hot beauty like she never was before or after in any other film.How Miss Davis didn't view herself as a beauty or use her beauty to create her success as an actress is what Now, Voyager, proves is most remarkable about her 66 year long acting career. If she had wanted to be a bombshell, she could have, two snaps up. Davis didn't want to be a movie star, or glamor girl. She wanted to be a great actor and achieved her life's goal. Not only did she make her career using acting skill and shrewd business finesse, Bette Davis also made quite a few other people's acting careers work well for them by taking a back seat in films with her role having a weaker script. Thus, as co-actors they could collaborate to make out of an average screenplay a screen hit and a new acting star. Davis was so unselfish an actor that she was in the acting business to benefit the art. That's why she's my favorite actor of all time she was so self-assured as an actor in a man's world (in the 20th century), that her ego didn't get in the way of making truly great movies with co-actors with whom she worked with as a team player. Now, Voyage, is one such film. Clearly, she steals the show, but she takes Paul Heinried (love interest, Jerry) right next to her, conjoined at the hip. What a delight it must have been to work with a true artist who was a great expert at her craft.Bogie & Bergman in Casablanca, don't have one thing over Davis & Heinreid in Now, Voyager, when it comes to the most intense, well acted, extremely well scripted romantic drama that has it all. Davis is glamorous beyond compare and Heinreid is a smooth, sensuous, suitor.This is my favorite of all of her motion pictures (at least I believe I own and have seen them all). How anyone could say that Bette Davis wasn't a raving beauty after they saw her in this film is beyond me. Not only does Jerry fall madly in love with Charlotte, so does audience after audience, generation after generation.There's much more to this great story, but I'm not telling! Buy the DVD. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film Honors Women's Hearts and Lives","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Look. I *love* Now Voyager. I don't love it as a guilty pleasure, or as camp, or as an example of film-making from the Golden Age of Hollywood. I don't love it as a soap opera or as example of the long lost genre, the theatrical-release, big budget, woman's picture. I love Now Voyager as a movie. Now Voyager's quality could stand comparison with any great film out there.Plot Charlotte Vale (Bette Davis), the psychologically abused child of a sadistic iceberg of a wealthy, Boston Brahmin mother (Gladys Cooper), thanks to the intervention of a compassionate sister-in-law (Ilka Chase) is packed off to a posh asylum, where Dr. Jaquith (Claude Rains) restores her to well being.Charlotte loses weight, loses her glasses, and receives tutoring in how to dress and carry herself. Superficially quite the glamor puss, she goes on a cruise and charms Jerry Durrance (Paul Henreid) an unhappily married architect.Circumstance intervenes and Jerry and Charlotte enjoy a brief affair. As time goes on, they make some heart-wrenching decisions about how to handle their adulterous love; along the way, Charlotte forms an important bond with Tina, Jerry's daughter, whose mother does not love her.The screen is full of women's bodies, women's voices, women's choices, and women's lives. There are old women, middle aged women, and young women. There are good and bad women in every class. For example, while Tina is the sweet but unattractive and lost young woman, Bonita Granville, as June Vale, is a pretty, blonde, young b----. The scenes in which June, without censure from any quarter, uses her youth and prettiness to torment her pathetic spinster aunt are terrific, honest, and cruel.The plot is built around the issues of which women's lives are built their relationships with their mothers, or mother figures, both good and evil; how the world treats women based on how women look; women's competitions with, and support of, other women; what women do to survive economically and emotionally.The scenes between Charlotte and Tina are stunning in their sensuality. Tina, the daughter-surrogate, and Charlotte, the mother-figure, cling to each other in bed at night, and while sleeping under the stars on a camping trip; Tina sobs tears that wet her face; Charlotte strokes Tina's hair, and Tina clings to Charlotte's bosom.The simple message here is how incredibly important parenting is in the lives of both children and mothers, and how a person who has suffered -- Charlotte -- can often be a better person than those who have had it easier -- Mrs. Vale and June, and how having been handed a life that denies you love doesn't make it impossible for you to go out and find love on your own, to create your own family.Mrs. Vale is one of the most naked depictions of a child abusing mother ever committed to the screen. No, there are no graphic scenes of abuse, but the film never lets you believe that this woman is anything but a nightmare who damaged her child for life while the world let her get away with it because of her money.Again, the abuse is not graphic, but it is made certain. In one brilliant scene, Charlotte has returned to her mother's house after being out in the world and, for the first time in her life, experiencing some affection, joy, and confidence.Charlotte speaks in her new voice, a voice of self possession. But she is trying to be nice to her mother, and her voice quavers a bit, without losing its ground.Charlotte is out of camera range; we hear her, but do not see her. Her mother's back is to the camera. She is motionless -- except for her bejeweled, claw-like hand, which taps rhythmically against a carved bed post. One thinks of a cat waiting to pounce. One realizes that all that is going through Mrs. Vale's head is, How do I destroy her this time? That motion alone renders the scene both chilling and telling.Charlotte's love affair with Jerry Durrance is equally complex. This is no soap opera as some reviews here dismiss it as. Viewers are so caught up with Jerry's (Henreid's) trick of lighting two cigarettes at once that they miss the depth, power, and complexity of this relationship.Now Voyager gives us a terribly convincing portrait of two people who really love each other, and whose love is apparently doomed. Jerry is a superficially charming, nice guy whose unhappy marriage has given him reason to see beneath the surfaces of life; he's no rocket scientist, though, so he's not as smart as he could be. He is attracted to a superficially glamorous woman whose secret past as an ugly duckling and abused child gives her a hidden side. For both, society demands that they present a pleasant facade, but pain has caused them to develop in ways that many people never do. Their love is real.Jerry is deep enough to be attracted, but not deep enough to realize, as soon as he might, how much his acting on his attraction could potentially devastate Charlotte, a woman whose hold on her life is tenuous, at best.Whether their love can ever be realized, or whether it would continue to grow outside of the confines of an adulterous affair begun on a cruise ship and consummated after the most outlandish interventions of fate on a mountain road, is a question viewers can still debate to this day. What is clear is that this love is real, and its stakes are terribly high. Charlotte's whole life hangs in the balance here, no less so than a Scorcese hero's life hangs in the balance given how he handles his weapon.Claude Rains is solid as Charlotte's best hope at the beginning, and, perhaps, also at the end of the movie.. "},{"Title":"Not A Fan Of Soaps, But I Like This!","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"40 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was surprisingly good. I say surprising because I am not a man who likes soap operas and that's what I expected here from everything I had read about this film. The only reason I obtained it was that it was part of a 3-pack Bette Davis collection and I wanted a DVD of The Letter.Well, this turned out to be a very interesting and gratifying story. No, I still didn't like the corny - and adulterous (which Hollywood loves to glamorize) - love affair between Davis and married man Paul Henreid. However, I did enjoy the ugly duckling-turned-beauty story that featured Davis tolerating her nasty mother and then using her experiences to help another young lady who was suffering from a similar inferiority complex.Gladys Cooper was outstanding as the irritating, brutal mother. Janis Wilson was the young girl helped in the end by Davis. Wilson overacts something fierce but the message is so nice and the sentimentality so caring that you put up with the kid's performance.Claude Raines also was likable as the psychologist. He had a number of good lines in this film. The movie was nicely filmed and looks particularly good on the DVD transfer with attractive grays completing the black-and-white. "},{"Title":"Greatest Love Story of the 1940's","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" From frumpy momma's unwanted adult child to liberated raving beauty, Davis is in her element in every scene. With Paul Henreid & Claude Rains, Gladys Cooper & a spot-on supporting cast, Voyager... is, hands down, best love story I believe I've ever seen.Of course, taste in romances has everything to do with what a viewer finds great. I don't like phony, fantasy, goofy romantic shows at all. Voyager... has a gritty plot that reveals the kind of love between unrequited lovers that's worth sacrificing oneself for.Davis' wardrobe is as fabulous in this movie as it is in Deception, (also co-starring Claude Rains & Paul Henreid). Perhaps having both of them in both shows is what produced the mastery of all the elements in both movies. Though Deception is also a love story, Claude Rains coming seriously close to stealing the show from Davis.In Voyager... the characters are much more egalitarian. The balance of love & despise is what makes the movies so intriguing. Davis should have taken an Oscar home for her leading role. "},{"Title":"You didn't want me to be born!...It's been nothing but a calamity on both sides.","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"25 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  On paper, the plot of Now, Voyager sounds too ridiculous to be played straight. And yet, despite its soap opera origins, this is a work of beauty and artistry largely because of the magnificent lead performance by Bette Davis, but also because of Irving Rapper's sensitive direction and the first class production values. Even just twenty years later, the same material would come out as hopelessly camp (imagine, if you will, what would have happened if this had been shot in lurid 1959 Technicolor, starring Susan Hayward or, worse yet, Lana Turner). POSSIBLE SPOILERS IN PLOT SUMMARY Davis is Charlotte Vale, a repressed Boston spinster (MISS Charlotte Vale, as her hellish mother would sneer) under the complete control of her iron-fisted mother (Gladys Cooper in an unforgettable performance). With the aid of a renowned psychiatrist, Dr. Jacquith (Claude Rains), Charlotte transforms into a sophisticated-looking woman, but she remains insecure and shy. Jacquith sends her off on a restorative cruise to Brazil with an admonition from Walt Whitman Now, voyager...set ye forth to seek and find. What she finds is unconditional love in the form of a married man, Jerry (Paul Henreid), who is touched by Charlotte's plight and helps her to blossom even further. Knowing their love affair is impossible, Charlotte and Jerry vow to never see or speak to each other again once their vacation is over. At last having known what it is to love and be loved, Charlotte returns home and, for the first time, stands up to her mother and begins creating a new life for herself. Some time later, she accidentally meets Jerry's adolescent daughter Tina (the excellent Janis Wilson), who is the very picture of a 13-year-old, frightened, repressed Charlotte Vale. Charlotte then finds a new purpose in life helping Tina out of her shell, just as Jerry had helped Charlotte. END SUMMARY/SPOILERS. Clearly, the plot teetered dangerously close to bathos. And, in today's quest for realism, this film could never survive a contemporary telling. But the actors so believe in it, so does the audience. In spite of the properly lush Max Steiner score, in spite of the grand Hollywood style, in spite of the operatic silliness of some of the plot devices, the end result is never less than convincing. At the heart of it, of course, is Bette Davis, in perhaps her finest, most restrained performance ever. Never once does she ham it up; and the material practically invites overacting. Yes, the performances and dialogue are stylized, but this is what MOVIES are all about. It treads a fine line between fantasy and honesty; you never once forget that you're watching a movie (which is a high compliment in my book), and it's all so artfully done, you believe (wish?) that real life is truly like it. Even in 1942, that was a rare feat--and impossible today.  "}{"Title":"The Great Quest","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Bette Davis plays Charlotte Vale, an unmarried and very unhappy plain-Jane who lives with, and is under the emotional control of, her wealthy, domineering, matriarchal mother (Gladys Cooper). Help for Charlotte arrives in the person of Dr. Jaquith (Claude Rains), who suggests a different living environment, and eventually a new direction in life. Charlotte thus sets out on a voyage of discovery, or quest, to find herself and her potential for happiness and love.The film starts off Gothic, but gradually translates to a love story with lots of twists and turns. The underlying premise is sound, but the plot is overwrought, drawn out, and talky. Small sections of the film's middle section could have been expunged, to tighten the plot. And the dialogue could have been reduced in places, which would have rendered a film of even greater impact. Nevertheless, the film still tells a great story.The B&W cinematography ranges from good to excellent. In one scene, special effects create an image wherein Charlotte's eyes overlap her mother's face. It is a visually stunning image, and it wonderfully captures the film's timeless theme, the painful process whereby a grown child must confront an overbearing parent, if that child is to grow and gain adult independence.The film's costumes are interesting. And Max Steiner's original score adds emotional texture to the story. But it is the acting that really makes this film a classic. Except for her work in All About Eve, Bette Davis gives as good a performance here as in any film of hers that I have seen. Claude Rains and Paul Henreid are good in support roles. And the never smiling Gladys Cooper is stunningly effective as the matron saint of outdated Victorian Puritanism.Despite its cryptic title, taken from a poem by Walt Whitman, this film presents viewers with a story that most people can identify with, in one way or another. Now, Voyager transcends its hyperbolic working script, and compels attention through its cinematography, its music, and especially the acting of Gladys Cooper and Bette Davis. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"23 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is what great film making is all about. Everything comes together in this classic movie, and Bette never looked more beautiful decked out in fabulous 1940's clothes designed by Orry-Kelly. Most everyone can relate to the downtrodden Charlotte Vale under the viscous thumb of her selfish mother. And who doesn't stand up and cheer when Charlotte defies her mother, finds love and starts to live her own life? Bette's performance is subdued, and there's no chewing up the scenery here because it's a great script that needs little enhancement. Filled with great lines and classic scenes, this is one film that every true classic film lover needs in their collection.  "},{"Title":"Classic 'Chick Flick' Improves with Age!","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Now, Voyager is, perhaps, the 'perfect' soap opera, an Ugly Duckling romantic drama offering full measures of heart and heartbreak, joy and unrequited yet spiritually satisfying love. It is my favorite Bette Davis film, as it exemplifies her classic '40s persona; initially fragile but ready to bloom, she, is, ultimately, a survivor who, facing her destiny, embraces it with courage and confidence.It's hard to believe that Davis, Warner's biggest female star, had to fight for the role of Charlotte Vale, but Olive Higgins Prouty's best-selling novel was such a strong potential star vehicle that a wide array of actresses, from Irene Dunne to Ginger Rogers, campaigned for the part. Davis was undaunted, however, and after meetings with producer Hal Wallis, succeeded in winning him over, then pressured the studio into borrowing Paul Henreid from RKO, as her leading man. The potent chemistry between the pair is a highlight of the film; who can forget the scenes of his lighting two cigarettes in his mouth, then handing one to Bette? As brilliant as her performance is (earning her an Oscar nomination), the rest of the cast is equally good. Headed by Oscar nominee Gladys Cooper, as her selfish, dominating mother, and Claude Rains, as the brilliant, yet down-to-earth psychiatrist who turns the frumpy Vale into a radiant beauty, the characters mesh together seamlessly. Two supporting characters deserve special attention; Janis Wilson, as Henreid's love-starved daughter, succeeds as a younger variation of Davis; and young Mary Wickes, great fun as a plain-speaking, wise nurse, unafraid of the Dowager mother.This is a film to cherish, from director Irving Rapper's masterful use of voice-over 'thoughts' of Vale, to Max Steiner's famous, wildly romantic score.While Now, Voyager is, unabashedly, a 'Chick Flick', don't be surprised, female viewers, if the guy in your life becomes as big a fan of the film as you...Davis is the kind of heroine EVERYONE can cheer for! "},{"Title":"My Alltime favourite film . . well one of my top ten anyway","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is an excellant Bette Davis film, it puts the term vehicle beyond the normal usage of the term. Bette shines as both the repressed and neurotic spinster and the worldly sophisticated woman she then becomes. It is a film that transgresses the decades since it was made and speaks to women of all ages.My favourate quote of Paul Heinreid (he looks like his idea of fun would be to find a nice damp grave and sit in it) is turned around and he actually portrays a sympathetic character.Claude Rains is a sexy (yes thats right I do find the guy sexy) psychiatrist who puts her back together again.the plot is great the dialogue excellant and my favourite last line is the message on my mobile (slightly changed to fit the letters allowed).It is a film for all to watch when stressed or depressed, it also works great with chocolates wine and tissues.Watch this and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Repression, Rejection and Love","Date":"31 December 2012","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In Boston, the fat spinster Charlotte Vale (Bette Davis) is a repressed woman without self-esteem and completely dominated by her wealthy mother Mrs. Henry Vale (Gladys Cooper). When her sister-in-law Lisa Vale (Ilka Chase) brings the renowned psychiatrist Dr. Jaquith (Claude Rains), who is her friend, to visit Charlotte, he invites her to spend sometime in his sanatorium. Soon Charlotte transforms in a sophisticated and confident woman and travels in a cruise to South America. She meets the architect Jerry Durrance (Paul Henreid), who is married, and they have a love affair in Rio de Janeiro. Six months later, she returns home and confronts his mother with her independence and own free will. One day, Charlotte has an argument with her mother and she dies of a heart attack. Charlotte becomes the heir of the Vale's fortune but she feels guilty for the death of her mother.She decides to return to Dr. Jaquith's sanatorium where she befriends Tina (Janis Wilson), who is the twelve-year-old daughter of Jerry rejected by her mother. She brings the girl to her house in Boston and one day, Jerry visits Tina and Charlotte with Dr. Jaquith.Now, Voyager is a melodrama with the story of a repressed spinster that become self-confident after a medical treatment and finds love with a married man in a travel to South America. The plot is a soap-opera, supported by magnificent performances, great quotes and wonderful music score. The Brazilian taxi driver speaking Portuguese is a funny Hollywood stereotype. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Not Available "},{"Title":"Timeless film captures timeless feelings","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is the classic wish fulfillment film. I believe everyone goes through problems like Charlotte Vale does at some point in their lives. To me it is the most unusual romantic film Warner Brothers ever made. Though I am a man, this film spoke to me in ways few others have ever done. I believe Dr. Jacquith (Claude Rains) describes it best when he talks about how he views psychiatry. I am sorry, I am paraphrasing. People walk along the road. They come to a fork, they become confused. I put up a sign, no, not that way, this way. While some people have said that Bette Davis' look is overdone in the beginning of the movie, I believe it was necessary to show the transformation, and also to show what harm mental abuse can cause. While Paul Henried is perhaps a little overdone as Jerry, he too is necessary to show that love can come in unexpected ways an not all stories end neatly. I think he is much better in this film than in Casablanca. All in all, A beautifully realized portrait of how love can make people believe in themselves. "},{"Title":"The moon and the stars rolled into one!","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Now, Voyager tells the story of a young woman &#150; a classic ugly duckling &#150; trapped by a domineering mother &#150; come out of her shell and finds happiness. I'd heard of this movie before but I didn't really know what it was about, nor take any interest in it until I was browsing through TCM and found it was on. Charlotte (Bette Davis), at the start, is completely unrecognizable as the ugly duckling. You really have to feel for her &#150; cooped up in that house, her Mother telling her what to read, who to see, what to do. It is a very compelling, moving performance by Davis and is a credit to her talent. You can really feel the despair she is feeling and you want her to be free and turn into that beautiful swan. I think that's an essential part of this movie (as it is any other movie) &#150; you have to feel for the characters so you stay to see what happens to them. The romance between Charlotte and Jerry is beautifully done. Jerry feels obliged to stay with his wife (a tribute to his character), even though she torments his young daughter. After Charlotte goes back to the sanitarium (were Charlotte originally found mental stability and helped get her out of her shell), she meets Jerry's daughter and befriends her. Charlotte knows exactly how she feels and they share a bond. Watching them run around and do different activities warms your heart.Now, Voyager is a movie that shows you many emotions hope, joy, sadness, freedom, love, happiness, sorrow, frustration&#133; and you will experience these as you watch this movie. It's a brilliant, beautiful movie &#150; heck, I'm 14 and I loved it! I recommend it &#150; for ANYONE &#150; because we can ALL relate. "},{"Title":"One of Bette's Better!","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The makeover of Bette Davis in this film from a frumpy old maid (grossly exaggerated) to a svelte looker (to say beauty is maybe a bit over the top) was a bit hard to accept, but that aside the acting of Davis, and the wonderful Gladys Cooper made this quite an outstanding film.   Bette was in her prime in 1942, and together with  the supporting  cast given to her, made this such a success.  Claude Rains, of course, did a sterling job as her Doctor, while Paul Henreid had one of his better Warner Brothers' roles.  It was interesting to see Bonita Granville in a sympathetic (eventually!) part at long last, but for me it was a very interesting film, which today would be called a soapie and tear-jerker (which it was then!).  Good entertainment, with a very good musical score by the ever reliable Max Steiner.   "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" To begin this film contains a basic storyline which is taken and beautifully crafted, in to my favourite film. Now voyager has Bette Davis as a convincing lead role, to add to this she wears very little make up for the first few scenes and transforms. This film entails a classic love story, which doesn't need to include sex or a steamy affair. But it portrays classic romance when sexual etiquette was still alive. Also it shows a touching relationship between Bette and her child co star, she helps the girl overcome a deep family depression. However the classic moment in the film is when her lover lights two cigarettes and passes one to Bette. Lovely! I would recommend this film to anyone especially any Bette Davis fans, who might i add have probably already seen it. Anywho, go and see the film you won't regret and who knows it might become your favourite movie too! "},{"Title":"Inspirational film.","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the all time great classics. I would place the quality of this movie on the same level as Casablanca and gone with the wind. I loved Greer Garson in Ms. Miniver, But Bette Davis probably should have garnered the academy award for best actress. She was convincing and sympathetic in her role. You vicariously felt the characters pain.I would recommend this movie to anyone who struggles with low self-esteem and self-doubt. No matter what trauma or bad experience you have had, you can still be the person you want to be when you receive Love and friendship. Just as Charlotte Vale found a sense of belonging in helping Jerry's daughter, we all can find permanence when we show compassion to distressed people.I am finding out more of the prodigious talents that Max Steiner possessed. The musical score in this movie was outstanding. To those who dismiss black and white movies as obsolete, you definitely need to see Now Voyager to find out why the Golden age of Hollywood is far superior to movie-making today. "}{"Title":"My all-time favorite movie","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bette Davis' character in this movie was my role model for most of my adolescent life.  It gave me the courage to stand up to my own mother and not suffer a repressed adolescence.  Gladys Cooper is devastating as Davis' mother.  Paul Henreid had good chemistry with Davis here, and Claude Rains is simply splendid. "},{"Title":"My personal favorite movie","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Saw this movie many times as a kid and was deeply moved by it. I'm a 42 yr. old male now and still am deeply moved. I don't see many movies where a character truly grows from her experiences and becomes a better person. This movie is really more spiritual than romantic, though certainly romantic. Some of the best fashion in a 40's film. Perfect combination of clothes married to the psychology of character. Bette Davis was very insightful about her character. She thought that Charlotte would have ended up marrying the Dr. (Claude Rains) and this makes sense. Jerry really is just a transition character that Charlotte must go through before she can really find happiness. Just my humble opinion. But if I were her, I would go with the good Dr. "},{"Title":"A Real Classic","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just saw this for the first time on TCM and thought it was wonderful (and I'm a guy!).Bette Davis, after her transformation, is simply gorgeous. Paul Henreid is superb as the love interest and the rest of the supporting cast are brilliant, particularly Rains, Cooper and Wickes.I have not seen many Bette Davis films, but she produces a compelling performance here.I agree with many other reviewers that this film could not be made today because the art has gone out of acting. Compared to this, you can see just what drivel Hollywood turns out today (with very, very, very, very few exceptions).And those folks who keep banging on about the smoking and its health implications, switch off the PC nonsense and view the film through the eyes of the '40s, when attitudes to smoking were far different to the modern attitudes. And by the way, I am a reformed smoker myself! Back to the theme This is a great cinematic classic with a wonderful Max Steiner score. Anyone who has not had the pleasure of watching it, go grab a copy and enjoy the lost arts of the cinema!! "},{"Title":"wonderful dialogue","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Bette at her most magnificent. Mom properly malevolent no matter the reason, even cats do not eat their kittens. Henreid,Davis love scenes are poignant, livid with unspoken but well understood desire. I am surprised that your cast listings do not identify the juvenile who plays Henreid's troubled little girl, she was magnificent. I read that Davis objected to the score interfering with her performance but cannot agree...the lovely Wrong, would it be wrong to kiss (lyrics made later probably..... )is hauntingly there always at the right time. I do think the concert Tchaikowsky was a little heavy handed into subsequent scenes after the stage whispered Lawson speech between Davis and Henreid at the concert. Her releasing Jon Loder scene is magnificent. And of course, the wonderful use of black and white film. Few DP's could do that today. John McCullough "},{"Title":"classic perfection","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The classic romance with Bette Davis as repressed spinster Charlotte Vale who is awakened momentarily by her meeting with the enigmatic Jerry (played with attractive understatement by Paul Henreid), but gives up her happiness to put his daughter Tina first.Claude Rains also plays a key role as the sympathetic sanatorium doctor, as does Gladys Cooper as Charlotte's overbearing mother.  As Tina, Janis Wilson plays a good part and her isolation mirrors that of Charlotte at the start of the film when she is still an ugly duckling.  Of course Charlotte blossomed into the swan all movie queens become.Not the origin of the two-cigarette scene &#150; it had appeared on screen some years earlier &#150; this movie is nevertheless a gold-carat weepie.  Seeing it in the cinema is an experience when I saw it on the big screen a few years ago there were women of a certain age in the audience who knew every word of the dialogue and spoke it along with Davis!  And of course there is the famous speech by Davis to Henreid at the end &#145;don't let's ask for the moon, Jerry, we have the stars'.Of course the movie is hokum but what enjoyable hokum it is!   Highly recommended if you can view without cynicism and can buy into the fantasy it portrays.  "},{"Title":"Oh, Jerry!","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Charlotte Vale (Bette Davis) is a dowdy spinster who has been driven to a nervous breakdown by her tyrannical mother. She enters a sanitarium and emerges an attractive and confident woman, ready to experience life on her own terms. On a cruise, she meets Jerry (Paul Henried), a married man; he's charming and romantic and they fall in love.This is a great movie. Charlotte's physical and emotional transformation and her Grand Passion are the stuff that make many female hearts race, including mine. Davis gives a powerful, intelligent performance and was justly nominated for an Oscar. Leading men didn't come any smoother than Henried and he pulls off the now-silly double-cigarette act with absolute aplomb, making his flawed character seem almost heroic. Max Steiner's heart-tugging score won an Oscar.The movie is pure escapist delight with beautiful people, gorgeous clothes, exotic locations, and, of course, Love. A true classic romance that makes me swoon. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"may contain spoilers","Date":"8 August 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One of Davis' all-time best, with a divine score by Max Steiner, the doyen of perfect Hollywood scores for years (GWTW, among others) which is so ravishing, and so radiantly performed (by an orchestra from the time before string playing and orchestral playing DIED never to be revived) that Davis actually asked the producers to can it! She obviously felt that the score was too good and distracted from her performance....imagine such a thing for the past forty or fifty years. Impossible. Davis underplays exquisitely in this film, and is assisted by a terrific cast; pay no attention to imbecilic comments about the movie being 'brain dead'; what is brain dead is cinema for the past thirty years, and its idiot viewers who are unaware of any history beyond the past five minutes. "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This wonderful movie transcends its intended audience. Most people seeing this say it is a woman's movie.The lead is female. The problems are those associated with women marriage, relationships, loneliness, and love. Those who don't like the movie, say it leaves out half the human race.Nonsense.The film introduces us to a maiden aunt who is overweight, plain and very self conscious with glasses that, in her opinion, does nothing for her. It is the custom of her family to either bully her (her mother and her niece), or to show a silent sort of pity. Only June is determined to do something she introduces Charlotte to Dr. Jaquith (Claude Rains) who immediately understands her condition. To her credit, so does Charlotte. She knows she needs help, or at least a change.With his excellent guidance, she is transformed into a beautiful engaging woman. She decides to go on a ship's cruise to fulfill an unspoken need. She meets Jerry (Paul Hanreid), with whom she immediately falls in love. He returns it. But (as we learn later), he is married, but is very unhappy. His wife is not a partner she's an emotional leach. He is a noble man and will not divorce her to marry Charlotte.Charlotte respects his nobility she will not be a home wrecker. They part. Charlotte decides to try developing a relationship based on comfort. Eventually she realizes it is not for her, that she cannot settle for a little when she has had a love like the one she's had with Jerry.She gets into an argument with her mother and her mother cannot stand the strain of the argument and has a fatal heart attack. She cannot stand her guilt and goes back for help from Dr. Jaquith. There she meets Jerry's daughter Tina. She immediately takes a liking to the girl. They become like mother and daughter, both fulfilling the needs of the other.Jerry is eternally grateful and decides Tina is in the right place.That essentially is the plot. But the plot description really pales the dialog, the delivery, the music, the direction, and the sincerity of the production. With a 50% divorce rate, we cannot understand much of what happens in the film. We would likely think the nobility is another word for stupidity. We would think her timidity laughable we are encouraged to make our way in the world.And yet don't we all wish we could love someone with the unwavering feminine moral standard of Charlotte? She had the power to corrupt Jerry, but did not. Don't we all wish we knew someone like Jerry who had plenty of opportunity to stray, but did not?How we watch one of those films determines what our response is going to be. If we are cynical, we will probably laugh. If we are emotional, we likely will get teary eyed. If we know what we are watching we will enjoy and be enriched by a film that transcends all its surface defects. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The One With the Two Cigarettes Lit by the Man at the Same Time","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This may be the best soap opera love film from Hollywood in it's golden age - it certainly is among them, and it certainly is Bette Davis' best soap opera role Charlotte Vale. From neurotic, overweight recluse to sophisticated traveler, to surrogate mother of the daughter of the man she loves but can't have. It is 1942, and divorce is still a sticky matter.Davis always denied that, eventually, her character and Jerry Durrance (Paul Henried) would have married (presumably when his daughter Tina would grow up). She insisted that she and Dr. Jacquith (Claude Rains) would have married. If so it would probably been a friendly marriage - not a sexually based one. I suppose her guess was based on her involvement with Jacquith's country rest home (they are planning a whole new wing she's financing at the end of the film). Certainly she is getting involved, and Jacquith does look at her in a slightly different way just before the end of the film. But Jacquith has never even shown anything but a doctor's interest in Charlotte in the film - it has blossomed into a friendship though.The film has many lovely moments in it - some quite funny actually. The car wreck in Brazil with Giuseppi, the taxi driver who barely speaks English (Banana trees is one of his phrases) is amusing. Even the autocratic Mrs. Vale (Dame Gladys Cooper) makes some cracks that are funny (her comparison of people to flowers for example). Cooper's autocratic old line female Brahman is a wonderful acting job, nearly stealing the movie from Davis and Rains at times. It earned her an Oscar nomination. And Bonita Granville certainly does a nice job as Charlotte's niece, who likes to tease her (apparently a family habit), but eventually realizes that Charlotte is as normal as she is.Any film with a title based on a Walt Whitman quote must be good. If you have never seen this one, see it soon. "},{"Title":"A love story for the ages...","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I think the ugly duckling storyline is so powerful because most of us have lived through it in one way or another; a first dance, a first kiss, a stumbling call on the phone. For most it happens in our teens; for Charlotte is just happened a little later. But because we have lived it, we can easily connect with what she is feeling...The early scenes of Davis and Henreid together on the ship, as she takes her first tentative steps toward womanhood are remarkable and lovely and touching -- all without being smarmy or overly sentimental. That's a nice trick, and the Director pulled it off beautifully. As did the writers, who managed to keep things moving and keep a sense of humor throughout the dialog.And while the cigarette shot is famous, I'll vote for the transformation shot of Bette when we see her for the first time aboard ship; that fluid tilt up from toe to top, with her picture hat tipped down over one eye.Ron "}{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am such a fan of Bette Davis, there is hardly a movie that she has made that I do not like. But this movie is great. I love her transformation from Aunt Charlotte to the worldly, travel worn, experienced woman of the world. I love the last line, Jerry, let's not ask for the moon, we have the stars. She should have won the Oscar for that performance, but Greer Garson won instead. This is definitely one that I will buy and add to my collection. I also liked her reaction to her brothers and sisters-in-laws, on her first night home after her return from her voyage abroad. This is her best performance, I was told that she had to fight for this role. The studio actually offered the role to others and did not consider her. I am glad that she got this role, can you imagine Ginger Rogers,Irene Dunne or even Norma Shrearer as Charlotte Vail? Nor can I. Thanks to the wisdom, of dumb luck of Warner Brothers Studios, this is and always will be a classic. "},{"Title":"Bette and Janis Wilson.","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had heard that the movie was a classic so I bought it. I love Hollywood films from the 40s, especially film noirs. This wasnt what I expected and felt it was a bit slow until the middle when it got good. Bette doesnt chew the scenery as much as she would in her later years. I like that she doesnt make her role sentimental and slushy so that wed feel sorry for her. Charlotte is very strong when she goes against her mothers wishes without being mean. What I enjoyed most was the young actress playing Tina, whom Id never heard of before. She was astonishly good as the inhibited unwanted pre-teen. What ever happened to Janis Wilson? Her performance rings true and at such a young age shes on the same level as Bette! She deserves recognition for her part! Is she still alive? "},{"Title":"Love Can Come To Anyone","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Now Voyager is always cited as one of the best romantic dramas ever done on the screen. That it is, but I think the reason for its continuing popularity and that it's almost always listed in Bette Davis's top five by any of her fans is that it shows her growth as a human being over the course of the film.It's not that they ugly Davis up in makeup when we first meet her as spinster Charlotte Vale. Some costuming and maybe some padding, but the rest is her ability as a performer. She was a daughter born late in life to mother Gladys Cooper who hadn't expected, hadn't wanted her. My guess is that she felt after having three sons, Cooper expected to be a full time society grand dame and the new baby cramped her style. In any event Davis grows up totally under Cooper's thumb as an unloved spinster.A wise and perceptive sister-in-law in the person of Ilka Chase has her meet psychiatrist Claude Rains who sees a breakdown coming. She spends some time in his sanitarium and under his tutelage, Davis emerges from her shell. She even takes an ocean cruise where the new and attractive Davis meets the unhappily married Paul Henreid and they have an affair.It's unfortunate that war time restrictions being what they were that the only recreation of Brazil, specifically Rio De Janeiro is on the Warner Brothers back lot. Still with newsreel establishing shots, director Irving Rapper does bring it off.When she returns home Davis is in a whole new dimension of a relationship with Cooper and the rest of her family and friends. She even meets Henreid's daughter whose own mother has turned her into a creature like Davis used to be.My favorite part of Now Voyager has always been Bette's scenes with young Janis Wilson. They are beautifully played the new swan trying to bring another ugly duckling to crack the shell. I think more than the romance they were responsible for getting Bette an Oscar nomination.Gladys Cooper got one also in the Supporting Actress category. Unfortunately both Davis and Cooper ran into actresses from Mrs. Miniver that year who won in the persons of Greer Garson and Teresa Wright. However Max Steiner's musical score, one of his best, took home Now Voyager's only Oscar.Other people to note in the cast are John Loder as a man entranced by Bette's blossoming who offers to marry her and Mary Wickes who plays a most practical nurse for Gladys Cooper. After dealing with Monty Woolley in The Man Who Came To Dinner, I think Wickes was ready for anything.I also think that Now Voyager's message of how love can come to anyone has made this film a timeless classic. In fact that same moon and stars are still there that Davis and Henreid talked about. And the film will be as popular as long as they are there. "},{"Title":"my favorite film","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" this is my all time favorite film, it stars Bette Davis as the emotionally crippled Charlotte vale the daughter of a very mean domineering woman ,who with the help of the kindly Dr Jaquith must find the strength to make her own way in the world, only Charlotte discover that having a life of her own doesn't come with out it;'s share of problems, when she falls in love with a man who cannot be hers, Bette is always brilliant when she plays the bitch but she is equally brilliant here playing the role of Charlotte vale, i also adored the girl who portrayed little Tina. this is a must see, bring two cigarettes, and a box of hankies and enjoy! "},{"Title":"They Don't Make 'Em Like This Anymore","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I took my summary quote from Leonard Maltin's movie guide, and I couldn't agree more with his statement. Bette Davis stars as Charlotte Vale, a spinster well into her thirties with a domineering mother (that's really being polite). She has a nervous breakdown and goes to a sanatorium headed by Dr. Jackowith (Claude Raines). When she's discharged she goes on a cruise to Rio and meets Jermiah Derrance (Paul Henried). They have a small affair, and then the real soap opera takes off. This film was released in 1942 and was based on a popular book. It has the famous scene where Henried lights two cigarettes and hands one to Davis. Thoroughly romantic and impossibly sweet, this is one of my top ten favorite movies of all times. If you love old movies that count, please see Now, Voyager. "},{"Title":"Among my all-time favorites","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was introduced to this wonderful classic by my Mother; along with other great Bette Davis films; such as, Jezebel and Dark Victory. This is certainly among my favorites with its main character's inner growth and learning her self-worth. It will require the viewer to have some Kleenex handy! Recommended to all romantics at heart.Not only does Davis succeed in drawing you into her struggle, but the actress who portrayed the domineering mother had you first detest her, then feel sorry for her. The movie is a depiction of struggles in different kinds of relationships...self , family and romantic lovers. My two favorite scenes are when the Davis character is having a cigarette and romantic interlude with lover and the other is when she finally confronts her mother. Great drama!!! "},{"Title":"A beautiful love story","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw this film when I was 14years old, and immediately loved it. The storyline is small, but significant that keeps the audience hooked from the first opening scene. Bette Davis is breathtaking in almost every scene from her shyness to her bold courage at the end. Paul Henreid is wonderful in a part that would have been very difficult to perform and perfect. The supporting characters from Gladys Cooper's portrayal as Bette's mother to Claude Rains as the sensitive doctor are portrayals that make you admire them more so. And especially the romantic prospects between the two leading stars and the ever famous cigarette lighting between each other. A beautiful film that explores different themes of life (which was unusual in the early 1940s) and the courage to overcome obstacles and find yourself. 'Now Voyager' stays in the mind of the audience, long after it has ended. "},{"Title":"Davis' best","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I haven't seen every Bette Davis film, but I find it hard to believe anything can top this one! Beautifully shot, wonderfully romantic score, interesting story, well-acted and Davis is breathtakingly beautiful! She's never looked better! It's one of the most romantic movies I've ever seen (shipboard romance, TWO goodbyes at airports, everybody looks so handsome or glamorous), and has three classic sequences--Davis telling a man she can't marry him by saying, Let's not dwell on it.; Paul Henreid lighting two cigarettes in his mouth (romantic, but they both smoke WAY too much!); and Davis' line, Let's not wish for the moon, when we have the stars. A great movie all the way. Not to be missed! "},{"Title":"One of the greatest romantic films of all time.","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This picture is a perfect example of how less is more in regard to sexual explicitness in romantic films. Much is left up to the viewer's imagination except the increasing love between the two main characters. Beautifully romantic film having a very strong cast. You can see how several of the primary characters (Charolette, Jerry, mother) develop throughout the movie. "},{"Title":"A severely suppressed woman finds the strength to emerge from her shell with the help of a doctor and the secret love of her life.","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite Bette Davis film because of the vulnerability  and subsequent strength of the character Charlotte Vale.   Only Davis could convince me in this role. I'd have to say the same about Gladys Cooper in the role of Charlotte's mother - utterly convincing.  While any number of sexy men may have been available for the role of Jerry Durrance, only Henreid could convey that delicate balance of forbidden love within the realm of respectability.  And, just for good measure Seldom in film have we seen a move as subtly sexy as Henreid's cigarette trick.  (sigh) "}{"Title":"Soap Opera At Its Best","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"   Bette Davis steals the show in this lushly made love story. One canscarcely remember the films in which Bette portrays ruthless, vilewomen, so sympathetic and gentle as she is here. Paul Henreid is also great, as is the always wonderful Claude Rains. Bette Davis deserves all accolades, however, as she carries the film beautifully.*            *( the film was originally offered to Ginger Rogers, Irene Dunne, and Norma Shearer, but, with all due respect to the above ladies, I don't think any of them could have carried the film off as well as did Miss Davis!)           "},{"Title":"Mrs Vale How? By having exercised a mother's rights?","Date":"11 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Charlotte Vale, overweight spinster is the lead in this movie. She is rescued by a psychiatrist and an architect. The psychiatrist rebuilding her mind and the architect her soul and body. She recovers at Cascade. It is too early to return after the recovery at Cascade to her mother, the tyrannical Mrs. Henry Windle Vale. As Miss Renee Beauchamp she is sent on a pleasure cruise I've taught you the technique, now use it. Forget you're a hidebound New Englander. Unbend, take part, contribute. Be interested in everything - and everybody. And Charlotte is interested in everything and everybody, supported by Jeremiah 'Jerry' D. Durrance. The return of the ugly duck as swan, reassuring the butler Yes William, it's me pauses a moment in front of mothers door, hearing Dr Jaquiths advice Just remember that honoring one's parents is still a pretty good idea. You're gonna be a shock to her. I advise you to soften the blow. Give her time to get used to you. Remember that whatever she had done, she's your mother. Their togetherness is based on equality both have their weapon, careful not using it (Dear Dr. Jaquith &#x85; Between mother and me, there is still an armed truce. She threatens but she doesn't act. I follow your advice. I stick by my guns but don't fire.). Both have a weapon in their hand, being careful not to use it. A later comment of Mrs Vale tells that she respects the swan; surely mourning that her late husband Henry Vale never aroused this respect in his wife. The swan respects the mother, not afraid anymore for the daily confrontations as both want to survive together, ready for the next battle. And Mother has the power, using it. Charlotte Mother - I don't want to be disagreeable or unkind. I've come home to live with you again here in the same house. But it can't be in the same way. I've been living my own life, making my own decisions for a long while now. It's impossible to go back to being treated like a child again. I don't think I'll do anything of importance that will displease you, but Mother, from now on, you must give me complete freedom, including deciding what I wear, where I sleep, what I read...Mother, please be fair and meet me halfway. Interesting is their 'independent' discussion That's it. That's what I want to talk about - independence. To buy what you choose, to wear what you choose, sleep where you choose, independence. That's what you mean by it, isn't it?, the daughter Dr. Jaquith says that independence is reliance upon one's own will and judgment. &#x96; only to hear I make the decisions here, Charlotte. When Jerry learns that she is on the brink of marriage he doesn't see her, as said but phones, wishing good luck, she rushes to the station Shall I tell you what you've given me? On that very first day, a little bottle of perfume made me feel important. You were my first friend. And then when you fell in love with me, I was so proud. And when I came home, I needed something to make me feel proud. And your camellias arrived, and I knew you were thinking about me. Oh, I could have walked into a den of lions. As a matter of fact, I did, and the lions didn't hurt me. That she breaks off their engagement, outrageous her Mother. The daughter admitting I don't think I'll ever marry. Some women just aren't the marrying kind. But there is something else, Charlotte says it to her mother shortly before her mothers heart attack Dr. Jaquith says that tyranny is sometimes an expression of the maternal instinct. If that's a mother's love, I want no part of it. I didn't want to be born. You didn't want me to be born either. It's been a calamity on both sides. It is this which is the key why the swan denies marriage &#x85; If that's a mother's love, I want no part of it. Too many are willing to play this part. But not she, the reason that &#x85;some women just aren't the marrying kind. Instead she devotes her life as 'mother' for other unwanted 'aunt Charlotte', for Jerry's unwanted child she recognizes from the photograph he showed her on the ship, returning to Cascade. She manages to communicate, reviving the child's unconditional trust, Tina regarding her as ultimate maternal figure I wish you were my mother...you're not like most mothers. You don't tell me what to do and what not to do all the time. A divorce at that time was unthinkable. Instead, encouraged by Tina, the platonic marriage and parent ship is chosen. Why, when Tina said she wanted to come home and stay with me - well, it was like a miracle happening. Like having your child, a part of you. And I even allowed myself to indulge in the fantasy that both of us loving her and doing what was best for her together would make her seem actually like our child after a while, answering Jerry, Dr. Jaquith knows about us. When he said I could take Tina, he said, You're on probation. Do you know what that means? It means that I'm on probation because of you and me. He allowed this visit as a test, and if I can't stand such tests, I'll lose Tina, and we'll lose each other. Jerry, please help me. Jerry asking if he may visit sometimes is answered Whenever you like; it's your home too. There are people here who love you. .. Of course, and just think, it won't be for this time only. That is, if you will help me keep what we have, if we both try hard to protect that little strip of territory that's ours. We can talk about your child, reminding her Our child. "},{"Title":"That ending!","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am vociferally anti-smoking, but that final scene where Paul Henreid lights two cigarettes at once, then gives one to Bette Davis as the Max Steiner score soars on the soundtrack never fails to bring tears to my eyes and a lump in my throat. I understand that viewers of that time were similarly affected; the gesture became a fad between lovers for some time  "},{"Title":"Poor Mr. Livingston's boys!","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Bette did several movies where she's downright sexy and this is one of them. Compared to the first scenes, her appearance on board ship where she meets Paul Henried really blows you away. Watched this last night again and hadn't noticed it before but Bette had such a sexy slinky walk in this movie she was almost dancing the hula or something. Will look out for it in her other films. I guess the 1940's were Bette's sexiest times...in The Little Foxes, The Letter and Now Voyager you can't keep your eyes off of her if you're a red- blooded American boy. Mostly, I felt sorry for Mr Livingston's half- grown sons near the end of this picture. Imagine having Charlotte Vale for a step-mom when you're 11 or 12 years old! It was only their old man's stuffy old-Boston ways that put the kibosh on that blessed event...too bad. "},{"Title":"Marvelous...","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Having just finished reading Olive Prouty's original novel of 1941 I am absolutely amazed by the picture that was made from it the following year. It exactly captures the tone of the book, condenses and streamlines the plot without violating it, and takes most of its dialogue directly from Prouty's well-written romance. All in a first class, sumptuously produced film of just the right length.This is probably the best pictureization (to use an archaic word) of a novel I have ever seen. The novel gives clearer motivation for the shipboard romance, which is only hinted at in the film, but that can be overlooked. In the novel, Jerry, or J. D., has also suffered a nervous breakdown, so he can understand Charlotte's difficulty from first hand experience.Everything about this film is just right. This was a best selling book in 1941 and no wonder the film received such a rapturous reception the following year! In addition, Davis gives probably the best performance of her long career here, understanding the character and really liking her, playing in the moment in every scene, and making the transformation from frumpy librarian (as a friend once described the pre-breakdown Charlotte) to glowing swan entirely believable. You end the picture cheering for her! "},{"Title":"Hollywood just can't make them like this anymore.","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Now, Voyager, sail thou forth, to seek and find. By Walt WhitmanLeaves Of Grass/The Untold Want Are you tired of the same old Hollywood trash movies? Want to see a troupe of actors that can actually perform? Then do not miss this movie Now Voyager-1942 Black and White. It stars Betty Davis and all I can say is that once you see a real actress perform you will never be satisfied by the modern day actress. There is just no comparison. All the glitter, all the pomp, all the dresses, all the makeup, all the special effects, just don't compare.And yet the story behind the movie is a simple view into the complex neurotic life of a young woman controlled by a matriarch who is self centered, demanding and totally unrelenting in her personal quest to demean her unwanted daughter. Betty Davis is the daughter that finds her own path and breaks free of the chains of guilt provided by her mother. Eventually she finds love (Paul Henreid) on a cruise ship. "},{"Title":"Classic rendition of ugly duckling story","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A true black and white classic. It succeeds on so many levels. First and foremost, the superbly deployed actors. Claude Rains excels as the quiet sympathetic therapist who brings the bullied daughter out of her shell. Gladys Cooper as the harsh, unsympathetic bullying mother with a snobbish disdain for those around her is wonderful- especially when she is on the boat and sneers at the commercial travellers. Paul Henreid fits the bill of the suitor in an understated and sympathetic manner. And of course Bette Davis in one of her best roles as the ugly duckling. She becomes stunning, embodying a beautiful femininity. She plays the oppressed daughter and the swan with equal verve, demonstrating why she is one of the best actresses of all time. Secondly the film moves at a beautiful pace- in some ways it ought to feel too slow but it works. You won't be bored watching this classic, possibly the best screen romance in cinematic history. "},{"Title":"Max Steiner's Score Absolutely Makes This Film Work","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The other day I turned on TCM and Now Voyager was playing. After taking some aspirin for a headache, I leaned back and closed my eyes waiting for the aspirin to work. I began to listen to the soundtrack of this movie like I had never done before the two dozen or more times I've watched this Film Classic. I was always impressed by the music, but this time I listened with much greater intensity. My God, what a BEAUTIFUL score! The emotional dialog is so enhanced by the music, that I found myself welling up as I listened. Particularly as Janis Wilson, (The uncredited actress who played Tina, the emotionally disturbed little girl Davis befriends at the funny farm) begins to share her feelings about seeing herself as ugly, unwanted, and unloved. Unless you're totally hard-hearted, I can't imagine anyone getting through that scene, without brushing away a tear or two. Max Steiner,...what an outstanding talent! "},{"Title":"..Wow! - what a revelation....","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" At one time, I thought it was heaven to sit in a huge theater, in the dark, to experience motion-pictures. If there weren't heavy attendance during that particular day or night, I suppose this was true. Now, I've discovered that to be able to see the same movies in the privacy of my home, gives me the freedom to openly sob and become a total idiot if the film evokes that emotion in me. Yes, I saw Now, Voyager in a theater when it was released; that was long before television was an absolute must in every room of every home.....how spoiled we've become, providing our children with all these marvelous instruments, allowing them to watch whatever they choose, usually. BUT, we wonder how our children become totally unknown to us; could it be they are missing the experience of families who do things together, simply because they can't afford to give junior his own TV? Left alone, he/she forms opinions and callous reactions without the benefit of asking another of their opinion or please explain.......Now, Voyager needs no explanation - it's all there for all to see. What many viewers have missed is the tyrannical nature Mama Vale has assumed by replacing a tyrannical father. Very few fathers in pre-modern eras have been buddies to their children let's talk about this; no such deal. They were masters of their own houses and there was only one viewpoint theirs. If daddy was a good man, can't say much against their rearing of their kids. Rebellion is a characteristic in most kids; when they become parents, they may not want to subject their kids to a repressive parent. Yet, being overly generous without proper guidance often produces children to become total strangers. So, when junior marches-off to join the terrorists in Iraq or my little girl leans more toward being openly promiscuous, we can't merely say Oh, they're just kids. Bull ! Adolescent kids are not nearly as innocent as we want to perceive....they are well on their way to how they'll live their adult lives.That the explosive Bette Davis could do this role with such sweet reserve is truly a revelation. Contrived or not, she reveals it IS possible to find oneself through difficulty - the early part of the film clearly demonstrates she was a normal individual. Mama Vale was just a meanie. I didn't read one commentary on the brilliance between Ms. Davis and Mr. Henreid in the scene on the Back Bay railroad-platform - Back Bay was a snotty place ! Charlotte sailed through the difficult scenes with Mama, realizing she truly had become able to say I'm not afraid......Ms. Davis seldom gave such calmly convincing acting. All that Tina business became bearable simply because she continued to act through-out the remainder of the movie. Claude Rains was formidable - the other characters were true-to-life, the nurse absolutely lovable. Could John Loder be the same actor who scared the poop out of me in The Lodger ? Now, Voyager demonstrates all is not democratic amongst people who vote for the awards. After all, they are humans with their egos pumped-up to the verge of narcissism. Ms. Davis had the courage to fight them all; it has been noted the director of the film was gay. Can't you envision Ms. Davis saying, Listen, Sissy - one word from me.... ? I absolutely believe she directed herself. I also believe any actor/actress who needs constant direction - having no inner-vision how a scene should be played - should seriously consider another occupation. The tragedy of MM's psychoses should be a road-map of how changing an exotic dancer into box-office property helps no one...and they're STILL trying to discover whom she was.Is there an American actress, today, who could portray Charlotte Vale as Bette Davis did? Absolutely not - they may do a good imitation of her brilliance, but it still wouldn't be the original. A re-make - impossible! How miserably they fail, because modern actors/actresses - with the exception of Streep - try to deliver naturalness, when we're screaming for theatrical escape. Our own lives are soap-operas.....Indeed! Now, Voyager was robbed of its acclaim. Most people are viewing these movies (for the first time) because the studios are releasing albums of their work. Their greed in pricing ensures we ARE going to buy pirated copies. How shocking it must be to young viewers to see, graphically, acting has nothing to do with blow-em-up violence. Take us back to the era when simple stories deliver us from the trauma of daily life - give us movies to renew our belief there is good in all this craziness we live in now. Now, Voyager, let me climb aboard........I give every one of you my personal Oscar......including all the behind-the-scene craftsmen. 10-for-10 all the way. "},{"Title":"All too true","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you had the mother from hell, Now, Voyager is all too true to life. Less realistic, though, is Charlotte Vale's (Is it 'Miss' or 'Mrs.'? It's 'Aunt'--every family has one.) almost overnight transformation from dumpy, frumpy Charlotte with her thick eyebrows and thicker coke-bottle glasses to a self-confident stunner (Bette Davis was not an unattractive woman, and even she commented on this metamorphosis).  Her entry as the new Charlotte is dazzling.  First we see a fashionable shoe, then a shapely calf, then a smashing Orry-Kelly outfit, then the carefully made up face with carefully plucked eyebrows--and no glasses!  Didn't Carol Burnett do one of her inimitable take-offs on this film?  When she and Jerry (Harvey Corman?) did the cigarette exchange, they broke out in hacking and coughing amid the clouds of cigarette smoke!  I can never see Now, Voyager without thinking of this!  One classic saluting another!  Well worth anyone's time, but have three hankies and a box of tissue handy! "}{"Title":"Bette's most popular film of the forties","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Flawed though it may be, this film is an irresistible kitsch classic which has the uncanny ability to hold the viewer's attention until the fabled ending. Davis plays Miss Charlotte Vale, a dowdy, repressed spinster who is cruelly dominated by her regal pain of a mother (excellently portrayed by Gladys Cooper).  Without giving out any more details of the plotline, just know that Davis herself received literally hundreds of letters from women who suffered Charlotte's dilemma. As Dr. Jacquith, the kindly, wise and compassionate head of a haven of hope named Cascade, Claude Rains is more subtle than usual, but his performance is honest and assured.  Viewers have mixed reactions to Janis Wilson as Tina some think she's terrific, others find her annoying. I think she's somewhere in between! As the aristocratic Back Bay matriarch Mrs. Vale, Gladys Cooper does a really magnificent job her failure to deliver a Bostonian accent and too heavy make-up can be forgiven. As June, Charlotte's spunky, impudent neice, Bonita Granville was well cast (Davis herself commented that Granville struck her as gossipy and flighty during the production).  Paul Henreid's original screen test horrified Davis. Shown with slicked-with-brilliantined hair, his acting technique stiff and awkward, Davis pleaded to the producers to make the character of Jerry more natural and less continental.  As Charlotte, the film's unlikely heroine, Davis runs the gamut from A-Z truly a showcase for the most actressy of all movie stars, Ms Vale's inward journey from a sad, pathetically withdrawn ugly duckling to a self-confidently independent swan is a screen classic.  All this, and Max Steiner's beautiful score, too! "},{"Title":"Be a little bolder, Charlotte!","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a woman's picture - that woman being Bette Davis, who gives a commanding, perfectly judged portrayal of Charlotte Vale, an introverted ugly duckling, who turns into a graceful, self-confident swan; there is none of the overacting which sometimes mars her performances. Overall, the film avoids the traps of slushy sentimentality on the one hand, and clinical case study on the other, to stay on course as an absorbing, touching, literate drama. Balance and moderation also apply to the way the plot develops and the characters behave. The breach between Charlotte and her domineering mother (an icy Gladys Cooper), which seems likely at one point, is avoided. Charlotte steps back from a loveless marriage to a kind but dull socialite; and fulfils her maternal longings by looking after the unhappy daughter of her true love, Jerry Durrance (a suave but vulnerable Paul Henreid). And, in the final scene, Charlotte and Jerry famously choose not to ask for the moon of a permanent relationship, but settle for the stars of their brief but passionate affair in Rio. Our response to the movie is also balanced; the tears we shed for the couple's lost happiness are compensated for by our admiration for their self-denial and for Charlotte's new-found independence of mind. But I am left wondering whether all this bitter-sweet reasonableness and compromise is what the doctor (Claude Rains as an avuncular psychiatrist) really ordered. And I certainly doubt if it would have impressed free-spirited Walt Whitman, who wrote the lines from which the film's title is taken. I wouldn't mind seeing an alternate ending where a bolder, but still balanced, Charlotte asked for both the moon and the stars! "},{"Title":"Remarkable movie","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bette Davis gives the greatest performance of her career as a repressed spinster who psychiatrist Claude Rains helps to blossom.  Rains is magnificent also.  Gladys Cooper is chilling as Davis' domineering mother. The rest of the cast is equally up to the task.  The last line is an all-time classic. "},{"Title":"A Fine Cast Makes it Work","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A fine cast makes this story work - it's the kind of movie that can easily descend into over-sentimentality or implausibility, but here the story is effective and interesting thanks to Bette Davis and the rest of the cast.  They make their characters believable and generally sympathetic.The movie makes a good character study, with Davis playing a somewhat uncharacteristic role.  Charlotte (her character) undergoes a number of changes in her personality and relationships, and Davis's portrayal is crucial to holding everything together - her transformation is definite but not too abrupt.  Claude Rains was a particularly good choice for the doctor who helps her.  Paul Henreid is good, too - suave yet vulnerable.  And Gladys Cooper fills an important role as the mother who made Charlotte what she is at the start of the film.Now, Voyager is worth watching both for the thoughtful character study and for the good acting that makes it work.  "},{"Title":"Many kinds of love","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In this movie we go down a long and winding road of experiences dealing with the human heart. We see how easy it is in life to stand and judge others, as shown by Charlotte's mother (played by Gladys Cooper) in her unrelenting attitude. Yet how much more rewarding life can be when we give our understanding such as Charlotte does after overcoming her personal ineptitudes and becoming a tower of strength for Jerry's troubled daughter, Tina. The joys and sadness in their lives find an echo in us all, I'm sure.I always admire Claude Rains no matter what role he is in, and here as the thoughtful Dr. Jaquith he brings his suave charm into play.Bette Davis gives a fine portrayal of Charlotte, the suppressed and overwrought daughter who in time conquers her demons and breaks free, and Paul Henreid is splendid in his gentle romantic role. By the way, I believe he lights up dual cigarettes maybe four times during this film.The beautiful musical score also adds much to the film's tender moods as well. Long live Romance!  "},{"Title":"A must own.","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lavishly romantic and unabashedly melodramatic, Now Voyager is a masterpiece.  Bette Davis stars as the ugly duckling spinstress aunt who finds the strength to defy her oppressive mother and become her own person.  Both Davis and Gladys Cooper as her domineering mother were nominated for Academy Awards.Co-writer credit goes to Casey Robinson, an uncredited writer on Casablanca, which also starred Paul Henreid, Bette's star-crossed lover, and Claude Raines, the doctor who helps bring her out of her shell.  Holy Six Degrees, Batman!  Max Steiner won a well-deserved Oscar for the lush soundtrack that simply aches with emotion. The gorgeous manners of Boston's upper crust are beautifully portrayed as Davis and Henreid dance a dazzling pas de deaux that ends in one of classic cinemas greatest closing lines, don't let's ask for the moon, we have the stars.Everything that made you love movies in the first place is here in spades.  A must own.  "},{"Title":"The ultimate classic romance story!","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just love this movie, and have watched it more times than I can count late night w/my Mom who also is a big fan both of this movie & Bette Davis. Just to tie this into another film- in the movie The Mirror has two Faces w/Barbara Streisand (who also undergoes a transformation) she talks about romantic love- how it isn't consummated, that it is an ideal. That's pretty much what happens in this movie- because it used to be that people had enough respect for themselves & others, that they wouldn't just ruin countless lives to indulge in a few moments of sex. Therefore the timeless appeal of this movie will never die as long as there are people who understand that. My Mom just recently got me the out of print book that it was based on & it was also just wonderful. This movie is one of Bette's best & Paul Henreid is perfect as Jerry. (They wanted George Brent & tried to make Paul over to look like him... luckily for all of us, Bette said that he looked ridiculous & they listened!) Claude Rains & Gladys Cooper are perfect in their supporting parts as well. There is also a beautiful, unforgettable score by the incomparable Max Steiner. This movie is about love, respect, independence and courage. An all around 10!!!!  "},{"Title":"Just seen it again after many years--WOW!","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sorry, but this is as good as it gets in terms of peak Hollywood schmaltz. But it is so much more than schmaltz. This film remains extraordinary in its implications and accomplishments. It is the essence of Romance, not the silly, school-girl romance of so many Happy-Ending Hollywood films, but the Romance of the unfulfilled, the Idyll, of the discovery of something greater than love, which leaves a tear on the cheek, and a lump in one's throat. The Romance of Balzac and Diderot, in short, of real life. But real life magnified and exaggerated as if through a powerful lens. In this sense it is operatic in it's scope and meaning. And, like opera, it is not subtle but overwhelming. And who but Bette Davis could pull of such a tour de force of acting? No one, I dare say. I won't go on about what she accomplished in this film, I'm sure others here have written more eloquently than I could about it. Let me say that her performance is perfect. Like a Heifitz Sonata, or a Rubinstein Nocturne, not one note out of place.Furthermore, all the elements of film making work together perfectly (cast, script, direction, music, etc.) to create an unforgettable, unsurpassable, Romantic dream. So, indeed, don't let's ask for the moon....we have the stars. "},{"Title":"Bette's Magic Moment","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is, quite simply, my favorite film. Note that I said my 'favorite' film, not 'the best film I've ever seen' or anything like that. I've seen it countless times over the past 35+ years, and with increasing frequency, of course, since since the advent of VCRs, Turner Classic Movies, and DVDs. On two occasions I even got to see it in a theater on the big screen (the way movies were originally meant to be seen - remember?)I just want to say that this film features not only one of Bette Davis's 'cornerstone' performances, but also her most magically beautiful moments on film - anyone who doesn't think Davis was beautiful hasn't seen her here, particularly in the scene in which her tyrannical mother threatens to cut off financial support. It's late at night, the lights are low, and something happens to Davis and to Charlotte Vale actress and character achieve complete, glorious unification (Davis's performances were always sparked when she played opposite another strong actress Gladys Cooper in this case). Without a moment's hesitation or indecision she deflects her mother's threat with I don't think so, Mother. I'm not afraid. Here Max Steiner's music chimes in gently as Davis/Charlotte realizes what she's has said. She repeats it almost wonderingly, I'm not afraid. I'm not afraid, Mother! and realizes that it's true she is no longer afraid of her mother, or of anything life may hold for her. At this moment, with this realization, everything comes together and Charlotte Vale is reborn.Davis's genius and belief in her character, Sol Polito's excellent lighting and photography, and Steiner's music - all work in perfect harmony to give Davis what is truly her most radiantly beautiful moment on the screen. "},{"Title":"Now and forever - a genuine classic","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Irving Rapper's Now Voyager (1942) is perhaps Bette Davis' greatest film at Warner Brothers. For it presents the actress with every opportunity to run the gamut of emotions and mannerisms that, by this point in Davis' career, had become standardized elements of her thespian repertoire. Davis is Charlotte Vale, a spinster aunt from one of Boston's oldest and most prestigious families, who has been confined to a life of seclusion by a demonstrative matriarch (Gladys Cooper). By the time concerned relative, Lisa (Ilka Chase) intervenes with the congenial Dr. Jaquith (Claude Rains), Charlotte is primed for a nervous breakdown. On Jaquith's orders, Charlotte begins her psychological metamorphosis at a plush sanitarium in the country. However, when the newly renovated Charlotte is sent on a cruise as part of her therapy, she meets debonair man about town, Jerry Durrance (Paul Henreid) under an assumed name, and quite easily falls in love with him. One problem &#150; Jerry is married. However, as the two draw closer they realize that fate has united them in personal tragedy and misery. Both are forever bonded in their love of Jerry's daughter, Justine (Hilda Plowright), in whom Charlotte sees shades of her former self. The film is justly remembered for its melodic score by Max Steiner, and for the romantic pas deux in which Jerry lights two cigarettes at once and offers one to Charlotte in a moment of distress.Paul Henreid was perhaps most aptly put to good use in this film as a romantic lead. The chemistry between him and Davis is palpable and engaging. Never afraid to take artistic chances, Davis launches into her performance as the uni-browed spinster with gusto. Her transformation is as elevating of the human spirit as it is startling, the first time we see her &#150; sans frumpy clothes and Amish hairdo. Truly, this is one film I always have trouble getting through without tears in my eyes. Now Voyager is melodrama of the highest order &#150; a brilliant bit of film making that will leave you with a lump in your throat and warmth of heart. It is a master craftsmanship vehicle for one of the world's greatest stars, Bette Davis, at the height of her acting career.The DVD transfer from Warner Brothers is quite simply, outstanding. Though there are several scenes in which fine details (most noticeably on Davis's flowery dress) shimmer, the overall quality of the picture is exemplary and will surely please. The gray scale has been impeccably rendered with deep, solid blacks, very clean whites and a remarkable amount of fine details realized throughout. For a film past its 60 year vintage, there is nothing more than one could ask of, or expect from this transfer. The audio is mono. Extras include an isolated score and theatrical trailer. "}{"Title":"A great Bette Davis vehicle","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bette Davis lobbied Hal B. Wallis to give her the role instead of Irene Dunne (?). It was a good move. Davis gives a very moving and multilayered performance as she emerges from the yoke of her domineering mother, played chillingly by Gladys Cooper, into a confident and self-assured woman. Paul Henreid (Casablanca) as her love interest and Claude Rains (Casablanca, Notorious) as the sympathetic doctor are also excellent, as would be expected. This movie was very moving and I recommend it heartily, 9/10. "},{"Title":"Miss. Camille Bouchard","Date":"2 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" what shall i say, it's another legendary performance by the legend Bette Davis. To begin with The first time i heard about miss Davis was in this film, and that was at 2006, and it took my all this years to watch it finally, and i must tell you it was worth it. before i see this Pic i always felt that Bette Davis can only play the hard roles ( even with Dark victory 1939 she was a strong character) but after i saw this one it convinced me that she can play any role u may thinking of including the weak heroine There were moments that made me cry when she was at the train station and the final scene when she refused to kiss her lover even she loved him very much even more than herself. I should also give a special thanks to Miss. Gladys Cooper who played Davis mother, she was really a great at her part ( a very strong character) and with all her scenes she never smiled which is a very important thing to give for the character. Finally i recommend this movie for anyone who wants to see the legend Bette Davis at her peak of both here acting skills and her beauty. "},{"Title":"Even to this bloke, Art!","Date":"26 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The definition of a Woman's Picture, as was. It's basically all that would be required nowadays too but sadly it usually best works with a sprinkling of soft porn to rope the ladies in, er as in Fifty Shades Of Grey so to speak. This expert film can even to hold the guys to the end, through the layers of soap and tripe to the climactic Give and Take annihilation of reason and the triumph of corn.Mentally repressed woman Bette Davis under mother Gladys Cooper's bony thumb first with the help of psychiatrist Claude Rains and then with married lover Paul Henreid eventually asserts her independence and blossoms as a person, and of course as a Woman which is more important. It's a masterclass in emotional cinema and tenuous logic &#x96; they're right when they say this couldn't be remade successfully the down-to-earthy realism and intolerance to cigarette smoking nowadays and also the lack of seemingly untouchable stars, a Max Steiner to supply a suitably heart-stirring score, a dreamy gleamy nitrate black and white photography, and soft Warner Bros production values will all see to that.It's all rather wonderful to watch, and to wonder if you really are closer to your feminine side watching and digesting the labyrinthine plot. The cast, especially Davis are almost perfect in their melodrama. The money shots are just before and after Henreid (and Steiner) ask Shall we have another cigarette on it? &#x96; if you're not affected by the emotional conclusion and trite resolution of non sequiturs then you must surely have a screw in place! "},{"Title":"Now Voyager .... Now And Again","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I hadn't watched this in some years,since the last viewing but the other night I decided to give it a look on a newer DVD. The last time,was from the library and the DVD was 'very much used,which lessened the ability to lose myself in the story. ..but,with a new unopened copy (sold for $5) I was once again able to get emotionally involved in this classic. There's not much else Icould say that others haven;t already. Bette Davis,Paul Henreid and Claude Rains (plus their supporting cast,make this a film that despite it's age,is a timeless tale. There still are people even in this day and age who could be called either spinster's/old maid or (on the male side) terminal bachelors but not by choice. Love and romance are even harder to come by today than when this film was made. Making it even harder for Davis' character is that there's no one in her corner at the start and she's not very well versed in things like that. You can't help but be on her side and even hope that,despite the pifalls of her new romance,that it all works out for the best .10 stars all around! "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"9 March 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm definitely not a big fan of romantic dramas of this kind, but Davis is the star here, oozing every inch of the role with her now famous demeanor and personality. One could say Davis reading the phone book would be amazing to watch in itself and that's because she knows how to be a true screen presence. Her character's journey and arc are amazing in itself, and from the four Davis films I have seen, she is at her nicest here definitely, so in that way it's good to see how she can play a true hero, and she does it in her usual style yet makes it all that much more different. Definitely seek this one out, as it is one of her most famous roles. "},{"Title":"Soap Opera Ornamented with Artistry","Date":"24 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Along with DECEPTION by Irving Rapper, NOW VOYAGER, the title of which is derived from Walt Whitman's poem Leaves of grass, is clearly one of Bette Davis' most crucial films from the time of her contract with Warner Brothers Studio. However, a highly narcotic, swoon inducing romance in the Bette Davis canon, as New York Times labeled the movie, brings out something widely known by the television generations a daughter on the verge of nervous breakdown, desperate to find her independence, struggling to escape her monstrous, forbidding mother in order to, at last, seek and find a home of her own, a man of her own and a child of her own. Eager to find a way out, she receives help from a psychiatrist. Consequently, much to her mother's dismay, she comes to a moment when she is not afraid of being herself. Nothing new...indeed...because, as it has also been the case with DECEPTION, the backbone is pure soap opera. What makes us ignore the flaws derived from this very sort of the perceptions such content evokes is the artistry at multiple levels, Hollywood's most powerful tool of illusion and magnetism, the film is thoroughly supplied with.First and foremost, this artistry resides in the performances. Bette Davis convincingly portrays a character who undergoes, I can allow myself this word, metamorphosis. From being a person who is 'alone in all ways,' she depicts a change prompted and wonderfully motivated by Dr Jasquith (Claude Rains). Although this 'metamorphosis' may occur banal due to diminishing a human to mere looks, fashionable clothes and sentimental exclamation of being content with stars...not asking for the moon, her moments are played with ease and the desirable insight necessary in the role of that sort. She does not make her character laughable and, at the same time, instills sufficient amount of tear jerking euphoria. From the sentimental introduction of her character with the drops of rain behind the window to the moonlit moments of romance constitute a thoroughly convincing depiction.Her leading men, Claude Rains and Paul Henreid, differ considerably and, yet, create vibrant characters of lasting significance. The versatile actor, Claude Rains, skillfully portrays the psychological essence of the movie (1942 was too early to talk about psychoanalyzing characters and yet, we can find certain tendencies). He is, consequently, easily identified with and very likable. The romantic looking actor Paul Henreid, though not placed in sheer rivalry against Rains' character as it is the case of DECEPTION, is again provided with European flair. The much appraised scene of the two (Bette and Paul) lighting a cigarette echoes the never ending power of illusion within the same spirits but different methods of Hollywood.Among the supporting cast, a mention must be made of Gladys Cooper who portrays the villainous manipulative mother - someone who could equally display a powerful insight under Hitchcock's guidance. Nominated for the Best Supporting Actress at the Academy Awards, Ms Cooper delivers a tremendous portrayal of a domineering personality. In one scene, thanks to the gorgeous camera-work, we see the back of her hand encompassing the foreground of the screen frame while Bette Davis' character remains in the background. One of the milestone 'evil incarnates' on screen with the overtone of critical approach towards cruel family ties, of course.The artistry's triumph also lies in the entire visual subtlety of the movie &#x96; all is neat and elegant. Since some viewers consider this film to be a woman's picture or a 'weenie,' these interiors almost heaped with decorations of highest caliber. Apart from some public events' scenes, consider the Rio sequence which cleverly combines charm with humor and incorporates a variety of elements that result in truly aesthetic viewing experience.In that relation, there is a need to give full credit to Max Steiner for his fabulous music score filled with dynamic tensions and powerful parallels with characters' feelings. Reminiscing certain classical pieces moderated and adapted to the cinematic needs (just to name Tschaikovsky), he deservedly won the award.To sum up, it is undeniably one of the most 'artistic' novellas on screen where you not only have Bette Davis' eyes but display of powerful performances, stunning cinematography, memorable score and direction of great caliber. One of those precious products of old Hollywood that is no more. Worth seeking and finding. "},{"Title":"Splendid","Date":"29 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" For a couple of hours I had the extraordinary pleasure of witnessing A plus acting talent from a cast led by the powerful Bette Davis. Ms. Davis executes a flawless transition of her character Charlotte Vale from insecure, ugly spinster to beautiful, independent loving woman. I root for Charlotte and want the best for her. She handles the battle with her cruel Mom thanks to the help of two men. Paul Henreid and Claude Rains effectively support Charlotte as the love interest and therapist respectively.Rains Dr. Jaquith, provides the sanity for Charlotte to find herself. He shows trust in her that unfortunately cannot be shown today. Can you imagine a Dr. allowing a patient to take home another patient, a minor to live with her? Dr. Jaquith trusts Charlotte and lets take home Jerry Durrance's neglected daughter home.The plot poignantly deals with the two unwanted girls in Jerry's life. First, he truly loves Charlotte and she him but because he is married even though unhappily both have the character to respect his marriage. Then there is his daughter Tina whom his wife detests, like Charlotte's Mom detested her. After Charlotte recommends Dr. Jaquith to him, Jerry takes Tina there to find help but Tina does not have the success that Charlotte had until Charlotte meets her and goes out of her way to help her.Charlotte so loves Jerry that she sacrifices and makes Tina her daughter with Jerry. Charlotte makes her home Jerry's and Tina's home too. Although, she can never have Jerry completely, she brings love to Tina that Jerry's wife never had for Tina.I wish we had movies like this one today. Ms. Davis was a phenomenal actress. She may not seem like a knockout at the first glance but on second glance her beauty is eternal and everlasting. "},{"Title":"A Woman Comes Into Her Own","Date":"4 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What does it mean to know your mother doesn't love you? What does the child become? Is it possible to believe you are deserving of any love if you weren't deserving of the love of your mother? When the child becomes adult and goes out into the world, how does she survive?Answer she doesn't. She hates herself. Treats herself as undeserving. Lets herself get pushed around. Doesn't believe that anyone could ever love her. She hides from the world. Suffers a nervous breakdown.Charlotte Vale (Bette Davis) is born of a selfish, cruel, and heartless mother. Gladys Cooper as the mother is so realistically vicious, I felt my own psyche deflate with her verbal abuse. In her eyes, the daughter is not a human being &#x96; she is a servant, a slave, not permitted to have her own feelings or thoughts, and beholden to the mother for bringing her into the world despite the fact that she was unwanted. A compassionate psychologist (Claude Rains) comes into Charlotte's life and she learns that she is indeed human, deserving, and can think for herself. She begins to come alive. She becomes physically transformed. A man (Paul Henreid) admires her beauty and desires to know her. They fall in love. Because of that love, she becomes whole, confident, and treats herself in a self-respecting way. She stands up to the mother and discovers that she is no longer scared (of living). Their love also buoys the man's confidence so he can pursue his own dream career.Despite circumstances which keep them from marrying or expressing their love publicly, they find a way to build and keep their love. She sees in his daughter the unloved child that she once was (unloved by a selfish and jealous mother). More than anyone else and because she knows the precise ache of this girl's pain, Charlotte is able to give this emotionally starved child what she needs love, acceptance, attention. In helping his daughter, she can become his partner. His daughter becomes THEIR daughter. She creates her own version of a family that might not be satisfying to someone else or even socially acceptable but it makes HER happy. She is now woman who chooses for herself.This is a soft and feminine performance by Bette Davis. Unlike many of her other performances where she charges like a bull through the dialogue and body language, she steps more lightly and gently through this role as a vulnerable woman coming into herself. I like her as this full-fledged human being with depth (rather than a conniver, a powerhouse, a manipulator, a queen). In this performance, Bette Davis exhales, and its nice to watch. "},{"Title":"Meoldramatic? Yes. Tearjerker? Yes. Wonderfully Brilliant? YES!!!!","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just watched this again on TCM for the umpteenth time and it never fails to touch my heart. On cue, my eyes welled up w/ tears during the last scene. I adore Bette Davis as a spinster with a domineering mother who finds love (and a sort of redemption) with an unhappily married man. Yes the music is completely over the top and aspects of the plot are far-fetched, but it makes no less enjoyable.Davis' physical transformation is astounding and is a testament to her excellent acting abilities.I'm usually not a fan of films that glorify adultery, but it's almost justified, isn't it? Emotionally starved Charlotte and poor Jerry with a shrew for a wife. If two people deserved to be happy together, it's these two.I appreciate the ending more and more. It does not end predictably with Jerry leaving his wife. No, that would have been too neat, clean and easy. Our lovers put everything on hold for the sake of little Tina, Jerry's daughter. Making sacrifices for true love is noble indeed, and you are left with the hope that some how Charlotte, Jerry and Tina will one day be a family.Rent it or watch on TCM or AMC if you get a chance. "},{"Title":"Great movie. One of Bette Davis' best!","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is no doubt my favorite Bette Davis movie. I always seem to like success stories where the underdog overcomes circumstances and comes out on top. The script and plot were first class. And the well acted characters made the story so very real.A young woman(Davis)suffers a nervous breakdown due to her domineering mother(Gladys Cooper). After therapy with a noted doctor (Claud Rains), the spinster from Boston becomes a woman of the world. Her appearance changes drasticly. So does her attitude toward life. She now has the courage to stand up to her mother. And the spark that keeps her going is the results of her ocean cruise romance with an unhappily married man played by Paul Henreid.My two favorite scenes are where Davis and Henreid are passengers in a car that accidentally rolls backward down a hill; and of course the double cigarette-lighting scene in the finale. Of course this was the second time that Henreid did such, but this time was the most memorable.Also in the cast are Mary Wickes, John Loder and Ilka Chase.If you haven't seen this movie; by all means rent it or watch for it on AMC. I bet the first time you watch it won't be your last. "}{"Title":"Wonderful!!~","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie.  It really shows how a woman can do the duckling to swan routine.  It's romantic, and a sweet tearjerker.  Bette Davis in one of the best roles I've seen her in!!~ "},{"Title":"An Irving Rapper masterpiece.","Date":"8 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If made today, the story in this movie would be the basis for a grotesque and laughable parody, but in 1941 the production and acting talent was there to instead create a powerful, first class story about personal growth, emotional independence and psychological strength. Far from being another corny, ludicrous, mushy and melodramatic tearjerker, this movie is from start to finish one of the best dramas ever produced by Hollywood. It offers a powerful story with memorable characters and does so without being contrived or stagy. Even more, this movie explores aspects of the human condition that has universal application, meaning that there is a story that is relevant to everyone, hence its wide appeal. And although Betty Davis is the star, the rest of the cast is equally strong, especially Paul Henreid and Janice Wilson, whose performance as Tina was worthy of at least an Oscar nomination. This is a great movie and a great work of art. Congratulations to Irving Rapper for his skillful direction of such a fine movie. "},{"Title":"Betty Davis Rules !!!!!!!!!!","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Ms. Davis has again dazzled us with another one of her superb performances. I could feel the restraint and the feelings of hopelessness in the first half of the film. However as the film progress the caterpillar emerged into a beautiful butterfly .Although that is typical of melodramas around this time. Ms Davis did as she always does lead and carry the film.The film itself did not have the typical lead up to the ending and the ending was a pleasant surprise. This Voyage is well worth the trip. Romance, Drama, Intrigue all Ms. Davis' specialties wrapped up and delivered in one great package.Also the supporting cast is awesome 9 out of 10 !!!!! "},{"Title":"Bette Davis & Gladys Cooper shine.","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Synopsis Charlotte Vale, (Bette Davis), the spinster daughter, of a cold, controlling mother, (Gladys Cooper), is on the verge of a nervous breakdown thanks to the suffocating restrictions put upon her by her mother. Caring sister in-law, (Ilka Chase), invites compassionate Psychiatrist, (Claude Rains), to help Charlotte get better, (to the strong objections of the mother). Said Doctor invites Charlotte to his sanatorium where she finally begins to get a sense of self. The Doctor, satisfied with Charlotte's progress, encourages her to embark on a long cruise where she meets a married man, Jerry Durrance, (Paul Henreid), and becomes involved in a doomed love affair. Upon her return home, Charlotte is able to deal with her mother, but eventually feels the need to return to the sanitarium when things turn tragic. At the sanatorium she meets Jerry's youngest daughter and believes she can help her because their two situations are/were so similar.Recommendations This film works beautifully due to the considerable talent involved. First, there is the haunting score by Max Steiner, (if real-life doomed lover affairs had a soundtrack, they would sound like this), as well as the absolutely brilliant performances delivered by Bette Davis and Gladys Cooper as mother and daughter, (I could watch these two for hours). Second, Claude Rains, Ilka Chase and Paul Henreid lend strong support in their respective roles. Also, Bonita Granville, as Charlotte's good natured taunting niece, and Mary Wickes, as the lovable nurse, make small roles very memorable. If you give this film a chance, you will be handsomely rewarded. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Great Film for the Ugly Duckling )","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Betty Davis' character is truly wonderful in this film.  I encourage anyone who has or has been the ugly duckling of the family to see this film.The plot is good and interesting.  The situations are wonderful.  And Betty Davis does a wonderful job! "},{"Title":"The Greatest 'Make Over' Movie in Cinematic History!!!","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Warner Brothers release Now, Voyager ranks as one of the greatest 'make-over' movie in cinematic history. Director Irving Rapper's classic black & white romantic melodrama represents a splendid example of a movie whose theme is women versus women. Women make more trouble for women in this soap operatic saga. A young, impressionable woman named Charlotte Vale suffers under the relentless tyranny of her misguided mother Mrs. Henry Vale who has planned Charlotte's very move, right now to marriage to the man appropriate to her social station in life. Charlotte is withering away under her mother's dictatorial foot when salvation arrives in the person of a pipe-smoking Dr. Jaquith (Claude Rains of Casablanca) who convinces Charlotte's mother to allow him to treat her at his sanitarium. Mrs. Vale relents and allows Jaquith to take Charlotte into his care. Surprising enough, Charlotte erupts from a cocoon of deprivation and blossoms into a young woman. Against Mrs. Vale's wishes, Charlotte is allowed to board a cruise ship and experience life. She becomes the toast of the cruise ship and meets a lonely husband, Jerry Durrance (Paul Henreid of Casablanca), and the two of them become lifelong friends. At one point during the cruise, Charlotte and Jerry smoke cigarettes. This scene supposedly started a practice for the man to light both cigarettes and hand one to the woman. This is just one of the many Bette Davis movies that everybody needs to watch. "},{"Title":"Don't lets ask for the moon...we have the stars!......","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Possibly the greatest melodrama ever filmed,this is best remembered as the makeover movie where Bette Davis is unforgettably transformed from shy,ugly duckling to elegant swan.Now Voyager is directed by Irving Rapper,produced by Hal B.Wallis,the screenplay is by Casey Robinson,based on the novel by Olive Higgins Prouty and stars Bette Davis,Claude Rains,Paul Henreid and Gladys Cooper.Charlotte Vale(Bette Davis)is a shy and emotionally abused young spinster living alone with her domineering,society Queen mother(Gladys Cooper).Charlotte's swiftly heading towards a mental breakdown enter kindly Psychiatrist,Dr Jaquith(Claude Rains)who's introduced to Charlotte by a concerned family member.Jaquith quickly assesses her home situation and has her sent to his country sanitarium.There she learns self confidence and the joy of doing things for herself.After a lengthy stay,Jaquith tells her she's ready to face life anew and sees her off on a cruise.When we see her aboard ship we are in for a surprise.It's goodbye dowdy,dumpy girl and hello glamorous,society beauty.With a new wardrobe and a makeover Charlotte is not short of attention or some new friends.She soon meets the lonely and married Jerry Durance(Paul Henreid)and the two become friends then a little later they fall in love.However it would seem Charlotte will not pursue him romantically as she says this famous(if cryptic line )to him concerning a possible relationship.Oh Jerry,don't lets ask for the moon...we have the stars.The performances are excellent with Davis for once not mowing down the scenery,instead dominating the screen with her almost two separate performances of frumpy spinster and elegant glamour girl.Rains is on fine form as usual,making Jaquith the kindly,steadfast male figure that's been missing from Charlottes life for so long,while Henreid(never the greatest of actors)does a fine job of making Jerry both likable and romantically interesting.Gladys Cooper almost steals the show though as the cold hearted Mrs Vale,never happy unless Charlotte is under her control.If there is a downside to this film it's to be found in it's makeover message.It seems to be saying that unless you're beautiful and glamorous then you have no chance of finding happiness or love.That of course is just so untrue and it sends out the wrong message to young women,that looks and make up are the key to your future happiness.That issue aside though,Now Voyager is one of the great studio films,highly enjoyable and is possibly the romantic film to end all romantic films. "},{"Title":"A very fine film!","Date":"15 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The film Now, Voyager 1942, directed by Irving Rapper, is one of the few films I've come across that faces ugly ducklings turning into beautiful swans. Now, Voyager stars Bette Davis, Paul Henreid, and Claude Rains, in a dramatic picture that produced well deserved Oscar Nominations for both Bette Davis (leading role) and Gladys Cooper (supporting role). Although the film struggles slightly to grab the viewers attention at the beginning, or more so at the middle, the film definitely justifies that lapse as the film progresses. A truly wonderful film, including Max Steiner's musical notes, showing that everyone is absolutely beautiful in one way or another.As the picture opens, Bette Davis (Charlotte Vale) is under severe strain from her mother (played by Gladys Cooper), who controls everything she does, from what she reads, to what she wears. Ugly Charlotte keeps herself in solitude, and is at the point of a nervous breakdown when Dr. Jaquith (played by Claude Rains) is introduced to her by Lisa Vale (played by Ilka Chase). Dr. Jaquith insists on taking Charlotte to his sanitarium, where she undergoes dramatic change. She is completely transfigured from her shy, ugly self, into a beautiful, confident woman. She soon heads off to South America, where she meets and falls in love with already married Jerry Durance (played by Paul Henreid). The film starts to bog down slightly here, but soon picks up when Charlotte goes back home.Her mother soon dies from a heart attack during a slight argument with Charlotte, leaving Charlotte with the family's wealth. Charlotte, guilty that she caused her mother's death, goes back to Dr. Jaquith's sanitarium, where she meets Tina, Jerry's rejected daughter (Although Jerry loved Tina very much). The film continues, wonderfully ending with Bette Davis's memorable quoteOh, Jerry, don't let's ask for the moon. We have the stars. (Quote ranked #46 of all time by the AFI's 100 Years&#x85;100 Movie Quotes)I'll let you watch the film to see what happens with Charlotte and Jerry. ;)Although I can't say this is my favorite Bette Davis film (that goes to In This Our Life, I guess that's the suspense in me, which reminds me I haven't seen it in nearly 2 years) she most certainly gave an Oscar worthy performance. At the start of the film, her acting really shines as she plays the depressed Charlotte. Bette Davis probably deserves a lot more Oscars than she ever received. Paul Henreid's role may not have been as dramatic as Bette's, but carried out his acting in his usual, natural style.Claude Rains is, well Claude Rains. There is not one film that I can think of, that he didn't shine in. He played his role to perfection, being his usual joking, yet serious self. Definitely one of my favorite actors.Now, Voyager clearly has its placed among classic cinema. The only film I think of that is even slightly similar is Enchanted Cottage, which I was never quite able to get through. (oops, bad me). Now, Voyager is unique in its characterization of an ugly duckling turning into a swan, reminding us that everyone is gorgeous. I do recommend the film, especially for Bette fans. (obviously, huh? ;) ) "},{"Title":"Bette Davis gets Charlotte Fever","Date":"6 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Wearing thick eyebrows and poorly chosen glasses, spinsterish Bette Davis (as Charlotte Vale) is on the verge of a nervous breakdown. The family calls in psychiatrist Claude Rains (as Dr. Jaquith) to look at Ms. Davis. You'll need no help in diagnosing the source of the problem is domineering mother Gladys Cooper (as Mrs. Vale). Taken away from her stuffy Boston mansion for treatment finds Davis improving her mood considerably. She becomes a smart dresser and plucks her eyebrows. Newly attractive, Davis falls in love with unhappily married Paul Henreid (as Jerry Durrance) on a therapeutic cruise...Davis is an expert in allowing the movie cameras to caress characterizations, and this is a prime example. This may be her best-remembered turn in the Cinderella role. Now, Voyager fulfilled fantasies and sold a lot of cigarettes. There wasn't too much focus on smoking's side effects back then - it looked good on the motion picture screen and had come to symbolize sex. Davis repeatedly taking one of the two cigarettes lighted in the mouth of Mr. Henreid artfully makes the point. Ms. Cooper is appropriately despicable, the male actors compliment the women, and the Warner Bros. team is finely tuned.********* Now, Voyager (10/22/42) Irving Rapper ~ Bette Davis, Paul Henreid, Gladys Cooper, Claude Rains "},{"Title":"Now, Voyager","Date":"28 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Forgive me if I am over-emotional to express my feelings towards this film, which is exactly the finest product from the Golden Age of Hollywood. Betty Davis is no doubt the prima-donna of her time and even could be competent for the most versatile actress of all time in my humble opinion. NOW, VOYAGER is a straightforward ugly- duckling fairytale, however it mingles with many lip-smacking relishes, the strained tension between mother and daughter, a deadly-romantic love affair between our lady and an unhappily married man, subsequently a heartwarming encounter with his young daughter in a mental hospital. I was struck outright by how appealing a drama-romance could ever manage to be by this film, and without any doubt the costumes of Bette Davis effectually stole the scenes consecutively, who could not memorize her duckling-turns-swan outfits, particularly the glamorous, she was a true avant-garde beyond her time! Although not one could ever possibly outshone Madame Davis, whose performance was priceless (the accent, the affection and even the subtle gestures), the supporting cast still worth mentioning, Paul Henreid emanated his manhood charm in the maximum degree as Davis' wrong-place-wrong-time inamorato; Paul's CASABLANCA (1942) co-star Claude Rains here was in his not-so-common good-man role as the doctor of the mental sanitarium, it was rather wacky to see him do decent deeds on scree; Gladys Cooper's starchy deadpan performance also stands out during the mother/daughter squabble scenes (both her and Ms. Davis were nominated for Oscars, well-deserving!). For me, this film is definitely categorized in my guilty pleasure catalog, it could be my placebo whenever I need it. "}{"Title":"Bette shines in one of the most grandest weepies of them all","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" NOW, VOYAGER, when seen today, is hopelessly melodramatic- Davis going from ugly duckling to confident swan, Henreid as the quintessential European lover she meets on a cruise, Steiner's score that seems to reach an emotional crescendo every few minutes- but still quite wonderful and one of the greatest classic romances put on the screen. It's success and enduring power as one of the most popular romantic films of the 40's (in a year that spawned, no less, CASABLANCA and RANDOM HARVEST) comes from it's excellent central performance by Davis and the classy Warner Bros production values, which overcome the more overly melodramatic detours in the script with ease.This has to be one of Davis' finest screen performances. I can't think of anyone else, today or then, who could have pulled off Charlotte Vale like Davis did. Her transformation is quite astonishing and shows just what a great talent Bette truly was.Henreid gets one of his first American roles playing Jerry Durrance, the married man who Davis meets on a cruise and falls in love. Henreid is so charming in this one, and the way he does the two cigarette trick will make any woman fall in love with him. Claude Rains plays Davis' psychiatrist who brings her out of her shell and away from her domineering mother (played brilliantly by Gladys Cooper- Mrs Vale is truly a monster), and his performance is as quiet as ever, yet he is vital to the success of the film. Intelligent, sympathetic, warm yet never yielding from common sense, Rains does not disappoint. His excellent performance as the psychiatrist looks forward to Herbert Lom in THE SEVENTH VEIL and, best of them all, Leo Genn in THE SNAKE PIT.We believe in the melodrama, the rushing emotions, the big close-ups, because we believe in the sincerity of these performers, particularly Davis and Henreid. Plus, did Bette ever look gorgeous than in her wardrobe from this film? Rapper does a solid directing job in this one, pulling so wonderful performances from his players that we forget about grainy back-projections or the use of obvious stock footage. He also conjures some terrific lighting set-ups that takes this film past mere glossy melodrama.Highly recommended, and remember the tissues. "},{"Title":"Now, Voyager","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first heard of this film, I thought it was some kind of sci-fi film, but it could have been more obvious it was talking about a cruise. Basically Charlotte Vale (Oscar nominated Bette Davis) suffers a nervous breakdown because of the pretty nerve-wrecking domineering of her mother, Mrs. Henry Windle Vale (Oscar nominated Gladys Cooper), and she is sent to a sanitarium, where she is transformed to become elegant. Then she goes on a South American cruise where she falls for already married Jerry Durrance (Paul Henreid). She goes back to comfort her mother dying from a heart attack, and she returns to the sanitarium where she meets Jerry's depressed daughter, Tina (Janis Wilson). They become really close friends and they both move back to Boston, Jerry is glad to see Tina happy, that he lets her stay with her mother (although she doesn't know it's Charlotte. It won the Oscar for Best Music for Max Steiner. Bette Davis was number 45 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, she was number 2 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Women, and she was number 17 on The World's Greatest Actor, the film was number 93 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers, it was number 23 on 100 Years, 100 Passions, and it was number 46 on 100 Years, 100 Quotes for the great end quote (Oh, Jerry, don't let's ask for the moon. We have the stars). Very good! "},{"Title":"Vale Of Tears","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite credits on several 'important' feature films gay director Irving Rapper (or, if you will, Puff Daddy) was never much more than a journeyman but with Bette Davis, Claude Rains and Gladys Cooper on set it would have been difficult to screw up and Casey Robinson's script includes a worthy contender (along with Some Like It Hot) for number #1 spot in the Last-Line Hall Of Fame in the shape of Davis's 'don't ask for the moon, we have the stars'. At the time Rapper probably won brownie points for the before-and-after complementary shots of Charlotte's (Bette Davis) feet; first, in our initial introduction to her, they are clad in 'sensible' shoes and she is soon revealed in a dowwdy 'spinster' dress which tells us all we need to know about her character; later, after a lightning transformation at the hands and in the clinic of Claude Rains Rapper gives us another shot of her feet, descending a staircase on a cruise liner and this time they are encased in fashionable pumps just as she herself, when we see her a moment later, is dressed in the height of sophistication. This whole business is accomplished in little more than two reels or twenty minutes or so of screen time and though it would have been difficult to actually show the miraculous treatment she received it would also, especially when seen today, sixty years later, have given a little more credibility to a plot whose target audience is the average Redbook reader. Like most films of the period (it was released in 1942) it was 'meaty', plot-heavy with lots of opportunities for a large supporting cast, notably the ever reliable Mary Wickes, to shine. It's the kind of film that could have ended at several points -Charlotte's triumphant homecoming for example - but keeps on extracting extra mileage. If we feel today slightly cheated by the omission of the treatment in the clinic this also applies to the huge potential of the clash of personalities between the born-again Charlotte and her mother the cold, ruthless martinet, played to a fare-thee-well by Gladys Cooper, but with other, more romantic fish to fry, Cooper is killed off after just one exchange of caustic dialogue which promises an interesting power-struggle it fails to deliver. We need look no further than Charlotte Vale and her mother for Terence Rattigan's models for Sybil Railton-Bell and HER domineering mother in 'Separate Tables'. Perhaps best remembered for the 'two-cigarette trick, where Paul Henreid places two cigarettes in his mouth, lights them both then gives one to Davis, this is yet another outstanding example of Hollywood's Golden Age and distributors are to be applauded for issuing a Boxed Set of Four Davis movies with not one dog amongst them - for the record these are The letter, Now, Voyager, Dark Victory and Mr Skeffington, a real bargain in any currency. "},{"Title":"Bette Davis as a Butterfly","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The transition of Bette Davis' Charlotte Vance from old maid to sophisticate is believable. We are rooting for Charlotte all through the film. And when she gives her old mother the what-for, you will want to cheer! The coincidence with Jerry's daughter is a little contrived but Janis Wilson who plays Tina is good (and why was she uncredited? She has a very significant role!). Of course, IMHO I believe that Jerry is too pale a character to stand up with the revived Charlotte and hope that in a sequel she finds true love with Claude Rains' doctor.  (See Deception for another Davis-Rains-Henreid triangle.) "},{"Title":"Bette's victory","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite Bette Davis movie, together with The Petrified Forest and Dark Victory. Davis proves her versatility in playing spinster, a woman of the world and a caring substitute-mother, all in the same film. The perfect romantic movie for a rainy Sunday! "},{"Title":"Nothing ugly at all about this classic film","Date":"29 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Now, Voyager is a brilliant film in every area, one where I am still trying to figure out why it took me so long to see it as a fan of classic film and as someone who considers All About Eve as one of her all-time favourites and Bette Davis' performance in it one of the all-time greats. Now, Voyager is beautifully produced, with each scene lushly photographed and with the costumes and sets very sumptuous, particularly striking at the end which has a real magical touch. There is also Irving Rapper's grand direction, which shows a director in command of what he wants, and an intelligent script that is sharp and provides a good amount of emotional impact(Davis' final line really resonated with me) without resorting to soap-opera-quality. The story is never dull and very poignant with a subtly gritty edge, the ending being romance at its absolute finest, with two scenes that have rightly gone down in cinematic history. One being Paul Henreid's lighting of two cigarettes and the other being Davis' speech which is a genuine tear-jerker. The ugly-duckling-turned-into-a-swan theme is a potentially hackneyed one but Now, Voyager is one of those rarities that does something truly special with it. Henreid is the personification of suave, Gladys Cooper is outstandingly formidable as the annoying over-bearing mother figure and Claude Rains, one of those rare actors who I've never seen a bad performance from, is beautifully sympathetic. The two best things about Now, Voyager are Bette Davis and Max Steiner's score. Davis is just fantastic in one of her greatest performances, a very close second to her iconic performance in All About Eve, she's never looked lovelier too. And Steiner's score is haunting, swells with emotion and romance and sounds in places almost symphonic, it's quite possibly his best score and Steiner penned some great ones. To conclude, a brilliant classic film that has nothing ugly about it, not even Janis Wilson's oft-criticised performance as Tina(which while she does overdo it a little I didn't have a problem with personally, there was a lot of heart to her role). 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Inspiring, intriguing","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Bette Davis plays a homely, insecure woman in this film who struggles to overcome the influence of her domineering mother. Davis (as Charlotte Vale) begins her voyage of emancipation with the help of a wise psychiatrist and a stranger she meets on a cruise. But can she win the ultimate battle with her mother, who controls her financial destiny? It is inspiring to watch Charlotte's transformation into a confident, popular and attractive woman, but also intriguing to see how she handles unexpected conflicts and uncertainties along the way. The plot always kept me guessing and the ending was surprising. I will say that the last 30 minutes or so of the film seemed to stray a bit from the main storyline -- I might have written it differently -- but the conclusion is good. I recommend the film! "},{"Title":"Enlightenment without true love","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Olive Higgins Prouty's novel becomes near-classic Bette Davis vehicle about a dowdy, unloved spinster in Boston who finds enlightenment through psychology (and, naturally, a way to make herself more attractive through this newfound wisdom), but that true love still alludes her. Davis' Charlotte Vale is one of her best celluloid creations an impossibly patient, but incredibly aware and forthright woman who falls in love with a married man and realizes you have to be happy with what you've got, not for what lingers above. It's a classic piece of grand, romantic storytelling--and yet with an ending that isn't quite so rosy. Charlotte's dreams are not completely delivered to her, but she has fulfillment within. It's a gusty soaper, yes, and it does take its time getting started; however, director Irving Rapper turns out to be shrewd with his pacing, and the screenplay digs a bit deeper than most genre films of this era. Besides that, Davis is impeccable. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Bette - Self sacrificing and melodramatic","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Bette as Charlotte Vale the plain jane of one of the Boston Brahman families, is dominated by a mother (played memorably by Dame Gladys Cooper) until she is driven to the brink of a nervous breakdown. Closing in on her 30s, her common sense tells her to rebel but her spine goes to jelly in the presence of her mother.Bette Davis does an admirable job presenting this conflict, visibly quaking and fidgeting while her mother holds court. Enter one Dr. Jaquith (Claude Rains)to represent a calm voice in a sea of angst, to take Charlotte away to Cascades, a country sanatorium, to help her develop her spine and begin to discover who she is. Before going back home, a ship voyage is arranged during which the remainder of Charlotte's blossoming is completed and she falls in love with a fellow passenger, Jerry,(Paul Henreid). Jerry is unhappily married making any proper relationship impossible and they both swear off. Thus begins a long-distance relationship, roping in his unsuspecting and under loved youngest daughter.Original consumation of their relationship is cemented on the final leg of their trip in Brazil. Subsequent consumation is cemented when they simultaneously take a drag off their respective cigarettes and exhale the smoke in each other's faces at peak emotional, self-sacrificing moments.While I sound flippant about this implausible tale, it it the definitive Bette Davis playing against type. For anyone who needs their occasional Bette Davis fix, this is the one to watch. Other films that will satisfy this fix would be Jezebel, All About Eve and perhaps The Letter. "},{"Title":"Davis at her apex!","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I caught this film late one evening when BBC2 was doing a run on black and white classics. All I can say is what a little gem of a movie. I am not normally the love story type of person, but this film made me reach for the Kleenex box on more than one occasion. Bette Davis was superb as the repressed Charlotte Vale living with an overbearing mother, (Gladys Cooper at her nasty best) slowly being driven toward a nervous breakdown. Enter a kindly psychiatrist Dr Jaquith (Claude Rains)who teaches the unhappy Charlotte that life is for living and sets her off on a voyage of self-discovery. Charlotte falls in love of course, with the handsome Jerry Durrance (Paul Henreid) but he is unhappily married so all they can have is a gentle love affair that will surely break both their hearts. However it is Charlotte's love for Jerry that enables her to defy her mother and make a life for herself outside of the family home. Even though she and Jerry can't be together, Charlotte can help Jerry's trouble daughter Tina who has suffered the same fate as Charlotte, being a child her mother does not want. There are many memorable scenes, everyone remembers Jerry lighting two cigarettes at the same time and the words Don't ask for the moon we have the stars but my favorite scene is Charlotte remembering her youth and a rare boat trip with her mother when she falls in love for the first time, and that love is reciprocated. The young actor (I can't remember his name) who plays that brief love interest bought tears to my eyes, as did the innocent quality of Charlotte's love as her blossoming passion for this young man is crushed beneath her mother's cruel reign. Now Voyager is one of those films you can watch again and again, and the soundtrack is equally as addictive. I'm so glad this is film is now on DVD because I have practically worn out my tape watching it so many times. Worth the Kleenex value alone if you want a real weepie to munch popcorn by. 9/101942 114 minutes Rated PG CC.  "}{"Title":"Great Cast","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Now, Voyager (1942)*** 1/2 (out of 4) Bette Davis plays an ugly duckling who suffers a nervous breakdown due to the overbearing torment from her mother (Gladys Cooper). A doctor (Claude Rains) is able to cure the young woman who goes on to find romance with an unhappy married man (Paul Henreid) but this relationship threatens to hurt the woman's mental state. This classic drama from Warner certainly deserves its reputation as one of the best soap operas out there and most of this is due to the tremendous cast who do a terrific job in the acting department. The Oscar winning score, great cinematography and some memorable locations just add to the pleasure. There's no question that this film belongs to Davis and she marvelously transforms from the ugly duckling to the princess. This film takes its time in the transformation, which is a good thing because it's an ongoing situations from start to finish. Davis really digs deep and delivers an incredibly strong character and it's a real treat seeing her transform from the early parts of the film to the end. The way Davis makes the early version look so ugly is quite remarkable as is the strong-headed nature to the second half character. The film also gets a lot out of the supporting characters with Henreid also delivering a very troubled character but one different than that of Davis. Rains is pitch-perfect in his small role as is Cooper who has to be considered one of the best villains in film history. The coldness she brings this mother character certainly makes ones blood boil. Bonita Granville, from the studios Nancy Drew series, also has a small role here. I think the film's main problem is how predictable it is in terms of a twist that comes at the end. Outside of this and a few dragging spots, this is a classic film that is a must see due to the terrific cast. "},{"Title":"The Melodrama to End All Melodramas","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Now, Voyager is THE ultimate Bette Davis melodrama. She plays a frumpy, dowdy spinster (they basically put some glasses on her and mess up her hair a little) who blossoms into a strong beauty and ends the film swooning into Paul Henreid's arms as she delivers the famous line, Let's not ask for the moon, we already have the stars. It's actually a ridiculous movie, but who the hell cares! The plot makes no sense, but the film seems to know its plot makes no sense and charges forward anyway. Of her noble sufferer roles, this was Davis's best, and she never disappoints. She has tremendous chemistry with Claude Rains, and the funniest moment in the film comes when he, as her doctor, talking to her about her time in a mental institution, says, I thought you came here to have a breakdown, (or something to that effect), and she replies, I did, but I changed my mind. Gladys Cooper plays Davis's stifling, overbearing battle-axe of a mother, a role Cooper cornered the market on. And director Irving Pichel throws in some nice directorial flourishes to distinguish his film, such as the shot of Cooper, very disapproving of Davis's emergence from her shell, looming in the foreground with her back to the camera, forbiddingly drumming her fingernails against the wall while Davis busies herself in the background. No composition could more clearly communicate the relationship these two women have to each other, and it's all the more satisfying, therefore, ***SPOILER ALERT*** when Davis inadvertently sends the old biddy flying down the stairs to her death.But all that messy business is forgotten by the film's end, Davis triumphs (as if anyone doubted she would), and all's right with the world. Ahhhhhh......Grade A "},{"Title":"Classic Tear-Jerker and Much More; Beautiful Production Values Also","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Olive Higgins Prouty's classic study of a repressed woman was rather well-thought-out in its original form. Bette Davis, herself a repressed personality, understood the part, and underplayed it beautifully in the film version scripted by Casey Robinson. For several reasons, not the least its luminous B/W cinematography, wonderful sets and Irving Rapper's sensitive direction, the film furthered the careers of its three stars, Paul Henreid, Davis and Claude Rains. And it became a favorite not only with females but with many film-goer--for its intelligence and its moving theme taking charge of one's own life, risks or no, is a good thing... The storyline is unusually intense. Charlotte Vale is so bullied and deprived by her mother than she has to be sent to a sanatorium run by a gruff but kindly doctor. Recovering, she goes on a voyage to South America and falls in love with an already-married man. Back at the sanitarium, she decides to help a young girl, who turns out to be the man's daughter. They can never get together; but they have their love for the daughter, and what they feel about one another. There are some good performances in this interesting and hard-too-film story.They include Gladys Cooper as the control-freak puritan mother, Bonita Granville, Ilka Chase, Mary Wickes, John Loder, Lee Patrick, Franklin Pangborn, Katherine Alexander and James Rennie. Fred Maclean's set decorations, Perc Westmore's intelligent makeup and Orry-Kelly's costumes are enormous assets to this B/W filing. Sol Polito's cinematography, Robert Haas's art direction and Max Steiner famous music also deserve praise for their professional artistry. The Victoran actions by the mother toward Charlotte Vale (Davis) are so extreme that they strike one as something someone in wealthy circles with a large family nearby should have stopped; but the way in which Charlotte treats her mother when she returns is handled interestingly, in a low-key fashion. It might have been done differently; but what we have is extraordinary. I admire the slow blossoming of the person that is Charlotte during the South American voyage, and the way the film treats self assertion as having nothing to do with others primarily and everything to do with being oneself by one's own lights. Hall Wallis produced this fine and lasting character study; one could only wish he had allowed Ayn Rand to write the screenplay, as she did for the equally interesting psychological drama Love Letters two years later. "},{"Title":"Bette, Paul, Claude, Gladys, what more could I want ?","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I caught this movie again tonight and it gets better with each viewing.  I do not like to hear it called a chick flick as it seems to diminish a great movie. Bette is simply wonderful, luminous - and oh those eyes which do 80% of the work. The screenplay keeps the action moving along well, the cast is wonderful, loved seeing Paul and Claude back together again after Casablanca.  The only oddity that struck me in this viewing is all that cigarettes smoking and the cigarettes used to symbolise so much more...I believe that smoking had a huge impact on Bette's health subsequently. But the smoking looks positively glamourous and oh so sexy here. A true melodrama, with nobility always triumphing over lust, why wish for the moon when we have the stars, ah, me.  There are star turns a-plenty in this, Gladys is a knockout as the mother-from-hell and Claude makes every role he has performed a perfect fit and who can resist the way Paul carries this inner sadness. I highly recommend it and gave it an 8 out of 10.    "},{"Title":"The ultimate ugly duckling story","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie is very entertaining and has its heart in the right place.  You want Charlotte to break away from her life because her mother is such a pill and refuses to let her daughter, well over legal age, make her own decisions or run her own life.  Consequently, she does not take part in the world and spends a lot of her time in her room, making ivory boxes, and getting insulted by the more vibrant members of her large Boston-based family.One day a cousin brings a psychiatrist to tea and he forms a friendship with Charlotte.  She is finally able to bloom as a person under his care.The best part of her character is that when Charlotte is in a position to help a youngster who is much like herself, she does not treat the youngster as she was treated by her mother her entire life.  I've noticed more than once in my life that women tend to repeat their relationship with their mother in their bringing up their own kids.  Charlotte is much smarter than that and treats the child with love and care.  The fact that Charlotte is in love with her father is besides the point, and this is why this movie is better than your standard 1940s Warner Brothers soap opera - it has the elements of a soap intact but explores them in a different way than you would normally see.  After Charlotte becomes a new person, she is able to relate to her mother and her mother warms up to her (as much as she can) and she is much more accepted socially and even within her own family.  But this is never overdone.  Bette made her rep on movies like this and of course delivers the goods necessary to make this a classic.   "},{"Title":"Gripping,romantic classic has a cult following esp.among gay men.","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't write this off as another Bette Davis,chick flick weepie, this is a powerful gripping tale of a woman who transforms herself and learns to free herself from her possessive mothers' grip. The romantic subplot, I have always regarded as unimportant;it is the scenes with Gladys Cooper that are the most moving. Perhaps that is why this movie has such a strong following among gay men. Many gay men who are repressed as young people, while growing up in the straight world, transform themselves-by discovering their sexuality. Davis transforms herself from a shy, ugly duckling to a confident beauty. How many gay men see their own transformation from closeted outcasts to fabulous , secure gay men in much the same way.One scene is especially moving and ultimately triumphant.It is the moment when Davis has transformed herself via therapy, diet , a good wardrobe and some make up tips. She goes back home and immediately her selfish mother mocks her and her new look and orders her to change back into her dowdy clothes. will Davis fall back? Will fear of her mothers power and money overcome her?  But Davis stands up to her mother and refuses to be closeted anymore- the elation and relief for the audience is one of the  most satisfying moments in movies.  "},{"Title":"moth to butterfly","Date":"9 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" for younger movie goers there was a bette davis before baby jane and sweet charlotte. and here she is. she really loses herself in this role andis almost unrecognizable in her scenes with claude raines. she turns into a butterfly, of course, and as in the little foxes, she sure knows how to wear a hat. she starts off mousey, emerges from her cacoon and falls for a married man, with a plain daughter. naturally she empathizes with the young girl, etc. it's pure hokum, of course, very forties and very good. her scenes with Gladys cooper are very intense. Gladys almost steals the movie. an unusual feat in a davis movie. bette is at the height of her powers here. queen of warner brothers and Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Now, Voyager, sail thou forth to seek and find.","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sometimes my choice of what movie to watch next is influenced by something I might have just seen. In Summer of '42, a couple of sex-obsessed but inexperienced teenage boys take their summertime girlfriends to the theater and their choice of pictures is Now, Voyager. As the boys try to cop a cheap feel, and as the girls swat away their advances, I don't know how much of the picture they actually got to see. But since this title was in a stack of unwatched movies, my own decision was an easy one to make.The title comes from an obscure line from the poet Walt Whitman in my summary above. The 'Voyager' of the film is the character portrayed by Bette Davis, an emotionally scarred young woman whose domineering mother has made her a cloistered wreck. With the help of a patient and understanding psychiatrist (Claude Rains), Charlotte Vail (Davis) discards the remnants of her abusive past and begins to grow as a self confident young woman, eventually catching the eye of a gentleman who shows interest in her aboard a cruise ship. As their romance blossoms, Jerry Durrance (Paul Henried) reveals the details of an unhappy marriage in which he's trapped, with a daughter suffering the consequences of a mother who like Miss Vail's own, is incapable of showing love or compassion.In sharp counterpoint to Mrs. Henry Vale's (Gladys Cooper) attitudes regarding wealth and societal status, Durrance offers one of the most compelling and effective arguments ever made in cinema when he speaks to Charlotte about finding happiness - two people having fun together, getting a kick out of simple, little things and finding beauty in them, and sharing confidences with a loved one you wouldn't share with anyone else in the world. It's the kind of advice that would make practitioners like Dr. Jaquith (Rains) obsolete if one would only take it to heart and follow it.Bette Davis had a way of tugging on viewer heartstrings in many of the roles she portrayed in her films. In this picture she quite literally transforms from an ugly duckling into an attractive young woman, while running a gamut of emotions coming to grips with love, losing it, and finding the way back again. As the viewer, one may find it beneficial to keep the tissues handy to deal with the emotional ups and downs of the story. "},{"Title":"Not My Cup of Tea","Date":"16 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Boston spinster (Bette Davis) blossoms under therapy and finds impossible romance.Both Bette Davis and Gladys Cooper received Oscar nominations for this film, and the score from Max Steiner actually won. I guess I did not see what the Academy saw. The score is fine, but the acting never really impressed me and the film itself is rather bland. It just did not hit me at all.The director, Irving Rapper, has not really distinguished himself beyond this film. His list of credits contains many films that only real film nerds would be familiar with. His later work The Christine Jorgensen Story may get some attention following the success of The Danish Girl (2015), though it is unlikely. "},{"Title":"NOW, VOYAGER may not be the greatest love story ever filmed . . .","Date":"12 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" . . . but it certainly qualifies as the most fabulous effort to get young teens hooked on Cancer--I mean, addicted to cigarettes (a.k.a., coffin nails)--ever to hit the Big Screen. I doubt very much that novelist Olive Higgins Prouty dashed off a tale about cool lovers lighting up Kools, Old Golds, Chesterfields, Pall Malls, Winstons, Kents, Camels, etc., after deciding that turning their windpipes into blackened chimneys was the most nurturing thing that they could possibly do with their affections. Of course, Big Tobacco was not bribing Ms. Prouty with untold billions of off-the-books cash, as they did with the Hollywood moguls for decades. If you cut the smoking scenes from NOW, VOYAGER, you'd be left with a much shorter flick constituting an incoherent mess. NOW, VOYAGER was released during WWII, which invites comparison to another propaganda masterpiece deserving a rating of 10, since it also was extremely effective in getting across its single-minded message, the Magnus Opus of Hitler's personal Videographer (Leni Riefenstahl), known here as TRIUMPH OF THE WILL. Even if you blame Mr. Hitler for ALL 100 million WWII deaths, his toll pales in comparison with the more insidious carnage wreaked over the centuries by Big Tobacco. As BT's primary propaganda arm, Hollywood could be responsible for the lion's share, including many limbs of MY family tree. NOW, VOYAGER may have doomed some of YOUR direct ancestors, as well. "}{"Title":"Tina Could be Considered the Heart of the Film","Date":"29 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Much Mentioned Ugly Duckling Theme Represented in this Film is a bit Misrepresented. The Ugly Duckling was Born Ugly. Physically Different, Anthropomorphically Strange, whereas Bette Davis is Not Physically Ugly or Different, She is Psychologically Scarred and Cannot Present Herself as Normal or Pretty because She is Repressed to the Point of the Ability or Desire to Externally Show Anything Other than that what She has been Told...You were late and unwanted.Although the Mother is Presented to be Cruel and Unusual and a Tyrant to Her Daughter, the Metamorphosis of the Young Miss Vale is Nothing More than Cosmetic (no plastic surgery) and Interpersonal. The Psychiatry Clinic and the Claude Rains' Doctor is Thankfully Subtle and Restrained for the Era that was Becoming More and More Infatuated with the Science. The Freudian Mother Complex Finally Peaked in Films with Psycho (1960), but here it is just as Horrifying. The Only Thing that Really Cured Charlotte was the Removal from Proximity from Her Excessively Depressing Environment.This was Bette Davis' Biggest Box Office Success and is One of Her Best Remembered Roles and the Movie is Among the Most Popular Weepies of All Time. Her Romantic Interlude with Paul Henreid is Remembered and is Consequential to the Story to be Sure, but it Could be Said that the Movie Works so Well and Reaches its Emotional Level because of Charlotte's Natural Love and Mothering of the Twelve Year Old Tina (a warm and heart wrenching performance and character).It is that Sacrifice and Attention Given the Damaged Tina, that Makes Charlotte so Endearing and the Third Act is so Essential to the Plot and Cannot Help but be the Lynchpin to All of the Romantic Ruminations that Came Before. The Final, Oft Quoted Line is Embraced and Celebrated Anytime the Movie is Discussed. It's a Good Line, but it Could Not have Worked so Well without the Uncelebrated Character of Tina, the Little Lost Girl, that Charlotte Vale can...Now, Mother. "},{"Title":"Quality Bette.","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Though I haven't seen many of her movies, this is one of the better Bette roles I have seen so far. She was definitely at the height of her craft in the 1940's, and she handles the quite wordy dialogue in this movie like the true pro she was. I'm too young to know much about the era, but two things struck me about this movie. One is the running time - I was amazed to see a 2 hour movie coming out of 1942. But that definitely wasn't a drawback at all in this case. And two is the movie's almost sad ending. Without giving anything away, I'll just say that this movie must have been one of the first to end on an almost but not quite happily-ever-after note. "},{"Title":"Betty Davis was Outstanding","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Never viewed this film which has great veteran actors from our past and Betty Davis, ( Charlotte Vale) is an ugly spinster who lives with her mother who drives her simply crazy and by a chance of luck she meets up with Dr. Jaquith, (Claude Rains) who feels he can do her a great deal of good and straighten out her life and to dissolve the problems with her mother's domination over her. Charlotte Vale improves and seeks to get out of her shell of a life and does meet up with a very handsome man named Jerry Durrance, (Paul Henreid) who is a married man and they both fall madly in love with each other. Charlotte breaks off their relationship because she feels it is not a wise thing to do and especially since he has a young girl to take care of also. Over a period of years Charlotte meets up with Jerry Durrance's child Tina and they become very close and of course eventually Charlotte meets up once again with Jerry Durrance. This is truly a great film classic and Max Steiner won an Oscar for his fantastic musical score for this great picture. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a woman who suffered the domination of an abusive mother, I love seeing Charlotte Vale (Bette Davis) learning to be her own person,  transforming herself into a butterfly.  Unfortunately, though, this film was made at a time when men had an unreasonable amount of power over women.  This is reflected in the way Charlotte is rescued first by the kind but condescending, oh-so-self-assured psychiatrist (Claude Rains), then by her married lover (Paul Henreid).  Although I do enjoy the film as a whole and the love story for its own sake, if it was a current film it would require quite a different ending. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I could watch Bette Davis play her final scene 1000 times, and cry every time....no, wait, that's Eve Harrington's line.  If we ever take a vote on the best Bette Davis films, this one gets my vote in the pre-All About Eve category.  It's quite simply one of the most beautiful films I've ever seen.A++.  And Brava Davis. "},{"Title":"Superb Film; Great Art; A Bit Tear Jerky","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I saw Now, Voyager many years ago, I did not like it at all. But now that I fully understand Davis' approach to acting, which is different from any other performer of our time, I realize her devotion to HIGH ART. I have heard on more than one occasion that Davis did much of the directing herself. If this truly is the case, then her esoteric animation in most of the compositions not only defines the dimensions of the frames, but it almost totally denatures the film's narrative intent. It is more than apparent that any director of note would not have been essentially required to compose even the most difficult shots given the Davis presence and her mastery of her craft. The metamorphosis she creates here may be the finest in all of her work Charlotte's vision becomes our vision and the more clearly we see with Davis the more refined our vision becomes to peruse our inner and outer selves. She has no equal in the history of film-making as her genius is proficient to elevate our awareness of certain experiences in life, thus easily placing her along side all great artistic minds of the twentieth century, inclusive of writers, artists, and composers. This, along with many of her other films, bears testimony that her filmic evolution reaffirms the ultimate purpose of a medium that must reconfigure its galaxy of stars in a cosmology that only she can consecrate. Her domination of the film proves that she is not merely the greatest cinematic actress of the twentieth century, but, rather, the greatest actor of all time.  "},{"Title":"One of the better love stories","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My rating 8/10The plot A middle-aged spinstress, Charlotte (As it is called, played by Bette Davis), has a breakdown because of her mother, who is very controlling. She goes on a cruise and meets Jerry (Paul Henreid). They have a short love affair. When Charlotte goes home, because she wants to talk to her, her mother dies of a heart attack. She goes to a sanatarium, where Jerry is and finds his depressed daughter. She spends time with Charlotte and ends up getting very happy. Tina ends up moving with Charlotte. Even though Charlotte and Jerry never marry, Charlotte's life is now at it's best point.Review I thought this was a great movie. Acting, character development, screenplay, all very good. I can't really compare this to any other Bette Davis roles, because I haven't seen many of her movies. I probably would have enjoyed more if I was about 10 years older, because I don't really like these kinds of stories. But it's probably the 2nd strongest love story of all time (Behind Casablanca, which, IMO would be #1). Defiantly worth a look. If you like the love stories that are coming out now (Alex and Emma, How to Lose A Guy in 10 Days), you'll like it, but don't expect it to be the same (Trust me It's 389043804830943 times better than Lose a Guy). It'll probably show up on TCM sometime (If you have it, I recommend that you watch it). For some reason I liked it's famous line, uttered by Charlotte Don't reach for the moon when we have the stars.  "},{"Title":"The exquisite travelogue","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Now, voyager (1942) made by Irving Rapper purposes to audience at that time of a destiny at stake for anybody, like her translucent character of indecision and still capricious as woman. In which for this journey any question is without immediately an answer in the pocket, like a book of self confidence  who cares easy whether in travel, from New York to Copacabana, she had a car accident here or elsewhere at the mountain nearby ? Did you think that she comes with another state of mind, only for the pleasure of her beloved psychoanalyst and promised lover? It was the conversation piece and apparently the necessary traumatic daily event, to forget herself as unfaithful woman, including in her mind troubles for helping the identification problem with the inevitable cure. The scene of the car accident down the mountain track is not clear if it was before in another country and only after we saw the couple over the outskirts of Rio de Janeiro, because she was not with her mother but with the new conquest from her own inspiration as a free time and opportunity which was born with the trip. Nonetheless this scene on the motorway on the mountain shows her constant hesitation and changing of mind with interesting features on her lovely face of such an offer from a woman like she was here attractive and with her eyes as fishing his mate from occasionally happiness. Even in a way very subtle but with an entire disposal for her campaigner, who had suggested this adventurous trail with such a local driver, whose capacity it was not synchronized with the searching of a given whole view from there at highland. Otherwise, it was the moment for returning from this country, because the sleeping good time is gone and she doesn't care anymore. However she thinks in the recent past, after she has met such promised husband, whom now she held when simultaneous on Europe and anywhere it burns with the storm of a far away wartime, not very included in this movie. Nonetheless, the liner's travel gave her another maturity for facing the illusions of life with other better behavior for the relationship with the others. Perhaps that is what means getting chance in changing the mental landscape with the smell of the sea. How she suffers with the details of her new perception of herself before the close contact with friends inside the cruiser, it's of course a matter that bores her ; but the fashionable new look of her figure is almost all which she got of that opportunity, when the captain there enjoys her with such an elegy that keeps her in her own importance of being liked around watching also if she is not dull with such a husband already married, a glad story with a sad taste for the next. "},{"Title":"Bette Becomes a Betty","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" . . . well, maybe not a total betty, but it's a huge improvement as she transforms from frumpy spinster to stylish single woman. Now, Voyager is the Cinderella fairy tale as woman's picture, a genre which serves as the dignified grandmother to the modern chick flick. The heroine of a woman's picture is required to suffer and sacrifice, and Bette does plenty of both thanks to her harpy mother, played by the fearsome Gladys Cooper, and her unattainable object of desire, played by the winsome Paul Henreid. She must also survive an avalanche of symbolism the director invokes pretty much every visual clich imaginable, from thick-lens eyeglasses (repression!) to ocean liners (transformation!) to the Statue of Liberty (liberation! -- what, did you think James Cameron came up with the idea?). Still, it works, in part because it's so bloody heartfelt that the most implausible, floridly written scene can jerk your tears, and in part because universal myths always have power to engage us.Which is not to say Now, Voyager is timeless. It has all the hallmarks of a 1942 film -- shadowy black-and-white cinematography (a Citizen Kane hangover), modest production values (there was a war going on, after all) and Claude Rains (he was the hardest working man in show business, which is fortunate for us because that hatchet-faced little Limey was a brilliant actor). The film is also informed by a faintly anti-romantic, pseudo-Freudian view of human nature (see King's Row, also featuring Mr. Rains). Bette, masking those Bette Davis Eyes with the aforementioned glasses and the bushiest fake brows in screen history (she looks like wolverines are gnawing at her forehead), is mousy and badly dressed because of her domineering mother, but before she can become confident and fashionable she needs to have a nervous breakdown so she can escape for some R&R in a pre-Snake Pit loony bin. There she is under the care of the good Dr. Rains, who preaches a vague gospel of independence and self-determination, which seems to entail buying Bette a new wardrobe and a ticket on a South American cruise. Odd course of treatment, but it works, and a fling with a married, strangely accented architect (Henreid, who was making Casablanca at the same time which would explain why he still sounds like Victor Laszlo) somehow transforms Bette from a frightened girl to an assertive woman who has no qualms telling her mother where to get off (but not too harshly, of course, since she's the well-brought up daughter of a Boston Brahman). That's the skeleton of the story -- the plot is riddled with absurd coincidences and unlikely twists, but the contrivances aren't too annoying since we know they're just part of Bette's, well, voyage. Rent it, have fun. "},{"Title":"Classic Davis vehicle","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Great, gloriously black and white Bette Davis melodrama (when did she ever make a colour movie?) boasting the very best Warner Brothers' production values to create a Hollywood classic. The story is hackneyed and unbelievable by turns but made involving and real by the playing of the stellar cast. The cinematography is generally excellent (some ugly process/stock shots as the cruise liner passes through Brazil excepted), as is, for once, Max Steiner's romantic score, taking in references to Cole Porter's Night and Day and Mahler along the way. The three supporting leads, Heinreid, Rains and Cooper are superb, the first two delivering naturally engaging performances, the latter acceptably over-the-top in her Mommie Dearest role. There's also a great cameo by Mary Wickes as the mother's long-suffering but savvy nurse and I was also impressed by the child actress who plays Heinreid's daughter and acts as the final catalyst to bond the main characters together. But of course it's Davis' film from start to finish. On camera almost all the time, she exudes star quality throughout but at the same time constantly modulates her performance as her character's moods, hopes and fears adapt to her changing circumstances. Some of the dialogue is a bit hokey, (Phew that was a scorcher!, pants her young suitor after a passionate kiss, early on in the piece) but all is redeemed by what follows and especially of course, the justly famous understated closing lines as Davis and Heinreid resign themselves to accept their less than starry fates. "}{"Title":"Melodrama about motherhood","Date":"28 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This Bette Davis melodrama is about motherhood. In it, she plays a woman called Charlotte Vale who has been kept repressed by her monstrous mother. Via a kindly psychiatrist she begins a process of healing by slowly entering the adult world. This begins with a love affair on a cruise ship and ends with her becoming a surrogate mother to a troubled child, who reminds her of her younger self.The relationship between mother and child is a central theme. Where Charlotte's real mother is an overbearing bully, Charlotte cultivates a loving relationship with the girl she takes under her wing. She gains fulfilment in this mother role, so much so that she chooses this over romantic love. This of course, makes the ending to Now, Voyager a little unorthodox. The two lovers do not embrace and give the audience closure. Instead, we are left with a situation that looks like it will be fraught with unresolved issues. Not a typical happy ending at all.Gladys Cooper was particularly excellent here as the demonic mother figure. She was a pretty intense and scary presence and was surely worthy of her best supporting Oscar nomination. While Bette Davis, Claude Rains and Paul Henreid are good also. I'm not hugely familiar with the Hollywood melodrama, so I can't really put this film into too much of a context, although I am led to believe that this is one of the best of its kind. "},{"Title":"classic tear-jerker","Date":"4 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Long before there were 'chick flicks', certain movies were called 'weepies' or 'women's pictures.' 'Now, Voyager' not only qualifies, it might very well be the epitome of this kind of cinema. A young woman, held down by a domineering mother who manipulates and controls her, finally breaks away to live her OWN life, free to do as she pleases, even becoming more beautiful as she does so! You get the idea. Bette Davis was certainly at the top of her game when she made 'Now, Voyager' in 1942. She plays dowdy future spinster Charlotte Vale, who lives with and under the thumb of her mean old mother, um, Mrs. Vale (Gladys Cooper). Charlotte's pretty darn ugly at the first of the film, big bushy eyebrows, dressed unattractively, and supposedly overweight. I couldn't tell she was overweight, but everyone says that she is, so... Help arrives in the person of Dr. Jaquith (Claude Rains), who through therapy helps Charlotte discover her inner (and outer) beauty. Charlotte then takes an ocean cruise, where, now incredibly beautiful, she meet and falls in love with Jerry Durrance (Paul Henreid). If you've never seen 'Now, Voyager,' this is the film where Henreid lights two cigarettes at the same time, then takes one from his lips and hands it to Davis. In fact, he does it four or five times during the movie. Jerry is married when they meet, so that puts a damper on their romance. The ending is a bit unexpected for a film of this type; you might expect that Jerry gets a divorce or his wife dies and he and Charlotte end up together, but instead Charlotte ends up caring for one of his troubled daughters, which she considers his 'gift' to her and a way to always have him in her life. Their relationship remains platonic otherwise. They both seem content with this resolution, and the film ends with Bette Davis' classic line, Oh, Jerry, don't let's ask for the moon... we have the stars! I enjoyed 'Now, Voyager' for the performances and some of the dialogue, which alternates between sharp and soapy. Paul Henreid looks and sounds as if he walked right out of 'Casablanca.' Claude Rains is good, as always, as the shrink who helps Charlotte. But this is Bette Davis' show for the most part and it is one of her finest portrayals. "},{"Title":"Hedda Lettuce recommends NOW VOYAGER","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" BETTE DAVIS-NOW VOYAGERIf you have a spare 3 hours on your hands sit down and watch 1942 classic Bette Davis Film, NOW VOYAGER.Here is the lowdown Bette plays a homely Boston spinster (Charlotte Valle)who is under the thumb of her domineering mother, and the family decides that Charlottes antisocial ways require professional assistance and she is sent to a sanatorium to receive mental care. Bette's appearance before entering the sanatorium is very frumpy indeed Her hair pulled into a tight bun, eyebrows thickened with a dark pencil, glasses and a plain dress padded out to make poor Bette look 20 pounds heavier. She was obviously courting the academy by allowing herself to be uglied-up in such a cartoonish way. It is the kind of role that a modern day actress like Charlize Theron would have loved to sink her teeth into. Miss Davis's look is rather comical and had me in stitches, probably not the reaction they were going for, she looks more like a parody of a matron or some odd ball character on MAD TV. Very heavy handed indeed.But miracles do happen in the sanatorium! Not only does Bette undergo a positive emotional change but she also undergoes a physical one to match her new mental state. When she is revealed for the first time after her long stay, she is dressed to the nines with a fashionable hat and tailored dress suit, she looks thinner, stylish and her eyebrows have been thinned out and her lips painted a deep red, giving her that movie star aura that Bette made famous. Who knew the funny farm had a stylist on hand? This is the kind of place that stars of today would dream of going to. Not only will they leave with a new attitude they would also have a new look to match. Britney Spears are you listening? The rest of the movie is rather long winded and to be honest the plot is bit twisted She falls for a married man, somehow raises his 9 year old child, no one questions there peculiar relationship, she is engaged to be married to another man but breaks it off rather calmly, and then goes back to pine for her married foreign lover. Whew! But there are a few memorable moments that will leave you in stitches. For instance when Bette decides to assert herself and tell her mother that she wants to live her own life, her new found confidence gives her poor, old, mean, sickly mother a heart attack and kills her. If only in the real world killing a disagreeable parent was so easy. If it were we would have a lot of dead parents on our hands.The money shot in the end is well worth the wait. We find Bette and her married lover looking out the window questioning the validity of their relationship, when Bette looks towards the Heavens and says the famous line, Why ask for the moon when we have the stars. At which point the camera pans up to a painted backdrop of a black sky filled with little points of light, and for that magical Bette moment we should all be thankful.Stay Fresh,XHedda Lettuce www.hedda.com "},{"Title":"Definitive Davis Showcase Still Works Despite the Contrivances","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Let's face it - this 1942 Warner Bros film classic is a hoot. Directed by journeyman studio veteran Irving Rapper, it's an unabashed, only-in-Hollywood soap opera with Bette Davis at the peak of her popularity as she evolves from a distraught, overweight spinster to a glamorous Boston society social maven in about ten minutes. Probably to Tom Cruise's horror, it's also a big valentine to the positive effects of psychoanalysis, a new science which must have been viewed with a great deal of skepticism at the time. Yet for all its plot contrivances - and there are quite a few - this is ultimately sublime entertainment thanks mainly to the stellar performances and the simple fact that the story is never dull.The plot focuses on heiress Charlotte Vale, a walking disaster of sheltered neurosis in sensible shoes and a virtual slave to one of the most dominating mothers in screen history. Charlotte's concerned sister-in-law Lisa brings Dr. Jaquith to the Vale mansion where he convinces Charlotte to seek psychiatric treatment at a posh sanitarium. Although still insecure after she leaves on a life-altering pleasure cruise, she finds inevitable romance with architect Jerry Durrance, who of course is married to an unstable woman. Overcome with guilt and breaking an engagement to an available prospect, Charlotte returns to the sanitarium, where she meets troubled young Tina, who of course turns out to be Jerry's daughter. From this ultimate contrivance, plot threads get sewn together in short order, cigarettes lit under the moonlight and Davis coos her big line, Don't let's ask for the moon; we have the stars. In what amounts to a showcase for her versatility, Davis is superb in both before and after modes, even playing a romantic shipboard teenager with sincerity in a flashback sequence. Paul Henried plays Jerry with requisite Continental charm, but he is truly overmatched by Davis in their scenes together. Claude Rains fares better in the pivotal role of Dr. Jaquith providing his medical advice with convincing paternal authority and genuine warmth. Gladys Cooper - who would play the far warmer mother of Henry Higgins in My Fair Lady two decades later - portrays Charlotte's iron-willed mother in a sharply uncompromising manner befitting the intimidating stature she holds in the family. Broadway luminary Ilka Chase is fine in one of her few screen appearances as sympathetic Lisa, and Bonita Granville - grown-up since her sinister turn as the rumor-mongering child in William Wyler's These Three seven years earlier - plays the bratty niece June with enthusiasm. The print condition on the DVD is excellent, though there are no other extras included. "},{"Title":"Bette Davis chain-smokes through another weepie...from ugly duckling to princess...","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bette Davis' change from the dowdy Charlotte to the fashionable woman of the '40s ready for romance on a cruise is a startling one--aided and abetted, of course, by the Warner Bros. costume and make-up department that also made her look so horrible in the first place.The change is a little too startling to be believable--with brows thicker than Groucho Marx's before the transformation--and the elegant costumes afterwards are strictly those from a major studio's wardrobe department. But if you can swallow the premise--that seeing a therapist like Claude Rains can do wonders for your image and your wardrobe--then by all means sit back and enjoy. But frankly, this is carrying the soap opera premise of the story to new heights.It all seems like a parody--especially when the lovers light their cigarettes as a kind of foreplay. But Bette and Paul Henried do everything in such great style that you forgive the hokey plot for making them appear just a trifle too sophisticated. But watching the film, I couldn't help wondering if Carol Burnett ever did a parody on this one???I couldn't take any of this seriously--except for the performance that Gladys Cooper gives as the domineering, possessive mother. She is a marvel to behold--never once does she give you one reason to pity her. It is the most savage portrayal of a cold-hearted mother I've ever seen on the screen. Her scenes with Davis are the strongest in the film. Both are so intense you can feel the sparks. It's as though Davis finally finds someone who can match her in intensity.Claude Rains is more mellow than usual as Dr. Jacquith, dispensing advice that changes Bette's outlook on life. Max Steiner's score is a romantic one, fully deserving its Oscar for Best Original Dramatic Score. "},{"Title":"Well . . .","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As these things go, not bad. You will not believe that Bette Davis is transformed from a dumpy, borderline-suicidal spinster into a woman that fills the hearts of two men with deepest devotion. You will believe that she peeled off the padded dresses, wiped off the greasepaint uni-brow, and made with the job lots of designer dresses.You'll also believe the almost impossible relationship she had with her mother. There was an almost homicidal gusto to Gladys Cooper's performance as the awful Mrs. Vale, a delight in tormenting the one vulnerable creature fate has placed under her power. The script (and apparently, Olive Prouty's book) were honest enough to leave the relationship unresolved and unresolvable. The moments when Davis holds down her gorge and answers the old battle-axe politely but firmly are among the most moving in a mere Hollywood movie.The scenes of Davis and Paul Henried and their circumscribed little romance are touching and realistic--two people not happy, but not willing to risk the chaos that would result if they went looking for it.Only John Loder, as the Nice Young Man who suddenly shows up as vague competition for Henreid, feels out of place. He's a plot device, and the only thing I can say about the character is that he is gone quickly and that Loder did his duties gracefully.Several people have praised Irving Rapper's direction here, and it's polished enough, but nothing extraordinary. In particular, Davis is still, except in the scenes with Cooper, way too phony and practiced. You can hear the wheels running in her head, not to mention her nice, clean diction as she declaims to the third row of the balcony at times. There was none of the wit, delicacy, or oddly appropriate artificiality that she displayed under Vincent Sherman's direction in one of her last big weep-a-thons, MR. SKEFFINGTON. But Sherman seemed to remember he was doing a movie--not just a Bette Davis movie . . . "},{"Title":"TEARS AND LAUGHTER","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie made me cry twenty years ago. It made me laugh today. No, I haven't changed. Twenty years ago I watched it alone. Today I watched it with company. How can you help laughing at lines like We're roasting weenies or Let's be very gay, or I want to give you something! So much smoking, so little ---! But seriously, except for the inexplicable vaudeville with the comic-relief Brazilian cab driver - who speaks a mixture of Italian and Spanish (so insulting to Latinos, not to mention the viewer), this is a very fine romantic movie. Janis Wilson is the real standout. I am shocked at the lack of appreciation for her outstanding, mature performance. If there's a star in this film it is she.  "},{"Title":"Well-made but dull","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Well-made but dull.Now, Voyager is essentially a movie-length soap opera. Has all the ingredients over-stated melodrama, complex relationships, high society and their weird mores, idyllic settings, forbidden romances and a nagging, fascist mother. From the outset the movie just feels stuffy, and superficial.Good production though, despite the dialogue feeling so much like a play. Max Steiner won an Oscar for his musical score.The acting goes with the play/soap opera feel over-stated emotions, exaggerated portrayals. "},{"Title":"Just like the main character, the movie turns from bad and ugly to good and beautiful.","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I must admit that I was rather worried when I began watching this movie. The movie started of like a melodramatic soap-like movie, with a bad visual look and Bette Davis looked ridicules to say the least. However about half way through the movie I finally began to see where the movie was heading to and the story actually turned out to be rather original, gripping and effective.The story at first seems to be rather formulaic; An ugly duckling turns into a beautiful swan. And in the first halve the movie unfortunately also IS formulaic. When the main character gets on a cruise and meets her first(?) and true love, I was worried that the movie would turn into a typical '30's/'40's melodramatic and formulaic love-story, like dozens of were made, in mainly the '30's and early '40's. The movie however took some original and surprising twists after that. The love-story is not your average love-story were girl meets boy and they start falling in love. The movie and its story is multiple layered; The man (Paul Henreid) is married to a woman who is sort of in the same situation as the girl (Bette Davis) he falls in love with used to be; a timid, insecure woman. The man also has a daughter to whom the girls is really starting to relate to. What at first starts as a simple no-worries romance turns later into a deep bond between a man and a woman, who understand- and help each other. 'Faith' brings them together multiple times later throughout the movie and they always keep feeling a sort of connection and love for each other.The story doesn't always flow well and too often things occur too sudden. But oh well, that is sort of fitting for early '40's style of film-making. So if you've seen more movies from this time period, this hardly should be a complaint.This is really the sort of movie that is carried by its characters. So it definitely helps that the cast is a solid one. Bette Davis and Paul Henreid were good as the main characters and Gladys Cooper was great as the tough and strict mother who is not too happy with her 'unwanted' youngest daughter (the Bette Davis role). Smaller roles are there for Claude Rains and Mary Wickes, who always was surprising good and enjoyable in her role.Despite the fact that this is a movie from 1942 it looks like it was made in the early '30's. It makes this movie also perhaps look way more outdated than it in fact really is. The production values really aren't too high and it shows on the screen. I also wasn't too fond of the melodramatic musical score from Max Steiner. I agree with Bette Davis on this issue; it was distracting. Ironicaly Steiner won an (and the only) Oscar for this movie. The movie was nominated for 2 more Oscars for Bette Davis' and Gladys Cooper's performances. In my book not a classic must-see, the first halve and the production values of the movie aren't good enough for that but the story and cast compensates a lot. It makes the movie at times intriguing and always interesting and effective. 8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Oh happy times!","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the best movies I have ever seen in the early 40's even though its a bit waste of time. My sister like fell asleep on half of it though but I said and Remember what is good about it to her and Bette Davis looked so beautiful she wouldn't have made movies when she was little but as an adult is fine.and the other players were great! If Bette Davis or others make relationship movies she will need another boy at always, I like Bette Davis especially when moms or grandmas watch good acting of people like lots of relationships and dramas like cat people or that hamilton woman but I know grandmas won't be to interested in that hamilton woman.the hamilton woman is to much crying and stuff I would give a spoiled review for that. "}{"Title":"Another of Bette's Best","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bette Davis' performance in this film is outstanding.  However, what detracts from it are some scenes that just could have been left out.  For example, that whole scene with the cab driver in Rio served no purpose.  Also annoying was the child who played Tina.  She illicited not sympathy but irritation from me.  Wasn't there a child actor that could have done a better job?  These are just a couple of things that kept this movie from a nine or ten rating.  Bette's performance 10/10; Overall rating for film - 7/10. "},{"Title":"Super Soapy","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I know this is supposed to be an all-time classic, but for me it was just an overly wrought super sudser. This must be the flick from which all major soap clichs got their start. I can imagine if I was a 16 year old dopey girl, I might find this movie deep and meaningful. As a 45 year old woman, I just want to groan.I'm sure audiences at the time lapped this up (as many still do today with this flick), and it's flicks like this that kept Bette Davis on top. See it for the pop cultural value (Let's not ask for the moon, we have the stars) but don't expect anything great or life-altering. . . . . . . 4/10 "},{"Title":"Good but very flawed film","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Now, Voyager begins excellently Bette Davis plays Charlotte Vale, the youngest child of an affluent Boston family. In fact, she was a late child, had late in her mother's life. She was not planned, and the doctor who delivered her comforts her mother by telling her that a late child would be a great companion in old age. In the present day, Charlotte is her mother's slave. In fact, it might be best to call mother Mother, a prototype for the unseen mother in Hitchcock's Psycho. She is simply cruel and oppressive towards Charlotte, who, because of it, is having a nervous breakdown.Most of the film concerns Charlotte's recovery and the aftermath. Many scenes are great, some are unsuccessful (for instance, the cab driver in Rio de Janeiro, who is played for gross comedy, is completely unfunny). When Charlotte finally goes back home, there are many scenes of the battle between her and her mother, which are all rather good. But there are also a lot of bad scenes where Charlotte's family and acquaintances stare at her in wonderment.The final scenes, where Charlotte takes on a protege at her old mental hospital, are quite a bit too much. The young actress who plays Christina is awful. The film meanders and becomes very silly. The final scene is supposed to be romantic or bittersweet but comes off as almost psychotic. The final line is good, though. It's still worth seeing, but I don't think it will stick in my mind for more than a short while. 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Almost a great film","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The first 85% of this film was as great a film as I have seen. Bette Davis' transformation from the browbeaten woman to a whole person was marvelous and beautifully done--thanks to her performance, exquisite music and deliberately paced direction. It worked so well and really captured my heart. The illicit romance that ensued also worked,...up to a point. When she wisely breaks off the budding romance, instead of going out and creating a healthy life for herself, she stupidly decides to become a teacher and work at the school where her ex-boyfriend's shy daughter resides in order to help her, too, come out of her shell. Huh? This seemed really convoluted and silly but despite this, the excellence of the first portion of the film is so glaring that you should still give it a look. "},{"Title":"Frumptastic","Date":"28 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Now, Voyager is preposterous but entertaining. Beleaguered frump Charlotte Vale (Bette Davis) traipses off to a sanitarium and in a few weeks she's transformed bodily and socially into well... Bette Davis; Warner Bros star! But there she is... a person with a supportive upbringing isn't as poised or as verbally deft as she is after her short retreat; It'll make you long for a lifetime of parental terror followed by a few days of elocution lessons. Anyone with Charlotte's debilitated will (so late into adulthood) will take longer than a week away from mom to repair. We're talking a decade or two; but hey, that's unfilmable. The first two thirds of this is pretty good stuff. The payoff comes when Davis, (never softer than here) returns home to her awful dowager-mother who's determined to destroy her new confidence. Will Charlotte succumb? Well... the movie cleverly delays the gambit, but happily, No! Davis uses her new polish to Oh-so-politely twist the knife into Mom and her overbearing plans.Unfortunately, the ending is pants! After a time, Charlotte returns to the sanitarium, and just happens to meet a girl much like her former self (mousy, dejected, self-loathing) who just happens to turn out to be her unrequited love's daughter. Golly, what luck for the sentiment our film-makers were hoping to wring. The last third of the movie is belabored, unsubtle ham, with that (the worst coincidence ever filmed), a truly dreadful over the top performance by the much too old, much too intense gal playing Tina, and the most squealingly icky sub-plot, in which Tina (a frightening head case) develops a way-too intense crush on Charlotte that we're meant to find uplifting but, 60 years on, is creepy beyond belief. It's taken through some absurd convolutions and eats up at least 45 minutes of running time. It does NOT belong in this movie. Rarely since, has 2/3rds of a decent movie, ever been sandbagged by its own ludicrous 4th act. "},{"Title":"Sappy Soap","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" With the help of a psychiatrist, an ugly duckling overcomes her domineering mother and is transformed into a swan. Lavish production values, including Steiner's big score, can't quite hide what this is - a sappy soap opera with some corny moments. Davis is fine, although the radical transformation of her character (even her eyesight improves!) over six months is not plausible. Her ugly duckling makeup is ridiculously overdone. Henried is OK as her lover and Rains is always watchable, but Cooper as the mother from hell and Wilson as Henried's daughter are terrible. The plot meanders rather aimlessly and the film goes on much too long. "},{"Title":"Mommy Dearest Gets Treated To A Movie","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Bette Davis is known as Mommy Dearest to her children in their biographies. In this one Gladys Cooper plays the hard & cold Mommy Dearest. Davis has a nervous breakdown as Charlotte early in the movie & comes off pretty well staging it.I am a big fan of Claude Rains he does well as Dr. Jaquith whose treating Charlotte in his sanitarium. Paul Heinreids boyfriend is OK. Charlotte becomes a flower after being treated at Jaquith's sanitarium which is more like a country club than a hospital.Charlotte goes full circle here from mom's control to controlling a young girl of her own. While getting the young girl is Charlotte's aim, the ending here does seem a bit contrived & over done. Still a good film as it has the kind of drama missing in many films today. "},{"Title":"Groan","Date":"27 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sometimes I pull this disc out of my collection and start watching it, since I've forgotten what it's about. It's not long before I find myself transfixed by Bette Davis's hairy eyebrows. Then there are the fairly dreadful age lines all over Gladys Cooper's face. Serious make-up fails. I don't think I've ever managed to complete this voyage to the bitter end, although I've fast forwarded sufficiently to get the closing lines, and pieced together most of the story by reading the comments on this site, and elsewhere. It's all very painful and agonising.Miss Davis definitely has cinematic presence, but I don't think I've ever liked any of the characters she's played. To be honest, I believe she repels me. She's of her time, that's for sure.Today, the whole narrative, the dialogue, the motivations of the characters, seem pre-historic, but the fact is that there were people who lived these sorts of lives during the 1920s and 1930s. I am personally aware of a woman who ruled two of her daughters with a rod of iron; forced them to serve her hand and foot until the day she died, and forbade them from marrying. One of them did actually have a suitor.It is not an edifying experience to re-visit this world of totalitarian domestic horror. I do not recommend it. Miss Davis seems bitter and unfulfilled in many of her film roles as well as in her own private life. "},{"Title":"Insolant Whisker","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an ordinary drama; lots of heartwrenching situations involving love, children and overbearing mothers, two of them. It was made from a well-selling book of the period. Sometimes movies are merely made from books and that's that. In this case, we are reminded it is a book because we actually see the book's pages turn! Its pretty weird. I know of no other movie from a book that so overtly says now this next part is a bit boring but it comes from the book, you see, right here in the next chapter.Bette Davis stars, if that is of interest. She is not believable in the modern sense. But it hardly matters because the character she plays is rich.Why do we want movies and books about rich people? I believe the reason is something more than the character shorthand we use. Oh we have a doctor here and an architect, each assignment carrying context that we add to the story without having to be shown. But wealth is used as a different sort of shorthand.Wealthy people can can just do things without refactoring their lives. Want to spend six months at a sanatorium? Want to take a cruise to South America next week? Want to leave the cruise without worry because you know you can take a flight?Want to adopt a child? Want to defy social conventions with impunity? Just do it, you're rich.Storytelling is about weaving with ribbons, and it the great challenge of the storyteller to draw these ribbons from reality for us. Its the first thing. Its the most interesting thing. Simply using devices like this seems like a cheat. The story has no value because we know it begins with cartoon conventions.Edith Wharton is valuable because she stepped into this shorthand and made having a wealthy life as complicated as any life. The ribbons she teased out were newly born. These here are used.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "}]