[{"Title":"a slight step down in quality but still wonderful fun","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Okay, so this is pretty familiar stuff once again--you know, mad Egyptian cult leader and his resurrection of a mummy to exact revenge on those who have desecrated ancient tombs. About the only big differences here are having Lon Chaney, Jr. play the mummy for the first time and the action is moved to America (despite this making little sense). While this is far from the best mummy film, it is good old fashioned fun and I enjoy this much more than the overly special effects enhanced mummy films of the last decade because of the fun factor. The campiness and the whole ambiance are just so wonderful--and they remind you that the term B-movie isn't such a bad thing. Watch it and let yourself go--and have FUN! "},{"Title":"The Mummy's Tomb (1942) **1/2","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I first watched this, some 4 years ago, I remember being very disappointed with it and recall labeling it a lazy overall effort, especially as it heavily borrowed footage not only from the previous film - THE MUMMY'S HAND - but also FRANKENSTEIN (1931), BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN (1935) and THE WOLF MAN (1941) for its mob scenes at the climax! However, coming back to it now - and despite having just watched the other Kharis films - I found it to be quite enjoyable, atmospheric and competently handled (especially during Chaney's various rampages and the fiery finale). It was nice to see Dick Foran, Wallace Ford and George Zucco (why on Earth did he wait 30 years to exact his revenge?!) reprise their roles from THE MUMMY'S HAND, if only briefly, as it was to have Mary Gordon - Mrs. Hudson of Universal's contemporaneous Sherlock Holmes series - as one of Chaney's victims. As for Chaney himself, I thought that his first stab at the role wasn't bad at all suitably brutish when required but with a hint of emotion seeping through the wrappings on occasion to provide a balance (especially when Turhan Bey, yet another misguided High Priest of Karnak, is liable to jeopardize their 'mission' of restoring Princess Ananka to life by conveniently falling for leading lady Elyse Knox). "},{"Title":"The Mummy's Tomb (1942) **1/2","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This 61 minute sequel begins with roughly about 10 minutes of stock footage from the previous film (THE MUMMY'S HAND), and I'd like to get that out of the way right from the beginning because it seems to unnecessarily bother a lot of monster fans who didn't go to the theater in 1942 when THE MUMMY'S TOMB first premiered. It should be taken into account that these first two Universal installments were released a couple of years apart back in their day, and it was during a time in our history when we didn't even have the luxury of television, much less something as convenient or extravagant as a home video theater. Today we can watch these films over and over, and back to back; but in the early '40s it wouldn't have been so easy to recall where the story of Kharis the mummy left off two whole years ago, and that's in the context that this repetitive footage should be considered. After being refreshed of the last films' Egyptian exploits of novice archaeologists Steve Banning and Babe Jenson (now mistakenly referred to as Babe Hanson, an error which is NOT as easily excusable!) we move ahead 30 years where the mummy of Kharis (newly played by Lon Chaney) is stuck in America with current high priest Mehemet Bey (Turhan Bey). Why it's taken so long is anyone's guess, but Mehemet has a mission to unleash the mummy on Steve and Babe (Dick Foran and Wallace Ford, reprising their parts in senior citizen's makeup) for daring to defile Kharis' tomb three decades earlier. This is strictly a B level programmer without many trimmings, but it's still an entertaining one. Lon Chaney looks menacing in his dingy mummy outfit which properly shows some of the effects of the fire which consumed him once upon a time. Chaney absolutely hated playing the restrictive part of Kharis, yet he wound up grumbling through it for two more sequels following this one. Harold Young's pedestrian direction is nothing much to get excited about, but we do get some chilling sequences of Kharis creeping around modern-day Mapleton, Massachusetts on dark and windy evenings, which are a plus. Turhan Bey is perfectly cast as the mummy's foreign protector, and lovely Elyse Knox is easy on the eyes as the love interest to John Hubbard, who doesn't leave much impression as Steve Banning's son. One can nitpick on the inconsistency of these mummy sequels forever; for example, even though TOMB occurs thirty years after HAND and should therefore be set in 1970, everyone still dresses and acts like it's 1942. But what the hell -- taken for what it is, THE MUMMY'S TOMB is a fast and fulfilling hour of mindless fun. **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Decent Mummy sequel that's fairly entertaining WARNING!!!!!!! SPOILERS!!!!!!!!!","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Decent Mummy sequel that's fairly entertaining and well made. this is definitely an improvement over the rather weak Mummy's Hand due to the fact that's it's very well paced and only a couple of dull moments plus Lon Chaney Jr. played the best mummy since Christopher Lee Arnold Vosolo and Boris Karloff. the performances are a lot better this time around although it's a shame we only see George Zucco once in this film he is such a great actor. The script is also a lot better this time around and it does not feel so rushed and it had a couple of surprisingly suspenseful moments. The Acting is good. Lon Chaney Jr. as i said is the best mummy since Lee Vosolo and Karloff and is WAY better then Tom Tyler Chaney is such a versatile actor and can play any role that he is given. Dick Foran does well with his limited screen time. John Hubbard is good here as one of the main leads and is pretty likable. Elyse Knox is pretty and has good chemistry with John Hubbard and is also very likable. Wallace Ford is only there in flashback scenes (thankfully) from what i could see. Turhan Bey does what he has to do well. but does not compare to George Zucco. Overall this is worth the watch and i will probably watch it again sometime. **1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Kharis Stalks Again","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" THE MUMMY'S TOMB (Universal, 1942), directed by Harold Young, the third installment in the Mummy series, the second to feature Kharis and the first starring Lon Chaney Jr. as the living creature under wraps. A  sequel to THE MUMMY'S HAND (1940) released two years earlier, this legend of Kharis continues, set thirty years later, with Dick Foran, Wallace Ford and George Zucco reprising their original characters sporting middle-age makeup consisting of gray hairs, glasses and wrinkles.The story opens in a town of Mapleton in Massachusetts, with the middle-aged widow named Steve Banning (Dick Foran) relating his scientific expedition to his sister, Jane (Mary Gordon), son, John (John Hubbard) and Isobel (Elyse Knox), John's fiancé, on how he, his now deceased wife, Marta (played earlier by Peggy Moran) and his friend, Babe Hanson (Wallace Ford) encountered the ancient burial ground of Kharis, the mummy. The next scene shifts over to Egypt where High Priest Andoheb (George Zucco), who amazingly survived three bullet wounds shot into him by Hansen and his long plunge down the temple steps (told via flashback), assigns Mehemet (Turhan Bey), to guide Kharis (Lon Chaney Jr.) to America where his next assignment is to avenge the surviving members of the expedition, doing away with the Banning family and finally Babe Hansen, whose character arrives later in the story.Taking a new direction from its previous successors by shifting Kharis from Egypt to the United States, with similarities to Dracula (1931) where Kharis on board the ship, resting inside his tomb, bound for his destination with Mehemet as his guide in the similar fashion to Dracula's Mr. Renfield. Once in Massachusetts, Mehemet takes up residence as a cemetery caretaker with Kharis feeling right at home surrounded by tomb sweet tombs of buried beings. Like Dracula, Kharis stalks his victims at night and rests by day.While THE MUMMY'S TOMB tends to be original, it mostly borrows from other horror stories, including its predecessor where Mehemet captures Isobel to make her his bride as his predecessor Andoheb tried to do with Marta in THE MUMMY'S HAND. Besides resurrections and revisions, the film delivers towards its final half with chills and thrills, and Kharis meeting the same fate as the Frankenstein monster, who doesn't appear here.Supporting players include Frank Reicher (Professor Matthew Norman); Cliff Clark (The Sheriff); Virginia Brissac (Ella Evans); and Otto Hoffman (The Cemetery Caretaker).Strictly B material for the juvenile crowd, THE MUMMY'S TOMB is a fast-paced if not entirely incredible 62 minutes. Without the flashback and stock material from the previous film, this movie would have been ten minutes shorter. Minus the over abundance of comedy relief stressed out from THE MUMMY'S HAND, TOMB has all the familiarities from other Universal horror films from the 1940s, especially the stock musical score by Hans J. Salter. Although THE MUMMY'S TOMB did not become a top of the line Mummy show, it did lead the way to the next installment of THE MUMMY'S GHOST (1944), considered by many to be the best of all the Kharis thrillers.Footnote For anyone paying close attention to detail, it should be noted that since the first Kharis film installment obviously takes place in 1940, then this sequel, which looks very much like modern-day 1942, is set thirty years into the future, namely 1970. Otherwise if this is 1942, then the earlier film should have taken place in 1912 with actors in futuristic 1940s attire.Other than local television presentations prior to 1985s Fright Night/Chiller theaters, and availability on video cassette and later DVD format, it's cable broadcast history consists of the Sci-Fi Channel (1990s) and American Movie Classics (2000-2002).(**) "},{"Title":"Channey Jr.'s first appearance as the gauzed menace!","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Fun, typical UniversalB.. In what must've amounted to a cost-cutting measure, over 10 min. of the film's 60 min. running time, is made up of scenes from 1940's The Mummy's Hand!! This flick would mark Chaney's first of 3 appearances as Kharis. Look for Glenn StrangeFrankenstein's Monster from '44-'48in an unbilled bit as a farmer calming a horse, during the Mummy's first attack sequence. "},{"Title":"Kharis still lives, lives for the moment he will carry death and destruction to all those who dared violate the tomb of Ananka.","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mummy's Tomb takes place thirty years following the events of The Mummy's Hand, recounting the events of that earlier film in a series of flashbacks as narrated by expedition leader Stephen Banning (Dick Foran), bearing an uncanny resemblance to Martin Mull. We also come to learn that the Mummy from the prior film was only seared, and it's mentor Andoheb (George Zucco) was only shot in the arm and actually survived the first film. If you're ready to accept that, you'll be able to swallow the rest of the story, as the aging Andoheb entrusts the Mummy's safekeeping to a new caretaker Mehemet Bey (Turhan Bey). Now there's a great coincidence, the Boris Karloff character in the original The Mummy was known as Ardath Bey!Mehemet Bey's avowed mission is to bring the Mummy to Mapleton, Massachusetts to avenge the desecration of his holy tomb, by destroying the members of the original expedition and their families. But like his mentor before him, Mehemet is deterred from his mission by the sight of a pretty girl, in this case the fiancé of John Banning, Stephen Banning's son.Wallace Ford is on hand in this sequel as well, but without the comic nuance of the earlier film. In a continuity goof, Ford's character is called Babe Hanson, and not Babe Jenson as in Hand. It was a rather dramatic oversight, as the name Hanson is given prominence in a newspaper headline following his demise in the film. The story writers also take liberty with the legacy of the tana leaves that are instrumental in keeping the Mummy alive. In Hand, much was made of the fact that nine drops of liquid extracted from the leaves were necessary to resurrect the bandaged one; here three leaves keep him alive, and nine are needed to give him movement. I know, it's only a movie, but gee, let's keep our monster continuity intact.I've yet to research Lon Chaney's involvement in this and the subsequent Mummy sequels, but I question why a name actor would have been called upon to portray a character that's never seen in his real guise; why not save the bucks and have a starving newcomer take on the role? If the Chaney name was a hook to bring in the moviegoers, who would ever know the difference? "},{"Title":"It's not easy being a high priest...","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 1940's The Mummy's Hand featured western actor Tom Tyler as the undead pile of bandages. Tyler (listed eighth in the credits of 'Hand') obviously wasn't being prepped to carry Universal's horror banner into the remainder of the decade. So, after the success of The Wolf Man--and much to his displeasure--Lon Chaney Jr. had to slouch through the gauze for a remarkable 'three' sequels--the remarkable part being that Universal could squeeze so much milk from this particular cash-cow.Tomb opens with an ample amount of stock footage from 'Mummy's Hand' recapping the important events from that chapter. Seeing old footage in these mummy flicks is no big surprise--the fact that the filmmakers were not shy about reusing the close-ups of Tom Tyler (in makeup) as Kharis did puzzle me. Exactly how thin was the budget for 'Tomb' that some new close-up shots of Chaney as Kharis couldn't be cut into the picture?George Zucco returns as high priest Andoheb, proving to be nearly as bulletproof as the mummy, having escaped the events of the last movie with 'only' a crushed arm & a full head of hair (maybe he rubbed some tana on his scalp). Also returning is what was already becoming a tedious plot device The new priest put in charge of Kharis--apparently raging with suppressed libido--becomes enamored with some American skirt & usually suffers some violent (and well deserved) death.However, it all speeds along at a quickie pace (all of Chaney's mummy pictures barely eclipse the 60 minute mark) and it's supplied with the usual atmosphere & mood music that at this stage of the game make it a good enough occupier of one's time. Of the quartet of Kharis films, 'Tomb' would be my favorite. It's certainly a more atmospheric piece than its predecessor and not bogged down with any of the inane comic relief. "},{"Title":"You Can't Keep A Good Mummy Down","Date":"13 October 2010","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As Dick Foran and Wallace Ford put the torch to Kharis the Mummy in The Mummy's Hand there's no way that Universal Pictures was thinking about a sequel. Otherwise they would have made sure to identify the fact that the action was taking place in 1912 and had everyone wear costumes of the period.So it looks a little ridiculous to have Dick Foran and Wallace Ford now elderly beginning The Mummy's Tomb made up as elderly gents with Foran reminiscing about those days on that dig in Egypt where he bested the cult of Kharis and Princess Ananka and brought back the Princess Ananka's mummy with the treasures of her tomb. The first 10 to 12 minutes of this film is a flashback synopsis of the previous film.But it turns out that Wallace Ford didn't really kill George Zucco with those bullets fired at point blank range. George has been waiting for 30 years, but he and the cult want some payback. Kharis survived too and Zucco before he dies turns him over to a new handler in Turhan Bey. They've even got a cover story with Bey getting a job as cemetery worker, the better to bring Kharis over from Egypt.The Mummy's Tomb takes the unusual step of having Kharis kill the heroes of the previous film. But Foran left a grown son in John Hubbard who has taken up the fight against the undead. And Bey deviates from the mission because he's decided he wants Hubbard's intended bride Elysse Knox all for himself and he sends Kharis out to arrange it in his inimitable fashion.I think you see where this one is going, but Universal did this one in their usual Gothic horror style. But The Mummy's Tomb is not as good as its predecessor and none of those films involving Kharis are anything approaching light years as good as Boris Karloff in the original The Mummy. Universal did not do as good as it did with Dracula, Frankenstein, and The Wolfman.Mummy films are the runt of Universal's litter. "},{"Title":"poor sequel to The Mummy's Hand inconsistent, too many archive clips, but still fun","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie starts out with about ten or twelve minutes devoted to recapping the events of the prior film, The Mummy's Hand. I hadn't seen something like that since watching Silent Night, Deadly Night Part 2.This one is supposed to be taking place thirty years after that film, which if it took place in 1940, places this one in 1970. No effort is made to make it appear to be set in the future, apart from aging the characters from the first movie.In The Mummy's Hand, Babe shoots four shots at point-blank range into an Egyptian High Priest, who then falls down a long flight of stone steps. Even though we are shown this clip, later in the movie we see that priest as an older man, initiating his son, the way he'd be initiated in The Mummy's Hand. He claims he'd only been shot once, in the arm. Yeah, right.The Mummy is also back, after having been shot at and burned in the prior film. The only difference seems to be that he has no eyes now (I'm not sure how he gets around, maybe by sound like The Blind Dead, who director Amando de Ossorio thought of as mummies, not zombies?). He's got old bandages wrapped around him. His old bandages should have burned, so presumably he was re-wrapped with old bandages (since if new ones were used, he wouldn't be as scary). Additionally, while Kharis needed to have potions of Tana leaves planted on the premises of people he was supposed to kill in the last film, here he can be sent out without that.The young Egyptian gets a job as a cemetery caretaker in America, where the Banning family lives, so he can set the mummy on them for having violated Princess Annanka's tomb. He doesn't seem to have any plans to try to get her or her treasures back from the museum, which is never seen. He seems set on killing the Bannings, apparently not knowing about Babe - who had shot his father! He only goes after Babe after Babe shows up and figures out the mummy is back, and the priest overhears him. Likewise, the priest doesn't seem to know or care about finding out what happened to the magician and his daughter. The daughter, we learn, died, but the priest never hears that. The magician, I suppose, disappeared.This Egyptian priest, like his father before him, and like Kharis before them, falls in love with a woman who does not have any feelings for him. Like his father, he uses the mummy to try to retrieve her.Seeing the mummy hobbling about in suburban American neighborhoods seemed fairly absurd. It would have been easier for the priest to go into the homes of the people he wanted dead and shoot them! Also absurd is the point at which all the townspeople go hunting for the mummy with torches! Would anybody in 1970s American be able to produce and light a torch at a moment's notice, like nineteenth century European villagers in a Frankenstein movie? They also start to burn a house down to get the mummy, thinking nothing of destroying the house. They don't try to kill him in a more efficient way, and seem to give no thought to the welfare of the mummy's captive. Some also try shooting him when he is struggling with someone, giving no thought to the bullets passing right through him. Of course, no one is harmed. Additionally, while the mummy seems afraid of fire, torches are thrown at him to no effect, and he also walks through fire a few times without burning.Overall, this is a pretty flawed movie. Still, watching it was sort of fun, and it's hard to dislike a classic Universal monster movie. "}{"Title":"Mrs Hudson deserved better than strangulation!","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well, I like it anyway! As before, the first 10 minutes are spent in a series of flashbacks, this time out of a total running time of 57 minutes.30 years on the Mummy and Zucco have actually survived, Zucco enrols Bey to take the Mummy to Hicksville, America and eliminate the surviving tomb raiders. The plan is carried out but derailed by Bey's instant lusting for the heroine, much to the Mummy's disgust. It's an utterly preposterous (and monstrous) plot of course, and without the usual nominal Universal production values would not even have the charm I like in Golden Age movies. In 1952 this would have been an out and out clinker, a Plan 9 competitor. But with those production values also come the familiar nitrate film/atmosphere/sets/actors and decent photography that I love to watch over and over again. The crematorium in The Black Cat was used, and in this they even set fire to the Winslow house - would that Hugh Herbert's character had been inside! That was never Lon Chaney Jr playing the Mummy, and it was Tom Tyler in the flashbacks, they just used Chaney's name to help sell the picture.The local doctor examining the mould from a victim of the Mummy announced that they were in the presence of the living dead - sadly I get that feeling every time I trot an old Hollywood film out!Like I said, I like it but frankly I think I'm in a tiny minority! "},{"Title":"Decent entry, if not overtly spectacular","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mummy's Tomb is an at least watchable sequel when it wants to be.**SPOILERS**Recalling an earlier expedition, Stephen Banning, (Dick Foran) tells the story to Dr. John Banning, (John Hubbard) and Isobel Evans, (Elyse Knox) of finding a sacred tomb in the desert and how he was able to escape. Returning home to Massachusetts with the rest of his family, he is unknowingly followed by Mehemet Bey, (Turhan Bey) and Kharis, (Lon Chaney Jr.) the mummy. Constantly rattled by numerous local sources, and before long, the family members and some local friends turn up dead. When Babe Hansen, (Wallace Ford) arrives to help the family but can't stop the murders. Finally catching on to the mummy's business, the remaining members formulate a plan save themselves from the murderous creature.The Good News This wasn't all that bad when it really mattered. This is most apparent in the stalking scenes. This is where it's best aspects show, since each one is quite good in their own way. The first one is the creepiest, where it stalks the victim across the room, unable to utter anything at the approaching threat until the final death rattle. Another victim stalked through a darkened alleyway is particularly creepy as the shadows that come into play make it look really impressive. This is mainly helped by the impressive figure that Kharis cuts. He's large and looks powerfully built, which comes into great play when he begins to move around and become a threat to the victims with the manner of killing method. The two go hand-in-hand to make Kharis seem like an unstoppable force, and these two factors do make him. The film's at it's best when it goes for the finale, which is a really impressive site and way to end the film. There's a great amount of action that lasts for a long period of time. With the confrontations and stunts employed, this one keeps the interest level up, and then to add in all the great fire-work as well. With all the furniture and surroundings going up in flames and the stunts coming along the way is really impressive. This here is the film's best moment and really works to it's advantage. These help the film somewhat.The Bad News There isn't a whole lot here that doesn't work. One of the film's problems is that there's a lot of stock footage in this one. It's short enough as it is, with a barely seventy minute run-time. The first ten minutes of the film really is a flashback to the one before. This is a big disadvantage to the film as there's a sizable fraction of it's time eaten up by showing events from another film. Granted, they're important to setting up the story here, as it's officially a sequel to that one, there's a way to trim it without it feeling like extraneous footage. The mummy's look is also a little of a disappointment. There's really nothing here that suggests he looks decrepit and olden, that it doesn't really look like it's all old at all. This mummy looks quite bad and really isn't all that convincing as a creature thousands of years old. Otherwise, this here wasn't that bad.The Final Verdict With not a whole lot wrong, this one manages to be one of the better sequels out there and at least is watchable. Give it a shot if you're a fan of the series, but don't expect any miracles, while those who didn't like the other sequels will find much of the same with this one.Today's Rating-PG Violence "},{"Title":"The Mummy Comes to America!","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mummy's Tomb is a sequel to The Mummy's Hand (1940) and the first of three films featuring Lon Chaney as the Mummy. By now the mummy series as with other Universal horror series had degenerated to second feature B movie status.The story takes place thirty years after the earlier film. Stephen Banning (Dick Foran) is telling his son John (John Hubbard), his fiancé Isobel (Elyse Knox) and his sister Jane (Mary Gordon) the story of his encounter with the mummy so many years before. Meanwhile we find out that the High Priest Andeheb (George Zucco) survived being shot at the end of the previous film. He is nearing death and passes on the sacred medallion of the High Priest to Mehemey Bey (Turhan Bey).Bey becomes responsible for Kharis the 3,000 year old mummy (Lon Chaney) who magically survived a fiery death in the earlier film. The pair embark upon a journey to America to seek revenge on the surviving members of the Banning party and their families. Kharis kills Stephen Banning, his sister Jane and Babe Hansen (Wallace Ford) until only John Banning is left.Mehemet Bey decides to take Isobel for his own bride and has Kharis carry her off. The towns people finally convinced that a monster is in their midst and in classic Universal fashion, form a mob with flaming torches to seek out and destroy the mummy.The main fault with this film is its extensive use of footage from The Mummy's Hand in which Tom Tyler played the mummy. He can be clearly seen in the flashback sequences (which take up about a quarter of the movie's run time). Tyler and Chaney bore no physical resemblance even under all of those bandages. Chaney is not seen without the mummy makeup and has no lines.Mary Gordon may be best remembered for playing Mrs. Hudson in Universal's Sherlock Holmes series. "},{"Title":"Mummy on the move.","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A resurrected wrapped monster goes on a murdering binge. A lunatic is seeking revenge against living members of a previous expedition. Universal seems to be running out of wrapping as well as new ideas. Most of the budget was probably spent on Lon Chaney Jr. to star as Kharis, the Mummy.Other players are George Zucco, Wallace Ford, Turhan Bey, Dick Foran and Elyse Knox.How much longer can this madness continue? "},{"Title":"Okay if draggy sequel.....","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of those movies that you watch and think-okay, the first 10 minutes are stock footage of the Last movie....okay couple of the main guys from the first one-Zucco and the Mummy itself--survived despite all evidence to the contrary....and it's time for Turhan Bey to show up in the USA and knock off the heroes of the first movie.I liked what this movie was trying to do, but it felt padded out even at 67 minutes and all that stock footage. Bey sics the Mummy (Lon Cheney Jr?!) after Dick Foran(or whomever), Mummy drags along the backyards of Ward Cleaver's neighborhood, somehow eludes dogs, cars, kids, cops, etc at it's 8 foot an hour pace, corners the quarry in their bedroom and throttles them. Then the Mummy lurches back to his lair. That's it. No one thinks to burn him or just run semi-quick the other way outta its reach. You would Think that would be an easy tactic to come up w/...but...Movie is brutal w/ the memory of the previous movie's characters--all of them are killed off by the Mummy 'til the inevitable burning house/Mummy cornered on second floor blazing finale. (You also have some obligatory WWII references and etc to let you know this was set in 1942) It's nowheres near as fun as the 'Hand', and of course you don't have Karloff from the '32 flick--but it's OK. Don't expect much though. Oh and Cliff Clark the Sheriff-I think I've seen him in 20 movies at least....** outta **** "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Obviously not one of the classic Universal horror films but is ridiculous fun.  Poor Lon's limping mummy lumbers along at a snail's pace while potential victims wait in terror.  Word of advice people RUN! "},{"Title":"Further Stripping The Mummy of his Dignity","Date":"3 June 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The second entry into the Mummy Series of the 1940's which had nothing to do with the classic Boris Karlof picture.In this one, despite being burned up in the last film, the Mummy is alive and well. And High Priest Anoheb (Played by George Zucco) is alive despite being shot three times and falling down a flight of stairs in the last film. Apparently, our intrepid archaeologists completely looted this Princess' tomb and didn't check the bad guys to make sure they were dead.Well, 30 years have passed, and the two guys from the last film are now old Guys, and for some reason, Wallace Ford's character has changed his surname from Jenson to Hansen.Anyway, it's a 60 minute movie, and they eat up the first 11 minutes with clips from The Mummy's Hand to fill it out. There was very little attempt at quality here, they were just cranking this one out on a schedule, I guess. The movie ends with the Mummy being burned alive in the Hero's house. (Gee, guys, couldn't you kill the monster without burning down my house?) Logic and reason will take quite a beating in the Mummy Movies... "},{"Title":"Weak Sequel in a Weak Series","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a direct sequel to 'The Mummy's Hand' (1940), because the lead character, Stephen Banning (played by Dick Foran) is now thirty years older and is relating the story (with the help of archival footage) to his son's fiancé. There are only two unusual aspects to the film the early death of Banning, and the presence of Turhan Bey.Lon Chaney as the mummy Kharis gets top billing, though given the nature of his role, he has little more to do than limp along or thrash his arms about. There's nothing scary about his presence, except for his attempt to carry off the fiancé, Isobel (Elyse Knox). Dick Foran gets second billing, but he's killed off within the first fifteen minutes! We'd have to wait until 'Psycho' (1960) when a lead character (Janet Leigh) dies way before the end of the movie! Banning's buddy from the first film, Babe Jenson (now Henson), shows up a little later looking much, much, older and not doing any of the comic shtick he did in the original. It's hard to believe it's the same actor! Unfortunately, this great acting job is wasted because he gets killed by Kharis after only two brief scenes. It's then left up to Banning's son John (played by bit player John Hubbard) to led the chase to the cemetery--NO! The sheriff leads a torch wielding mob to Banning's house to burn it down and kill the mummy. Sound Universally familiar? Turhan Bey is introduced to audiences as the new High Priest, Mehmet Bey, to care for and feed tana leaves to Kharis. With his 'exotic' voice and appearance, it's too bad he gets so easily killed. A better movie would have had 'Babe' take Von Helsing type charge of things in tracking down the mummy, with a final decisive battle with him and Mehmet Bay. But instead we have a pedestrian rehash of different set pieces from previous Universal horror films, put together by the hack Griffin Jay who wrote many of Universal's other clunkers, although he also did 'Don Winslow of the Navy' (1942) as well as 'Don Winslow of the Coast Guard' (1943) which also featured Elyse Knox.Elyse Knox played Anne Howe in six Joe Palooka movies (1946-1949), and of course, Turhan Bey, with 43 movie and TV credits, is great in the title role of 'The Amazing Dr. X' (1948).The cinematography is much darker and more atmospheric (with lots of noirish shadows in the sheriff's office) than the first 'Kharis' mummy film, but there's little else of interest or excitement.I'll give it a 3. "},{"Title":"Good Film","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mummy's Tomb (1942) *** (out of 4) Sequel to THE MUMMY'S HAND picks up three decades later as another high priest takes Khairs (Lon Chaney, Jr.) to America to kill those who disturbed the tomb of his loved one. Once in America the mummy is set on a rampage to destroy Stephen Banning (Dick Foran) and all of his loved ones.THE MUMMY'S TOMB is an incredibly cheap B picture. That's easy to say when you consider this things runs just 60-minutes with the first 13-minutes being footage from the previous movie. As cheap as this picture is, there's no denying that it also contains some real entertainment and excitement. I thought it was a pretty good idea having this one connect to the previous and I loved the fact that they were able to get Foran and Wallace Ford back. Being able to connect the two films actually help build up the excitement because you did care about the fate of these two men and their families.Horror fans will always debate the performance of Chaney in the three mummy films. For me, visually I think he looks quite good as the mummy but there's no question that he doesn't really give a good performance. He pretty much just slides along from scene to scene without too much effort. I think it's fair to say that Chaney was a master at gaining sympathy but with the lack of words here, there really wasn't much for him to do. Both Foran and Wallace are decent in their parts and the rest of the supporting players are nice. The make up effects by Jack Pierce are very good and the look of the mummy is quite effective.THE MUMMY'S TOMB certainly isn't a classic film but fans of the genre should find it worth watching. "},{"Title":"Doesn't live up to Universal Standards","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A new priest of Karnak, Turhan Bey, takes the living mummy Kharis to America to kill the family of Stephen Banning, Dick Foran, who looted the tomb of Ananka many years earlier. The sequel, which was produced two years after 'The Mummy's Hand,' spends an usually long time showing flashbacks from the previous flick. The plot itself is also more or less recycled from the previous film with the new high priest being tempted away from his pure purpose by unmotivated, instant lust for John Banning's girlfriend, Isobel Evans. The film does benefit from the novelty of moving the Mummy to New England, but the film does not live up to the standards of classic Universal horror films. "}{"Title":"Silly sequel to The Mummy's Hand (1940)","Date":"25 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This takes places 30 years after Hand which means it should happen in 1970--but there's clear references to World War II! This has Kharis (Lon Chaney now) coming to Mapleton Massachusetts to kill the desecrates of an ancient tomb. How Kharis survived after being burnt to death in the previous movie and why he waits 30 years is never explained. With him is Mehemet Bay (Turhan Bay) to feed him tana leaves and order him about.It's pretty silly since the plot makes little sense and there are loopholes galore...but it sometimes works. The makeup on Chaney is effective, it moves fairly quickly, the acting isn't bad and it all leads up to a fiery climax. All in all an OK Universal horror film. "},{"Title":"The Mummy Wraps Again","Date":"14 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is the third installment in the Universal Mummy series and by this point the series is starting to lose some steam. I am such a loyal junkie of the Uni monsters, though, that I can't help but still enjoy these flicks and give them halfway decent ratings.This movie is a direct sequel to THE MUMMY'S HAND, only it's 30 years later. The new high priest encharged with protecting Kharis takes the monster to Massachusetts to wipe out the people who violated his tomb and fulfill the curse. Like all good Uni sequels (and really most horror to date), the monster is still alive despite the fact that it appeared, for all intents, to be destroyed in the previous movie. This was very common in Universal movies even when the monster's death seemed irreversible.This one is really light on new and original ideas. We begin by rehashing the story of HAND, for new viewers, using recycled footage from the previous movie. Then George Zucco, as the elderly high priest, initiates his replacement into the order, introducing him to Kharis, the mummy, and explaining the tanna leaves that will keep him alive. This scene is, also, almost a shot for shot recreation of the same scene in HAND in which Zucco became the high priest. By this point, you are a quarter of the way through the run time and we're only just getting to anything new.The decision to take the monster and thus the setting, to the United States is a bad decision for the movie. In HAND we were already worlds apart from the atmosphere and tone established in the Karloff original. By removing the series from Egypt and putting it into the states, we lose any sense of the fantastic, at all. Instead, it's just another shambling creature killing off people.Lon Chaney Jr takes over the wraps of the Mummy this time around. I find his overall presence to be stronger than Tyler in the previous movie, as he brings a more physical, less cowering approach. It's nice to see more of the Mummy, as well. However, at this point in the series the monster is little more than a puppet to do the master's bidding and is in dire need of the some of the sinister look used in HAND when they blacked out the eyes and mouth. He's starting to look like an overweight guy wrapped in linen. This may very well be the beginning of the ramp up the body count approach to horror sequels. Having seen my fair share of horror's history, this does seem to be the earliest example I can think of that used the approach of replacing the lost atmosphere of the original with more murder and violence, a trope that is all too common in today's horror sequels. Sadly, all of the murders amount to strangulation. This was all too common of movie's of this era. When I think of the dozens upon dozens of golden age horror films I've seen, I think every victim ever died of strangulation. No matter how terrifying the monster, they always resort to hands around the neck, which I can assume was necessary due to a mixture of censorship and low budgets.If you're reading reviews of this movie, I can only assume you are either a fan of Universal monsters, or classic horror in general, and you will find something to enjoy in this movie. If you are a modern fan who has, somehow, stumbled upon this movie, there are far better Universal pics that you can choose from. "},{"Title":"It Ain't King Tut","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Forget the plot, which is just an excuse to activate Egypt's favorite 1940's export.Kharis (Chaney) is all wrapped up like a tattered 3,000-year old package from heck. No antiseptic bandages here. No sir, those ribbons look like they've been gathering mold for at least that long. And catch that ugly deadpan mug&#x97;if Chaney's under all the plaster, I couldn't spot him. This is one scary mummy, even if he does move with all the dispatch of a turtle stumbling through molasses.But it's not just outstanding make-up, Universal's set decoration and art department shine too. Gloom hangs heavier over the land than smog over LA; plus, there's an eye-catching series of nightmare sets for the living dead to clump around in. And I really like the final jets of flame shooting in every direction that I don't think house insurance is going to cover. In my book, this little programmer delivers the horror goods in fine, unexpected fashion, a real treat for the eye for those of us who think Technicolor took the dreaming away from horror movies.Okay, not everything is original. Universal cannibalized their previous mummy movie for the story set-up, and also to get Dick Foran's name on the marquee instead of the very un-charismatic John Hubbard. But I really like Turhan Bey as the mumbo-jumbo high priest. Unlike Zucco, Atwill, and the rest of the aging sinister types, Bey looks like he could slide into a Valentino role any time. He's an inspired departure from the stereotype. All in all, this little programmer's a lot niftier than expected, a full 60-minutes of horror fun.(In passing&#x97; According to IMDb, it looks like Bey and the lovely Elyse Knox are still with us as of 2011. Good deal. Maybe it's the Tannus leaves.) "},{"Title":"Second Kharis Film.","Date":"24 October 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Harold Young directed this sequel to The Mummy's Hand, now starring Lon Chaney Jr. as Kharis the mummy, who is still alive and on his way to America with a young priest(played by Turhan Bey) who are pledged to kill off the survivors of the Banning expedition that brought Princess Ananka home to the Scripps museum. George Zucco also returns as Andoheb, who survived being shot in the earlier film, and sent them on their mission of revenge. Dick Foran and Wallace Ford reprise their roles as Banning and Babe. Strange and misconceived sequel picks up the story thirty years later(!) Why the long wait? No idea, no explanation is given. To see key characters killed by Kharis is surprising, but also bizarre. Largely ineffectual film has little credibility or atmosphere; mostly good for camp value. "},{"Title":"Kharis (and Zucco) Just Won't Die","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Another fun mummy movie from Universal. This is the first of three mummy films that feature Lon Chaney, Jr. as the mummy. It's really a thankless role for him, as you never see his face and it could be anybody under those bandages as far as the audience is concerned. Still, Chaney is the only horror movie legend to play all four of the great monsters (Dracula, Frankenstein's monster, Wolf Man, Mummy).This story takes place decades after the last film. Here, George Zucco's character is now an old man and he charges Turhan Bey with the sacred duty of controlling Kharis (both Zucco and Kharis survived the last film). Bey takes Kharis to America, where he proceeds to kill off the remaining members of the expedition from The Mummy's Hand. It's interesting they had the protagonists (Dick Foran, Wallace Beery) from the previous film killed off here. This sort of thing wasn't done back then but it's pretty cool. The new leads (John Hubbard, Elyse Knox) are a little on the bland side but the movie works anyway because the mummy is the star. As with most Universal horror films, I definitely recommend you check it out. It's a short runtime full of great escapist fun for young and old alike. "},{"Title":"Not one of the better in the series","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mummy's Tomb starts with a review of the events in The Mummy's Hand and then moves the story forward several years and across the ocean to the United States of America where the current high priest and the mummy Kharis set out to wreak havoc and take revenge on those who violated the tomb in the past.While I absolutely loved The Mummy with Boris Karloff as the mummy Imhotep, and quite liked The Mummy's Hand with Tom Tyler as Kharis (which is the direct prequel to this film), I was not as taken with The Mummy's Tomb.It is made in a similar style as the previous film and has a somewhat similar plot albeit in a new setting. Lon Chaney Jr is okay as Kharis, but doesn't really stand out. And I guess that's my main criticism of this movie-that nothing really stands out. There's nothing really terrible here, but nothing really outstanding either, so the viewer is left with a rather bland mummy's tale. "},{"Title":"Okay Universal Horror","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  **  (of ****)Lon Chaney donned the bandages for the first of four times in THE MUMMY'S TOMB. Taking up 30 years after THE MUMMY'S HAND (which places these events in 1970!) Turhan Bey brings Kharis to America where he revives the creature so that it may get its revenge on the remaining bunch of defilers from HAND.This film is an okay Universal Horror, yet the weakest of the group of Kharis films. There are at least ten minutes of stock footage from THE MUMMY'S HAND to sift through at the beginning, and once the new story starts it is too flatly directed to give much of an impression.It's still fun, though, and worth a look.   "},{"Title":"Very Weak Universal Outing","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Thirty years after The Mummy's Hand, High Priest of Karnak George Zucco, who rather than remained bald sprouted a full(and I mean full) head of hair - maybe I can look forward to this as I age, passes on the duty of protecting Ananka with the aid of the mummy Kharis to a new high priest Turhan Bey.  Bey leaves with Kharis, sails to Massachussetts where Dick Foran lives with his sister and son.  Bey must kill all those that desecrated the tomb and their relatives.  Kharis is set loose and starts killing.  Okay, we finally get to the story of Kharis AFTER a rather lengthy exposition of what happened in The Mummy's Hand.  That was the best part of this film.  The part of Kharis roaming about in the Commonwealth of Mass. was just a bit too unconvincing for me.  Bey gets accepted to be a curator of a museum.  Hmmm..okay.  Bey, a good actor, does very little with this role and that can be said of just about everyone.  Foran and Ford are made-up to look thirty years old, yet it is obvious they are not that old.  Lon Chaney as the bandaged one has little to do, but I'll give Lon credit - he does what he can with the role.  Hard to believe this was actually the springboard for not one sequel but two!   "},{"Title":"Uninspired sequel but by no means unwatchable","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There are a lot of good Universal Horror films and as someone who likes Lon Chaney Jnr, especially as WolfMan, I was all for seeing The Mummy's Tomb. The Mummy's Tomb is by no means an unwatchable, or even a bad, film, but it is rather disappointing and uninspired, as a sequel and as a film.Starting with the good things, some of the photography is very good and moody as is the shadowy lighting, the make-up on Kharis is cool and has an element of creepiness. A couple of the murders- the film killing off three of the characters from the previous film The Mummy's Hand was a very bold move for Universal and one of the film's interest points- do have a genuine eeriness and the climax is very exciting. The cast is largely uneven, too many not making an impression, but George Zucco is sinister and authoritative in his rather too brief appearance, Turhan Bey also doesn't have an awful lot to do but is suitably smarmy and Elyse Knox glows with charm on screen. John Hubbard is also more than able if ever so slightly bland. Lon Chaney Jnr's performance is uneven, there are times where he is genuinely intimidating but at other times, and too often, he lumbers his way through his rather characterless role as Kharis.However, The Mummy's Tomb starts off very ploddingly with a 10-15 minute stock footage introduction that while relevant took up too much of the film and was sloppily edited. And outside of the murders and the climax, the film never recovers from the plodding start with a corny, underdeveloped romance and scenes that were more silly and over-familiar than suspenseful. There was the feeling of too much filler that was either overlong or unnecessary, to stretch out a rather thin and increasingly meandering story. The music is stock and repetitive as well as forgettable, the script while darker in tone to The Mummy's Hand is stiff and veers on dreary, the film too often is flatly directed and the supporting characters are very thinly sketched to the extent that the actors just don't register, and that's including the more subdued role of Babe.In conclusion, not unwatchable but uninspired. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Seen on Pittsburgh's Chiller Theater in 1969","Date":"26 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 1942's The Mummy's Tomb, starring 'Master Character Creator' Lon Chaney, was the first sequel to 1940's The Mummy's Hand, easily earning top honors as the worst of the four picture series. The first reel consists of stock footage recycled from its predecessor (here set 30 years later), followed by George Zucco's Andoheb handing down his rather undemanding job as High Priest of Karnak to a much younger recruit, Mehemet Bey, played by Turhan Bey, in what he later stated was his favorite role. Taking up residence at a cemetery in Mapleton, Massachusetts, determined to kill off the remaining survivors of the previous film's expedition, Mehemet Bey and his pet monster seem to be doing pretty well, as all their victims are old and feeble (even beloved Mary Gordon!), and all any witnesses claim to see is a shadow that disappears once they look up (watch for burly Glenn Strange tending his frightened horse, and pretty Janet Shaw in Lover's Lane). The torch wielding villagers are augmented by more stock footage, from both Frankenstein and Bride of Frankenstein, but worst of all are the two survivors, pretty and wholesome Elyse Knox (mother of lookalike son, actor Mark Harmon), whose character is a total blank, and John Hubbard, so obnoxious and unsympathetic that he allows his ancestral home to go up in flames, with Elyse still in the Mummy's clutches! (she reunited with Chaney in her very last film, 1949's There's a Girl in My Heart). Most hilarious are the numerous front page headlines in boldface, incredulously spreading out from Mapleton to New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles! (none of the film's newshounds can rouse themselves away from the local saloon). Among the wide-eyed investigators are Cliff Clark (The Grapes of Wrath) and Frank Reicher, whose character returns in the next sequel, The Mummy's Ghost (I DREAM OF JEANNIE's General Schaeffer, Vinton Hayworth, has a bit as a reporter). Rarely cast as a villain, Turhan Bey is really too slick to be effective, but certainly ranks higher than the bland Peter Coe in The Mummy's Curse. In the first of his three assignments in the part of Kharis the Mummy, Lon Chaney is only allowed one blinking eye and five fingers on one hand, due to the fire damage endured by Tom Tyler's Kharis in the previous entry. Denied even what little Tyler had (those chilling blacked out eyes), Chaney evokes only chuckles with his response to Bey's sudden change in plans, to go out and abduct the comely female, momentarily grasping for the High Priest before shuffling off in apparent obeyance. At least the fiery climax delivers, in spite of John Hubbard's moronic attempts at inept heroism, Chaney's Mummy earning a measure of sympathy flailing against the inescapable flames. Included in Universal's popular SHOCK! package of classic horror films issued to television in the late 50s, The Mummy's Tomb made only four appearances on Pittsburgh's Chiller Theater- Mar 8 1969 (following 1953's Phantom from Space), Jan 11 1975 (preceding 1956's She Devil), Dec 27 1975 (following 1965's A Study in Terror), and Oct 22 1977 (following 1972's The Spectre of Edgar Allan Poe). "}{"Title":"An Okay Sequel to the Previous Film","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After a brief retelling of the previous movie (The Mummy's Hand) it is now 30 years later and Stephen Banning (Dick Foran) is telling some relatives of his adventures in Egypt. Meanwhile, on the other side of the world, we find that both the mummy, Kharis (Lon Chaney Jr.) and the High Priest of Karnak, Andoheb (George Zucco) managed to survive. However, Andoheb is old and frail and he chooses a new person named Mehemet Bey (Turhan Bey) to succeed him upon his death. When that happens Turhan Bey decides to exact vengeance upon those who dared to commit sacrilege to the ancient Egyptian gods. This vengeance also extends to any family members as well. Anyway, rather than revealing what happens next I will just say that this was an okay sequel to the previous film. Unfortunately, the short length of the film (only an hour) prevented it from achieving anything noteworthy or remarkable. As such I rate it as average. "},{"Title":"Fairly Good Mummy Sequel","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw this mummy film before any other sequel and before I even saw the original one. This film terrified me as a child, it was so scary to see a man in bandages strangling the life out of anyone that came in his way. Even though this isn't the best mummy sequel, I will always remember this one as being a a film that terrified me. But now that I am older I see quite a lot of flaws in this film. First of all, this film has absolutely no new music, the first 15 minutes of the film is basically recycled footage from The Mummy's Hand (1940), and there certain moments in the film where like at the very end when the house is burning down, they show a close up of the mummy engulfed in flames, but then they show a long shot of hardly any flames around him at all. One more thing is they explained in this movie how the fire from the first movie somehow did not stop him, but yet he gets engulfed in another fire and we expect him to be finally dead. The writers of these sequels should have thought a little more when writing this film. This is the weakest mummy film in the series, once you have seen all of them, you will understand why. Also, in every sequel there is a new high priest, the high priest in this one actually dies, how they could have kept the story going for so long, I don't know. Still it's an OK movie and I recommend anyone to see this film if you are a fan of old Universal horror films of if you like to watch badly made sequels. "},{"Title":"Weakest of Universal's Mummy series","Date":"1 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hmmm; it isn't saying much for the quality of the movie when the first 10 minutes or so of the 60 minute film are taken up with flashbacks from The Mummy's Hand. Universal were basically ripping off their own product, and displaying a cynical attitude to their audience. Later on in the story they spliced in some rampaging townsfolk from Frankenstein as if to emphasise the cheap jack nature of this effort. The two Mummy sequels which followed it were at least an improvement.The story, what there is of it, has Turhan Bey taking over from George Zucco's high priest of Karnak and transporting Kharis to New England to take revenge on the Banning family for desecrating the tomb of Ananka 30 years earlier. Why the cult waits so long is never explained. Maybe they were trying to think of a way to get the sarcophagus past customs...Cue Dick Foran and Wallace Ford getting strangled by Chaney Jr.'s lurching Mummy. Actually these killings represent the highlight of the movie, and are surprisingly effective. The rest is all ho-hum territory. A moment of amusement might be had from two townsfolk waking up the sheriff in the middle of the night to report they've seen a shadow.Turhan Bey does his best with an under-written part, but Chaney Jr is a boring Kharis. He clearly hated the role and, er literally walked through it. The romantic leads are dull, and to be honest, so is the movie largely. At least it's brief. "},{"Title":"The Mummy's Tomb","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Cheap, mediocre sequel to the successful The Mummy's Hand has presumably dead evil Professor Andoheb(George Zucco)preparing his predecessor Mehemet Bey(Turhan Bey)for the quest of revenge overseas to America using mummy Kharis(Lon Chaney, Jr who has no reason being in the disguise..any stunt man could do the same credible work lumbering around and choking victims)in the goal of killing the surviving members of the Banning family whose patriarch Stephen(Dick Foran)and assistant Babe Hanson(Wallace Ford)retrieved the mummified corpse of Princess Ananka from her tomb in Egypt..Andoheb considers this an outlandish act of desecration and wants the family to suffer for doing such an awful deed towards an ancient Egyptian custom. Bey and the mummy Kharis find a nice hideaway in a cemetery where the High Priest of Karnak can work as a caretaker in disguise. Every Full Moon, Bey will feed Kharis a form of liquid derived of several Tana leaves which will keep him not only alive but subservient to his master's wishes. Bey commands Kharis to kill Stephen and his sister Jane(Mary Gordon), while also biding time for Babe to return so that he will become victim # 3. Dr. John Banning(John Hubbard)plans to wed Isobel(Elyse Knox), but doesn't know that Bey secretly covets his fiancé making plans to kidnap her with Kharis' help. John's life is in danger because of his father..he's also the last remaining member of the Banning line. If Bey has Isobel, there's no chance of any more Bannings being born. The police must find Kharis and the one responsible for his carnage..Bey.This film is a continuation from HAND set years later as members of that film, Foran, Ford & Zucco all appear in aging make-up providing wrinkles showing the gaps in time as Andoheb has been preparing for the deaths of the Bannings. The cornball romance of John and Isobel seems merely in this plot so that Bey will screw up endangering his perfect plan which was being carried out successfully before he loused it up. And, Bey merely sees her frolicking with John on the grass..the whole love-at-first-sight rubbish really didn't wash for me. Plus you have the mummy being able to kill people with one arm..is any mummy really THAT powerful? This film also uses a ton of footage from the previous film to save budget on this sequel to it. There really isn't that much story here and yes, typical of Universal monster pictures, even in America a mob of people will light..ho hum..torches going after Kharis. You know how it'll end..John and the super-powerful Kharis will square off in some huge mansion with fire burning all around them with the evil one being engulfed in flame. "},{"Title":"Better than The Mummy's Hand in several counts","Date":"16 April 2012","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This entry in Universal's classic Mummy series is often dismissed for having too much stock footage from the previous entry, The Mummy's Hand, of which this is a sequel of, but I think The Mummy's Tomb improves on The Mummy's Hand in more than one counts. 1) The cinematography, esp. the lighting is much more sophisticated here. 2) The priest's infatuation with the white woman is better developed. In the previous entry, it was too sudden. Here, it is anticipated. 3) The iconic scenes of mummy-carrying-away-the-damsel-in-distress are longer. Setting the plot in an American town with a history of witch-hunts was also a nice touch. The movie would be even better if they had made more use of the cemetery setting. The downside for me is the ludicrous resort to torch(!)-carrying, rather than say flash-light carrying, masses in the finale. "},{"Title":"So Weak They Remade It From Scratch","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Nothing will ruin a movie as much as the combination of a poor script and poor direction. This is the case with The Mummy's Tomb.The script is leftover ideas from older, better Universal horror flicks like Dracula and Frankenstein. The direction is trite and stale. The acting is mediocre. Even Chaney's Kharis is feeble compared to Tom Tyler's in The Mummy's Hand, and the producers are foolish enough to add footage from Christy Cabanne's vastly better prequel and point up the weakness of their own film!Universal realized how bad this movie was, and essentially remade it from scratch two years later as The Mummy's Ghost with a much better script and better director. The result was likely the best film in their four film Mummy cycle, although not anywhere near as good as Karl Freund's 1932 original.Cabanne's footage raises this film to a 3. The new stuff is a 2 at best. Dick Foran and Wallace Ford were probably glad to see their characters bumped off so they wouldn't have to appear in dreck like this anymore! "},{"Title":"Storytelling","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is the second of the Universal mummy remakes, and I think the worst. Mummy still lives. Mummy kills. Mummy burns. Ho hum. There's one thing interesting about though. They wanted to reuse as much footage from the earlier film as possible, so perhaps a third of the movie is a retelling of what happened by a participant 30 years later. You see the old footage in flashback. Despite the weaknesses of the movie, this device works for me. Its a crude fold, putting us in the story as the audience of the older story, soon to be visited by the ghoul from that story.As the template flows in many of these, the pretty girl is desired by the monster, or in this case the monster's controller. Her virginity is established by some mechanics having to do with an impeding marriage. The template usually has her strapped to a bed, awaiting some puncture.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Kharis is Back For Revenge","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 'The Mummy's Tomb'(1942) is a good sequel to 'The Mummy's Hand' (1940). The first few minutes of 'The Mummy's Tomb' is spent going over what happened in 'The Mummy's Hand' that your memory is re-freshened if you have not seen the previous film in awhile or will help you to follow the film if you have not seen the previous one. It's a good way to start a film - in particular the fact the movies where two years apart.This film features Lon Chaney, Jr in the role of The Mummy Kharis whereas the film before it Tom Tyler played the part. Both are good as The Mummy - it's a quiet role, no lines but all physical acting - one is just as good as the other.With the Kharis series, it's a matter of story in these films and not so much The Mummy himself (Minus the Boris Karloff Mummy 1932 which is a stand alone film).Overall The Mummy's Tomb is a fun and entertaining film.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"The debut of Lon Jr. as Kharis.","Date":"4 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This sequel in Universals' franchise takes place *supposedly* 30 years after the events of the previous sequel, The Mummy's Hand. The people in that story are now being targeted for destruction for their foolhardy entrance into Egyptian tombs. A young high priest, Mehemet (Turhan Bey), travels with the still living mummy Kharis (Lon Chaney Jr.) to America to carry out the mission. John Banning (John Hubbard) must now deal with the mess created by his dad Stephen (Dick Foran) and his associates decades ago.It's just not the same seeing our slow and stubbornly determined mummy shamble his way through American suburbs. The atmosphere of African settings is sorely missed, and quite frankly the mummy really looks out of place in this sort of setting. The presentation lacks any sort of style or interesting features, although it's amusing to note the way that so many of these Universal horrors need to include torch bearing angry citizens. Also, this would be QUITE the short movie indeed if it didn't start with such heavy use of stock footage.The cast gives it some entertainment value. Lon Jr. is basically adequate as the title character; Bey leaves the bigger impression as the villain who changes his mission somewhat when he lays his eyes on the lovely Isobel (Elyse Knox) and decides that he must possess her. It's nice to see Foran, George Zucco (whose screen time is much too brief), Wallace Ford, and Frank Reicher, as always.Painless to watch for 61 minutes but definitely minor Universal horror from this period.Five out of 10. "},{"Title":"Standard b-movie","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Filmed in a non-dynamic, straightforward manner, this is a basic standard style b-movie. Each scene follows the one before it, very predictably. This is OK but the producers are obviously not reaching for anything dynamic or ground-breaking. Its predecessor/originator The Mummy's Hand is an exciting, fun Mummy film but as a sequel The Mummy's Tomb is strictly a follow-on that begins with flashbacks to scenes from that predecessor.It should be noted that most of the acting in this sequel is quite good with a little gem of a performance by George Zucco, and featuring stalwarts like Turhan Bey and Mary Gordon doing excellent work in supporting roles.Hubbard and Knox are on hand to be just what they are contract b-movie players who do competent work and don't get in the way. But that is really all they are asked to do and they are engaging if some what bland leads- you will find their roles and performances to be attractive and inoffensive but definitely not memorable.Mummy fans will appreciate this film and need it in their collections. It is watchable and is a good enough continuation of the Mummy series, but has the feel of a movie that was made for the purpose of marking time cheaply as the series plays itself out. "}{"Title":"A very entertaining Universal Monsters sequel","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" My hopes were not high for this barely one hour film after it spent a full 12 minutes recapping the events of The Mummy's Hand in excruciating detail with liberal use of clips from that film. However, it picks up rapidly after 20 minutes or so and becomes a very entertaining Universal Monsters film. Lon Chaney, Jr. is quite intimidating as the Mummy but not to the same extent as he was as the Wolf Man and Frankenstein's Monster. Dick Foran and Wallace Ford are much better as Stephen Banning and Babe Hanson (formerly Jenson) respectively than in the previous film even though they both have far less screen time. However, John Hubbard and Elyse Knox don't make much impression as the leads. (Incidentally, Knox was the mother of NCIS star Mark Harmon and you can certainly see the family resemblance.) The strongest performers are George Zucco in his brief cameo as Andoheb - he actually appears more in the clips from the previous film than in this one - and the 20-year-old, baby faced Turhan Bey as Mehemet Bey. "},{"Title":"Poor by Universal's standards","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Like The Mummy's Hand before it, this is poor by the high standards of Universal. Lon Chaney, Jr, has virtually no acting to do as the Mummy/Kharis; it seems he was employed simply for the marketability of his name in a role that any stuntman could do. The plot is threadbare, and the first ten minutes (one fifth) of the movie is clips from the previous film.However, at least the emphasis is firmly on the antics of the Mummy, rather than on the comic routines that brought down The Mummy's Hand. It's fun at times, and doubtless Universal horror fans will enjoy it in a kitschy sort of way. "},{"Title":"The 3rd Universal mummy movie is about the same as the first two...","Date":"29 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 1st watched 5/27/2009 - 4 out of 10 (Dir - Harold Young) The 3rd Universal mummy movie is about the same as the first two as far as the final result from the viewer's perspective. The story is similar and the results are ho-hum. This time the story's location is the U.S. as the Egyptian priest's new follower sends a mummy to our country in hopes he can revive him to kill descendants of those who opened the original tomb. This time the mummy is played by Lon Chaney(which doesn't make much of a difference because he's really not asked to do much acting for this character). The new priest becomes a morgue-keeper in the town and sends the mummy out to do his dirty deeds after feeding him the tanna leaf juice. Again, a girl gets in the way, as the priest falls for one of the descendent's fiancé and wants her, yes--- to be immortal with him(haven't we heard this before?). The plan is, of course, thwarted as the townsfolk hunt down the mummy with torches(similar to the Frankenstein monster) and the burning of the creature ends the story...how do they get a sequel?? I guess you'll find out with the next one in the series ?? or not..... "},{"Title":"Well, at least it still has got Lon Chaney Jr. in it.","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The beginning of the movie almost entirely consists out of archive footage from the previous Universal Mummy movie, The Mummy's Hand, from 1940. What a cheap way of film-making and it also makes it petty redundant to watch The Mummy's Hand, even though it's a far better movie. It makes the actual movie of course also even shorter. The movie already is only a mere 60 minutes short but with the archive footage this movie consists maybe only out of 50 minutes of original new material.It's a pretty dull movie that moves along slowly and in which just not much interesting is ever happening. It isn't until halve way through that something happens in the movie but then it gets pretty slow and dull again soon after, until the ending.So it's mainly due to the simple and dull story that this movie is by no means a great one, especially when compared to the other previous Universal mummy movies. The story is also quite ridicules which makes this a bit of a silly movie to watch, even for normal '40's horror standards.This time the role of the mummy is being played by none other than Lon Chaney Jr. Lon Chaney Jr. of course never has been the greatest actor and he was especially not as good as his father but he's always a great presence in any horror film. And then again, how much acting skill does it actually require to play a mummy? All of the other actors within this movie surely aren't among the greatest of their time. Dick Foran and Wallace Ford (though his name for what every reason changed from 'Babe' Jenson to 'Babe' Hanson reprise their role again from the previous movie The Mummy's Tomb.The movie does feature a couple of good typical '40's horror moments, so fans of this shall still somewhat enjoy watching this. Also the make-up for the mummy is quite good looking ago. The movie is mostly made in the same style as the previous movie The Mummy's Tomb but it unfortunately is no way nearly as good.Only still really truly watchable and recommendable if you're a die-hard Universal horror fan.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Skip It","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Mummy's Tomb is supposed to be the sequel to The Mummy's Hand.  A programmer film in every sense of the word, the film runs just over an hour, of which about 15 minutes of footage at the beginning of the movie is all clips (told as a flashback) from The Mummy's Hand. This time the mummy is set loose in suburban Massachusetts to kill all the remaining members of the Banning family.  Highly predictable.  If you are going to watch a Mummy film, watch the original. "}]