[{"Title":"A film which justifies its status as a major classic.","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"83 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  It must be over 50 years since I first saw this classic film, and for some reason I never watched it again until recently. To do so was an interesting experience - reliving many memories of the war years which I mostly spent in London. I think the reason why there was such a long interval before I decided to watch it again was a subconscious recognition that it was produced at a time of crisis, largely for political reasons, and a feeling this was unduly evident in the screenplay. Mrs. Miniver was released a few months after Pearl Harbour, at a time when many U.S. citizens wondered why their country should be expending its efforts fighting in Europe when it was Japan which had attacked them  The film was quite clearly written, produced and directed with the objective of answering this question. Winston Churchill has made it clear that he regarded the release of this film as one of the biggest single contributions made to the allied war effort (worth, in his words, a flotilla of destroyers), and it is hard today not to regard the film as primarily a piece of patriotic propaganda. However the deft and capable direction of William Wyler and the almost uniformly great acting by the cast, particularly Greer Garson as Mrs. Miniver, go a very long way towards concealing the fact that one is viewing a film with a message and few would deny that the Oscars it won were thoroughly deserved. Mrs. Miniver certainly earns its place on any short list of film classics.	There are of course already many comments on this film in the database, I would have been reluctant to add any more but for the realization that people of my age who lived in England during the war are becoming increasingly few, and our comments - which must have a rather different perspective to those of younger generations - will not continue to be available for very much longer. Many of the very fine sequences in this film have already been reviewed more than adequately by others and I will not comment further on them; but two sequences which I found particularly evocative were the call on amateur sailors to help evacuate the British army  from Dieppe, and the pub scene where the locals were listening to the British traitor Lord Haw Haw broadcasting from Germany and telling his listeners how futile any further resistance would be. In stating this, I am simply confirming that for such documentary type films people who lived through the events depicted will assess the film on the basis of their personal memories rather than on their cinematographic quality. 	Ultimately, both on its first viewing and when viewing it again a few days ago, I found that for me watching Mrs. Miniver was irritating because it inevitably showed an American view of life as it was in England. Numerous very small points indicated that we were seeing a glimpse of middle class English life through American eyes. Whilst as an English born viewer I found this irritating, it did not in any way detract from the primary purpose of the film in showing Americans what life in wartime Britain was really like, and why their involvement in the war in Europe was so vital. Ultimately I had to accept that this was a great film which well deserves its classic status.  "},{"Title":"Watch out for the backs of the heads!","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"66 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" What a wonderful film Mrs Miniver still is 58 years later. Like Coppola's 'Gardens of Stone', it deals with war by following the lives of those affected by it, and without showing any combat. It's moving, but unlike many other films of the period, totally unsentimental, though has many warm and winning moments (Pidgeon spanking Garson as the maid walks in, following an eventful morning, to say the least!)Two sequences particularly clicked on this viewing. The first involves the son/pilot who is recalled to service abruptly when his leave has only just begun. He goes upstairs to get his belongings, the mother and fiancée are left in the room, with the backs of their heads to camera - a most unusual shot 'against the rules' of filming. Then you realise the centre of attention is the space left on the stair by the son - they and we are missing him, awaiting his return, but only for a moment as he must leave again. It's as poignant as the doorway framing scenes in 'The Searchers', and rather subtle.Another scene is the family in the air raid shelter undergoing a bombing attack. The claustrophobia of the situation, and the bravery and dignity of the powerless family caught there, is focused by a single point of view. The unspoken fear is on the face of Garson, vocalised by the kids who finally awake as the bombardment increases. Long, simple takes perfectly capture the intense atmosphere (and exceptional acting.When I was young I never appreciated this art of 'invisible' film-making, and just why such directors as William Wyler or Preston Sturges or Billy Wilder do such a good job without you even noticing. The fact their films stand the test of time so well is testament to their wonderful abilities as film-makers. "},{"Title":"It isn't sappy!","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"60 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I avoided watching Mrs. Miniver for years because I assumed it was a treacly, sentimentalized film that ignored what I considered the real issues of war.  Knowing Greer Garson, who I considered the anti-Crawford, starred in it gave me more of an excuse.I finally watched it as film homework and loved it.  It's about an upper-middle-class English family (although most of the American actors are terrible holding their accents) and their experience in the early years of World War II.A swiftly-moving storyline takes us from the complacency of peace through air raids, Dunkirk and tragedy.  No one is a super-hero, but decent people who understand they must put aside their personal concerns and do what must be done to fight for their country and freedom.  No one preaches except the minister and he, only rarely.Of course, it being England, there's time for a flower show, and being a movie, there's a romance (WWII was not kind to Theresa Wright's characters, however).The film's remarkable pacing is one of its great highlights.  Long transitions are covered in the merest of hints; a comment that a servant has departed, for example.  Yet there's time for powerful, lengthy scenes such as that of the Minivers holed up in a crude bomb shelter with their two young children, away from their storybook home.  Despite the increasingly hellish crash of bombs and bullets, they try to chat about knitting and such.  But soon the fear builds to an unbearable climax and the family desperately clings to one another.The acting is generally superb, and much of the story is told through silent shots of the stars, rather than dialog.  Few moments are as touching as the shot of the glowing young wife seeing her husband off to war, admiring his courage, contrasted by the barely hidden fear and maturity of the mother.You can nit-pick; the movie has many of the conventional stylistic hallmarks of the period.  But it is the masterpiece it has long been hailed. "},{"Title":"War Drama Still Highly Significant","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"46 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  With her peaceful English life suddenly thrown into turmoil by the Second World War, MRS. MINIVER continues to provide a solid rock of security for her family.Released seven months after America's entry into the War, this film did a great deal to inform the American people about Britain's defiance against Nazi Germany and the steadfast resolution of the British people in the face of seemingly overwhelming odds. Coming at a time of heightened emotions - as well as being expertly produced and extremely well acted - it is easy to see why the film earned 6 Oscars, including Best Picture & Best Director.Greer Garson is completely marvelous in the title role, (for which she won the Best Actress Oscar), presenting a portrait of grace & courage under fire which transcends mere acting. She is representing an entire island full of women who grew the crops & ran the factories and kept the nation operating while the men went to battle. Through her wonderful performance, Garson shows how those she symbolized more than did their part in the fight against the Axis.Two other ladies give outstanding performances in the film. As the local aristocrat, Dame May Whitty is properly imperious & proud, yet the viewer sees her character unbend over the course of the film to become much more vulnerable. Winning the Best Supporting Actress Oscar, lovely Teresa Wright is luminous as Dame May's granddaughter. Sweetly sensible, elegantly at ease, joyous during hardships, Miss Wright gives a performance not easy to forget.In solid, understated roles, both Walter Pidgeon as Mr. Miniver & Richard Ney as his elder son, supply good support to the ladies in the cast. Pidgeon gets to pilot one of the Little Boats to Dunkirk and Ney becomes a flyer with the RAF, but both are performed in an almost subdued manner, leaving the heroics to the women.A quintet of fine actors add small, deft brushstrokes to the movie's canvas cherubic Henry Travers as the station-master who delights in the gentle art of breeding roses; blustery Reginald Owen as the local storekeeper who eagerly takes over as air raid warden; kindly Henry Wilcoxon as the village vicar; blunt Rhys Williams as the boyfriend of the Miniver's maid (comically played by Brenda Forbes); and Helmut Dantine as the pitiless German pilot who briefly invades the Miniver household.Six-year-old Christopher Severn will either delight or annoy as the Miniver's talkative infant son. Clare Sandars, as his slightly older sister, is left something of a cipher by the script.Movie mavens should recognize Ian Wolfe, uncredited as a boatman helping with the Dunkirk rescue.The scenes involving the brutal aerial bombardment are still vividly suspenseful, focusing primarily on the faces of the actors involved. "},{"Title":"A powerful image of war on the home front","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"35 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This film is great movie because it pulls at the heartstrings and brings forth real emotion in the viewer.  As somebody who has recently moved away from a war-zone, the sense of loss of the innocent at the hands of a heartless and remorseless enemy actually moved me to tears.I can see why the movie won so many Oscars - the performances are far above the standards of many of today's greats, and the longer shots (unlike today's grunge editing or excessive camera movements) give the cast a chance to act out scenes in depth instead of doing one line at a time as is the current vogue.  In one scene between the young Belden and Miniver, all the dialogue is conveyed by subtle body language.  We don't see that from most modern films - cheap dialogue substitutes for communication.  Less really is more.I have one niggle - every single visual detail is wrong - it was filmed in America, where everything looks different.  The train was not a Southern Region train, the garden fence wasn't British, and the interiors were like nothing you'd seen in English villages.  And some of the accents were uncomfortably like products from Dick Van Dyke's School of Bad Cockney - a dialect only spoken in the East End of London!!!Other than that, this film was a great, and I await the DVD eagerly. "},{"Title":"Simply beautiful","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"29 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I've seen this film several times now, and despite knowing what occurs, the beauty never wears off.The film is aesthetically lovely, thanks to William Wyler's low key yet attentive and detailed style. The characters act naturally, something oft times missing in older films that lean to be more stylized. The acting is incredible in this film, and something many a modern film would do well to copy. Greer Garson is the portrait of strength, beauty, and dignity as Mrs. Miniver in a brilliantly played role. Yet it's the substance that stays with you. The film is telling a story about people and a time in history, and it's simple because it allows itself to be. It flows like real life, the trivial, the simple, the small moments, the enormous and life shattering. It taps into the real emotions people feel, and not big war movie emotions, but the joy of greeting a child upon return, of having a flower named after you and winning an award, of happiness and humor, of exhaustion, fear, pain, and grief. The film gently brings us into another life and lets us reside there. While there, we begin to love the Minivers and those that they love.At one point in the movie, the family is in a bomb shelter and Mr. and Mrs. Miniver are talking. Mr. Miniver picks up Alice in Wonderland and begins to recite a passage about the joys of childhood, a summer past, and the simple pleasures in life. Mrs. Miniver finishes the passage, and Mr. Miniver (Walter Pidgeon) mentions that he wonders if Lewis Carrol ever thought that his story would be so beloved decades later. I found that interesting, because after all these years and viewings, it's the characters and their realistic palpable experiences and emotions, the strength and courage they show, and the simplicity of the film in allowing us to see it plainly and feel it too, because it's a story of the human experience we can all relate with that isn't limited to the battleground, that do and will keep this movie everlasting, and an homage to the human spirit. "},{"Title":"Tear jerking excellence","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  At the time it was a sensation and one of great influence, which obviously hit home with many American families, with the reality of the War still of course very much alive. The ending is not the expected happy one, but is instead rather thought provoking, stirring and influential. Reality, or part reality is after all always better than the typical MGM musical. Today it is not possible for it to retain the power it held during the period, but one of the reasons it is still a good movie because it is great wholesome family entertainment.The Minivers are a family with great fortune who are well over the average income earning line to be considered just a middle class family. This is obvious with the picturesque house designed by Mr Miniver the architect. Some of the scenes have now become more noticeably studio bound now, which was something I did not notice before because it was one of the first old classic movies I did watched, but it hardly matters, as it still remains one of my favourite movies.Greer Garson, in another of her charming English rose roles, gives a superb performance, as the devoted and loving wife. Walter Pidgeon is also great in his role, the second of his teamings with Garson. The great supporting cast includes Teresa Wright, Dame May Whitty, Richard Ney, Reginald Owen and Henry Travers. Henry Travers' as Mr Ballard, station master and a keen rose grower is in particular a memorable performer.Elements of the film have been well combined with drama, romance, light humour, and finally, tragedy. It may have been given the Hollywood and typical glossy MGM treatment, but it hasn't forgotten either humanity or the sacrifices associated with war time problems.Showered with accolades and awards at the time, the movie won Oscars for Greer Garson, Teresa Wright, screenplay, William Wyler and Best Picture of 1942. Walter Pidgeon lost to the dynamic performance of James Cagney in Yankee Doodle Dandy. Henry Travers, and Dame May Whitty also netted nominations.An agreeable screenplay and the direction of veteran William Wyler make this a forgotten treat. Few films have been as effective as this, and although its message may not ring as clear now as it did then, it has to be saluted for the war time morale it brought to movie goers around the world.Rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Historical Perspective","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Greer Garson gives a wonderful performance as Kay Miniver, a middle-aged English wife and mother whose kindness, intelligence, and positive spirit speak well of women all across England, during the difficult days of WWII. And that's what this movie is really about the love and devotion of ordinary people during wartime.Technically, this is a fine film. The script is well written and the plot is easy to follow. Most of the characters are sympathetic, and all of them have convincing arcs through the story. I did not care for the very Victorian Lady Beldon, but Dame May Witty gives a nice performance in that role. The film's plot has an interesting twist toward the end that coincides with the randomness of the effects of war. The story's tone does drip with a bit of sentimentality. But given the fact that the movie itself was made during the war it portrays, I think some sentimentality is entirely appropriate.The film's B&W cinematography is conventional but competent. Production design and costumes are credible. And the special effects are surprisingly good for the early 1940s.I will say that the film seems very dated. Customs and manners have changed so much in the last 65 years; the behavior of characters in this film is so proper and formal. That's not a criticism, just an observation.The 1930s and 40s must have been a truly awful time for peace loving people. It's good, therefore, that we have high-quality films like Mrs. Miniver as a reminder of what life was like for ordinary people, to give us some historical perspective from which to view our own times. Of the many WWII films that I have seen, Mrs. Miniver is one of the best. "},{"Title":"The People's War","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" With the help of the extensive British colony in Hollywood, William Wyler directed at MGM the best World War II propaganda film to come out of our film industry. Mrs. Miniver won a host of Oscars including Best Picture, Best Actress for Greer Garson, Best Supporting Actress for Teresa Wright, Best Director for William Wyler, all deserved.Forget all the war pictures, this film about the trials of a British family just before and during World War II struck a poignant note with the American public. Showing how they were coping with the attacks on their civilian population made every American family identify with the Minivers. If they fail in their resolution to defend their blessed isle, we in America could be facing these same trials and depredations.Like the people in The Diary of Anne Frank, the Minivers are such ordinary folks, caught up in a thing that was not of their making. The film opens with Greer Garson coming home after a shopping trip to London deciding how to tell her husband Walter Pidgeon about a new hat. On the way home, the stationmaster Henry Travers asks Garson permission to name a rose he's been cultivating for the flower show the Miniver Rose. Pidgeon's splurged on a new car and he's trying to figure out how to tell Garson.The war comes and the Minivers and all their neighbors in their small country town have to deal with rationing and shortages and then the blitz as the ruling malignancy in Germany seeks to terrorize the British people into submission. As London took it as their Prime Minister said it would, so to do the small villages and hamlets, especially if they're located next to an RAF base.Which is where their oldest boy, Richard Ney, is now stationed after having left Oxford. He's involved too, with a radiantly beautiful Teresa Wright as the granddaughter of the local grande dame, Dame May Witty.Wright is involved in two of my favorite scenes. When she first meets the pretentious Ney and gently but firmly puts him down, who could help but fall for this girl. And her final scene with Greer Garson is what I'm convinced got them both Oscars. You have to see it, I can't say more and the hardest of hearts will be moved.Pidgeon's moment comes when he's called away because he owns a small boat, a cabin cruiser we'd call it and ordered to take it to Ramsbottom. It's the beginning of the greatest citizen mobilization of the last century, the evacuation of the British Army from the beach at Dunkirk. He and thousands like him are told what the mission is and they could expect to be under fire at that beach and crossing 40 miles of English Channel. No one flinches and a very nice animated scene at night is showing all of these small crafts filling up the river on a date with history.Garson also comes face to face with Nazism herself as she first is held captive and then turns the tables on a wounded Nazi flier who bailed out played by Helmut Dantine. Don't think all the women in America didn't think about coming face to face with evil right in their kitchens.Both Walter Pidgeon for Best Actor and Henry Travers for Best Supporting Actor got nominations themselves, but lost to James Cagney and Van Heflin respectively. In addition Dame May Witty was also up for Best Supporting Actress, but lost to her fellow cast member Teresa Wright.The valedictory for the film is delivered by Vicar Henry Wilcoxon after a bad raid in which several cast members are killed. With so much death and destruction waged on them at home, it has become the people's war, more a people's war than it was even in the United States with so many civilian casualties. We got a taste of it at Pearl Harbor and a much bigger taste on 9/11 in New York, Northern Virginia, and on the Pennsylvania countryside. The words of Henry Wilcoxon should be standard reading or viewing. It's what makes Mrs. Miniver such a timeless classic as we deal with another brand of totalitarian malignancy in this century. "},{"Title":"Important World War II Film","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"19 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Mrs. Miniver is an important film which captured the Best Picture Oscar in 1942.  Greer Garson (Oscar-winning) is excellent as the titled character. The movie deals with what civilians have to go through while all the men are off fighting in the war.  It takes place in war-stricken England and was made right when all of Europe was in chaos.  All in all, Mrs. Miniver is a great film that is one of the best films produced in the 1940s.  4.5 out of 5 stars.   "}{"Title":"Very dated morale booster, but with some good parts.","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This film gets off to a REALLY slow start, so slow in fact that it may lose some viewers if it airs on television. However, it is worth staying with for Garson's performance as well as the rest of the ensemble cast, once the dramatic stakes are raised. The film really does show the impact of war on civilians more than other films of the day, and the long set-up starts to make sense later in the film when we really start pulling for this family. I do think that this is one of the more dated of the Best Picture Academy Award winners of the era. (This was right before Casablanca raised the bar significantly.) It is undoubtedly the best-known of the TEN Best Picture nominees from that year (aside from The Magnificent Ambersons), but one could argue it was a week year at the Oscars in general. The film for which I would have voted, Now Voyager, wasn't even nominated! Just goes to show you what the mentality was like in the early 1940s--propaganda over substance.The one good thing about this film winning Best Picture is that it increases the likelihood of Greer Garson being seen by movie buffs, and she deserves that. Fans of director William Wyler can obviously find better movies in his filmography. Grade for this film B- "},{"Title":"Its Propaganda Value is Greater than its Artistic Merit","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Winston Churchill famously said of this film that it had done more for the war effort than a flotilla of destroyers. Set in what Halliwell's Film Guide describes as the rose-strewn English village, Hollywood variety, it is a quite open and unashamed work of propaganda which deals with the fortunes of an upper-middle-class English family during the early days of the Second World War. Clem the husband takes part in the Dunkirk evacuation, his wife Kay helps to capture a German airman and their son Vin joins the RAF and fights in the Battle of Britain while conducting a romance with the attractive granddaughter of the Lady of the Manor.Churchill's view of Mrs Miniver was widely shared at the time, as it won six Oscars, including Best Picture and Best Director for William Wyler. Sixty years after the end of the war, however, it is hard to escape the conclusion that those awards were given for propaganda value than for artistic merit. I have not seen all the films that were in contention for the Best Picture award in 1943, but there are at least two in the list which I would rate much more highly, Orson Welles's The Magnificent Ambersons and Michael Powell's Forty-Ninth Parallel, another film which can be regarded as wartime propaganda but which deals with its subject-matter in a more thoughtful and less sentimental way than Mrs Miniver. Perhaps Powell's implied criticism of American neutrality during the period 1939-41 did not go down well with the Academy.Much of the criticism of Mrs Miniver has concentrated on what is perceived to be an inaccurate, Hollywoodized view of British life. There is some truth in these criticisms- the characterisation of Vin, for example, as a middle-class radical who utters his left-wing opinions in a pompous voice seems to owe much to the American view of socialism as the opium of the bourgeois intellectual. It seems, however, unfair to put the blame on Hollywood for all the stereotypes contained in the film. The idea that English rural life typically consists of lovable working-class rustics and formidable but decent aristocrats living in picture-postcard villages and obsessed by hobbies such as rose-growing may be a caricature, but it is the sort of caricature that could just as easily be found in British films of this period (or, for that matter, in some of a later date). Some of the accents seem strange to modern British audiences- Theresa Wright in particular seems stuck in mid-Atlantic- but I doubt if American audiences of the forties were bothered. Walter Pigeon makes no attempt to disguise his Canadian accent, but there is nothing in the script to say that Clem is actually an Englishman.The film has much in common with another wartime movie from two years later, Since You Went Away, which did for the American home front what Mrs Miniver had done for the British. Both films combine patriotism and sentimentality in equal doses, and both feature a number of similar characters- a young man eager to serve his country, a pretty teenage girlfriend, an impossibly young-looking mother (Greer Garson here, Claudette Colbert in the later film) and even a crusty old grandparent who turns out to have a good heart beneath a forbidding exterior. It seems likely that Since You Went Away was influenced by the earlier film. Of the two I would rate Mrs Miniver slightly higher, but it does share some of the defects- excessive length and miscasting - that flawed the later film. Although it only lasts for two and a quarter hours as opposed to three, it is slow-moving at times, particularly during the first half. Greer Garson, who was thirty-eight at the time and looked ten years younger, was not convincing as the mother of the twenty-six year-old Richard Ney, who later became her husband. Her Best Actress award is particularly hard to understand. As with Since You went Away, most of the best acting comes in the minor roles, such as May Witty as the formidable dowager or Henry Wilcoxon as the patriotic Vicar.My own views of the film are best encapsulated by that quote from Halliwell's about false sentiment, absurd rural types and melodramatic situations that was so derided by another reviewer. The sentiment seems so false precisely because it is deliberately manufactured for propaganda purposes. Wilcoxon's final speech is delivered in the sort of ringing tones that suggest he would have made an admirable substitute Prime Minister if Churchill had for any reason been unavailable, but these are very much the sentiments of 1940. By 1942 the world had moved on a bit. It was an unfortunate irony that a film which so excoriates the German bombing of Britain should have been released in the first week of June 1942, a few days after Bomber Command's famous Thousand Bomber Raid on Cologne. There is a respectable historical case to be made that the bombing of German cities was a legitimate and necessary military tactic, but it seems hypocritical of Allied propagandists to have attacked the enemy for using the same tactic themselves. Mrs Miniver may have been effective propaganda, and propaganda in the service of a laudable cause, but that ought not to prevent us from recognising it for what it is. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A very personal experience","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" When a film touches one's own reality it becomes something rather special. For this reason I have long held a deep affection for Wyler's saga of an English family on the home front from the immediate pre-second world period to the darkest days of the blitz. It has become very fashionable to sneer at Mrs Miniver as sentimental propaganda long after the events it depicted. Was it really like that? Well - yes and no. The whole was very cleverly orchestrated by a team of four scriptwriters (including James Hilton), Hollywood's most accomplished director (William Wyler), MGM's able in-house composer (Herbert Stothart), one of their best cameramen (Joseph Ruttenburg) and a cast, when not verging on the caricature, giving the nearest semblance to the emotions I can remember living through as a child during those dark days. No one sneered at the time and the film gathered a well deserved collection of Oscars. It was only afterwards that doubts set in and reactions from a new generation became derisory. Looking at it today there are many things that are not quite right but they tend to be minor such as the risibly awful choir at the garden party, the maid snivelling to the point of embarrassment, the phoney look of American style fencing around those English gardens and the endless digs at class which, although part and parcel of how things were, were never quite so overstated. Where the work really comes into its own is in its portrayal of human emotions which was always Wyler's trump card. A film that attempts to enshrine that spirit of togetherness that comes to the fore in times of adversity and the fight against a common evil needed a director able to convey with an almost tactile sense of human passion. William Wyler, who during his great period from Jezebel in 1938 to Carrie in 1952 depicted the human heart with an intensity that has hardly ever been seen before or since, invested his depiction of the British wartime home front with a sincerity that almost completely deflects the arrows of criticism it has so often received. Ask again if it was really like that and I would cite the air-raid shelter scene some two-thirds of the way through as being in every sense definitive. My mother protected me in just such a way during air-raids in South London during the 1940 blitz as do the Miniver parents their children. I remember the crescendo of destructive sounds as depicted in the film as if only yesterday. "},{"Title":"stands the test of time","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" One unnoticed talent in the picture was Christopher Severn playing the part of Toby Miniver, the Miniver's youngest child. Child actors are often cast strictly for their appearance and their performances frequently leave much to be desired. However, Christopher, playing at such a young age, gives an absolutely delightful performance that is also refreshingly professional. His timing is excellent, his dialogue is on the button, and he hits all his marks. He far outshines his other child co-star. He contributed to every scene he was in. Ironically, the rest of his short career was spent in oblivion, not even receiving screen credit in some of his roles.The rest of the picture is very good. The sappy violin music through much of the picture could be toned down. But the picture as a whole is far less sappy than many other propaganda pictures of the day and much more believable. Callous modern audiences, hardened by the deadening sex and violence constantly doled out on today's screen, may find some of its conventions amusing. But it stands the test of time and is still a very watchable picture. "},{"Title":"A Real Boost to Britain's war Effort","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  There is no doubt that this film was released at a time when Britain most needed it - a tribute to the ordinary Englishman in time of war...Certainly it went right over the top in many ways, but lifted the spirits and raised patriotism to a remarkable level, when things were looking very dire for England. The cast was superb, with Greer Garson in the title role, supported wonderfully well by Walter Pidgeon and Teresa Wright. Richard Ney as the son left a bit to be desired in the acting sphere, but people such as Dame May Witty, Henry Travers and Henry Wilcoxon lent a great deal of character to the movie. his was clearly the high-light of the many films the two stars made together, and Garson certainly deserved her Oscar.  "},{"Title":"Much Of It Still Works Quite Well","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  There seems to be little doubt that Mrs. Miniver served a useful purpose in its day, in addition to receiving praise and critical acclaim. Without its topical immediacy, not all of it is quite as compelling now as it probably was in the early 1940's, yet a good deal of it still works well, with fairly simple but worthwhile characters who are portrayed by a pretty good cast.The first part is well conceived, if a little slow, showing the fussing and concern about day-to-day issues that will soon cease to have much significance. The bulk of the movie then provides an assortment of wartime experiences, most of them at least interesting, and some of them quite tense.It does well both as a general portrayal of the kinds of sudden and unpleasant changes that ordinary persons must endure due to international events beyond their control, and as a portrayal of an English family in their time of crisis. This portrait is no doubt stylized in some respects, but it is believable in preserving the types of experiences that only those who lived through them could really understand.There are a few times when the pace lags too much, and this tends to detract from the drama rather than adding to it. At other times, though, the low-key tone makes critical moments more believable and sometimes even more compelling. Overall, it's still worthwhile and is generally effective, even if it no longer has its former immediacy.  "},{"Title":"Why It's such a great movie","Date":"9 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This movie was outstanding. Absolutely touching and compelling. A pure work of genius. Mrs. Miniver is by far one of the most emotional and tragic war movies I've ever experienced. It's very unconventional in the sense that it's portrayed in the home life of WWII as oppose to the normal combat war movies. This heart stopping tragic movie gives us all a very accurate feel of what it must have been like living during this war. The sadness of feeling so unsafe in our own villages, and even in our own homes. Why hundreds of good people, women and children were all brutally murdered in their own homes! One of the greatest things about this movie is not just it's unconventional form, but also it's extremely simplistic storyline. It's incredible how a movie with such simplicity is so heart stopping and so emotional. That is pure talent, you don't see that much anymore in contemporary movies. Contemporary movies are so much more structured and complex, but Mrs. Miniver had no complexity, it was so simple, but so good. You'll just have to see for yourself, and experience the war as if it's really existing before you. Great Movie. "},{"Title":"War of the Roses","Date":"18 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Every person on this earth is a budding rose. In spite of some thorns in them, they bloom vivaciously. However, in times of war, these roses turn black. War brings out the most execrable face of man. And in this movie, love, war and courage have been infused so beautifully, that a long-lasting impression is cast on the viewer.Greer Garson's unglamorous, unflinching performance as Mrs Miniver is nothing short of brilliance. She maintains her composure through out the movie, restraining whenever she is required to and throwing the weights just at the right places. Her performance reinvigorates the viewers, because its scintillating and applaud-worthy. A stoical character and an embodiment of fearlessness, Greer's Mrs Miniver emotes through her eyes. No fancy embellishments, no extravaganza and pompous gesticulations. A towering mite of a role discernibly enacted with simplicity. Teresa Wright is a delightful surprise as Carol Beldon, the charming, young, patient and equanimous daughter-in-law who plays Vin's love interest and towards the end, complements Greer beautifully as an actress, in a moving sequence that opens the human flood-gates. In fact that particular scene does not boast of bounteous tears and words of concern. A five minute interaction that encaptures the horrors and unpredictability of war.Walter Pidgeon's chemistry with Greer is one of the shining moments of the film, especially in the opening sequence. Dame May as the snobbish, strident woman with a change of heart is memorable so is Henry Travers as the railway master who maintains optimism in the face of adversity.What astonished me was the cinematography. The light and dark conflates so well, the person behind this is a genius. Right amount of light thrown on Greer to expose her pathos, the dark ships in the sea conveying the bleak outcome of war are just illustrations of the luminous work by Joseph Ruttenberg.A very deserving best picture winner that shines so vividly because of its performances. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A mother navigates the uncertain waters of WWII","Date":"1 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" MRS. MINIVER is an excellent social drama set in wartime England. It's about a family keeping it together on the homefront after England declares war on Germany. The war came to the English people, remember, as Germany bombed the British Isle from the air. So the homefront was still a scary place to be.Greer Garson (PRIDE AND PREJUDICE) is stunningly beautiful as the middle class mother of three (including, improbably, a college-aged son). Mrs. Miniver must steer her family through the uncertainty of war. She keeps a positive outlook for her youngest children, but worries for her loved ones out fighting for their country. She's a strong character and Garson's performance won her an Academy Award.Walter Pidgeon (HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY, FORBIDDEN PLANET) plays Mr. Miniver, Dame May Witty (THE LADY VANISHES) plays an aristocrat, and Teresa Wright (SHADOW OF A DOUBT, THE PRIDE OF THE YANKEES) plays her granddaughter. In addition to Garson's Oscar win, Wright won for Best Supporting Actress and Pidgeon, Witty, and Henry Travers (IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE) were all nominated. The film won six Oscars, including Best Picture.MRS. MINIVER is a powerful wartime drama, but my favorite parts are the little human touches. A highlight is the youngest son Toby, one of those kids who say the darndest things. The young actor seems very comfortable on camera and has quite a bit of charisma. Mr. and Mrs. Miniver have a sweet playful dynamic as a married couple. And there are little things throughout the movie that don't seem like much, but add a human element. Toby fiddles with the handle of a church door as the family leaves mass. Mr. Miniver scoops up his son's hat as he climbs the stairs and flips it to him. A tipsy boatman pulls down a decorative banner as the crowd exits the bar. A maid kicks a door closed with her leg as she walks out of the dining room. Little things like this I noticed. I doubt these small actions were written into the script. They were probably devised on-set by the director or the actors. (William Wyler won a Best Director Oscar.)Released in the midst of World War II, MRS. MINIVER is an excellent film about the toll war takes on the innocent folks back home. It's a very human story with some strong characters. You'll get to know the Miniver family as if they were neighbors, but you might shed a tear or two before the film is ended.William Wyler also directed the post-war Oscar powerhouse THE BEST YEARS OF OUR LIVES (also starring Teresa Wright), an excellent film about American soldiers adjusting to civilian life after the war. It won seven Academy Awards, including Best Picture and Best Director, in 1947 and I highly recommend it for fans of MRS. MINIVER. "},{"Title":"Playing a subtle line through very unsubtle times, the best kind of rallying effort during the war","Date":"30 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Mrs. Miniver (1942)The trajectory of this kind of film--happy normal (rich) people right before World War II leading to hardship and tragedy during it--is too familiar to play straight, and at first Mrs. Miniver seems to play it straight. The first half might drag a modern viewer through boredom to an actual nap. The conflict in the nice, happy lives of these upper crust Britons amounts to who will win a local rose competition. It's all sweet and well made, but that's hardly enough. The acting is sustaining, for sure. The two leads, played by a wonderful Greer Garson (the first Mrs. Miniver of three) and her husband, a likable Walter Pidgeon, are completely convincing, warm, and eventually admirable. The supporting roles of the son (played by Richard Ney) and neighbor's daughter (Teresa Wright, a year after The Little Foxes and a year before Shadow of a Doubt) are first rate if somewhat typecast. The scene is England, and the year is 1939.Eventually the action turns, and the hardships begin, and death visits the family as it did so often in the south of England early in the war. That first hour of calm pays off now by contrast. And as a sidebar, watch when mother and son kiss, on the lips, a little too warmly for mother and son. That's because Garson and Ney are hitting it off and they will soon marry (for all of four years). Director William Wyler makes a highly professional job of all this. Certain moments will affect you if you let them, like the bombing around the family in their little shelter. This is the fear of every sweet and ordinary family in war, helpless and afraid, but doing their best to survive with calm and even humor. The cheer of the townspeople between bombings, and even as the warning of more planes is given, makes you swell up with admiration. If there seems to be a lack of warmth of effusive love all around (this is the typecast British style, of course) there is instead total goodness, steadfastness, and loyalty. There is the implication of love, and of caring, and doing what is right.And that, above all, is the point of the movie. War time movies, Hollywood, European or British equally, had to support the cause. Sometimes it comes off metaphorically, as an artistic parallel to the truth, as in Casablanca, which really is a kind of support the troops movie. And sometimes it is more literal, showing soldiers in action or a population mobilized in every small way, and this is Mrs. Miniver, which has the lasting advantage of a human drama beyond mere fighting. Even the rose competition ends up as a lesson to the old guard to be willing to change with the times, to embrace your countrymen across class barriers, and do what is right.Taken out of context, this is a commonplace drama made extremely well, a great entertainment. Its predictability (we don't know who will die but we know someone will) and its stylized, calm handling of really awful and terrifying scenes (a wounded Nazi in your kitchen!) make this something less than it might have been in other hands. Wyler is all about restraint, but even he might have made a more gut-wrenching version ten years later, once the war is won. But of course, that's not fair, because when it was shot it wasn't known who was going to win. To appreciate the movie, you have to see how a viewer with relatives on the battlefield would see it. Everyone is desperate to have their love affair while they can. People of all stripes had to wear an attitude of perseverance and survival. This movie ignores those who didn't play along, the down side to war, the civilian misdeeds. Yes, this is a positive movie, what the enemy would call propaganda. But in all out war, anything less would have been suicidal. "}{"Title":"Miss Beldon would have been so much greater","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Mrs. Miniver (movie) - Plot The lives of a middle class British family in the days before and during WW2.This movie isn't really about Mrs. Miniver (Oscar winning Greer Garson) at all. She's a boring, flat stereotype of the dutiful wife. This movie is really about her son (Richard Ney) and his girlfriend (Oscar winning Teresa Wright), and how they attempt to survive the war together.Their romance isn't much in the face of greater, later romance movies like The Village or Romeo and Juliet (1968), but it is the one high point to this picture. Teresa Wright is as perfect as always (a shame that she never became the star she deserved to be since her film debut in The Little Foxes) in the role of the woman who somehow knows her love is never going to come back from the war, and Ney is convincing as the dutiful soldier who isn't quite so stereotypically brave as one would expect. This relationship adds a level to the story that isn't achieved in the other subplots of the film.Problem is, all the other subplots take up the time. There are scenes involving the Minivers spending too much money on trifling things, scenes about the flower judging competition in the village, scenes about everything but what really makes the story tick. If only the film had been entitled Miss Beldon, instead... 6/10 "},{"Title":"A Mixed bag","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I have to admit I was disappointed by Mrs. Miniver, probably because of this film's excellent reputation.For about the first third of the film I was wondering why it was called Mrs. Miniver when the story focused on so many of the other characters&#x97;I think the film is more of an ensemble piece. The first third of the film, though not exactly boring or irritating, was predictable and rather bland. The whole show is pretty slow until Helmut Dantine shows up and gives a truly stirring performance as a German flyer.And then Mrs. Miniver herself was disappointing. Geer Garson's character is noble, but Garson plays it in such a stagey, overdone way that Mrs. Miniver seems less real woman and more glamorous actress. (Garson's obviously false eyelashes and showy outfits don't help.) On the other hand, there is much to appreciate in this film. This film is obviously historically valuable. The Vicar's sermon is well-worth seeing/hearing and is insightful and moving even by today's standards. The scene with the family in the bomb shelter makes one feel one has some idea of what it is like to go through an air raid. Not to mention the way this film influenced Americans about joining the war.One of the biggest praises I can give this film is that unlike many of its peers it (eventually) creates genuine suspense and genuine surprise. Most movies from this time period are rather predictable to modern audiences (not that that makes them necessarily bad), but not Mrs. Miniver. So, on the whole it's a mixed bag, but ultimately worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Might Be William Wyler's Warm, Affectionate, Spirited Masterpiece","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Mrs. Miniver might be William Wyler's warm, affectionate, spirited masterpiece, so natural and emotional. The source of these organic traits is the film's portrayal of the leisurely, unsuspecting life lived by the characters Greer Garson, in a beautiful performance, plays the title role, a family woman living in a comfortable suburban house in London with Walter Pidgeon, giving one of the most genuine, natural, and realistic performances of the silver screen era, and several live-in housekeepers while their son is off at college. As German occupation looms, their community seems so pure and diplomatic that the idea of the SS disruption is intensely real to us, tragic. Winston Churchill himself claimed with complete confidence that this film did more to raise the morale of British troops than a fleet of destroyers.A big part of that surely comes from the movie's depiction of England's resourceful prevention of invasion, as is illustrated in a quiet sequence wherein Pidgeon takes his motorboat to aid in the Dunkirk evacuations, and of course England was the only European country that successfully averted occupation. The most powerful scene in the film, a tour de force of direction, is the when Mrs. Miniver is confronted by a wounded German pilot in her home, quite a shock, yet handled with humble calm.The heartbreaking element of this film is how joyous it is to see the joy of its characters in the peace of their community with a growing amount to lose. One of the best non- contemporary achievements in cinema, Mrs. Miniver is a moving, uplifting portrait of a country's growing determination to defend their way of life. "},{"Title":"We shall never be slaves","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I had seen Wyler's film a long time ago and I saw it again yesterday.I was afraid I might be disappointed cause I had read so many bad reviews in my native France and elsewhere! I was not.Mrs Miniver belongs to its era ,it's a dated movie,a propaganda movie (as were many Lang ,Hitchcock ,Powell and Borzage films of that era ) ,but it was made with care and respect for the audience.Okay,there are implausibilities Mr Miniver sailing to Dunkerque to rescue his unfortunate compatriots while Mrs Miniver fights against a German spy which threatens We will come back! is a bit too much.One should notice,however,the way Wyler treats the scene of the boats on river Thames ,this gathering has something strange and unusual.People will also complain because the victims are a newly-wed girl,a choir boy and an old manWyler wanted to take a symbol ,and the scene in the church explains that the war involves everybody .I read a review where the author sneers and laughs at the congregation who sings we're Christian soldiers marching on to war and that clever man adds what about the Jews? In 1942,nobody knew,even the French after the roundup of Jews in the Paris ( Velodrome d'Hiver ),did not know what terrible fate laid in store for them .And if Wyler's message is not clear enough ,the music segues from the canticle into land of hope /pump and circumstances as the planes are flying in the sky .People who despise Wyler (and they are numerous in my native country) should bear in mind that,after filming Mrs Miniver,Wyler joined the air force.They should also remember that Wyler was born in Alsace ,at a time when that region was German.Generally people favor the scene when ,during a bombing, the family takes refuge in the cellar where Mrs Minniver reads Alice in Wonderland.But the scenes of war and violence are few and far between.What I like best is the depiction of the daily life.It's not accurate,English people will say-but are Hollywood's depictions of France during the occupation historically relevantJean Renoir made himself a propaganda movie in 1941 called  This land is mine and French people did not recognize their country when it was finally released in 1945.This depiction is delightfulthe old man from the station who grows roses and wants to give the name of Mrs Minniver to his most beautiful flower;the grumpy dowager who thinks that they are too young to get married and confesses she got married at 16 ..... and became a widow soon afterward;my favorite scene has nothing to do with warit's the flowers challenge cup where Dame May Witty and Reginald Owen steal the show from the stars.Wyler used to like the family unit,particularly when they were having a bad timein the best years of our lives  Friendly persuasion desperate hours  and.... even Ben Hur we find this subject.Wyler's legendary depth of field is always hereVin Minniver receives the  phone call as the rest of the family is still having dinner in the background.Greer Garson and Walter Pidgeon are an endearing couple (even though they are too rich (servants) to be what the cast and credits claim average people .They predate Myrna Loy's and Fredric March's characters in best years of our lives. Teresa Wright is cute and tender.She was already in little foxes ,she would be part of the cast of the 1945 masterpiece too. "},{"Title":"There'll always be roses","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The Oscars come in for a fair bit of flack, particularly when they are deemed to have favoured safe, populist pictures and neglected films that were unconventional and ahead of their time. But say what you like about the academy; a list of Best Picture winners gives you a better indication than any other what movies caught the mood of the times and what Hollywood aspired to in any given era.The above is especially true in the 1940s, when society and cinema were changing fast &#x96; mostly due to the war. Mrs Miniver was released about six months after the US joined the conflict. For most Americans the war was an increasingly real and scary prospect, yet the full horror and scale of it had not yet hit home. Mrs Miniver was a perfect propaganda story for these times, because rather than panicking the audience with grim realities it optimistically presents the war as an inconvenience to be endured, and even as a suburban adventure.The picture benefits from some very strong storytelling, the screenwriters taking the time to establish the characters and their relationships before the outbreak of war. This shows us what normality is for these people before it is disrupted, as well giving the various story arcs a more satisfying payoff at the end. Unfortunately the characters themselves are stereotypes &#x96; of course all to the purpose of the picture's nature as propaganda, but a little grating today.Luckily, the director is William Wyler, not only a brilliant craftsman of cinema but someone who could bring the best out of drama because he focused so much on the performers. He brings Greer Garson's face to our attention right from the off, and she is rarely off screen from that point on. Although Wyler's style is generally quite understated and unobtrusive, he could still pull some pretty nifty tricks to get the right faces in the frame at any given time. A particularly neat moment is when Henry Travers shows Garson the Miniver rose. As she leans towards the flower, she obscures Travers' face, but the camera moves with her and we now see Travers reflected in a mirror. It's important that we see her movement &#x96; it shows her genuine interest &#x96; but we also need to see his reaction, and his sudden appearance in the mirror brings it to our attention.The upshot of Wyler's actor-centred direction is that he tended to coax some excellent performances from his cast. Garson is under a lot of pressure, bring at the centre of the movie, but she pulls it off superbly. Theresa Wright is of course very good too, but nicest of all are the deep performances where you don't expect them. Henry Travers and Dame May Witty are essentially character actors brought in to tick a few boxes, but here both are at their best and they actually manage to give some credibility to their two-note roles. And Henry Wilcoxon, normally a rather bland fixture of Cecil B. DeMille epics, is flawless as the vicar and gives such heartfelt delivery on his final speech that it was apparently broadcast on Voice of America.These touches of quality aside, and while Mrs Miniver was surely a moving and effective propaganda piece in its time, we don't live in 1942 and we have to judge it upon how it looks today. Hollywood's distance from England and the war is noticeable, and the overall tone seems almost disrespectfully cheerful. Several moments just look a bit silly &#x96; for example a dogfight taking place at forty feet, and what I call the talking boat scene (you'll know it when you see it). A truer and deeper picture of the home front was painted in British-made features such as In Which we Serve. And it's not the lack of combat and action that brings Mrs Miniver down &#x96; after all look how effectively the post-combat drama Best Years of Our Lives conveys the impact of war with no action whatsoever. It's simply that Mrs Miniver pulls too many punches, is too soft and too light. And yet, at the time, what else could it be? "},{"Title":"A wonderful war drama with a staggering performance by Garson","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" William Wyler's 1942 film Mrs. Miniver tells the story of a mother, Kay Miniver (Greer Garson) who is trying to hold her family together during World War II in England. Her husband Clem (Walter Pigeon) is part of the patrol in their small village, their son Vin (Richard Ney) is fresh from college and now in the Royal Air Force, after marrying Carol (Teresa Wright). Two more small children, Toby and Judy round out the Miniver family, who finds that they go from relative upper-middle class comfort to watching helplessly as their village is destroyed around them. All the while, Kay Miniver remains a bastion of strength, despite her own fears and discomfort.Mrs. Miniver became very popular during the war because it was a very realistic depiction of what civilians had to deal with in England during WWII. It is hard to imagine dealing with night raids and bombing when we have not fought a war on American soil since the 1800's, but while watching the film's frightening war scenes, I tried to imagine the courage that must have been necessary to survive. I have of course thought about these things to some extent, but it is ironic that a William Wyler melodrama was the film to really put all of it into perspective, not the big budget war films of the last sixty years. This is truly a testimony to the greatness of the film and its actors.Greer Garson is luminous and superb. She always seems to play very wise, strong women (see Pride & Prejudice). While the title of the film is Mrs. Miniver, it is centered on family, however. From the fabulous chemistry between Garson and Pigeon, (you REALLY believe that they are happily married) to the natural on-screen relationship with the children in the film (particularly the small ones), theirs is truly a delightful family. As for Mrs. Miniver herself, she is such a good person that pretty much everything around her becomes more positive with her involvement. From the beautiful rose named in her honor in the beginning of the film, to the denouement when the family home is half destroyed, Miniver is a pillar of strength, and most importantly, dignity. There are no histrionics or cheesy performances in this film, least of all by Garson.Mrs. Miniver has many ups and downs, and it certainly does not end on an uplifting note, but while it is a tear-jerker, Mrs. Miniver is so well made that its subtleties make the film even more effective. There will be a scene where a mass is being performed in a church that is almost completely destroyed in order to show that most everything in their little village has been destroyed in one way or another. The fact that this church was, in earlier scenes, a place for courting, and the place where two of the characters get married is not even pointed out. Instead of saying Look at me, this is a melodramatic and sad moment, Wyler chooses to let us come to that conclusion on our own. These are just a couple of reasons I would recommend Mrs. Miniver without any reservations, and only a couple of the reasons why I give this film a very solid 8/10.--Shelly "},{"Title":"Naive but Enjoyable","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  When we see films that are 60 years old we must disabuse ourselves of the techniques used in modern cinema.Today the audience has been weaned on social realism, technical excellence, computer and graphic effects.There has also been the scholarship and body of experience and knowledge that has built up over this intervening period.The audience in war torn Britain in 1942 were far less sophisticated as they lived in a society where you only had a radio and the written word if you were lucky.There was no means of comparison, indeed their cinema probably looked (through their eyes) quite sophisticated after the melodramatic gestures and emoting of silent cinema from their previous generation.I therefore have to grit my teeth when I see the wrong items listed by a previous reviewer in this film, (e.g. American garden fences, interior decor, speech patterns etc).However, Hollywood had the money in 1942 to produce this film while film finance was difficult to obtain here during the war.If Winston Churchill thought this a wonderful propaganda film and that it had a positive effect on war morale, then in spite of its modern technical shortcomings, it achieved its aim and therefore must be considered significant.I have a bit of a hazy memory of this one as I don't own this title on VHS and have only seen it about twice but I do remember that Greer Garson's performance justly stood out.Her calm, intelligent, poise was ideal casting in the portrayal of a British housewife (played by a British subject) whose life is about to become highly traumatised as a result of her family's involvment in WWII.How I would have loved to have seen a British version with an all British cast actually filmed in England at the time but many British actors were serving in the armed services then.I am intriged by a modern trend of American actresses coming over here to the UK to play British parts with accent to match.Predominatly I am impressed by Gwyneth Paltrow and Jennifer Ehle both of whom have been to my ears very convincing in recent years.Greer Garson justly won her Oscar as best actress and it seems after reading her biography she was almost the same persona in real life, so the part came very naturally to her. "},{"Title":"A rose by any other name...","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  William Wyler, one of the great directors of the American cinema, had the perfect team when he decided to make this film. Mr. Wyler was in a class by himself. He has given the movie going public pictures such as this one that will live forever, as new audiences discover them through cable and late shows on television.The film, a product of Hollywood in the 40s, has an underside that is done very subtly when it takes the cause for going to war into the noble and just cause that the American public believed it to be. Therefore, we are shown the valor, the idea of a better world and victory for the just, as a matter of course.Kay Miniver is a charming woman living in the country, not too far from London, where we see her go shopping. As the story unfolds, she is on her way back home. She is seated in the same carriage with the local aristocrat, Lady Beldon, who is a stereotype of that class. Mrs. Miniver doesn't have a mean bone in her body. She accepts with grace the proposal of the station master to have one of his roses named after her, and horror of horrors, he will compete head to head with Lady Beldon, who wins every year.The life of the Minivers will change dramatically as the oldest son, Vin is called into war action. He loves Carol Beldon, a young woman out of his social class. The war makes it possible for them to marry. Lady Beldon learns to accept people that are beneath her conservative way of life, something that would have seemed impossible in normal times. Of course, these are things that only happen in films. Alas, in the real world, the Minivers would probably had no chance in mingling in an aristocratic world where class mattered more than anything else.As Mrs. Miniver, Greer Garson brings her radiance to the screen. She had a way to make her presence be felt over the other actors when she appears. Walter Pidgeon plays the husband, Clem, but he has little to do otherwise. Lady May Whitty, is a delight as Lady Beldon, as is Teresa Wright, with her youth and beauty. Henry Travers, Richard Ney and Brenda Forbes also add their imprint to the film. "},{"Title":"A perfect look at a not so perfect transition in time.","Date":"24 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" There's nothing like a suburban British housewife to aid her family in getting through the war. In the case of the upper middle class Miniver family, it is the wife (Greer Garson) who keeps the home fires burning, literally, as she fends off Nazi fliers, keeps her children calm in an air raid, and helps the family mend through a tragedy concerning her oldest son (Richard Ney) and the young woman he loves (Teresa Wright). She is also beloved in her village of Belden, given the distinct honor of having a beautiful red rose named after her by the town's long-time railroad station master (Henry Travers), daring to enter it in a contest opposite the town's delightfully imperious matriarch (Dame May Witty), Wright's grandmother. This leads to the famous town flower show sequence, a plot element so remembered by fans that years later it was incorporated into Downton Abbey involving Dame Maggie Smith's character.Of course, there's more to this film than a flower show, the guilt over buying a new hat during troubled financial times (while husband Walter Pidgeon buys a new car on the very same day with the same trepidation of telling his wife) and young love. It's about England's transition from innocence to potential annihilation as the evil Nazi Germany bombs the town (at least they waited until the winner of the Belden cup was announced), and how peace loving communities will not allow tyrants to attempt to destroy their freedom. Everybody in this peaceful village gets involved, from store owner turned air raid warden Reginald Owen, parson Henry Wilcoxin and even the Miniver's servants. A screenplay filled with light sentiment, sweet romance, subtle comedy and a divine spirituality of good vs. evil makes this truly a perfect film with everybody excellently cast and the pacing perfectly fitting to each mood that the film undertakes.It's been tempting over the years to make fun of this film which has been spoofed (Laugh-In, parodying the Nazi soldier with Arte Johnson approaching guest-star Garson) and given legend for Garson's alleged lengthy Oscar speech. It should be noted that 1943's Oscar Winning Best Film Casablanca had a New York release during the same year as Mrs. Miniver, which makes a close call for which of the two would have won the Oscar had Casablanca had its Los Angeles release just a few months earlier. On its own, Mrs. Miniver still stands the test of time today, and that is also due to its brilliant screenplay and tight direction by the legendary William Wyler. "},{"Title":"Never a rose without the thorn.","Date":"16 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Nicely done story of an English family during the blitz in 1940-41. Before the war, we are introduced to Mrs. Miniver (Garson), matriarch of a warm, happy middle-class family straight out of Father Knows Best except that in this case it's usually Mother who knows best. She and her architect husband (Pigeon) have three children, two small and cute, one grown up and just out of Oxford. He's smart but he's a callow youth. (All youths are callow.) The kid sounds like a fatuous Marxist at the dinner table, but a pretty guest (Wright) soon brings him down to earth.Theresa Wright is a member of the Beldon family. They're aristocrats, not middle-class like the Minivers. There is also a working class in the village, shopkeepers, postmen, and people of that ilk, and the Minivers enjoy friendly relations with all of them. But Lady Beldon (Whitty), the Aristocrat-in-Chief, holds them all in contempt. However, the aristocratic Wright and the non-U Miniver son from Oxford fall in love and -- Well, I could go on with this, but not without sounding like a sociologist.What it is, is a kind of training film for civilians during war time. Mrs. Miniver is a resolute, brave, uncomplaining, church-going, stiff-upper-lip model of civilian endurance. Not just for the Brits who, by the time of this release, had already learned any lessons to be derived from suffering, but for Americans too. The movie was released in 1942 and shot in 1941, when Europe had been at war for years and everyone knew that the war was just around the corner for Americans. So, while the Army recruits were getting movies showing them how to avoid venereal disease, the civilian audiences got movies like this, demonstrating how to avoid breaking down under stress.It's filled with stereotypes but well done for what it is. I'll give an example of a well-written scene. It's the blitz. The Miniver family is huddled down in its bomb shelter in the back yard of the mansion they live in. They're subject to Nazi bombs that scare hell out of them and bash in their dining room.Here's how a perfunctory script would handle the scene. The sirens wail. The family rushes to the shelter. Suddenly -- overhead -- the roar of airplane engines. Anti-aircraft batteries bark at the enemy. A salvo of bombs blasts the shelter as the brave but terrified Minivers huddle together and silently pray. The bombs stop as abruptly as they began. The Minivers emerge from the shelter and stare, stricken, at their smoking, half-ruined manse.Not here. The scene opens with the family already in the shelter, looking out the door while a city on the horizon is aglow with searchlights probing the sky and fitful bursts of anti-aircraft shells. Not many bombs, observes Pigeon. And we think, Whew, at least the Minivers aren't getting slammed. Back into the shelter, where they read Alice in Wonderland to their dozing children. Then, from nearby, the loud KRUPP of batteries going into action. Then the sound of airplanes. The Minivers sit silently, Garson knitting calmly, Pigeon staring at the walls. Nobody says anything about having loose bowels or needing a jolt of whiskey. The whistle of the first bomb at a distance. Then another, closer. Then a veritable rain of bombs knocking everything over in the shelter. Fade out.A scene at the railway station follows. The Oxfordian is in the RAF and has just returned from his honeymoon with Wright. After an effusive greeting, Pigeon says, Well -- I'll show you to your room. And they walk up the path into the house, and for the first time we see that half the house seems to have been dismantled by the bombs -- windows broken, daylight showing through the roof, furniture reduced to kindling.I've spent that much time on one scene because the scene illustrates the care with which the script was put together. A more reckless approach would have had the whole business over with in five minutes. Instead, the terror and ultimate shock are allowed to creep up on us, bit by bit, as the threat grows nearer and the aftermath of its impact delayed. Good job.Helmut Dantine is a surprise as a downed and desperate German pilot. For one thing, he's handsome instead of ugly. For another, he shows weakness from his wound and when he collapses in pain, we almost feel sympathy. I only wish he hadn't had to eat like an animal and bark out order like, Give -- me -- coat. He should be stalwart. Instead, he acts and sounds like Frankenstein's monster. "}{"Title":"Magnificent, important depiction of British life in wartime","Date":"15 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Directed by German-born American citizen William Wyler, depicting the plight of the British Home Front, Mrs. Miniver swept the boards at the Oscars, collecting five wins including Best Picture. It is now clearly a piece of propaganda film-making, made at the time where the U.S. were edging closer and closer to war, but this doesn't do anything to dampen what is an often gripping, moving and stirring film. Wyler's views are clear as day - American needed to enter the war before the threat of Nazism becomes too powerful to overthrow - and wanted to show the American audience of the stubborn, stiff-upper lipped efforts of its British allies, from the soldiers on the front lines, to the defiance of the women and the elderly at home.As World War II draws inevitably nearer, middle-class housewife Kay Miniver (Greer Garson) journeys home after shopping to learn that station-master Mr. Ballard (Henry Travers) is naming his potentially prize-winning rose Mrs. Miniver. Her husband Clem (Walter Pidgeon) has just indulged in an expensive new car and the two patter around admitting to their lavish spending. Their son Vin (Richard Ney) returns home from Oxford and falls in love with Carol (Teresa Wright), grand- daughter of aristocrat Lady Beldon (Dame May Witty). But when war is announced, Vin joins the Air Force, and Clem volunteers to assist in the Dunkirk evacuation.What is most surprising about Mrs. Miniver is its depiction of Britain. With an American director and a cast made up mostly of American and Canadian actors, the film is alarmingly successful in its realism, and doesn't look out of place amongst the many British films made during this era with similar settings. The cast border on perfection (apart from the slightly hammy Richard Ney), and Pidgeon, Wright, Witty and Travers all receiving Oscar nominations for the efforts, with Garson winning. They manage to juggle a mixture of middle-class kitchen-sink drama and some naturalistic humour, with some playful scenes managing to alleviate the doom-and-gloom subject matter.The film is keen to explore themes of social divide, and how this apparent barrier seems to vanish and diminish during wartime. Vin arrives home from his college spouting a new-found enlightenment about his fellow man, and how the wealthy live comfortably in ignorance while the lower-classes suffer, but has nothing to say when challenged as to what he's doing about it by Carol. It is only when he goes to war when he is truly with his fellow man, a revelation shared by the snobbish Lady Beldon (in a powerhouse performance by Dame Witty) during the village flower show in an extremely moving scene.A true milestone film, now admitted to the National Film Registry by the Library of Congress, that President Roosevelt heralded as being as important to the war effort as the soldiers on the ground, as he rushed it straight into theatres shortly after being completed. The film's famous final scene that shows a powerful speech on the country's unity by the Vicar (Henry Wilcoxon - whose brother Robert was killed in the Dunkirk evacuation), was transcribed and translated by Roosevelt and dropped into allied territory as a morale builder, and is now known as the Wilcoxon Speech. Historically important, but a magnificent film in its own right.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Family Life During the War","Date":"8 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" There were many movies made about World War II. One important movie that always stands out is Casablanca, as well as any movie in modern day that is made about the Second World War. However, one movie that is often overlooked is Mrs. Miniver. Directed by William Wyler, this movie tells the story of a quiet family living in the English countryside, living peacefully, but trying to avoid the war the best they can. This movie, any many other movies of the time period had a deep effect of the viewers of that time. While they saw movies as some sort of an escape, the theme of the current war followed them into the theater. However, it helped people to cope with what they were dealing with while they related to the characters in the film, as they were going through the war too. "},{"Title":"Sixty-odd years after, Mrs. Miniver is still a poignant, well-made family film worth viewing","Date":"8 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" With my repeat viewings of Mrs. Miniver on cable TCM (Turner Classic Movies) and PBS, too, I came to realize what a well-made film it is. Certainly deserved the multiple Oscar achievement awards it received. It may be overlooked under the tag of being a WWII propaganda film. Mrs. Miniver of 1943 does deliver a poignant war-related story, with an exceptional ensemble cast (including the two young children Minivers) and subtly masterful direction by William Wyler.The script of four writers somehow managed to include many aspects of wartime family trials and tribulations, young men and older ones fighting for their country, women's role and family members young and old, rich, poor or middle-class, how they cope with their daily living. Amidst all, humor is not forgotten and the atmosphere the family scenes or common-folk (premise being in the early '40s in rural England, we have the station master, butcher, milkman, housemaid, tavern owner) encounters generate are congenial and touching. The central Miniver family is well-represented father, mother, young daughter and son with a pet cat, and a grown-up son from Oxford. Best supporting actress, Teresa Wright's performance is truly one to watch, everything told from her face with the varying expressions keenly matching her co-stars Richard Ney (Vin), Greer Garson (Vin's mother), Dame May Witty (her aunt Lady Beldon). Especially when her character Carol Beldon's relationship with Vin Miniver, scholar turned RAF airman, took an unexpected turn. It may seem dramatic, but stepping back, in wartime, anything can happen without warning and such reality holds true still for today.The set design (by Edwin Willis), photography (by Joseph Ruttenberg), and editing (by Harold Kress), including music (by Herbert Stothart) applied, are all integral with attention to details. I see the swans between Garson and Henry Travers' Mr. Ballard during their impromptu morning chat with the lake behind them (before a suspenseful sequence to follow). The collapsed dining room scene first we see father, son and daughter standing there, camera pulls back and we see their backs from behind what they are facing the dismal room in ruins (impact of air-raid silent but loud). The pastor talking to his parish community - the beginning and the end scenes contrasting each other. The siren shelter space with the individual first-aid boxes marked with respective family member names, a certain telling sadness prevails. There are also quiet nuance moments between husband and wife scenes from Walter Pidgeon and Garson which inform us what a loving and delightful relationship the two share in the bedroom, at air-raid shelter, when they're dancing, at dinner table, singing together at the church congregation. So many seemingly minor elements yet never overlooked.Just like William Wyler's post WWII film The Best Years of Our Lives 1946, I have grown to appreciate these Hollywood gems that are truly well-made in every way. Other black & white war-related films commendable are Delmer Daves' Pride of the Marines 1945 with John Garfield; Fred Zinnemann's The Men 1950 with Marlon Brando and Teresa Wright again; Mark Robson's Bright Victory 1951 with Arthur Kennedy; and of course, Howard Hawk's Sergeant York 1941 with Gary Cooper as the WWI American hero (I've posted user comments at imdb.com/title/tt0034167/usercomments-38). "},{"Title":"Interesting observations from my introduction, Feb. 4, 2010 before Big Screen showing!","Date":"5 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Producer Sidney Franklin hired William Wyler to direct because he was a bona fide perfectionist, whose penchant for retakes and an attempt to hone every last nuance, became the stuff of legend. It was said he would ask the actors to repeat take after take, until the actor would say just what do you want? To which Wyler would reply, I don't know, but when I see it, I'll tell you! Because of Wyler's string of box-office and critical successes during the 1930s and 1940s, he became one of Hollywood's most bankable movie makers. He also holds the record of being Oscar nominated for Best Director a total of 12 times. After completing MRS. MINIVER, Wyler joined the Army Signal Corps and was overseas when he won the Oscar for Best Director. After the war his first film was THE BEST YEARS OF OUR LIVES. At the beginning of 1941 most of America wanted to avoid war. In 1939 the Nazis invaded and defeated Poland, in 1940 they conquered Finland, Denmark & Norway. They attacked France in May of that year who surrendered only 6 weeks later. And still America declared its neutrality. MGM studio head Louis B. Mayer didn't want to choose sides and lose business in the European market. But William Wyler was angry. He was born on the French and German border, he was Jewish and he had heard enough about Hitler & Nazis. Wyler openly admitted that he made MRS. MINIVER for propaganda reasons. He strongly believed that the US should join the war against Nazism and wanted to make a film to show ordinary Americans what the British were going through. For the lead character of Mrs. Miniver they went to Greer Garson who in her thirties, didn't want to play the mother of a 20 year old son. But everyone who read the script told her it was the role of a lifetime. So Garson suggested she use aging make-up, a little grey hair at the temples and padding to give her that middle-aged look. The tactless director told her she looked fine the way she was&#x85; Garson was an Irish-born advertising executive who had so much fun acting as part of a community theater group, she decided to make it a career. She was discovered on the London stage by MGM studio head, Louis B. Mayer who was scouting Europe for a replacement for his biggest and most difficult star Greta Garbo. But instead of finding another exotic woman of mystery he was entranced by Greer's elegant manner and flaming red hair. MRS. MINIVER opens by introducing the title character, an architect's wife, splurging on a new hat while on her weekly shopping trip to London. Mrs. Miniver is immediately established as a likable character (although one might question her taste in hats). She is troubled about how to tell her husband, played by Walter Pidgeon, about her extravagant purchase. Meanwhile Mr. Miniver is trying to figure out how to tell his wife that he has splurged on a new car! This was Garson's sixth film and she had already been Oscar nominated twice, but her skill as an actress had grown even more. Just watch her eyes slowly enlarge as the squeal of falling bombs gets louder and louder. She looks genuinely afraid for her life... or more to the point, for the life of her family. In order of appearance, you'll meet the vicar played by Henry B. Wilcoxon. You may have seen him in CADDYSHACK playing the Catholic priest golfing with Bill Murray who gets struck by lightening! The formidable Dame May Witty plays aristocrat Lady Beldon. Witty was named a Dame by King George in 1918, based on her service during World War I. Henry Travers appears as Mr. Ballard, the stationmaster. He's best known as the angel Clarence Oddbody in IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE. In tonight's film he symbolizes the unification of the upper and lower classes thru roses and horse manure (if you'll pardon the expression.) Walter Pidgeon, a handsome Canadian actor is best remembered today for being paired up with Greer Garson in eight movies and for his work in HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY and FORBIDDEN PLANET. Next we meet Richard Ney in his debut as the oldest son, who is full of ideals and is self impressed with his schoolboy philosophies. Watch how he tries to enlighten his family on England's class system until he's questioned by a pretty young lady. Later Ney was briefly married to a famous older actress. Finally we will meet lovely little Teresa Wright who was Oscar nominated for three of her first four films and won for this movie! Her character's name will change halfway thru the film - see if you can catch it. MRS. MINIVER was the first film to have Academy Awards nominations in all four acting categories and the first to get five acting nominations (two best supporting actress.) It was nominated for a total of 12 Oscars and won six Best Picture, Director, Screenplay, Cinematography, lead actress and supporting actress. The movie exceeded all expectations, grossing over 5 million dollars in North America (second only to GWTW). It was also the top box office attraction of 1942 in England. And 555 of the 592 critics polled by Film Daily named it the best film of 1942. This film about the trials of a British family just before and during World War II struck a poignant note with the American public. Showing how they coped with the attacks on their civilian population that made every American family identify with the Minivers. If they failed in their resolution to defend their blessed isle, we in America could face the same trials and devastation. The film started shooting before the attack on Pearl Harbor. By the time it premiered on June 4 of 1942, newspapers carried another story the Battle of Midway had started that same day&#x85; and now we were at war too! "},{"Title":"Village life","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" A classic war story that tells the tale of one family living in an English village as it descends from a peaceful, idyllic existence into the depths of WWII. Greer Garson is the titular character and Walter Pidgeon is her husband. The radiant Theresa Wright plays a village girl for whom the Miniver's grown son (Richard Ney, who later married Garson) falls. While the film was obviously shot on studio backlots, it feels pretty real, especially a bomb shelter sequence near the end. Director William Wylerm, who would goon toe make The Best Years of Our Lives, must have employed half of Hollywood's English-born actors in supporting roles. The irrepressible Dame May Witty is the village's closest thing to royalty, and acts every bit of it. Watch for the actor who went on to play Clarence the Angel in It's a Wonderful Life. He is the village postman in this. Unfortunately, the mannered acting of the period and B&W production will find no followers among the cineplex crowd. "},{"Title":"gem of a film and commentators","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" 1) This film is a gem - small, quiet, and valuable. The behavior and discourse of the actors advance the morality and natural nobility of our civilization. We can only hope and act to comport ourselves in the same way as do these fictional (butsomewhat based on fact)characters. 2) My complements to the previous commentators. You show an understanding of, a sensitivity and appreciation for, those qualities described above. This is very heartening as it is in contrast to the seemingly increasing crudity and mean-spirited words and actions of many others nowadays. 3) Movies can be an imitation of society, and society can imitate movies. In regard to this movie and our future, I hope, and sometimes see, both of these axioms are true. "},{"Title":"If war comes, it's goodbye roses...","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I love this movie for many reasons. With the propaganda aside, it has great artistic merit and fantastic performances. Greer Garson is very deserving of the Oscar she won - even though she originally didn't want to play the part but was contractually required to do so. She is so luminous in her portrayal (in a strange way, she reminds me of Meryl Streep). Teresa Wright is the lovely but unglamorous every girl in this film and is quite amazing - especially considering this was only her 2nd film, AND she wins the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress for this. Her 1st film, Little Foxes (1941), she also received a Supporting Oscar nomination but lost to Mary Astor in The Great Lie. She also was the only actor ever to be nominated for an Oscar for her first three films (the 3rd was for The Pride of the Yankees also in 1942).I love the contrasting of the beginning and ending of the film. The movie opens with prosperous London buzzing with consumers buying their luxurious items and includes Mrs. Miniver anguishing over the purchase of an extravagant hat. The Vicar also buys his splurge of cigars. They share a car on the train in which they discuss their purchases. Contrast the frivolity of this society before the start of the war, to the closing scene. Now you have the Vicar giving his inspiring sermon well into the attack on London and on a very sober occasion (I won't give away the details bu he does fulfill his earlier hope of being there when they need him). Never again would their world be the same.This film also offers a great look at life in WWII era England the prosperity and materialism, the idealism and social conscience of youth through the eyes of the Minvers son,Vin (played by Richard Ney). It gives a glimpse into surviving on war rations ( for example 1 adult only got 2 oz. each of cheese and butter, 4oz.bacon, 1egg, 2-3 pints milk PER WEEK).Contrast this with the extravagant hat purchase and buying the new convertible car just before the war. I thought the announcement of war in the church service was quite a sobering scene. I also thought that the hymns sung (We Are Traveling Home to God and Onward Christian Soldier) and the reading of Psalm 91 was quite moving. The church in the final scene with the bomb damaged archways supported by makeshift lumber supports and missing roof was very well done and realistic.This is not only a war of soldiers in uniform. It is a war of the people. These are part of the eloquent words spoken by the Vicar near the end of the movie. If no other reason, you should watch the movie to hear this sermon. This sermon became so inspirational that even President FDR ordered it to be broadcast on Voice of America, copies were dropped over Europe for propaganda and copies printed in Time magazine. This movie is a great example of the tremendous impact that Hollywood and film can have on society. In this case, I think it was done for good effect (not always the case with morally deficient Tinseltown).I think it put a very human face on war for Americans who perhaps couldn't relate to war being fought on their turf. Especially when you have scenes with the children, like when Toby asks his mom in the basement bomb shelter is the war over yet mommy? and she answers No its just the first day. When the oldest son Vin enlists, you have the mom's open anxiety contrasted with the dad's quiet worrying. There's also a very poignant scene in the bomb shelter during a very violent night of bombing. Mrs. Minver is reading the kids Alice in Wonderland and comments it is the first book she learned to read during happy summer days. There is a silence as you can imagine her remembering her own peaceful, happy childhood. Contrast that with her own kids having to endure a childhood surrounded by war and uncertainty, as the bombs continue to drop all around them and causing severe damage to their home. The kids start out sleeping, then wake crying and eventually Toby cries they nearly killed us this time didn't they? You can't tell me those scenes didn't resonate with every viewer of this film when it was released just as the U.S. was experiencing war.The cinematography couldn't have been any better in my opinion. Garson was so impressed with how flattering she was filmed by Joseph Ruttenburg, that she insisted he film all her subsequent movies. He deservedly won the Oscar for Best Cinematography for this film. For just one example, watch Vin as he climbs the staircase after the tragic event (I won't reveal that spoiler) and he disappears into the shadowed doorway. Another amazing scene is when Mrs. Minver and Carol are huddled in the car as the air fight is literally being fought right over their heads. The special effects, especially when a plane crashes, are amazing. Also, the way Garson and Wright act this scene is tremendous - the fear is palpable.I think one of my favorite quotes in the movie is If war comes, it's goodbye roses to which the response is There will always be roses! I think it highlights the optimism that can be found sometimes, even under the most horrendous conditions - if you choose to.After the film has concluded, there is a screen that pops up that states America needs your money. Buy defense bonds and stamps every payday. I had never seen this before. It just struck me - this film was way before my time but it's hard to imagine a modern film today having a plug for the Iraq War at the conclusion. My, how times have changed. "},{"Title":"Excellent as propaganda--good as a movie","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This takes place in a small village near London just before the outbreak of WWII. Living there are Mrs. Miniver (Greer Garson), husband Clem (Walter Pidgeon), 2 small children and their grown son Vin (Richard Ney) who visits from the university he attends. The Minivers live in a huge house and are basically pretty rich. Then Britain enters the war and the Minivers have to cope with bombings, air raids and German soldiers.Historically this is a very important movie. It showed American audiences what was happening in Britain (although sanitizing it) and this movie was instrumental in getting America to help Britain through the war. SPOILERS!!! However, in some ways, this is pretty overdone. I find it hard to believe that any British family take things as calmly as the Minivers do and a bunch of multiple deaths at the end REALLY pushes it but top production values, a good script and great acting pull this through. It's a little bit too long but it doesn't really matter. Two standout sequences are when Garson meets a German pilot and when the family has to hide in a bomb shelter when the Germans attack. Garson is a little bit too young to be a mother (she was only 33 when she did this) but she's great. Her performance deservedly won her a Best Actress Oscar. I never liked Pidgeon before but I have to admit he's very good here and was nominated for an Oscar. Then there's Teresa Wright (who also won an Oscar) very beautiful and appealing and Dame May Witty playing her aunt. Henry Travers also won an Oscar for this which is puzzling. He's good but his part is very small. This also got Best Director and Best Picture of the year. It's overdone and self-conscious and a lot of people find this sappy but I think it's a good movie about the way Britain was during WWII. I give this an 8. "},{"Title":"Still stirring, inspiring and very moving","Date":"1 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Another day, another great Wyler film. This is a superb effort, and I can see why it had such a big impact on swaying Americans to the British cause in WW2. Greer Garson is the lady of the title, and she gives an excellent, warm performance as the gently defiant and courageous wife and mother. The film shows the Miniver's progression from the days before the war, and a lovely opening scene has both Garson and her husband Walter Pidgeon trying to avoid telling the other about their extravagant purchases. Son Vincent (Richard Newy) comes home from college spouting about the inequalities of the feudalistic British class system, but finds better ways to spend his time when he meets the lovely Carol Belden (Teresa Wright). Soon Britain is thrust into war, Vincent enlists a pilot, and the Minivers comfortable existence is shattered. Still, the Brits are a determined lot and they refuse to give in. Garson singlehandedly captures a German pilot, and comforts the children during air raids. Tragedy hits home as three of the close-knit community are killed during an air raid.It still holds up well today as great drama, and while it was a propaganda film, it is still incredibly moving. Dame May Witty and Henry Travers give excellent supporting performances. Garson and Wright both won Academy Awards for their work, and I'm sure that both actresses superb handling of Wright's death scene sealed their wins. The class system is forgotten as the Brits must stand together in the face of evil, and Wilder contributes some truly unforgettable scenes. "},{"Title":"Mrs. Miniver ***","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" An Oscar winning performance by Greer Garson highlights this 1942 classic of a British family caught up in the Nazi bombings of England during World War 11.While each member of the family is looked at, the center of attention is always focused on Mrs. Miniver.We see the annual Garden contest as English people tried their best to lead normal lives under adverse conditions.Richard Ney, who would marry Miss Garson after the film was made, plays her son in this film. Talk about original casting!Walter Pigeon, Garson's co-star in so many films, is excellent as her husband.The scene of the bombing while the family is in the house made bomb shelter is realistic and chilling at best.The killing of the Miniver daughter-in-law, played by Teresa Wright, who won for best supporting actress, leaves a void in all our hearts. As memorable as this was, Wright should not have won. Her grandmother, played by the veteran actress Dame May Witty, pulled out all the stops as the grief stricken grandma, and was deservedly nominated for it. (Of course, this was the same year that should have won Gladys Cooper the Oscar for her brilliant performance in Now,Voyager. Imagine, Agnes Moorehead was not exactly chopped liver in The Magnicent Ambersons either.)An excellent effort of a film showing the strength of the British people at a time of crisis. Memorable to generations of viewers. As the pastor, Henry Wilcoxon delivered a tremendous speech in church explaining that this was a people's war. It was interesting to learn that FDR loved the film and played Wilcoxon's speech on radio to the troops and others. "}{"Title":"Take the time","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Why do so many younger viewers, or stubborn older ones for that matter, avoid a 1940s movie because they perceive it as old-timey? This classic film from director William Wyler -- who was to later film The Best Years of Our Lives -- makes one laugh, cry and understand the effect of war (timeless war) on so many lives while entertaining the viewer with such ease. Anyone who is not touched by such a film has no business calling himself/herself a film fan. Walter Pidgeon and Greer Garson show why they were such popular stars of their day, and Teresa Wright's performance is magnificent while also familiar to those who know her work. Dame May Witty shows her versatility in a key role of this story concerning class differences in the face of a world war. Look for other familiar faces such as Henry Travers, Henry Wilcoxon, and Reginald Owen, and after viewing check through references to see the the off-screen connection between Garson and the actor who plays her son, Richard Ney. "},{"Title":" There is a sadness waiting for us and it's best to face it now ","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" In 1942 William Wyler directed this heart stirring film for the American Audience. Although it leans itself to early propaganda, it is nevertheless welcomed as a fine portrayal of Elnglish life prior to the beginning of World War II. The story is that of Mrs. Miniver (Greer Garson) a married English woman who with her husband (Walter Pidgeon) Clem and their family are a typical middle class family. Enjoying the comforts of their lifestyle, they are a typical segment who enjoy life, their family and their country. Shortly thereafter, the director takes the audience through several life-changes segments beginning with the incoming war, it's fears, it's devastation and eventual outcome which few are able avoid. The great cast which includes Teresa Wright, Dame May Witty, Reginald Owen, Henry Travers, Richard Ney and Henry Wilcoxon as the Vicar. The dramatic movie possesses all the necessary elements of a true Classic and one which it truly deserves. Easily recommended. **** "},{"Title":"Dated but powerful World War II melodrama","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Winston Churchill's favorite movie was Mrs. Miniver and I can see why. It's an American picture designed to create a deep bond between a formerly isolationist American public (recently thrust into war) with the British people (who had already been involved in World War II for two years). While it has many moving scenes, 'Mrs. Miniver' is also very uneven.The first half hour of the film is extremely slow-moving. We're introduced to the town of Belham with both its upper-class and lower middle-class characters. Henry Travers (famous for playing 'Clarence' in 'It's a Wonderful Life' five years later) plays Mr. Ballard, the kindly stationmaster who plans to enter his rose in an annual flower festival sponsored by Lady Beldon (he names the flower 'Mrs. Miniver' in honor of the title character who has been friendly with him in the village for years). Ballard is a rustic simpleton and Lady Beldon is the stuffy aristocrat who provide the 'comic' relief in the film. Suffice it to say that the conflict over the flower is probably the weakest (and most dated) aspect of the picture.And then there's Mrs. Miniver and her husband, Clem, who we're also introduced to during this opening sequence. The Minivers both feel guilty about spending money over budget&#x97;Mrs. Miniver worries about an expensive hat and Mr. Miniver is concerned about a new car he's purchased. They are the parents of two small but wonderful kids. Soon afterward, we discover that Mrs. Miniver has a son, Vin, who's a student at Oxford (the casting of the Richard Ney as the son seems a bit odd since Greer Garson doesn't look much older than him; in real life she was 11 years older and ironically they got married right after this picture was made&#x97;only to divorce five years later!). Vin is probably the most interesting of the family members as he has Socialist leanings and seems a bit of a hothead. Also in the mix is Lady Beldon's granddaughter, Carol, (played by a solid Theresa Wright), who comes over to see Mrs. Miniver who she hopes will persuade her good friend Ballard to drop out of the flower festival (and allow her grandmother to take the top prize, as she's done for the past thirty years).The film's inciting incident occurs when the Vicar makes his announcement to the townspeople during a Sunday morning service that England has declared war on Germany. The film then focuses on the townspeoples' response (and particularly how the Minivers react and contribute to the war effort). There are many memorable scenes. Clem Miniver gets a call to meet with the other middle-aged and older men in the town at 230 in the morning at a bar and then are called upon to take their boats and be part of the famous rescue of thousands of British soldiers on the beaches at Dunkirk (the scene where an 'armada' of small boats slowly moving out to sea is very impressive). And then there's Mrs. Miniver who ends up confronting a downed German flier inside her house while he brandishes a pistol (in a touch of pure propaganda, Mrs. Miniver slaps the soldier in the face during his ugly pro-Nazi diatribe!).The two most powerful scenes in the film correspond to the Act 2 Crisis and Act 3 Climax. The Crisis occurs when the Minivers huddle with their young children inside the bomb shelter at their house. There are no exterior visuals of the bombing raid itself. The focus is on the family's reaction as we hear the SOUND of the bombs falling. It's a powerful and unsettling scene since it reveals what it's like for ordinary people to be caught up in the horrors of war. The Climax is even more shocking. Throughout the film we're expecting that Vin (who is now an RAF pilot) will end up as the one who's killed. But as Mrs. Miniver and Carol (who now has married Vin) drive home after the flower festival during an air raid (with their headlights off to avoid detection), Carol is shot as one of the enemy planes flies low and strafes the area with gunfire. Mrs. Miniver cradles the dying Carol in her arms after she manages to get back to her house. The next day, they're about to tell their son Carol is dead but he already has heard. The townspeople gather for a memorial service and all note the sacrifice of various victims including Carol and the kindly Mr. Ballard. The town is transformed with the Vicar speaking on their behalf during his sermon. He echoes the townspeoples' collective determination to see the war effort through, eventually leading to victory.While the film is called Mrs. Miniver, she feels incomplete as a character. There are long stretches in the film where the focus is not on Mrs. Miniver at all. Aside from her confrontation with the German pilot, most of her role focuses on nurturing family members.'Mrs. Miniver' served a vital function during World War II to boost the morale of the American public on the home front. If you're expecting on the other hand to see the kind of multi-dimensional characters found in a film like 'It's a Wonderful Life', you will be sadly disappointed. The powerful scenes of war along with its impact on ordinary people all but make up for the incomplete character studies proffered up by the film's screenwriters. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary Schmaltz","Date":"8 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This classic film recently released on DVD is probably the best know of all the propaganda films disguised as a regular movie of the WWII era. It won six Academy Awards including Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actress, and Best Supporting Actress. Of the power of the film to influence public opinion, Winston Churchill is quoted as saying that it was, more powerful to the war effort than the combined work of six military divisions. Director Wyler admitted to making the film with the mind of getting more citizens of the United States to support the war.In reading over reviews and comments about Mrs. Miniver, I am reminded of the statement of John Turner at Word and Image of VermontI'm convinced that popular culture has a greater effect in shaping the public mind than any other influence, and certainly more than so-called serious activities such as foreign policy debate. What happens on popular TV shows and in popular movies affects how people think and, perhaps more potently, affects what they value.It seems that he and Winston have something upon which they agree.Aside for all of this, the movie is just good entertainment. It's true that the village in which the Minivers live is an idealized, Americanized view of a quaint English village with quaint English characters. But that's something that makes the film more powerful because the viewer of the film is able to see what the horrors of war do to such a place. I am reminded of the bomb shelter scene which begins almost lightly with the family carrying on as usual and ends with a realistic impression of the tense horror that was experienced repeatedly by the English citizens.I read somewhere that William Wyler was always considered a woman's director, and Mrs. Miniver is, indeed, a film about stanch women. Greer Garson as Mrs. Miniver, Teresa Wright, as her daughter-in-law, and Dame May Witty as the grandmother of the younger Mrs. Miniver. The men in the film are brave, honest, and forthright, but they come close to becoming set pieces for these three extraordinary actresses.Wyler knows how to portray their quiet strength in many subtle ways. In one scene, the Miniver son is called back to action earlier than expected. Garson and Wright are waiting for him to come down the stairs to leave, and all we see are their backs. When the son appears at the top of the stairs, a slight change in posture of the two portrays volumes of dialog. And, of course, there is the more well-known scene when Mrs. Miniver confronts the German pilot. Again, we see facial expressions and subtle movements portray both fear and strength.The black and white cinematography of the film also won an Academy Award, and it is crisply transposed to DVD. There are numerous interesting camera angles - especially during some of the important conversations in the film. These are supported by sweeping scenes of both beauty at the beginning of the film and devastation as the film progresses. I am assuming that the film was made in black and white simply because that was the prevailing method at the time, but I think that we - some sixty-four years later - can be grateful that it was. Black and white photography enables us to better focus upon the emotions in the film. After all, those emotions - due to the propagandistic nature of the film - are black and white.OK, so Mrs. Miniver is schmaltz. It is extraordinary schmaltz with all the qualities that come together to make a classic film that will be watched and enjoyed for generations. If you remember this film from your childhood or have never heard of it, I recommend a viewing for it is definitely worth two hours of your time. "},{"Title":"Greer Garson Soars -- She's A  Warrior, A Woman, A Mother And A Saint!","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Like many American children born after 1960, I grew up knowing Greer Garson only as the kindly old narrator on the Christmas classic, The Little Drummer Boy. Not necessarily the best of introductions! Thanks to IMDb, however, I learned that she was once a legendary screen beauty and a major box office draw. Curious, I rented her most famous film, the wartime drama MRS. MINIVER.What an astonishing artist Greer Garson was! Most good Hollywood mothers tend to be solemn, heavy-set, unappealing creatures, like Ma Joad in the GRAPES OF WRATH. Or else they're vacantly pretty but absolutely passive, like Donna Reed in IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE. But what's shocking in MRS. MINIVER is that Greer Garson plays the title character as a stunning series of contradictions. She's the good mother, but as seductive as any screen siren. She's brave but gentle, vain but modest, sensual but thoughtful, silly but kind. She's got courage, warmth, a sense of humor, and also quite a bit of feminine vanity about her stunning looks and quietly knowing sex appeal.Just like GONE WITH THE WIND, this is an epic of women in wartime. But Mrs. Miniver is neither a temptress nor an angel. She's an honest woman supporting an innocent people with a just cause. Greer Garson has to combine the sweetness of Melanie Wilkes with the fire of Scarlett O'Hara -- and she pulls it off with breathtaking ease.The movie is very daring in that it introduces Mrs. Miniver at her weakest and silliest -- gossiping with the local vicar and admiring herself in her new hat. But before long you understand why every male in the village from the train station master to the vicar to her own husband regards her with a mixture of worshipful admiration and lustful awe -- because she combines all of the traditional motherly qualities with a thoroughly bewitching and very modern feminine allure! Just about the only person in the village who isn't under her spell is the local aristocrat, a formidable old lady who can't quite make out what everyone sees in the strikingly pretty but cheerfully middle class Mrs. Miniver. By the end of the movie, though, after you've seen Mrs. Miniver stare down a sadistic Nazi pilot, comfort her sobbing children during an air raid, and even tease her adoring husband into giving her a quick, playful and provocative spanking in the bedroom, you understand why the local rose grower wants to name his most perfect flower The Mrs. Miniver. And the dignified but lonely local aristocrat, (who wanted the rose named after her) ends up surrendering to Mrs. Miniver just like the German pilot.The world we live in today is just as frightening and upsetting as the world these characters inhabit. But watching MRS. MINIVER you feel a terrible longing for a time when Hollywood made films like this.When will Cate Blanchett play a woman like Mrs. Miniver? "},{"Title":"Vin Miniver","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  What happened to this character? No mention of him is in the follow-up movie The Miniver Story. And I don't remember any mention of his fate in Mrs. Miniver? He simply is referred to as going off to war. He was the oldest son, married and then widowed within two weeks of marriage when his wife was killed during a German bombing run while she and Mrs. Miniver sat in a car during the bombing. This and the sequel were terrific movies. I am a new fan of Greer Garson. It's a shame it took me so long in life to discover her. I'll be watching for more of her movies to be played on TV.  "},{"Title":"an idea of what Britain might have been","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Britain through Hollywood's eyes is likely to be as hokey as Noel Coward's anthemic London Pride - however, with Greer Garson and Walter Pidgeon as the Minivers, this was unlikely to fail and was what people wanted to think about Britain at the time it was made.Winston Churchill regarded this film as a major contribution to the Allied effort, and it certainly is the peach of propaganda films.  The story revolves round a middle-class family (car, bathroom, spare money to buy hats) and their village, from the stationmaster to the lady dowager.  War comes to the Minivers without warning, and we see how they and their friends adapt to changing circumstances, including the enlisting of their eldest son.It is totally unrealistic and representative of an England I doubt existed, however, that aside, it is a tremendous film, rightfully regarded as one of the classics, and of it's type, it has seldom been bettered. "},{"Title":"Classic Walter Pidgeon","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Exceptional British drama.  Pro-British war propaganda, but reading betw/lines yields conflict and self-doubt about the righteousness. `Normal English family in the abnormal circumstances of war' - G.Carson is convincing.  We see why the best actors really are British (or Canadian), not American.  Greer Garson; not only talented but unnervingly beautiful -- still a stunning beauty at 1978 Academy Awards (74 years old).  `Why these, why these innocents?', queries the vicar.  Ordinary people trying to keep ordinary lives, during the extraordinary war.  Families in Baghdad 2 months ago probably doing same.  Think about it. "},{"Title":"Decent Propaganda","Date":"10 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" It's hard to believe that out of the Academy Award's eighty five year existence, there have only been a handful of Best Picture winners I would consider truly grand and worth anyone's time. True few have been of decidedly crappy quality, but fewer still I would peg as a must see that will change your life for the better. Mrs. Miniver (1942) is decidedly not a movie of exceptional caliber.Mrs. Miniver is an American film about a middle class British family who is faced with the grim realities of WWII. Greer Garson plays the title role with the esteemed Walter Pidgeon fudds-his-duddy as the family patriarch. They are fairly happy in marriage and have managed to crank out three kids, the oldest just returning from Oxford. As the film progresses the family has to face German spying, German bombing and British nobility faking nobility.Released in the midst of WWII, William Wyler's family war drama has the telling sense of weariness of a movie trying to rally people for war. Did I mention there's a war going on? It's a propaganda film through and through, with the family a microcosm of British unity and stiff upper lip attitude. At least Henry V (1944) had the good graces to take place in another war to rally English troops for modern warfare. Similarly Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger's 49th Parallel (1941) largely took the perspective of a squadron of Nazis to insert its Union Jack pride. Now I'm not saying patriotism is a bad thing, especially when it's sorely needed in a time of life-or-death struggle. But despite British actors, the film I feel rings hollow for contemporary audiences.Of course Mrs. Miniver was a Best Picture winner for a reason, and that reason isn't limited to pride. The film is occasionally nice to look at. William Wyler's direction is confident and top-notch as always and being an American production shot in California, the dialogue is earnest and free of an abundance of Britishisms like a romance shrouded in social protocol or villains explaining their plans for the sake of gentlemanly fair play. The scenes taking place among ruined countryside and masonry is arguably some of the best set designs of the period. Furthermore Garson's Miniver is a solid foundation for the other performances to ground themselves.Mrs. Miniver ultimately reminds me of The King's Speech (2010) in its grandeur. The King's Speech is a great movie but did it really deserve to beat out The Social Network (2010) or Toy Story 3 (2010) for the coveted golden statuette? Well there's an argument to be made but Mrs. Miniver went up against 49th Parallel (1942), Pride of the Yankees (1942) and Yankee Doodle Dandy (1942). Watch them all then tell me which you remember more.http//www.theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Drama Setting Movie","Date":"14 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Very good movie! For some reason this was a very good movie. It was a drama filled movie even though I don't like drama in my own life. This movie was very well acted, and I think the reason I liked it so much is because personally I like the whole family thing, and the drama in movies as long as it doesn't have to do with me! Anyway, some suspenseful things happened in the movie, after a plane crashed and Mrs. Miniver tried to help, this is during World War II so one of Kay's friends dies in an attack and Kay is a wreck. They were very close and that has just added more drama to the movie. I was not disappointed at all and this movie kept my attention with some suspenseful scenes! "}{"Title":"Families and war","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  The ever so nice environment of middle-class England before and during the war is shown to perfection. The daily life of the people at home while fathers, sons and lovers are fighting is touchingly portrayed as they struggle to maintain normality but tremble with terror as their world is threatened. The minor aspects of war that we tend to forget such as the black market for food, the blackout restrictions and life in the shelters are all treated in this film that was meant to show the backbone strength of the families at home during wartime.  "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"15 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I'm sorry, but I've always felt that this film is overrated.  The story is good, as a propaganda piece, yet the acting and the production values leave much to be desired.To begin with, this is a very claustrophobic film, and feels very set-bound.  It feels exactly as if it is taking place in a studio in Hollywood, and there is very little that feels English about it.  I always feel very conscious that this is an American film about England  made in America-even the Miniver house is much more American than English.The acting is stiff.  One is very conscious that the two principal American actors, Teresa Wright and Richard Ney, are clearly not English, and even the English actors seem to be trying too hard. Greer Garson gives the best performance in the film, but her acting seems strained throughout.  Walter Pidgeon has a hard time being convincingly English, though as a Canadian, he does a better job than the Americans.  I can see how this would have won Best Picture of 1942; the field was fairly weak that year (although I think that Talk of the Town was a better film, or even King's Row), and with our recent entry into the war, the propaganda impact was enough to put it over.It's an okay film that loses more impact each passing year.  It certainly is not timeless art, nor is it deserving of the gushing praise that it often gets. "},{"Title":"This Is A Sappy And Dull Film, Hopelessly Out Of Date And Will Only Appeal To Americans Who Don't Know Their WWII History.","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Mrs. Miniver was one of Hollywood's major attempts to rally support for Britain in the early years of World War II. However, at its onset, MGM had a different approach to its political content than that which ultimately emerged in the film. Early in production, Louis B. Mayer called director William Wyler into his office and told him to lighten up the character of the downed German flyer (played by Helmut Dantine) because the United States didn't hate anyone and Mayer had to answer to his stockholders. Selling American films abroad was (and still is) big business and Mayer didn't want to ruffle any box office feathers. I guess that's not surprising from a studio that paid a producer to scan the credits and change names that sounded too Jewish for films being released abroad. Wyler was allowed to make the German character suitably nasty only after Hitler declared war on the United States after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. Ironically, while Mrs. Miniver was very popular in the United States and won several Academy Awards including Best Picture and Best Actress, it was ridiculed everywhere else, especially in England, the country it was supposed to glorify.Mrs. Miniver is the story of the Miniver family and their genteel life in merrie olde, carefree England before Germany invades Poland and begins hostilities. The country life enjoyed by the Minivers (architect Father, shop-'til-she-drops Mother, spoiled Oxford-educated son, etc.) is undermined until they all learn the meaning of sacrifice. One of the reasons the English scoffed at this film is its condescending attitude to the lower classes who were fighting the real war. We're supposed to feel sorry that poor Mr. Miniver nearly wrecks his sailboat trying to help his countrymen evacuate Dunkirk. Most of the actual Dunkirk defenders had no country house to go back to nor a family boat to take them. The middle-class Miniver family represents the kind of people who actively ignored Hitler until he started dropped bombs on them. What are their biggest worries before hostilities' break out? How can they possibly afford the new car father just bought as well as the frivolous new hat mother simply had to have? Will the station master's rose, named after Mrs. Miniver, win the annual flower competition? Do you care? The Minivers are supposed to be the family we all identify with and they make me wish I were an orphan.Not since seeing The Sound of Music have I rooted for the Nazis in a film. (I would have rooted for anyone to shut that Trapp family up. They couldn't walk across a room without breaking into a song.) The creaky mechanisms of cliché melodrama are painfully evident here the young lovers, the noble upperclassmen, the sacrifice of the family house, the brave church rector, etc. Early on I played a game trying to figure out which of the main characters would die. My money was on the cat the littlest Miniver loved. But, as it turns out, I guessed incorrectly, although the actual victim did not take me by surprise. This gung-ho, rally-the-troops agitprop doesn't travel well over time and Mrs. Miniver is hopelessly dependent for relevance on the time for which it was made. The theme of civilians in war is a fascinating one, but Mrs. Miniver fails to convey the terror of a non- combatant waiting to see if bombs will drop on his house. While bombs fall on her neighborhood Mrs. Miniver sits in the basement calmly knitting, thereby carrying the stiff upper lip British attitude to an absurd extreme. Other films like Hope and Glory, The Marriage of Maria Braun and the great Dutch film Soldier of Orange not only portray the tragedy of a daily routine upset by war, but are also refreshingly free of propaganda.So check one of them out before seeing this disappointing film. "},{"Title":"Perhaps overt propaganda, the sentiment of its melodrama is no less valid.","Date":"1 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The first of William Wyler's trio of Best Picture winners, the other great, the other not quite for me, comes with a stigmatic label as he admits it's guilty of a focused agenda. Made to provoke an emotional urgency for the Americans to join the second World War, Mrs. Miniver does often feel like overt propaganda. However, the sentiment of its melodrama is no less emotionally valid, and it often has some creative ways to deliver it in its resulting poignant third act. It is that final stretch which makes the film as it otherwise suffers from its episodic structure that only makes it sporadically engaging during lightweight sequences. It's otherwise saved by the terrific performances from its Oscar winning pair Greer Garson and Teresa Right who outshine their sometimes overacting supporting cast with nuanced and compassionate performances. At least the photography and production is relatively exquisite despite the limitations of an industry yet to be completely radicalised by Orson Welles. Yes, it's melodrama, but it's good melodrama, and it's stayed in the hearts of those who saw it in the 40s. Deserving of Best Picture? Not quite, but they could do worse. It does feel like its wins were making a statement however.7/10 "},{"Title":"Decent War Story","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The Minivers, an English middle-class family experience life in the first months of World War II. While dodging bombs, the Minivers' son courts Lady Beldon's granddaughter. A rose is named after Mrs. Miniver and entered in the competition against Lady Beldon's rose.I call this a war story, but it is not a war movie in the general sense. We do not see soldiers fighting in the field, or brave pilots. We see the people of England, and find that rich or poor, they all suffered through the blitz, living off of sardines in their cellars.The subplot with the rose is interesting and what exactly it means is open to discussion. Why name a rose after someone, especially someone who is not your wife? There is a special meaning in there. "},{"Title":"What an extraordinary piece of war propaganda!","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Even if I was involved in the World War II on the side against the UK I would still love this film. Everything about it is uplifting and certainly helped people of the UK feel better after watching it. Especially because it was released in the 1942 when war was certainly not won yet.Everything about this film is excellent, acting, plot, cinematography. Simply it is just a fantastic piece of propaganda! If you are a student of film making this is a must see for you, but if you are feeling like spending a rainy afternoon with a cup of an English tea in your hand, then you should watch this film. It will make your afternoon worthwhile. "},{"Title":"A Different Kind of War Movie","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" War is hell. William Tecumseh Sherman said it in 1880. But in Hollywood, war is adventurous, romantic, spectacular, dramatic, even a little fun once in a while. Okay, there are exceptions (see All Quiet On the Western Front, among others). In those cases, war is bleak, gruesome, stressful, and restless.And then there's Mrs. Miniver.This is a different kind of war movie, the earliest one of which I have seen (perhaps the first of its kind?). You see, this is not a war movie on the field of battle; this is about the trials of those on the home front. Very obviously topical when released in 1942, Mrs. Miniver still rings true in this day and age of terrorism and unstable alliances.Greer Garson stars as Kay Miniver, whose chief concern at the top of the movie appears to be whether someone else beat her to the department store and bought the latest hat before she did. Her husband, Clem (Walter Pidgeon), is an architect who just bought a nicer car because he felt he deserved it. Their oldest son, Vin (Richard Ney), is full of idealistic rhetoric, thanks to his time spent at Oxford University. And then we have Toby and Judy, the two young Miniver children, fresh-faced, playful, and inquisitive.Not much happens in Belham, the town in which they live. The most scandalous thing going on is that a local rail man named Mr. Ballard (Henry Travers) has entered a rose in the town's annual flower contest to compete against Lady Beldon (Dame May Witty), who has won uncontested for nearly 30 years. Oh, and Mr. Ballard's rose is named the Mrs. Miniver.Then, one Sunday morning (September 3, 1939, to be exact), England declares war on Germany. And suddenly, all those little things don't matter anymore.Mrs. Miniver recounts the bravery of civilian life in war-torn England in the opening months of the Second World War. Watching this, I saw how Kay Miniver changed from vain housewife to a pillar of strength in her efforts to keep the home fires burning. But it wasn't just a day-to-day account of her life at home. She had to deal with air raids, strafing runs and, in one pivotal scene, getting up-close-and-personal with the enemy. Through all of this, life does continue in Belham, that is, when the Germans aren't around. With that, the flower contest goes on as scheduled, but I won't reveal which rose won (just in case you haven't seen this movie yet).Okay, so why reveal these plot points? Just to illustrate how well-written this movie is. Granted, it does get preachy (literally) at the end, but the message is clear War doesn't belong to the soldiers in the field, it belongs to everyone, and everyone must do their part.As for the performances, I give my best nods to Henry Travers and to Greer Garson. Travers' portrayal of the affable Mr. Ballard is as charming as it is simple. As for Greer Garson's performance in the title role, well, I've always been a sucker for dynamic characters. Though a bit melodramatic at points, her strength at the end of the movie almost makes you forget how naïve she was at the beginning. As I made the comparison myself, I suddenly realized that all the material things we crave day-in and day-out aren't important. Sure, they may have some kind of meaning, or even a matter of significance, but in the end, they're just things. Perhaps that is a lesson we all need to learn once in a while. "},{"Title":"a good character, war film","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" 'Mrs. Miniver' is a film about life in an English village during World War II. In this film, there is a relationship between a young soldier and a young, village girl. There is also a story about a rose being named after one of the ladies and a flower show to determine the prettiest rose. A German plane is also shot down, and this brings the war closer to the village. This film is shot in black and white, and it is more about the characters in the film over the backdrop of the war and exploding bombs, guns, and falling planes. The only criticism about this film is that it's very American in appearance; the house definitely looks American, and I believe that the film was made more for an American audience than an English one. Despite the minor flaws that do not detract from the film, it's a pretty good one to watch if you are interested in World War II and its affect on society. "},{"Title":"Carry on!","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" MRS. MINIVER is the most satisfying movie I ever have seen about the ability of the English to keep a stiff upper lip and to carry on through the most adverse of circumstances; an ability which they have demonstrated again this week after bombings in London. The archetypal characters immortalize on film the indomitable spirit of the English through the darkest days of World War II. The scene of the Minivers in their shelter, children and cat asleep, husband and wife sipping tea poured from a vacuum bottle and quietly discussing ALICE IN WONDERLAND while bombs dropped by German air force fliers are exploding around them, by itself is worth the price of admission. And through it all, Miss Garson's hair and makeup remain 40's flawless. A classic! "},{"Title":"Homefront heroism","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This film gives the full MGM treatment to the subject of how war affects the  people who are not on the front lines. Greer Garson well deserved the Oscar she got for playing a Britsh housewife  during the German firestorm which fell on England. There is a gripping  sequence in which ordinary civilians come face to face with the enemy. The  final moments in the church are also truly moving. The film helped stir  American audiences to really get behind the war against the Nazis.   "}{"Title":"The People's War  Men on Battlefields, Women as the Sentinels of the Family Sanctuary ...","Date":"18 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Mrs. Miniver is an insightful slice of upper-class life in small British towns. And Oscar-winning Greer Garson was born to play that role. She illuminates the screen with her delicate traits and her naturalness covering a wide range of attitudes (rather than emotions) from gravity and dignity to sympathy and some bits of extravagance. Of course, every now and then, Walter Pidgeon steals the show as the loving and caring husband, but the focus is clearly on the titular heroine.And speaking of heroine, it seems like within its documentary value, William Wyler also tries to highlight the everyday heroism of women like Kay Miniver before the word would take its fullest meaning when War would be declared to Germany. Yes, it takes some moral strength, some guts, to raise a family, to make a man like Vin (Richard Ney) out of a boy, to make his involvement to defend his country going without saying, to take care of a house, man, children during a time where women were not -like feminists love to point out- slaves of men, but like the trustworthy sentinels of the family sanctuary, no less sacred than the city, whose defense relied on men's shoulders.Men outside and women inside, this was not a denigration of women's rights but an equilibrium that every civilization had reached in a long natural process whose ultimate goal was to ensure harmony on a longer term. A film like William Wyler's Mrs Miniver is the perfect answer to feminism because it demonstrates the positive role played by women in the early 20th century, they weren't devoted to men, but to an order that valued men and women as well, in different yet complementary ways. And now that characters like Ellen Ripley, Sarah Connor, Lara Croft or the Bride became fashion, there is something refreshing in the more traditional form of courage and strength embodied by Garson. In her own personal way, she kicks ass.Of course, I'm not ignoring the film's political motives. I concede a similar film could have been made with a Frau Muller mother a happy German family, but Mrs Miniver is immune against such accusations because the film clearly was made at a time where Germany had the upper hand (maybe even released before America's involvement) therefore, Britain was the hunted, the wounded one, and it's legitimate to show British people victims of a war they didn't start, well, not the civilians anyway. Later, a film would show Germany destroyed by the bombings, Germany Year Zero but it was in 1947, Miniver is from 1942, these five years, let's just say an eternity, war wasn't over yet and Germany still could win, God defend the 'right' was still a prayer, and the year of the film's release makes the atmosphere of the final act even more unsettling.And the film evokes the War's infamous 'innovation', as the vicar says at the end in the memorable speech it's people's war, homes became battlefields. It's very revealing of the war's barbarity that the three victims of the final bombing were a child, an old man and a young lady. Fighting became such a natural choice, the word 'hero' I mentioned lost its meaning. For us, these people are worthy of admiration, but for them, they were just doing their duty. Men were assigned to escort some ships and could not 'sail back'. Being a father myself, I hope I'll never have to cover the ears of my daughter, and pretend nothing will happen while hearing a strident whizzing getting louder. The merit of Mrs Miniver is to show the war from the distant perspective of civilians, working like warning for future generations. No one who lived a war can wish for one to happen, and no wonder we have so many warmongers in our politicians' baby-boom generation.Still, Mrs Miniver could've been just a war picture, with an emphasis on 'picture', a story, with events working like plot devices. A brave wagon master played by Henry Travers wants to enter his beautiful rose named after Mrs. Miniver, in a contest that only Lady Beldon (a great Dame May Witty) ever participated in and won ... we know the old coot will have a change of mind (or heart, in that specific case). When Carol, her grand-daughter, played by the beautiful Teresa Wright comes to ask Miniver to convince the man to withdraw his rose, her son Vin accuses her of snobbery ... naturally, they fall in love right after. Men talk about a disappearing German pilot, and bingo, guess who finds him. It's like every chain of events works in the most predictable way, and this is why, as soon as good old Vin joined the RAF... he made his death the most predictable one.The omen starts with his parents' concerns, the last-minute calls of duty, the reluctance of Lady Beldon to have her Carol lose her husband at war like she did at a younger age, and naturally, Carol herself, who shares her fears with her mother-in-law, and explains that she wants to make the most of life before turning into a widow. And God, I didn't see it coming ... the story's masterstroke. I don't know if it can be labeled as a twist ending, but it had for me the same shocking effect. It's an irony of fate or maybe God's response to men's presumptuousness. Tragedy struck down the Miniver family by killing off Carol, and as sad as it was, this was the highlight of the film for me, I was blown away by that ending, because all the inspirational and emotional stuff that rhymed in conventional was immediately redeemed by Carol's death, one that was true to life's unexpectedness.Sorry to conclude with movie-geek jargon, but enough of grandiloquent words, Mrs. Miniver features perhaps one of the most underrated (and powerful) twist-endings, and this is why I went from liking to loving it. "},{"Title":"Dated but still entertaining.","Date":"16 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" It may not have been the original intention, but William Wyler's adaptation of Mrs. Miniver is invaluable to the history of American cinema. Released in 1942, at the exact moment that Hitler's forces were bulldozing their way across the European continent, here was a movie that tried to examine the homefront of an ordinary British family and how they dealt with the tragedy of being besieged by the Nazis. This was a movie that was made during those events, when the outcome of the war was still uncertain.The film stands out for many reasons, not least because of its point of view. Most Hollywood movies about the homefront dealt with the American Homefront, but here was a film front the frontlines, from the point of view of the British. It tells the story of the Miniver family, well-to-do British citizens whose lives are no more ordinary than anyone else. Father Clem Miniver (Walter Pigeon) is an architect, and she is a stay-at-home mother. They have three children, Vin (Richard Ney), Judy (Clare Sandars) and Toby (Christopher Severn).Their lives are so ordinary, they might be invisible. Kay spends her time shopping and fussing about the house and the kids. Clem has his eye on material goods. Despite their middling income, they spend a little more than they should. Their kids are bound up in social issues like dating. Vin is in a relationship with pretty young Carol Beldon (Supporting Actress winner Teresa Wright). Her grandmother is stuffy old Mrs. Beldon (Dame Mae Witty), whose concern over the Nazi threat is less important than the annual flower show. The world is coming apart around these people, but they merely see the circumstances out of the corner of their eye.This laconic view changes when the Nazis begin their bombing runs. Clem takes the boat and goes off to Dunkirk in order to rescue some soldiers in distress and Vin joins the R.A.F. The war, it seems, is arriving in their backyard and Kay experiences it first-hand when a wounded Nazi pilot hobbles his way into the Miniver kitchen. Night after night, the bombing runs destroy the England's cities and countryside. One of the bombs takes out half of the Miniver's living room.What is interesting is that the Miniver family seems so organic to their setting. This is not a story of people who become heroes of the war just because it happened. Their response to the war grows out of their nature. Kay's heroic response to the wounded soldier is not based on clichés but on what we know of her up to that point. That life simply goes in the presence of these terrible surrounding is to the credit of the screenplay. In the midst of the bombing run, we are invited to the annual flower show which becomes as important to us as it does to the people who are attending. "},{"Title":"A perennial favorite","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Not for nothing was this film awarded the Best Picture Oscar for 1942, not to mention two acting awards (from 5 acting nominations), best director, cinematography and screenplay.The story of a middle class British family bravely facing the trials of WWII is filled with charming subplots - the romance of the firstborn son and a daughter of the local gentry, the drama of the local flower show, and the excitements of air battle and D-Day.  Each character is precisely drawn and beautifully played, from the local grocer/blackout warden to Mrs. Miniver herself (the lovely Greer Garson).I'm particularly partial to British stories, anyway, but this film has a little something for everyone.  There's low comedy from the working classes who serve in the Miniver household and gather at the flower show.  Gentle high comedy pervades the scenes featuring Lady Beldon (Dame May Whitty). There's youthful romance between Vincent Miniver (Richard Ney) and Carol Beldon (Teresa Wright), and the solid mature romance between Mr. (Walter Pidgeon) and Mrs. Miniver.  There are adorable children and animals.  And there's all the action of a war movie, with nightly bombings around the community, daytime air battles, Mr. Miniver joining a fleet of private sailing vessels for the rescue at Dunkirk, and Mrs. Miniver in the clutches of a German pilot whose plane crashes in the area.You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll grip the arms of your chair - it's great cinema.  "},{"Title":"A Good Film for 1942","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Yes, Winston Churchill may have been right when he said this film did more for the war effort that most of the weapons used in the war. Then again, Mrs. Miniver is placed in the pile of propaganda films of the 1940's. Ok, this film had a nice story and gave hope to war struck England in the early 1940's. It also constructed a female role model figure for women of the time to follow. Maybe? I personally, was waited to see a giant transformation of Mrs. Miniver. At the start of the film, we see her main concern being to buy a hat to look pretty and to avoid letting her husband know about it. Later, we see the proper English women accepting the war and letting her elder son and husband do their part to fight Germany. Still, we do not see Mrs. Miniver helping at the factories or in the soup kitchens. Yes, her perfect world is shattered, but we do not see her donate her at to the war effort. The only scene in the film that stands the test of time is the bomb shelter moment where we see Mrs. Miniver do the most honorable thing a mother can do, she holds onto her son as the bombs are being dropped over England. Enough said, that scene is reason enough to remember the Best Picture of 1942. "},{"Title":"Greer Garson's Oscar winning performance","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Greer Garson deservedly won an Academy Award for her portrayal of the title role, a woman who fights to keep her home and family safe during World War II.  She gives a moving performance as a wife and mother who sacrifices everything to keep her world together.Garson also shines with her frequent co-star Walter Pidgeon, who starred in several movies with her.  He also turns out a great performance.Mrs. Miniver is the kind of touching movie you'll want to see again and again.  I highly recommend it to any movie fan. "},{"Title":"Just the bravest women can survive it.","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  A duty to fulfill... The faith to keep... The fear to face with... A family to keep together... A man to love... A life to fight for... These are the things that women have to do during the war. Recently I saw two great war films from the same period, which are represent the different sides of the war Sergeant York (1941) and Mrs. Miniver (1942). It was interesting to compare the two films with each other. 'Sergeant York' is about the men's side, 'Mrs. Miniver' is about the women's side of the war. I have to say that 'Mrs. Miniver' is the best war movie ever, however it's not definetely a 'real' war movie. It's about the life behind the lines, how women keep their families together. Sometimes life is harder there than on the battlefields, because women worry about their husbands and sons and have to care about the children. It's the fight for everyday life.After the nostalgic, sometimes boring scenes at the beginning (boring, because life is sometimes boring in peace), the film turns into a nightmare. The psychology of the war behind the lines is wonderfully represented. This film deserved every single Academy Award which it got. It's full of wonderful performances Greer Garson, Teresa Wright, Walter Pidgeon and Henry Travers. The screenplay is beautiful it's full of great lines and dialogues, for example when Greer Garson and Teresa Wright are speaking about the happiness and that we have to be happy even in these days and we have enough time to cry if we lost our love. At the end of the film the preacher asks a question Why have innocent women, children and old people to be sacrificied in the war? But he fails the answer. The real answer is that this is the war, war is about sacrificing the innocence. That's the only thing what this film fails. UNFORGETTABLE SCENE When thousands of small boats are getting together and the big ship orders them and the destination is Dunquerque. "},{"Title":"After Watching Private Ryan, See this one!","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  How could this film NOT be a success?  You have the incomparable direction of William Wyler; you have the eternal story of the bravery and sacrifice of a people at war; and you have a stellar cast, giving it their all! However, let me suggest how best to appreciate this singular film.  Watch some worthy war epic like Saving Private Ryan.  Then, give yourself a few hour break, and watch this movie.  You see, in this film, the personal cost of war, hinted at only in Private Ryan.  Moreover, you'll see a movie directed by one of the best, at the peak of his powers and ability.  Finally, you'll get to see one of the most beautiful and talented women Hollywood ever produced, in a signature role. Greer Garson simply shines.  She shows us all how to play a role with sensitivity and subtlety.  It also doesn't hurt that...even though she's not a kid (she's thirty-eight at the time)...her timeless beauty still gives me a catch in the throat when I watch her. Ably supported by the usually under-appreciated Walter Pigeon, along with a gaggle of Hollywood's finest character actors, watching this film is like having a fine dinner and topping it off with a luscious dessert.  It all clicks, from first frame to last. This is a film that should be, and often is, on top-twenty lists.  Give yourself a cinematic treat and see it, if you haven't. "},{"Title":"very good but not as great as you might expect since it received the Oscar for Best Picture","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is a very capable and competent film with a wonderful cast and direction. Greer Garson is absolutely captivating as the title character and it was probably her best film--so it's not surprising she received an Oscar for her performance. The movie also made many nice supporting performances and was just lovely to watch. The problem, though, is this little film was elevated to greatness by WWII and received an Oscar for Best Picture that it probably did not deserve, though I must admit that the 1943 award nominees weren't very distinguished compared to other years just before this. If the movie had been made either before of a few years after the war, it probably would never have received the Oscar for Best Picture. It probably won because of the times--it came out in 1942 (just after the USA joined the war) and it was a very effective piece of propaganda--and very good propaganda at that. So in essence, a vote for this picture was like a vote for the war effort. I assume that viewers in 1942 were captivated by the movie and based on sentiment at the time, it may have been the odds on favorite to win. It's just that taken from this context the film just doesn't hold up as well and seems, on occasion, a little heavy-handed. Still a decent film but a disappointment to many who will be expecting more. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but a Fine Film (Spoilers Included for both Mrs. Miniver and The Miniver Story)","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" At the time of its release, Mrs. Miniver was considered to be a landmark motion picture. The great Winston Churchill said that the film had a greater impact on the war effort than a whole fleet of battleships. It was the biggest hit of its year. And it also helped relations between America and its British allies in the war. But looking back, the film, while solid, is not the masterpiece that it was said to be when it opened in 1942. Part of the problem comes from the fact that the film's early passages are very sluggish. There are some nice moments early on, but it is hard to feel completely involved with the characters at first. When the war starts, it suddenly wakes the film up, and it becomes a rather touching story of the bonds of family in troubled times. Certain scenes though still rankle though, such as Mrs. Miniver running into a single German soldier, which seems highly unlikely in the middle of the English countryside, or that the Miniver's young son seems to have a lust for bloody carnage. But overall the film finds its footing, and the performances take hold. I consider myself to be a fan of Greer Garson, and she brings a great deal of warmth to the role of Kay Miniver, but yet she lacks a certain fire here that had been evident in her other 1942 film, Random Harvest, in which she gave her all-time best performance. She should have won the Oscar for Random Harvest that year, not Mrs. Miniver, but her performance here is still quite good regardless (and far better than she had been in Blossoms of the Dust the previous year). Walter Pidgeon provides his usual solid support, and the supporting cast is wonderful. Dame May Witty steals her scenes as an aristocrat with a penchant for growing roses, Henry Travers is quite touching in his role as the ill-fated train stationmaster, and Henry Wilcoxan delivers a most stirring speech at the end of the film. But Teresa Wright upstages everyone with her performance as Carol, Mrs. Miniver's ill-fated daughter-in-law. It's a supporting performance, but it has such warmth, heart, and truth in it that she feels like the star and is also the most realistic character in the film. Every single note she makes in her performance is perfect. She is the soul of the film and nothing else in it compares to her sheer radiance. In closing, Mrs. Miniver wasn't the strongest of the best picture nominees of 1942, but won due to its topicality at the time. Over time that topicality has faded and has left a film that seems quaint and antiquated to many. The performances, aside from Teresa Wright's, have lost a little of their bloom over the years as well. And other 1942 films such as Casablanca, Now Voyager, The Magnificent Ambersons, Woman of the Year, Yankee Doodle Dandy, and Random Harvest, have surpassed it in reputation over the years. A 1950 sequel to this film, The Miniver Story, was technically well made but was forgettable, suffering from two burdens the lack of Teresa Wright in the cast and the fact that the audience knows from the very beginning of the film that Kay Miniver is dying of cancer. The film never seems to go away completely though. The whole subplot involving the rose show was lifted for use in a first-season Downton Abbey episode in 2010. The film still lingers to this day on TV, be it on TCM, a DVD, or a Blu-Ray disc. And the film is much preferable to Cavalcade, the 1933 winner of the Best Picture prize, in its look at a British family. So while Mrs. Miniver is a film with some very deep flaws, it is still an intriguing film, although the execution leaves something to be desired. "},{"Title":"A superb film that is much more than a propaganda piece","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Mrs Miniver may not be a flawless film(then again few films are), character development is somewhat sketchy- though you still care a great deal for the characters- and some of the accents don't convince with Teresa Wright trying too hard and Walter Pidgeon not seeming to attempt one. But when everything else and the film on the whole is as superb as it is they can be seen as trivial and can be easily be overlooked. Mrs Miniver mayn't connect for some by today's standards as much as the other Best Picture nominees that year(Yankee Doodle Dandy for instance still has a lot of appeal) but it's the most important one especially thematically and it certainly connected with me. It won 6 Oscars and was nominated for another 6, all richly deserved, though if more than one winner was allowed in a category May Witty deserved to win her Supporting Actress Oscar. It's a beautiful-looking film with some very hauntingly deliberate shots, and there is a very good soundtrack complete with a sensitive yet sweeping music score and a great use of period favourites. The special effects are great for their time and stand up well today too, while the sound effects have a harrowing effect, the explosions and such almost deafening, how turbulent this particular period was in history is believably done. Mrs Miniver also has a thoughtful script that has emotion and tension(often done subtly, like in the body language), and a story that has a message and theme that still resonates- if perhaps not as relevant- and despite it being a melodrama never feels overwrought. The whole film is genuinely powerful and touching and is helped by the remarkably nuanced pacing, just see what is done with the scene when the husband is seen off to war by his wife. William Wyler directed several great films, a lot of them as much as masterpieces or as close as, and his direction here is tight while alive to nuances. And the acting is one of the film's best assets, with the beautiful Greer Garson outstanding in perhaps a career-best performance, Teresa Wright luminous and like a bright light in a dire situation, May Witty does imperious brilliantly, Walter Pidgeon's understated performance is among his best and Henry Travers is really charming. All in all, Mrs Miniver may not be as such a flawless film but it is a superb one that was worthy of its Best Picture win and is much more than a propaganda piece. 9.5/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Superb","Date":"23 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Superb World War 2 drama, and the 1943 Best Picture Oscar winner.Great depiction of the effects of WW2 on a family and community, what they have to go through and how they survive. Not at all sugar- coated quite gritty and realistic. Conclusion is very stirring. Also covers social issues, especially the English class system, though this is not tackled in a very in-depth or very confrontational manner. Considering that this was made in 1942, it would have have been intended as a propaganda movie, but it doesn't come across at all as being jingoistic or overly nationalistic. It is a movie for all time.Greer Garson and Teresa Wright are excellent in the main female roles, and well-deserved their Best Actress and Best Supporting Actress Oscars, respectively. Both are stunningly beautiful too. Henry Travers and May Witty are great as Mr Ballard and Lady Beldon, respectively, and deserved their supporting actor/actress nominations.However, among these fantastic performances are two weak ones which reduce the quality of the movie somewhat, and make it less than perfect. What possessed the producers to cast two Americans (though Walter Pidgeon might be regarded as a Canadian) in the two main male roles is beyond me. Walter Pidgeon is supposed to be the quintessential English gentleman yet doesn't even try to sound it, sticking with his American accent. This and his wooden acting are quite off-putting. Somehow he then got an Oscar nomination too.Richard Ney, as Vincent Miniver, at least put on an English accent, but it comes across as too posh and snooty. Also off-putting.Couldn't they find two English actors?Overall, however, it is a timeless classic. "},{"Title":"Daze Of Our Life","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is yet another once highly visible-cum-'classic' that has eluded me until now so once again I am viewing a film first released sixty-nine years ago and unashamedly propaganda. It's possible that the novel by Jan Struther provided more information that would answer nagging questions For example, in an effort to illustrate the 'before' and 'after' aspects of World War II in England, the film opens in 1939 some three or four months prior to the outbreak of war and in the opening sequence Kay Miniver is shopping in London after which, complete with expensive new hat, she takes a train to the town/village where she lives. Whilst clearly within commuting distance - the local clergyman is on the same train - it is also on the sea because later Mr. (Clem) Miniver, is one of hundreds of small ship-owners who take part in the evacuation from Dunkirk and when he returns, several days later, he does so to his own private jetty, which would indicate somewhere like Chichester. This is one of the things which grate slightly today but may have been overlooked in 1942, another being the 'middle class' family who live in a large, cavernous house boasting a grand piano, a cook and a maid (and possibly a gardener who couldn't be worked into the plot). Wyler makes good use of many of the expatriates then living in Hollywood and the acting is uniformly excellent with only the occasional excursion into the stilted. Whilst not overly sentimental it did - in my case - manage to wring a tear or two even at this remove. "},{"Title":"Avoid","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  There are old movies that people will say you must see.  Well, people say you must listen to Mozart, Ellington and the Beatles to understand life.  This movie is not part of human history; it is not the Pyramids.  You don't have to make it part of your experience.Instead, it is a piece of wartime propaganda.  Worthy at the time, created for a good cause, but propaganda.  (I have to admit the bomb shelter scene made me pause.)Overall?  Skip this one and watch 'Casablanca', a better propaganda film.  Or watch 'Hope and Glory' and see the situation without propaganda.  Heck, if you have to, watch all three to understand truth.  Truth?  I suggest 'Slaughterhouse Five' - after you've read Bullock's A Study in Tyranny. "},{"Title":"Average.","Date":"15 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Another romantic war movie. There seem to be so many. I didn't find this one much different from the rest. The acting of the main roles was good and the camera-work was all good and stuff but I still didn't appreciate the movie as a whole. The ending was OK too but a little cheesy. The death was sad and showed how bad war is. I don't see why she didn't win the flower competition. I also didn't like how they portrayed war as a whole and I thought they were contradicting themselves in some parts with the symbolism and whatnot. The best parts were in the beginning before all the war stuff happens and ruins everything. "},{"Title":"Mrs. Miniver","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" 17 years before the 11-Oscar-winning Ben-Hur, Oscar winning director William Wyler created this superb wartime melodrama, Winston Churchill even praised it. Basically, the Minvers are an English middle-class family living in World War II. Throughout the film they have to put up with dodging bombs, the Miniver's son Toby (Christopher Severn) is trying to get with the granddaughter of Lady Beldon (Oscar nominated Dame May Witty), and a contest for the person with the best rose, one being named after the film's heroine, Mrs. Kay Miniver (Oscar winning Greer Garson) against Lady Beldon's. The film is basically made up of many social conversations, wartime incidents and trauma, and great sentiment. Also starring Forbidden Planet's Oscar nominated Walter Pidgeon as Clem Miniver, Oscar winning Teresa Wright as Carol Beldon Miniver, Reginald Owen as Foley, It's a Wonderful Life's Oscar nominated Henry Travers as Mr. Ballard, Richard Ney as Vin Miniver and Henry Wilcoxon as Vicar My favourite moments include the escaped German threatening Mrs. Miniver with a gun for food, only to be arrested, the bomb raid where the Miniver family are in their shelter, Travers winning the rose competition, and many plane crashes. Great acting, great effects (for the time) and great period drama, even the tag-line says voted the greatest movie ever made, I can agree it is a must see. The sequel, The Miniver Story that followed in 1950 is meant to be poor. It won Oscars for Best Cinematography, Best Writing, Screenplay and Best Picture, and it was nominated for Best Special Effects, Best Film Editing and Best Sound. Greer Garson was number 40 on The 50 Greatest British Actrsses, the film was number 79 on The 100 Greatest War Films, it was number 50 on The Ultimate Film, and it was number 40 on 100 Years, 100 Cheers. Outstanding! "},{"Title":"Going to War","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I have a problem with message movies. These are movies where there is a simple value or point the filmmaker wants us to get. Its going to be more of an exercise in convincing than engaging, more about slanting than exposing, more about him/her and less about us.Its at least interesting with christian movies which are often about a fight with the devil, and are considered by the filmmaker to be a fight with that very same devil. Its less interesting with documentaries which are geared toward educating us. But its absolutely repellent when all the tools of fiction are turned toward making us have a particular political opinion. These sorts of issues are behind every film, of course. Each film assumes a certain set of principles and laws of the presented world. And they certainly do change us. But its an inside out sort of thing in the best of them. Its when its the only intent, the only value, the only thing attempted and delivered that offends. Now in this case, it passes because it had Hitler to justify it. But it shouldn't; its smarmy business when its attempted.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Preachy propaganda","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This Oscar winner focuses on the lives of a British family during World War II. Garson is OK in the title role but Pidgeon and Ney are better as her husband and son, respectively. The story seems very contrived and the sentiments are forced. This was obviously a propaganda movie and now suffers because of it. Wyler was certainly a capable director but this is not one of his better efforts, as he is undermined by the pretentious and preachy script. Although melodramatic and unconvincing, it does have good production values and is worth a look. However, this one pales in comparison to two other war-related movies released the same year, Casablanca and To Be or Not to Be. "},{"Title":"Great Film Maybe Heavy-Handed Propaganda, but Who Cares?","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Any red-blooded American seeing this film in 1942 would have probably joined the military on his/her way home from the theater. The heroine reminded me of my aunt Alberta ... plucky as the EveryReady Bunny. The special effects are dated (of course), but the acting isn't especially over the top (with a small exception at the end). The film is a little view of a big war and answers some interesting questions such as How did the early part of WWII look from a small English village? and... How did the Dunkirk rescue get put together? Of course the Brits who made this film had an axe to grind (After all, Hitler was bombing them back to the stone age at the time), so it is a bit heavy-handed ... who cares? "},{"Title":"Still a classic some spoilers","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  A film that takes place in hollywoods version of middle class England, where everyone knew their place in society.Mrs Minever is a virtual saint though this not stop Mr Minerver slapping her bottom at one point.The Minivers are solid citizens who answer the call of duty when their country calls on them from Dunkirk to capturing a german paratrooper.The Minever son falls for a lady above his social class but love conquer all.The film develops all the characters and we know them well this only leads us to grieve for them when tragedy strikes.The final scene makes your eyes fill and the vicars speech is a classic in a bombed church.One point of interest fo British readers of my comments is that when Mr Minever buys everyone a drink in the pub it cost 5 shillings and six pence a line that made me laugh.I watched this film on dvd and its a good copy with interesting extras. "},{"Title":"Flawed classic","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Extremely effective argument for supporting the English in the early days of WWII. Great performances all around with Pidgeon underrated, as always. The dame played by May Whitty dates the film badly. She is an insufferable, superior, class obsessed old bitch. At one point she explains to Mrs. M how she believes in breeding not unlike the Nazis who are about to bomb her village. Her final human gesture at the flower show does not redeem this relic from another time. It does mar the movie as does the fact that the Miniver's have a cook and a maid whom they treat condescendingly. Still it is a superbly made film that is hard to dismiss.   "}{"Title":"Boggles the Mind","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I'd give this turkey zero stars if I could, but a 1 will have to do. All the glowing reviews must be jokes. This vapid, poorly -acted propaganda film is so bad it's hilarious. Winner of 6 Academy Awards, you say? Nonsense. Those Awards weren't won - they were paid for fair and square. Garson's acting is zombie-like and the rest of the characters are equally dull Her husband is a buffoon, her pilot son a swish, her younger son an irritating brat and her daughter unremarkable. Think the son is gong to buy it? Wrong! The brand-spanking new daughter-in- law does and her death scene is so predictable yet trite it made my eyes ache. And the church scene at the end - so much stiff upper lipiness it made me want to turn the thing off and brew some tea. "},{"Title":"Oh Dear Lord","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"9 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Mr.s Miniver is a story of a woman of bravery during world war 2. This is definitely the worst world war 2 era film of all time. The horrible screeching voice of Greer Garson is heard throughout the movie. Who should be cast out as an actress for this trite. Her husband who seems to have the intellect of an ape is not worth mentioning. The movie also features the driest romance ever witnessed. Also an old hag who plays the mean women who turns good(Dame May Witty) is so overdone it's almost unwatchable. This somehow was nominated and won an academy award for BEST PICTURE! Considering the badActing,Writing,Directing,Set,Lighting,Story,and credits this is a fine film. Stay away from this piece of movie history. "}]