[{"Title":"Charming romantic comedy...with time travel weaknesses...","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"53 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  If you can accept the totally ridiculous premise of KATE AND LEOPOLD and enjoy romantic fantasies of this sort, you'll find yourself drawn into the plot because of the very charismatic HUGH JACKMAN. He is the main reason for watching and carries the film on his sturdy shoulders, so adept is he at being a knight in shining armor.As for MEG RYAN, she is giving her usual Meg Ryan schtick--a sort of slightly brighter version of Goldie Hawn--but here it doesn't matter because Jackman manages to steal every scene he's in.  BRECKIN MEYER is excellent as her boorish brother who learns a few things from his 18th Century friend about manners and etiquette. But it's the time travel aspect of the story that is its weakest link.Highly recommended as a romantic comedy that owes much of its charm to the performance of its leading man--an actor of remarkable skill whose hunky presence dominates much of the movie.It's the sort of romantic fluff that would have starred JEAN ARTHUR and GARY COOPER had it been made in the '30s. The New York location photography is excellent. "},{"Title":"Cinematography and writing drew me in","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"45 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Honestly, my wife rented this and I wasn't planning on watching - but the luscious cinematography and some interesting writing drew me in.  Hugh Jackman sealed the deal with his totally straight portrayal - this guy's earning power can only go up!  Looking for some fluff and a laugh? It's better than most of the romantic comedy crap out there.  Not a waste of time if you are in the mood to have something wash over you. "},{"Title":"Fine movie...could have been better though","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I'm a fan of Meg Ryan and think that she's one of the best there is in Hollywood right now. Yet, I believe that it was HUGH JACKMAN who stole the show in this movie. He is so charming and charismatic that you can hardly resist falling head over heels for him! Leopold is a duke from the 18th century who mistakenly lands up in the 21st century one day...and is obviously bewildered with everything he sees. He stays with the man who got him there at the first place, Stuart,Kate's (Meg Ryan) ex-boyfriend. Predictably, Leopold falls in love with Kate and she retaliates. Yet, he has to go back where he came from, and that poses a problem for their relationship. It's a cute movie, yet, I couldn't agree with the ending, though it was predictable. I just couldn't see eye to eye with the reasoning they gave us for the step Kate took. Okay movie...great if you have nothing else to do and like chick-flicks. That's exactly the reason I watched it. I liked it..but I've seen better by Meg Ryan. "},{"Title":"A modern fairy tale for romantic souls","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"42 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Kate & Leopold is more or less a romantic comedy that has been done so many times before. Woman and man see each other and don't like each other. Than they fall in love, but destiny comes in between them. In the end they overcome all problems and will live happily ever after...It's exactly the same as always, but this time they have added an interesting extra ingredient to it. Kate, her brother, her ex and Leopold all live in New York. The only problem is that Leopold is from the 1870's, while the others live in the 21st century. Kate's brother has found a way to travel through time, meets Leopold and accidentally takes him with him to the 21st century. I guess I don't have to explain everything that happens afterward...Even though I'm not always a huge fan of romantic comedies, I have to admit that I had a good time watching this one. Thanks to the original approach, this movie is better than average. The actors are convincing, although I was surprised to see how easily a man from the 19th century adapted to the 21st. It never really seemed a shocking experience to him. If I had directed the movie, I would have accentuated it more... But hey, if you can see past that and you are a romantic soul, I'm sure that you'll love this modern fairy tale. You know it's impossible, but you would like to believe it. I give it a 7/10 for that. "},{"Title":"enjoyable fluff with extraordinary character","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie wouldn't really be anything to write home about. You could call it science fiction because it's about time travel, but any serious science fiction buff would know better. But, there's something absolutely extraordinary about this movie that has me watching it again and again. I wasn't a big Hugh Jackman fan when I watched this movie. I suppose I'm still not. I'm too old for that kind of thing, but the character Leopold has a stillness, a quality of listening and putting other people (man or woman) first. He demonstrates an etiquette that is not at all stiff, that is less about precise forms and rules than about a genuine care for other people. I go back and watch Kate and Leopold when I wish I knew somebody who cared that much for me. "},{"Title":"Enjoy this movie!","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"31 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  For those whose comments show a serious lack of humour, get a life! Why find picky details to criticise when this movie is here to enjoy! Those not hung up with identifying finer points of historical inaccuracy, go ahead and enjoy the movie.  It is a comedy, not a PhD thesis. A good 2 hours of fun (but I must admit Meg Ryan's hair is a bit scruffy)  "},{"Title":"Funny lines, bad plot, one hot actor","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Kate & Leopold is not a top quality film, but has some seriously funny and entertaining moments. Most of those were delivered from Breckin Meyer, who plays Kate's brother. For example, the part when he keeps talking in the background and nobody is listening to him.  I also enjoyed when he said we have a saying in our household 'shake and bake the chicken' or something of that sort.The best part of this movie by far is Hugh Jackman. Not only is he devastatingly dashing and handsome, but his performance shows off his acting chops quite well.  However, he and Meg Ryan had little on screen chemistry.If you like silly romantic comedies, or if you just like Hugh Jackman, I would advise you to check out this film.  You also shouldn't expect much plot wise.  The script lacks continuity and has a few plot holes and many inconceivable ideas (well, so do most films, but others do a better job of making you believe it).**1/2 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable fantasy","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Kate and Leopold was not a perfect movie, but I enjoyed the fantasy. With all the stress and bad news in the real world today, I like to take an escapist trip with a movie now and then. Hugh Jackman is very engaging as PrinceCharming, I mean Leopold. Meg Ryan is okay but I agree with the other posters who say that her hair and lips are distracting. I disagree that she is too old, given that she was about 38 when she made the film.I'd like to see the sequel, Kate and Leopold Rude Awakening where Katerealizes that she will never again vote, own property, have a career, be taken seriously by any other man besides her husband, wear a comfortable bra, use a tampon, and her chances of dying during childbirth will increase dramatically. Leopold should have stayed in the present and had a successful career as a TV commercial actor. I think they could have overcome the problems with theelevators. "},{"Title":"Fabulous!","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Definitely a must see for guys & gals  who believe romance still lives.  Great lessons for all of us, and very much a feel good movie.  "},{"Title":"Charming, though could have been much better (Possible spoilers)","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Dear folks who hated this movie,If you didn't like Bewitched, or Dark Shadows, or oldie's but goodies, like Here Comes Mr. Jordon, or I Married a Witch, you aren't going to like Kate and Leopold. It's a fantasy which makes it your broccoli and spinach salad with cod liver oil dressing. So, please move on and let the rest of us enjoy it.This is not to say the movie is without flaws. It's got them. K&L has been out for a couple of years now and people still complain about Leopold's suit and plot holes and the supposed incest. Interestingly, when I first read a very early blurb about the movie it said that Leopold was from 200 years in the past, which would have put him in about the Regency era. The 200 years would have also pushed the 'incest' concern back another three or four generations. It would also have explained his Regency style getup. The folks who were doing the counting on this incest thing would have to have at least admitted that at 6 or 7 generations removed, Kate and Start would have only shared something like 1/138th blood. That's a bit less than the 1/4 it would be for second cousins marrying, etc. If you keep it at 100 or so years separation, it would still be around 1/16th shared blood. But even that kind of thinking means we're getting away from 'it's a fantasy, folks!'I have a few personal gripes about the movie. When it was out at the theater I saw it twice. Not a usual occurrence for me, even with Hugh Jackman's hunky persona. Frankly, during the first viewing, I could not get past Meg Ryan's hair. I was literally stunned by it. She's such a pretty woman, it amazes me that she thinks (or thought) that the Cookie the Clown haircut was cute. Not! Ms. Ryan, what were you thinking? Was this a mid-life crisis reaction?I've gotten used to Ms. Ryan's hair now and just don't see it anymore. But her performance, seemed to be Meg Ryan phoning is as Meg Ryan. Hugh Jackman was utterly charming as Leopold and so was the young actor who played Kate's brother. Some of their scenes together are the best in the movie.I though the use of profanity was overdone. My reaction is not out of prudishness (I can use the f-word and a heap of others when my car has a flat or won't start or I'm stuck in traffic, etc.) But it seems to me to lessen the authenticity of a character's intelligence. (Think about that the next time you overhear someone swearing continually in line at the grocery store.) It surprised me that Leopold didn't object to Kate's constant swearing (she was, after all, a lady) or that he didn't make a comment on it in general. I didn't feel he was reacting within the social attitudes of his own time. Even if it is a fantasy, he's not going to acclimate to our times all *that* quickly.I read a lot of sci-fi and fantasy, so had no problem with the supposed 'incest' line. It's fantasy. And it's a paradox to begin with. During the time frame Stuart and Kate are in, Kate is NOT his several times removed great-grandmother. Think about *that* end of it.  So, shared blood aside, I can't say I'm sure who it was who was getting their knickers in a twist over that. That all said, it is a charming movie that could have been a blockbuster hit the likes of Sleepless but is not. I'm not sure where the fault lies in that. The Cookie the Clown haircut? Direction? The last minute/panic edit? Certainly in some of the writing. At this date none of that is going to change, so simply enjoy the movie for itself. There are far worse ways to spend two hours.(6/10)  "}{"Title":"Well Done !","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I must admit the characters in Kate & Leopold were superb.! Meg Ryan was great and Hugh Jackman .... incredible.  This is the kind of movie you'd skip a night out in town on a saturday night to watch. This is definitely for the women out there who still believe in true romance. I'm one of them ! I really don't mind watching Hugh Jackman in more comedy romances. Leopold will sweep you off your feet and steal your heart away.!  "},{"Title":"Cute but dumb","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"34 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Liev Schreiber (badly used and miscast) travels from NYC 2002 to NYC 1862 (the how and why are never really explained). While coming back he accidentally brings a 19th century duke Leopold (Hugh Jackman) with him. Leopold meets Kate (Meg Ryan) and...well, you can figure it out from there.The movie looks beautiful, is VERY romantic and Jackman is incredibly handsome, sexy, funny...God, those eyes of his...but this movie is really dumb. There are some plot turns that are unbelievable (the time travel is never explained; Jackman saves Ryan's purse from a mugger on horseback--literally; Jackman gets used to the 21st century way too quickly; do New Yorkers always leave their windows open so someone can clamber in off the fire escape?). Also Ryan has played this part once too often--she's getting too old and (sadly) she looks it. However, Breckin Meyer is very good and funny as her brother.The only reason to see the movie is Jackman--he's just great. And it IS cute. So, it's worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A 19th Century MacGyver!","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie kind of reminds me of Hayford Peirce's Napoleon Disentimed, when a con-man playing Napoleon invents champagne - this for me connects where there is a plausible yet apocryphal reference to Hugh Jackman's character inventing a modern-day convenience (Leopold - but a member of royalty did perform a type of invention; speaking under correction, but I think Philip II of Spain created the precursor to the current thermometer used nowadays)! The further irony was that Leopold was discovered by another would-be inventor, played to disarming effect by Liev Schreiber - which is a far cry from Liev's chilling performance in the remake of The Manchurian Candidate - and he is also the benighted ex-lover of Meg Ryan (Kate).Liev's character finally gets her to accept they have drifted apart when he delivered a quiet yet massive insult - this movie thrives on intellectual innuendo and bravura, as opposed to bravado... Leopold does a remarkable adaptation to modern day conveniences, even re-inventing a timed toaster using a rubber band, timer and bent fork - a veritable 19th century MacGyver! The transplanted and trans-timed Duke does not realise how attached he got to Kate until he realised her boss was being less than a gentleman about her promotion. So Leopold educated her employer on the finer points of French, La Boheme and geography - without laying a finger he scalded the man! It really is a fantasy picture, she still had her job, LOL!!! However, for me the highlight is when Kate's purse is stolen near Central Park. The whole film shows how a man should treat a woman - and even better, they used Sting's Until which was inspired by the tragedy of 9-11... It is one of the most romantic songs ever and the film is a timeless classic on the whole! "},{"Title":"OK, but disappointing","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I was disappointed upon seeing this movie. I expected something different than what I actually got. The premise is brilliant, but the result is poor. I mean, overlooking the time travel thing - it wasn't badly thought out actually - I found myself thinking that Kate and Leopold really didn't have that much chemistry. They fell in love way too suddenly to make it believable. However, Hugh Jackman pulls this film through. He made it enjoyable to watch, especially in the scenes where his character is teaching Kate's brother about women (ironic though, since he's never been in love before). I was sorely disappointed by Meg Ryan, though. This movie is good to pass time, it's OK entertainment, but it lacks the emotional appeal and chemistry of so many other romantic comedies out there. "},{"Title":"awesome movie!!! I loved it!! best love story i've seen in years!!","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Kate and Leopold has got to be the best love story of the year. I saw this movie the second day it was out, and I would have snuck in to see it over and over!! kate is so sweet and she knows what kind of stuff guys pull, and yet, when leopold comes along, with his intentions clear, she is still wary. what an awesome couple! this movie is going to corrupt women, because this movie shows us that we are not merely sex-objects, but with minds, and intelligence, and we are people who deserve to be treated as such. more men should see this film and go ahhhh, so what women want isn't such a mystery. it is all plainly revealed in this movie. i give it a 15, but the vote would only let me vote up to 10.  "},{"Title":"Typical Romantic Comedy With A Twist Of Time Travelling","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" 'Kate and Leopald' is a typical romantic comedy, only this time one of the protagonists travels from the 30s (?) to modern day New York. It's clear that one shouldn't expect anything more than laughter and a few mushy moments of love from this film and that is the case. If one watches it with lower expectations, it can be quite enjoyable. I liked the Hugh Jackman - Meg Ryan pairing. They both share the required chemistry and provide some of the nicer moments. Ryan plays her usual romcom city lass persona (and I haven't tired myself from seeing her in such roles...yet but I now prefer to see her in different genres ). Hugh Jackman has a knack for comedy and he should do more such films if given a more intelligent script. Breckin Meyer and Liev Schreiber are great. To further prevent yourself from getting irritated, quit analyzing the film as there are several plot holes and some situations seem chopped. You can ask lots of question like how Leopold adapts to modern New York so quickly or how would an ultra-modern Kate (who's never travelled) make it in 30's (?) England (?) So one could enjoy it a little if they suspend their beliefs. even so, the ending seems a little too abrupt (predictable as it is). In spite of the flaws, there are the few nice moments and the few funny moments that don't make it all that bad. "},{"Title":"Enchanting","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Kate and Leopold is a diverse little romantic movie about a Duke (Hugh Jackman) from the 19th century, and modern day wanderers, including a love-depressed Kate, (Meg Ryan), her ex-boyfriend, Stuart, (Liev Shrieber), and her brother, Charlie, (Breken Meyer).  Jackman and Ryan are two star-crossed people searching for love, and all's they get is a little push from the people around them, and a little thing called a time portal.  This movie is refreshing, with a new type of concept, and all of the writing and acting was wonderfully done!  8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I had heard a lot of bad things about Kate & Leopold, but I must say that I was impressed.","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I can understand why people would be put off by a movie like Kate & Leopold, even if only because it's a little TOO cute. Consider, for example, the scene early in the film, just after Stuart (Liev Schreiber) has accidentally brought Leopold (in a wonderful performance by Hugh Jackman) to the present day, and Kate (Meg Ryan) sticks her head in the window to see what's going on. When Meg Ryan is kneeling down and looking in the window in this scene, she is probably more adorable than I've ever seen her in any other movie, and she is without a doubt one of the most adorable actors working in Hollywood today. (spoilers) I can see that some people might be put off just by the sheer cuteness of things like this (of which the movie is full to the brim), as well as other things like the cheesiness of the conflict resolution, in which Kate literally takes a leap of faith off of the Brooklyn Bridge, with her ex-boyfriend as well as her brother urging her on even though each is fully aware that this will mean they will never see her again.For my own part, I think that minor quibbles like these are easy to overlook just because of the sheer entertainment value of the movie and the fact that the time travel element (something that almost never fails to enthrall me) is so intriguing and well done. I love the part at the end when they see Kate in one of the pictures that Stuart took in 1873, meaning that the resolution includes her being sent back to that time to be with Leopold. Stuart tries in vain to explain this to Charlie (Breckin Meyer), Kate's younger brother, telling him that since in THEIR future they send Kate back to the past, then the future of that past includes Kate being their and searching for Leopold. Well, I can't really explain it any better than Stuart did.There was one other thing about the time travel element that I thought was really interesting but wasn't explored as well as it could have been. There is a part of the movie where Leopold discovers, to all sorts of astonished amazement, that his uncle's house (his own residence in 1873) still stands even in the futuristic New York in which he finds himself. This is also, by the way, the point where Kate begins to realize that this whole thing might not be an act after all. Leopold runs upstairs and finds a secret hiding place where he kept all of his most treasured possessions, which still remain as dusty relics. Something like this is usually a signpost that it is going to come back into play at some later point in the film, but I guess here it is only meant to show Kate that Leopold is for real after all. Later in the film, when Leopold is sent back to his own time, I was expecting Kate to run up to that room in his house and open the cupboard and find some sort of note or something that Leopold left for her to find there, but no such luck. Ah well.As a romantic comedy, Kate & Leopold certainly has its shortcomings given it's conveniently packaged ending, the fact that so many things are ignored just to get to that happy ending (such as how Charlie's date REALLY went and what ever happened with him and his acting career and his love life, etc, and the same goes for Stuart), but as a film it is enormously entertaining, well-written, and thought-provoking, which is exceedingly uncommon for a romantic comedy. While it's true that the movie takes place mainly in society that can produce digital cameras the size of matchboxes but can't get toasters to work properly, this is the kind of movie that spawns discussion, which is what great movies do. If nothing else, it is most certainly an in-depth look at the descent of chauvinism between the 19th Century and today, and provides a host of immensely valuable lessons for how men should act around women. I would certainly like to see a lot of these behaviors return to our modern society, so that we can remember that life is not composed solely of tasks, but tastes as well. Kate & Leopold holds that rare distinction of being a romantic comedy that is more beneficial for men than women.Pay attention to this one, guys. "},{"Title":"I thought it was delightful.","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I love anything to do with time travel so I adored this film. It is hilariously funny and,of course, romantic. Hugh Jackman is just marvelous! I loved the quasi-scientific stuff about how Leopold got to the future and back to his past. An altogether delightful movie! I recommend it. "},{"Title":"a film about a barking dog, and other loud noises","Date":"21 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Whoever made this probably had no idea how to elaborate that 'genius idea' into a whole film. So they put in a dog. Things happen in this 'genius' of a film not because they make some sort of sense, but because the dog barks, or runs, or needs to go.You know Leopold is smart and inventive, and a visionary, cos you're being told so. You'll have to ignore the fact that he acts like a total moron. It's that stupid dog! It barks so loud that anyone would be just as pointless in the same house with it.There's one character in the way? Not to worry. One short twist of the pencil, and poof! He's gone. Just when you need to. We need another one? Poof! There he is how? why? who is he? Details! You're thinking too much - just sit back and enjoy it's a love story.Kate is The 20's Century Woman, of course. By which I mean she's hysterical, completely irrational, angry at and obsessed with her ex, and really thick. What's not to love about her!? Don't think too much about the fact that her personality has no consistency or substance. That's how women are, you know. They lack depth, and they yell a lot, and you can't reason with them. They make no sense whatsoever! Which is what I could say about this film. It sounds great in theory, but it ends up being noise. "}{"Title":"Very good","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Superb! No violation no deaths no guns. When you watch you realize the world hasn't yet completely gone psychotic. It gives a perfect relaxation to the spectator. Nothing annoying. Everything is done properly, except, of course, the historic facts which are... somewhat hyperboloids and vague. What else can I say. I advise everybody watch it (for male it is a great manual about how to escort a lady; for ladies - the level of standards they should demand from men). No kidding it is fantastic. I am teaching English and should say it comes to be perfect language teaching material as one can compare American and British English. "},{"Title":"Cute.","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I guess you could just read any review of any Meg Ryan film and insert it here. She's perky and sweet and lonely and means well, and (retro plot point) a MAN comes in to save her life, which I found not a little insulting. Competant film making, silly script, lame music, this is a film that I look forward to seeing on a plane. Ho-hum.  "},{"Title":"Historical anachronisms","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  While my wife and I enjoyed watching this film (except for the wretched haircut on Meg Ryan), I was amazed that the obvious historical anachronisms got past the writers and editors of this film. I was even more amazed that none of the comments on the film have pointed them out. For example, Leopold is supposed to be plucked out of 1876 New York to the modern day city. But in one scene, he shows more than superficial knowledge of the opera La Boheme, which was not composed until 1893. Further, he sings and teaches the songs from Pirates of Penzance, which had its world premiere in 1879. And the movie opens with the celebration of the construction of the Brooklyn Bridge (then called the Great East River Bridge) which was not completed until 1883. Didn't anyone check these dates and see that they were just out of whack with 1876?  "},{"Title":"Great Idea.. Average Script.. Weak Movie !","Date":"19 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Let me see  (Meg Ryan) + (Hugh Jackman) + time travel + romantic comedy + Sting singing = something definitely magical. But unfortunately.. It wasn't ! I'm nuts about the main idea. (Hugh Jackman) here is kind of actual prince charming. He is also the elevator's inventor, so he has both heart and brains (and in Jackman's case muscles too). As for representing the lost romance and chivalry it's the perfect character, and when you push him into the future (aka  our world) then it's the perfect idea. However the world of this movie was very scanty.Mainly look at the dramatic conflict, in fact there isn't one ! Since (Meg Ryan)'s boyfriend left her from the start, so filling for the dashing, handsome, well-bred, mugger- chaser inventor would be not only easy but basically axiomatic. So, is it about the endless ironies between the old age and the new age's technology ? No, since the movie summarized it in brief sequence. So, is it about the deep irony between romantic age and phony materialistic one ? Maybe but they did it simply through the making of the TV commercial. It looked like another kind of angel-in-our-house movies where one visitor gives ultimate happiness to his troubled hosts then leaves. But did that fit whether the comic or the romantic part ?? I think wholly NOT.You'd feel hastiness. Although the main irony is super for sure but the movie's ironies weren't. The comedy was careless, I can't remember one good ironic situation. The dialog was a crime as totally unfunny and untalented, except for the monologue of (Liev Schreiber) at the hospital which was philosophically well put but surpassed anything had been written for any other character and just exposed with its high level all the low level of the rest of the dialog ! I didn't feel the love story between the title's characters, or the urge of that being impossible. All what was there just light touches that didn't convince me like the swift story of the unseen lonely neighbor, the love story of the lead's brother (that we witnessed on the phone ??), the concept of capturing the time or else, because this criminally remiss script just wasted it all. Look at what seemed as brilliant situations like the stopping of all the world's elevators, despite the imaginative spirit the script didn't go with it to anywhere so what about this unique romance between 2 persons from 2 ages?. Therefore the ending was too happy and too dreamy to fabricated extent without much of details or difficulties. So as a whole it went astray without strong feelings or good meanings. And the romance eventually looked superficial.Director (James Mangold) was executing a bland TV episode. I felt fake tenderness from him. Especially when the only romantic scene (the waltz) was just accumulated well-arranged shoots without effective sensations. Yes, the cinematography and the warm lighting were a bit emotional at that scene but the complete atmosphere was so unimpressionable.This can't compete with (Meg Ryan)'s nice legacy of romantic comedies. Originally it can't compete with the standard of its idea or even its own title as a movie about (Kate) and (Leopold) ! It was really ambitious one that promised something like what an old classic movie would present about memorable couple, but this movie delivered nothing.The 2 leads were like 2 clever dancers without music or a dance. It was pathetic to watch shinning stars like them, with possible chemistry into movie that's suffering of self-induced abortion ! In the case of (Jackman) the type of the role was attractive yet not the role in particular. (Ryan) didn't give us anything new since the script didn't give her anything ! It's the bad paradox of having productive people through unproductive work.I hated (Schreiber), despite whatever he could reach he got nothing to do with a romantic comedy, let alone being younger than (Meg Ryan). I hated dealing with Sting's masterpiece (Until) which had been nominated for an Oscar by putting it only at the closing credits plus not even using its fascinating tones into the movie's music score the way (John Williams) did in (Sabrina)'s soundtrack with another Sting's masterpiece (Moonlight). I liked (Meg)'s chic clothes, that was cuter than the movie itself ! I'm sad to say it but as a romantic comedy it lacks romance and comedy, or misses them. It was all out of keeping with Sting's (Until) which was more masterly than the whole thing. It's devastating to hear it and imagine a better movie for it ! "},{"Title":"Could have been so much better","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Watched Kate & Leopold recently and was so dismayed by the script-writing that I felt compelled to write. The previous update by tedg in Viginia (sic.) Beach is far more eloquent (and kinder) than I can manage and I tried very hard to like this movie because I'm a sucker for romance, fantasy and sci-fi.Plot 19C Duke accidentally gets dragged into 21C New York, while there meets and woos modern woman over a weekend.Best portrayed character is the ex-boyfriend played by Liev Schreiber. Hugh Jackman *extremely* presentable and does his anachronistic best with poor dialogue and abysmal storyline. Meg Ryan let down by a badly thought-out script.* * * SPOILER(s) WARNING * * *Being a huge fan of costume dramas, and bearing in mind the popularity of recent adaptations of Empire novels (viz Pride & Prejudice, et al), I would expect the general public to be somewhat aware of the behaviour and attitudes of 19C women. We are supposed to believe that a late-19C Duke falls in love with a feisty, scarecrow-coiffured, in-your-face, ambitious, 21C career woman who seems to have sacrificed quite a lot already to get to where she is today.Just for a moment imagine the confusion and misunderstandings that may arise from a meeting between 19C and 21C people -- 1. Language is only the first hurdle - although the Duke seemed to pick up idiomatic modern-day English extremely quickly. 2. Modes of dress that would have been considered appropriate and modest in 19C are another - although kudos to the wardrobe dept which effectively bypassed the issue for most characters by using fairly generic, toned-down outfits. That Sgt. Pepper dig (included in the movie-trailer so no spoiler here) - well EXCUSE ME - had she LOOKED in the mirror? Apart from the heavy embroidery on his coat her attire was almost a duplicate of what he was wearing. The little black strappy number she wears for their romantic dinner would have been considered lingerie in his day - and being a Gentleman he would surely have offered her his overcoat.Eventually this open-minded, adventurous 19C aristocrat chooses NOT to remain in this future even though the invention for which he is credited had a working model already and could have been picked up by anyone. We already know he considers his 19C life to be empty and without purpose so why return?The 21C career woman, who has just been made a VP in her company, leaves all behind (except the designer dress she wears) to follow him into the past. Temporal Directive where are you now? Consider the personality of the character and imagine how much mayhem she would cause in the late 19C. Women's suffrage still had another 50 years to surface. Being fairly career-minded myself I find her abandonment of a lucrative company position in favour of relative obscurity so unlikely that my disbelief cannot be suspended and this ruined the movie for me. I found it to be an insult to independent women everywhere. And DON'T tell me she does it for 'l-o-v-e' which we all know is transitory.Previous updates mention that their union is supposed to ultimately result in ex-boyfriend Stuart's existence in the family tree - must have missed the reference in the movie.I would offer this rewrite of the ending - the Duke remains in the future with his soul-mate who continues in her extremely lucrative and successful career. He manages to overcome his distaste for being dishonest about the margarine (which he said tasted like SUET not SEWAGE - Closed Captioning editors please note) and becomes a successful TV model. Back in 19C the elevator idea is picked up by manservant/friend Otis - why else would it have his name on it? - a minor glitch in the scheme of the history books. Any votes?Sorry folks - unless you can tolerate the obvious mistakes, misogynistic writing and impossible-to-believe outcome this is a movie to miss. 2 out of 10 - only because Hugh Jackman is very pretty in it. "},{"Title":"Utterly charming and entertaining","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Romantic comedies, like action movies, require an attitude adjustment before viewing. I never expect, or even desire, to be challenged--intellectually or emotionally--only to be entertained, and perhaps moved. You can call that lowering my expectations; I call it judging the movie on its own merits.Kate and Leopold has merit aplenty. It's charming, funny, entertaining--and even a little thought-provoking. It's nearly two hours in length--long for a film of this genre--but I never fidgeted or glanced at my watch. (Unlike my reaction to a recent over-hyped fantasy flick, which shall remain nameless. But I digress.) Kate and Leopold's strongest feature is a standout, charismatic turn by Hugh Jackman. He's a 19th century English Duke thrust suddenly into 21st century New York by a convenient plot twist...er, portal in the space-time continuum. He strikes a balance between the obvious fish-out-of-water predicament of his character and the requirements of a romantic lead who can capably, even masterfully, handle adverse situations. He cannot comprehend scooping up doggie doo, but he can chase down a purse-snatcher on horseback. Men watching this movie want to BE him, and women watching it want to be WITH him. Mark my words, the man is going to follow in the footsteps of his fellow countryman, Mel Gibson, to the top of the Hollywood heap in short order. The movie also benefits from a solid performance by Meg Ryan. Many people are dismissing her part in this movie as nothing more than a replay of her previous romantic roles, but she's brought a subtly different approach to this movie. She downplays the quirky, cutesy, girlish mannerisms she exhibited in When Harry Met Sally and Sleepless in Seattle. Ryan's older now, and she wisely chooses to play her career-woman role as an adult...strong but vulnerable, cynical but hopeful, someone who's taken a few hard knocks that have made her cautious. I think she's grown as an actress--she seems to have recognized that Jackman's the main focus here, and generously allows him to shine.  Everything else--the secondary actors, the cinematography, the editing--all do a serviceable job of supporting the two leads while not distracting us from them.And, yeah, I found it a little thought-provoking. Nothing earth-shattering, I just walked out wondering if some 19th-century manners,  and due consideration of the fairer sex, might just be what we need right now. So I held the theatre door open for my wife on the way out, and opened her car door for her. I hope I do that stuff all the time anyway, but it just seemed a little more important after this movie. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Wowie!","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Being out of town with my sister, when she proposed that we go see Kate and Leopold I agreed, having no idea what it was about. Needless to say, I am GLAD that I went! Hugh Jackman and Meg Ryan had REMARKABLE performances! It was the perfect mix of romance, comedy, and even a little sci-fi. It's a definate date movie for ANY couple! "},{"Title":"Standard, cute, not bad not terrific","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  James Mangold's Kate and Leopold is another cutesy love story with time travel involved though that's just the baseline.  The story has Meg Ryan playing her usual type role where she is never really able to hold a good relationship.  Then her old ex (Liev Schreiber) travels back in time 125 years into the past, accidentaly brings back his great-great grandfather who was a duke in his time (Leopold played by Hugh Jackman who is amusing in more times than one) and is now in today's New York.  But what might happen if Kate and Leopold come together?  For the crowd who will want to see this movie, they won't be disappointed with the usual charm Ryan brings and the cordial performance of Jackman.  I didn't leave the theater during the movie, but I can't say much else encouraging for myself. B- "},{"Title":"What a beautifully romantic movie !","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  From the very beginning, with that vintage sepia scenery of 1876 New York, to the very end, where Sting delight us with that touching performance of 'Until' (which Sting himself confessed wrote being transported by the romanticism of the movie);  this movie drives you through your heart, your mind, your soul, unwinding deep feelings that our day-to-day life bury inside us, but that are so immense that cannot be extinguish, even with the cold routine in which we dwell.Using time leap as a metaphor between the way we live in present times and all those little things that we long so badly but that we ourselves deny or just give up in the search,  the story open a parenthesis in the crazy rhythm of the today New York and involve the characters -and ourselves- in a mixture of true romanticism and happiness that taste like a virgin flavor in our stone lips. Facing issues like post-breaking relationships and career success versus personal life success, the plot fill us with joy and laughter that makes us even cry when we realize all that we have at our fingertips and that we miss.The acting was very natural and the five main actors deliver the characters very well. Particularly, JJ (Bradley Whitford) has a very well defined personality.  Meg give us her ugly duck charming prettiness that is already her trademark and Hugh is perfect for the role Tall, handsome, gallant, romantic...Definitely, one of the best movies (if not the one) I've seen this year -at least.  Go and see it, you'll enjoy it ! "},{"Title":"romantic, my *bleep*","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Let me say first that I don't hate all romantic comedies. This review is not a genre hit piece, but an indictment of the themes of this particular film.The titulary Kate is one of the most regressive film heroines I have seen in recent years. Her exhaustion with her career and with modern life is a perfect example of what the current crop of feminist backlash thinkers would have you believe about the condition of American women today. Too bad for them, it's complete bunk. The idea that a successful, smart woman like Kate would jump back in time to an era where a woman's worth was completely dependent on her husband, and where enfranchisement was decades off, just to have someone make her toast with mascarpone for breakfast is offensive. And the idea of the modern American man as either a predator or a buffoon (or both, which J.J. is shown to be) is equally offensive.I could provide you a scene by scene academic analysis of how the film constructs these ideas, but an essay of that length is not possible in this forum. Instead I will say this if you decide to see this film, just keep these implications in mind. No film is simply a light, romantic comedy as some would have you believe Kate & Leopold is. "}{"Title":"Even less enchanting the second time.","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Am I alone in thinking Meg Ryan seemed churlish? I couldn't understand what anyone would see in her. She was cranky and peevish. Not her usual enchanting self. (I think You've Got Mail is one of Meg's most charming performances.) Hugh Jackman was dreamy. However, a man of Leo's breeding should have been affronted by Kate's bad manners. But, then, I'm surprised he could say the words fresh creamery butter with a straight face. What silly dialog!I like science fiction/fantasy, and very willing to suspend disbelief. I'm also a romantic, and love time-travel romances, like Jude Devereaux's Knight in Shining Armour. But I rolled my eyes all throughout this movie. And you could drive a semi through the plot holes. The secondary characters were far more fun and interesting than the primaries. Bradley Whitford and, especially, Breckin Meyer save this movie from being completely blah. In fact, I would have liked to see a movie about Leopold and Charlie's friendship, actually. It was livelier and more believable than Kate and Leo's romance. This move had such potential. How disappointing. "},{"Title":"more holes than a time portal","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I'm as much of a sucker for a romance film as anybody, but the only thing about this one that made any sense was how everyone thought Stuart was wacko -- if you told people you had found a time portal, you'd be thrown into a loony bin, too!Nothing else makes sense. While it's clear why Stuart tracks down Leo, and it make sense that he chases Stuart out of his house, but why does he then follow him all the way to the Brooklyn Bridge (saying stop, please, which was really odd) instead of sicking the cops on him?I also found it odd how quickly Leo adapts. He doesn't react with fear. He doesn't wonder if he will ever get home. He just complains about General Electric's toaster. It's highly unlikely he's encountered anyone outside his race or ethnicity. Yet, Leo not only accepts the sudden presence of Stuart's young friend (which is downright creepy), but spends the afternoon entertaining him. Why did Kate asking Leo if he's seen Breakfast at Tiffany's when she knows he hasn't? How did Leo pull off that rooftop dinner?And how cheeky to include Elisha Otis as a plot point. Stuart credits Leopold with inventing the elevator, yet it was invented by Otis (whose name Kate sees on her elevator and who is seen attending Leopold's party) way back in 1853!Then there's the lecture Leo gives about integrity. Coming to New York to marry the richest girl you can bag does not constitute fraud, but peddling crappy pond scum butter to an unsuspecting public is!? O-KAY!Why does Kate's hair look like a box of undercooked spaghetti until the last 2 scenes? How was Leo hired for his gig when he's so undocumented, he's never heard the term Social Security? And, more importantly, why can't I sue Miramax for wasting two hours of my life? "},{"Title":"have serious issues with the end! *********contains spoiler*********","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Even overlooking several major flaws, this movie still isn't very good. I'm willing to suspend disbelief to a certain extent, so I can forgive all the time-travel questions this movie raises. Furthermore I'm used to movies portraying people as falling in love in less than a week and assuming that that is a solid basis for a lifelong marriage - so I can't really fault this film for that too.  My biggest problem was the way Meg Ryan's character was portrayed and how quickly she was able to throw away her entire life for some distant past that I don't think she quite appreciated what her new life would entail.  Why did people (both Leopold and her boss) accuse her of being manly and unfeminine?  Because she was assertive, good at her job, career-oriented?  I found this highly offensive! Furthermore, even accepting that she had fallen in love with someone (in a week!) and that she was not that interested in keeping her own life (w/ a promotion, the love of her brother, her friends, etc.) -- how on earth could she decide (in less than 23 minutes) to travel back to live in 1876? (without even hearing from Leopold on his thoughts on the matter!)  If she's thought to be unfeminine and manly in this day and age, can you imagine what it would've been like back then?  Has she considered whether being with Leopold is worth giving up her rights?  The right to vote, to wear pants, to work, etc. Were women at the time allowed to go outside unchaperoned, own property of any kind, even get divorces?  Did they still wear girdles and other sorts of insane fashions she will be expected to adopt?  I admit my knowledge of the past was sketchy, but I'd be worried about things like indoor plumbing, the state of medicine/hospitals at the time, etc.The false romanticization of the past is nauseating.  We're supposed to think it's better because men were more gentlemanly back then.  It's not impossible to find polite, well-behaved men in this day and age - who also agree with feminist principles!I could have handled the ending if he had come back to live with her in the present instead of her having to go back and give up her life for him.  It seems as if he would've adjusted better to today's society than she to his.  (It already sounded as if he was unhappy with his life back then, and other than his connection to Otis, had no personal ties). "},{"Title":"Another Delightful Romantic Comedy with Meg Ryan","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Leopold (Hugh Jackson) is an English and broken baron living in New York in the end of the Nineteenth Century. He needs to get married with a rich fiance to recover his family position from ruin. Kate (Meg Ryan) is a successful businesswoman living also in New York, but in 2001. Due to a time incident, they meet each other in the present days and (guess what?) they fall in love to each other. This is another delightful romantic comedy. In this field, Meg Ryan is outstanding. The plot has many inconsistencies the time travel is not explained, the problem with the elevators (why have they worked again?), the interest of Stuart in Leopold in the past (in the deleted scenes, there is a reference that Leopold and Stuart are relatives), how Kate, with her profile of stressed executive, would survive in the past only with love... But, anyway, forget these questions, be romantic, and this movie will be an entertainment for the whole family. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Kate & Leopold "},{"Title":"Breckin and Hugh","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I wonder if Meg Ryan never gets tired of being Meg Ryan. She's been acting in the same movie for 20 years now and, no matter how much I like her, it's getting a bit old. Usually Meg could save the worst movie with being her cute self, but the thing is Meg isn't cute anymore. Not with that hair, and not with that character. Luckily there's Hugh Jackman who does a Colin Firth, and Breckin Meyer who gets the funniest moment of the movie. (`I can do Canadian too!'). This movie gets a 6, (= ok for once but not really one to rewatch over and over again  "},{"Title":"I Admit I Liked This","Date":"3 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Kate and her actor brother live in N.Y. in the 21st Century. Her ex-boyfriend, Stuart, lives above her apartment. Stuart finds a space near the Brooklyn Bridge where there is a gap in time. He goes back to the 19th Century and takes pictures of the place. Leopold -- a man living in the 1870s -- is puzzled by Stuart's tiny camera, follows him back through the gap, and they both ended up in the present day.This could be dismissed as a romantic comedy, which in many ways it is. But it also has that science fiction, time travel element that will make it appeal to people (like myself) who may not be particularly interested in romantic comedies. We also have some great performances. Meg Ryan is alright (she has improved since the 1980s), and it is always nice to see Liev Schreiber.This is a film that needs reevaluation. "},{"Title":"Kate & Leopold","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Directed by James Mangold (Cop Land; Girl, Interrupted, Walk the Line, The Wolverine), I knew the two leading male and female stars, and that there was a love story involved, so even though it had a relatively low rating by critics, I thought I'd give it a go. Basically in 1876, in the 19th Century, Prince Leopold Mountbatten, Duke of Albany (Hugh Jackman) is told by his strict Uncle Millard (Paxton Whitehead) to marry a rich American woman to help the depleting fortunes of his family. But then one day he spots out of place amateur physicist Stuart Besser (Liev Schreiber) taking photographs, Stuart runs away during a speech at the Brooklyn Bridge, Leopold follows him as he prepares to jump from the unfinished bridge, only to fall with him into a time portal transporting them to 21st Century New York. Stuart explains to Leopold he found a gap in time that allowed him to travel to the past universe, he can only return to his original time when the gap opens again in a week, until then Leopold is stuck in the city, clueless about his new surroundings, and Stuart ends up having an accident and when talking about his scientific discovery being institutionalised. While staying at Stuart's apartment, Leopold is intrigued by cynical and ambitious Kate McKay (Meg Ryan), Stuart's ex-girlfriend, he sees she is a career woman as she does market research, she dismisses his kindness towards her, Leopold does however befriend Kate's brother Charlie (Breckin Meyer). Kate and Leopold do start to spend more time together, and slowly become romantically linked as she takes him on a tour of modern New York and they dine together, and Kate also thinks with 19th Century style clothes and perfect gentleman demeanour he could be the perfect spokesman for a new margarine product, an audition certainly proves successful. However when it comes to the day of the shooting the commercial Leopold is disgusted by the taste of the product, he cannot understand why Kate would endorse a flawed item to the public, Kate simply says that sometimes you have to do things you don't want to, they part ways for a while, and meanwhile Stuart breaks out of the the mental hospital, he transports Leopold back to his own. Kate is accepting a promotion that had always longed for, Stuart and Charlie show up at the banquet dinner and show Kate photographs from the 19th Century taken, Stuart thought he had disrupted the spacetime continuum, in fact Kate is supposed to go back to the 19th Century with Leopold, she is taken to the time portal just before it closes, as she chooses a life with Leopold over her career, she appears just as Leopold is about to marry Miss Tree (Kristen Schaal) for her family fortune, announcing herself as Leopold's bride-to-be, Kate and Leopold embrace, marry and live happily ever after. Also starring American Pie's Natasha Lyonne as Darci, Bradley Whitford as J.J. Camden, Spalding Gray as Dr. Geisler and Philip Bosco as Otis. Jackman is both funny and charming as the 19th Century gentleman transported into the modern world, Ryan being the of the queens of the rom-com genre does alright being beautiful with some feistiness, they are a relatively good couple, and the supporting cast members get their moments as well. The boy meets girl format is given a little twist with the time travel aspect, as is the English gent falling for American chick format, most of the film is predictable and old-fashioned, but you cannot help but laugh at the old-fashioned crossing with modern culture stuff, and the love story is sweet enough, a likable and not terrible romantic comedy. It won the Golden Globe for Best Original Song for Until by Sting (also nominated the Oscar). Okay! "},{"Title":"shallow ripoff of a better idea","Date":"6 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" In 1970, Jack Finney (The Body Snatchers) published the classic time-travel novel Time and Again. It's a basically serious story about politicians using time travel to change the present world. It has never been filmed, probably because it would require creating the illusion of 19th-century Manhattan on a fairly large scale (including the arm of the Statue of Liberty).Kate & Leopold appears to have been inspired by Time and Again. The opening scenes are not merely spectacular, but exciting, showing Brooklyn as it appeared in 1876, and introducing a What's going on here? situation that immediately pulls in the viewer. There's also some magnificent dialog that any screenwriter would be proud to have penned.Unfortunately... Once Stuart and Leopold return to the present, the film lands with a loud, //stupid// thump. Kate is a seemingly shallow marketing researcher who is immediately off-putting. We //know// what's going to happen -- and we couldn't care less.This isn't an interesting weak film -- it's an irritating one. You can't just throw characters together and think something interesting & engaging is going to happen.I'll be honest. I was so annoyed by everything (except Leopold's occasionally smart conversation) that I gave up after 45 minutes. "},{"Title":"Solid rom-com with a side of time travel","Date":"13 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Kate McKay (Meg Ryan) is a throughly modern girl climbing the corporate ladder at her advertising company. Her ex Stuart (Liev Schreiber) lives below her apartment. He's been working on time travel, and finds a time portal to a specific 19th century date if one jumps off the Brooklyn Bridge.Leopold (Hugh Jackman)'s family is broke hoping he would marry into money. He comes to NY to select a wife, but instead chases the strange Stuart with a modern camera back to the present.This is a solid rom-com all the way. Meg Ryan has still got it. She plays the cute girl who just can't fall for the right guy. Hugh Jackman is a dashing fresh air in a world without manners or chivalry. No matter what the evidence, she can't accept that he's a time traveler. Hugh Jackman is a heartthrob. They create the perfect and unabashedly traditional romance with a side of time travel. "},{"Title":"Leopold and who?","Date":"6 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I watched this on TV and was appalled at how unsympathetic Ryan's character is, she is a utterly dreadful woman that in whom it's hard to believe a 19th century throwback might find any redeeming quality. Once you get over that gaping plot flaw the time travel is easy.There are some charming moments though, mainly derived from the basic conceit and Jackman's performance, and the photography is good overall.The best feature is probably the subtext that good manners are important whatever age we live in. Like the touching moment when we don't see Ryan make her 'leap of faith', we also don't quite see how, when or why this realisation hits her - the character she plays is cynical and graceless, quite how she manages such a profound personality polarity reversal is beyond 21st century science. "}{"Title":"Time-travelling romance - pity it's one-sided ...","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Romantic comedies are, by definition, very predictable affairs, so it's always good to come across one that tries to add something new or shake things up a bit. This one tries a love spanning one hundred years, thanks to time travel (hey, far weirder things have happened in movieland). Leopold, dashingly handsome 19th century Duke (Hugh Jackman) is (unwillingly) contemplating marriage. 21st century career woman Kate (Meg Ryan) is climbing the corporate ladder at an advertising company, whilst her love life is somewhat less successful. But time gets twisted when Kate's ex-boyfriend Stuart (Liev Schrieber) finds a portal into the 19th century - and after an ill-advised visit there, winds up bringing home an unexpected guest; Leopold, of course.Hijinks ensue as the gentlemanly and courageous Leopold navigates his way through 21st century New York, befriending Kate's brother Charlie (Breckin Meyer) and beginning a romance with Kate. And of course all ends happily in the end. I'll start with the good stuff Jackman is absolutely charming, playing it straight as the fish-miles-inland-never-mind-out-of-water and succeeding admirably. You can't help but love him and believe in him. Breckin Meyer does nicely in a supporting role. Schrieber is essentially a plot device to move the story forward, but gets a few comic and touching moments that a less talented actor might have let fall by the wayside.And what about our other romantic lead? >Sigh< I've never been a fan of Meg Ryan, but I'll try and be fair as possible. But to be honest, I didn't warm at all to her character. I get that Kate is a driven career woman, but what a high price she pays for it. You're like a man her boss says approvingly (huh?) but she isn't - she simply comes across as a bitchy, bad-tempered and cold woman (guess I'm losing the fairness battle) and to be honest, doesn't stand a chance in the popularity battle with Jackman's Leopold. And then she tosses her career away for a happy ending with her Duke, marriage and setting up a 19th century home. I do wish a career woman would be allowed to keep her job AND her guy just for once, rather than heading off to become the little woman.Okay, rant over. It's great escapism, and worth seeing for Jackman alone, but I doubt it will linger long in the memory. "},{"Title":"One of the most average movies that I have ever seen.","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I had just watched this movie for the first time in about 4 years and didn't like it. Was it just me or did Meg Ryan look terrible? First of all, her hair for most of the movie looked pretty ragged and she had lost too much weight. Her hair just sort of hung there. When it was pulled up during the last couple of scenes, it looked good but that straight look did nothing for her at all. And her mouth? What's going on there. It looked like an injection overdose. She looked as if when she smiled, which she didn't do for most of the movie, her mouth would crack and fall off. I didn't like her new look at all. I understand that in Hollywood you have to do makeovers every once in a while but she should sue her plastic surgeon. Maybe she did, I don't know. Hugh Jackman was good as was Breckin Meyer. If it wasn't for them, it would have been a total waste of time. Just a humble mans opinion. "},{"Title":"A sweet romantic comedy but suffers from lack of chemistry","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" It's an enjoyable romantic comedy. Hugh Jackman was perfectly cast as Leopold. He portrays his character with so much charm, integrity and sincerity that I couldn't help but adore him. Too bad there wasn't any chemistry between him and Meg Ryan's character. It just seemed so weird that Leopold could be so quick to fall head over heels in love with Kate, given her annoying character and the very brief interaction between the two. I also thought that the ending was too abrupt. It could've gone on a bit longer. An epilogue sort-of-thing would be nice to wrap up the whole affair. Unfortunately that wasn't the case.However, I still think this is a sweet movie and wouldn't mind watching it again sometime in the future. "},{"Title":"Utterly charming - quality screen writing, well cast and directed","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is one of my all time favourite movies. I think it's quite a 'chick flick' though, so some guys may think it's just 'fine' while their girlfriends are swooning. Excellent for a girls' night in, or if you need cheering up. The screenplay is very intelligent, well structured, thought-provoking and truly funny - excellent writing. Whether or not you notice the detail, the overall effect is very entertaining. Hugh Jackman does a grand, grand job - he's an absolute delight and entirely convincing as the wise, noble and charismatic Leopold. A very memorable performance.Meg Ryan's character is the perfect modern counter to Hugh's. Liev Schreiber is also superb, although his character is in the background for much of the movie so his excellent (comedic) performance is easily overlooked unless you are paying attention.The movie is also refreshing for its total absence of violence, profanity and overt sex - and proves how unnecessary these 'sensationalist' elements are to true entertainment. This is back to the good old days.It's also one of those movies that you can watch several times and always find something new - and reliably finish up grinning and buoyed each time.(I can't comprehend why anyone would care about Meg's haircut or the imperfections in the background time travel plot. That seems to be missing the point. The plot is the vehicle for the real story, rather than the story itself...which is about romance, comedy, and human values largely lost and sorely missed.) "},{"Title":"A romantic tale with a time-travel twist","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" In this day and age of gross-out humour it is a refreshing change to see a sweet, good natured film like Kate & Leopold. This type of story arc has been explored in the past with films like Back to the Future and Forever Young, but it still feels fresh due to a fantastic performance from Hugh Jackman and an amiable one from Meg Ryan.Kate & Leopold doesn't actually begin in the present, but in the past. The year 1876 to be precise. Leopold, the Duke of Albany (Hugh Jackman) is about to be married to a woman he doesn't really love. He is being forced into this marriage because she is very wealthy and Leopold's family finances have been depleted in recent years.On the night Leopold is to be married, he spots a man using a digital camera. Fascinated by him, he follows him to the Brooklyn Bridge where he is about to jump off. Leopold tries to save him, and as they fall, they are both swallowed up by a time portal. The two arrive in 21st Century New York.It turns out the man Leopold followed was an inventor called Stuart (Liev Schreiber). He recently discovered the time portal at the base of the Brooklyn Bridge, and used it to travel back in time to the 19th Century. For the time being, Leopold is stuck in 2001 because the time portal won't reappear for at least a week.Removing Leopold from his own time has consequences. Leopold would go on to invent the elevator, and now all the lifts in New York are on the blink. Stuart has an accident in one of them, leaving Leopold to fend for himself.It's not long before Leopold runs into Stuart's ex-girlfriend Kate McKay (Meg Ryan) who lives in the flat upstairs. Kate is not sure what to make of Leopold, and sort of adopts him. This sets in motion a chain of events for these two disparate souls.In this film, Meg Ryan reminds me of Ally McBeal. In fact, a lot of the plot developments in Kate & Leopold are right out of an episode of Ally McBeal. Two very mixed up women who have a string of unsuccessful men in their lives. Leopold is just one of the stranger men to enter the life of Kate.Leopold is astonished by the advances made throughout the years, but amusingly, he's more astounded by the cynical attitudes and bad manners of the people of the 21st Century.By comparison, Leopold is a model of decency and respectability. His sense of chivalry and gentleman civility begins to win over Kate. She even thinks Leopold would make a perfect spokesperson for a new type of butter her company is looking to advertise. And her idea works. Until he realises how awful it tastes, and when Kate sees no problem with advertising a disgusting product, Leopold realises he must return to his own time.Hugh Jackman gives an outstanding performance, showing how broad his range as an actor is. He is completely different from Wolverine in X-Men, and he can also do a pretty decent English accent. He would be perfect as the next James Bond.Although Jackman and Ryan don't have sizzling chemistry, they do make an amiable couple. There are plenty of nice touches, such as Leopold rising from the table whenever Kate is about to get up, or modifying a toaster to get it to work the way he thinks it should.Meg Ryan is fairly overshadowed by Hugh Jackman. In fact, it's easy to forget about the other characters whenever Leopold is around. He manages to steal every scene he's in, and what makes it so satisfying, he does it with good-natured humility instead of overacting.A lot of the things that Leopold says about how the world has become too cynical and deceitful for it's own good makes a lot of sense actually. It is exactly for this reason Leopold realises he has no place in Kate's world.As it gets towards the end, it starts to feel like Back to the Future. Kate wants to follow Leopold back to his own time, which she does. The truth is, the ending is unbelievable. Although I did enjoy this film, I couldn't buy for a second that Kate would leave everything behind to join Leopold in 1876. That's just the cynic in me talking.Aside from the ridiculous ending, Kate & Leopold is a very appealing romantic comedy. Although I did want to know what was up with Meg Ryan's hair. God it's a mess in this film. And we get her obligatory yes, yes, yes!!! sequence. Good on you Meg! "},{"Title":"Wonderful romantic and funny","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is great! I rented it and loved it! Its funny in so many ways. I love Meg Ryan's character, Kate McKay, she's funny, sweet and independent. I love Hugh Jackman's character Leopold. He's charming, kind, good looking! has near perfect manners, and is simply wonderful. The romance is great, I love the chivalry of Leopold. There is a slight flaw in the movie, with the whole time travel thing. When Leopold came forward, all the elevators stopped working because he was no longer in the past to invent them. However, when Stuart brought Leopold forward in the future, Stuart looked up in a history book, and found an article about Leopold, Duke of Albany, inventor of the elevator Shouldn't that have been changed too ?Nevertheless, I do love this film and recommend it to those who love romance, and comedy. "},{"Title":"I liked this very much, still I am not certain why...","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This film is peculiar, wouldn't you all agree?  Anyone who thinks that its time travel pretext has anything to do with science fiction is missing the point.  The idea of the movie is that there is something that the last century has to tell us about things worth living.But the problem is, that thing retrieved whole from the time gone by is British aristocracy, as arrogant today as it was two centuries ago, and just as irrelevant.  The nice little sequence in the film that refers to the marriage of Di and Charles glosses over that subject completely, amazingly, in the context of the film.Still, the extant Duke of Albany seems credible in the context of modern Manhattan, and not only by his brilliant performance, but within the simple and even naive plot constructed around him.  We are to believe, for example, that this uneducated man (in modern terms) can convince a Manhattan carriageman to surrender his horse to pursue a street thief.Nor does he ever seem to need any money.  But these are just minor quibblings, and this is only a movie, and a romantic comedy at that. Reality needs no specific address here.But the beautiful thing, the thing that makes this a compelling little movie is its conclusion, the thing you want, where the boy and girl end up happily married ever after, and we don't even know what ever after was, although we are tempted by a plot item that names Leopold as the inventor of the Otis elevator (named after his butler)  I have no idea if any of this has any basis in reality but I was charmed nonetheless.Furthermore, there have been comments, I am sure repeated by the general critical establishment that Meg Ryan has passed her prime, but as what, a pretty face?  She remains a superb representation of feminity in the late 20th century.  And if she does not go beyond to other roles (although I suspect she will) she will still always hold that position.  There are few others to challenge her.  And besides, she's still gorgeous.  Funny and smart as well. "},{"Title":"horrible beyond horrible","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It was a real predictable movie. I mean like, HI i'm a guy from another century who went through a time portal and ended up in present time! I'm so dense that I keep saying stuff like Can I have the next coarse? and How does this work? and stuff like that, it's like, Mr.Century guy, hellooo, you're in another century, maybe things have.........changed!  "},{"Title":"You've already seen this movie","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  No really... you have. Maybe it wasn't called Kate & Leopold the last time you saw it. Maybe it didn't have a character from the 1800's in downtown NYC... but if you've seen any romantic comedy in the last 20 years (especially one staring Meg Ryan), you've seen this movie.K&L combines the elements of a romantic comedy (jaded career person has given up on finding love until they meet someone who restores their faith in love) and a fish out of water story (person is dropped in an alien world and has to adapt with hilarious consequences). It all seems oddly familiar.The best thing I can say about Kate & Leopold is that I always wondered what it would be like to be clairvoyant. After seeing this movie I know. The sad part is that they actually use some foreshadowing in this movie. It is totally unnecessary 5 minutes in you already can guess how it's going to end. 3/10  "},{"Title":"Typical Hollywood Hypocrisy","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Please do not misunderstand me, I did not hate this film while watching it...I only grew to hate it afterwards.There are some very good elements to Kate & Leopold...well, at least the elements that contained Hugh Jackman.  His recent body of work has proven him to be a very versatile actor and I thought he was very good in this film.  The story of his character has been told before, but Jackman made it extremely interesting, here.  There were even some fine non-Jackman moments, too.  The scene in which Liev Schreiber compared his discovery of the time portal to that of a dog seeing a rainbow was outstanding, as was the scene where Brecken Meyer finally mustered up the courage to call his dream-girl.  The audience could really feel the emotions of the moment, which is the ulimate goal of any actor.Despite the good qualities of this film, it is seriously flawed.  Notice that none of these elements include Meg Ryan.  I'm sorry, but this is the exact same character she has played for the past 15 years.  Nowadays, the cute-as-a-button, girl-nextdoor clearly has more than a few miles on her and the act is starting to wear a bit thin.  Also, the movie really started to drag.Nevertheless, I came to despise this movie because I realized that it is a perfect example of the holier-than-thou/do-as-I-say-but-not-as-I-do hypocrisy that we get from Hollywood all of the time. Last summer, Babra Striesand tells us in California that we need to conserve energy and hang our clothes out to dry, all the while her spokesperson acknowledged that she didn't mean that this applied to her.  Rosie O'Donnell preaches to us about the evils of gun ownership while she shills for K-Mart (one of the largest sellers of firearms in the country) and hires an armed bodyguard to watch her kid.  Or the many, many tv stars who tape the public service spots telling us how to raise our kids while not having any kids of their own OR leaving theirs with the help.  It is all pure hypocrisy. By now, I have no doubt lost you, but please stay with me.  You see, the message of this film was that we should have integrity and stay true to our vision.  Focus groups, polling and selling-out are terrible, terrible things because they cause us to stray from this vision, yet that is EXACTLY what the makers of this film did.  Here are some examples of scenes that were cut from the film just a few days before the release based on, you guessed it, data compiled from test audiences (AKA focus groups)**References suggesting that Kate has a genetic relationship to Stuart. (Audiences were uncomfortable with the fact that their romance was incestuous, even if only in a roundabout sort of way.)**A scene were Ryan appears in the background of a 19th century party.**A cameo by director James Mangold where he plays a director whose film is being changed to meet the demands of a test screening.  (After all, they were directly insulting the test audience!)Do you get it now?  After making a film that preaches to us about the evils of not staying true to your vision and pursuing the almight dollar, the producers assumed that their own sermon didn't apply to them. Typical Hollywood hypocrisy. "}{"Title":"Unforgivable factual error in otherwise charming romance","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed KATE AND LEOPOLD- it's a charming and romantic comedy. However, how could the writers have chosen LA BOHEME for the opera Leopold is thoroughly familiar with.  The opera premiered in 1896, fully twenty years after Leopold's 1876 time origin.The fact that the story and screenwriters didn't even bother to check dates for the opera they choose, but that no one from directors to performers on down in the production crew caught the error - is almost unbelievable. Jackman being British - one would think he'd be erudite enough to know this.Also how did a man from the nineteenth century with no access to money pay for the sumptuous dinner he throws for Kate on the roof?????Gaping holes in an otherwise well written and fun script. "},{"Title":"*****Spoilers*****  Entertaining but Unbelievable","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Well, this one is a nice ride, but there is very little there.  The director's cut (DVD)is definitely better, in my opinion, than the theatrical release was.  The romance was definitely intriguing, and I especially appreciated that it was not about sex!  (Too much of that in movies anyway.)  The comedy was well done, and most of the acting was very good, if not excellent.  Once again, though, it seems that Meg Ryan is playing.....Meg Ryan.  A good role, but overdone.  I haven't seen Signs of Life yet, so that may change my mind.  The main problem I had was in the continuity of the film.  James Mangold says in the commentary on the DVD that he did not want to confuse the audience with the Sci-Fi aspects of time travel, so he didn't spend a lot of time trying to explain it.  That's all well and good, but you need to think through it yourself before putting it into a movie.  It is central to the plot of the movie!  Without the time travel, Kate and Leopold never meet.  If they never meet, then there is no story!  How can Kate be in pictures taken by Stuart if she doesn't arrive in the past until after Stuart leaves the past?????  Why would a nurse risk her job and let Stuart out of the hospital over his dog and rainbow speech????  It was pretty lame (imaginative but not very coherent).Even if he didn't want to explain every nuance of time travel to his audience, Mr. Mangold should have thought through the specifics himself.  Maybe he didn't try to explain because he didn't get it himself?Anyway, a good romantic rental, but don't expect too much. "},{"Title":"Ugh.","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I cannot believe that I, a completely hopeless romantic, felt as though I had endured this film.  It is just plain bad.  I am easy when it comes to romantic/romantic comedy type films, but this one just isn't there.One is left to think about $15.00 expenditure to watch this film, while watching this film, because the film itself is sooooo boring, so lacking in romance(tough deal for a romantic comedy), so lacking in humor(again, tough deal for a romantic comedy).Meg Ryan is usually cute, fun, charming, and really enjoyable to watch. She looked weird in this film, and, frankly, her forever the  same role of the dimwhit blonde chick in search of ________ has really gotten old.  Maybe the reason she cannot get a date, is that people have seen this movie.  How sad, because I really love her in most movies.  Hopefully, her next will be better.The brother and the dog compete for the most enjoyable characters in this film.Wait for the video...and then wait until you can get it on a Two-for-Tuesday special. "},{"Title":"Swiss Cheese","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  That's all I could think of while I watched this movie.  Swiss cheese.  So absolutely full of holes and with only thin strands of bland script holding the holes together.  Hugh Jackman is good.  Professional, elegant, regally haughty but longing for a dream he's afraid is slipping away.  Meg Ryan, on the other hand, is one-dimensional, flat, unattractive (what's with that hair?) and bitter.  She's unable to even play her cute, vulnerable Meg Ryan stereotype when she delivers her would-be touching speech at the moment of her (totally unbelievable) truth.  Was this a complete script before paragraphs and pages were snipped out?  Was this a complete movie before holes were edited in?  And how does a 19th century duke, pampered since birth, know how to cook a meal?  And on 21st century appliances??Although watching Jackman is always an incredible pleasure, the next time I want swiss cheese I'll just go to the grocery store. "},{"Title":"A Touching Comedy. I Suggest You See It","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw ads for `Kate and Leopold,' I automatically knew that I wanted to see it, simply because Meg Ryan has been one of my favorite actresses for years. The funny thing is, when I stepped out of the theater, I also had a very high respect for Hugh Jackman as well. Throughout the whole movie, Jackman's portrayal of Leopold was charming, romantic, and politely witty. I believe that he was perfect for this role. Kate McKay is an executive at a marketing agency who is always busy with something, whether it's work, or the attempt to get over the loss of her long-term boyfriend, Stuart. When Stuart finds a time portal into the past, he has a chance to see things as they were in New York City 200 years ago. On one of his journeys back in time, he accidentally brings back a royal Duke from 1876 named Leopold. Unfortunately, Stuart falls down an elevator shaft and is laid up in the hospital. Now, Leopold has to get familiar with his new and strange surroundings alone. While doing so, he meets Kate's brother, Charlie, who helps him realize that his feelings for Kate are more then just ones of friends. After Leopold understands that his feelings for Kate are stronger than he had realized, the real love story begins. The sparks fly between the two until Stuart returns home and insists that Leopold returns back to where he came from. This movie has the perfect blend of every emotion. I laughed, I cried, and I was touched so deeply, because as the tagline says they are perfect for each other. I suggest seeing this movie. If your taste in movies is like mine (and I have never really met a movie that I didn't like) then I know that you'll love it. Kate & Leopold. Great Movie!  "},{"Title":"Perfect Escapism in an Imperfect World","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Kate & Leopold provides a perfect afternoon (or evening!) escape from the real world. Meg Ryan plays Kate to a t and Hugh Jackman is the hunk from the past that has us sighing with pleasure. I heartily recommend this movie to anyone who dreams of the long-ago polite society and chivalry and wishes to be in it for a couple of hours! "},{"Title":"My family and I found it to be a charming film and Hugh Jackman is worth every minute of it.","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  My family enjoyed this film enough to make a repeat visit to see it again! What a charming story in this age of super technology.  We've recommended it to all our friends!  Hugh Jackman gives a wonderful performance as an 'out of his time' hero- Check it out! "},{"Title":"Hugh Jackman is WONDERFUL! Meg lovely, and film is full of grace.","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was more delightful than I had thought.  I was afraid I might be overdosed with too much sugar, but there was just enough of the right elements in it, and I could have used considerably more of Hugh Jackman. He has a manly, quiet presence unlike anyone on the screen today.  We haven't seen anything yet of this tall, breathtaking leading man, who has shown in previous films he can play American better than most Americans.  Here he is a combination of Grant, Cooper, and Stewart, but something strictly on his own.  Every possible quality a HUGE star should have he does and more, it's called a grace, a presence, elegance, and thank God he's over 5'10 for a change.  Meg is perfect in this, adorable as usual, and well, the chemistry is there, and if you are female you wish you were her.  The screenplay has just enough of everything as does the directing, they knew with Meg they couldn't miss in this, but with Hugh Jackman aboard, they aced the casting and make something a woman only dreams about, and he is all man up there. Lovely, lovely, lovely film, escape for any couple on a date, and reminder of what love can be.  Thanks for this one, it's a breath of fresh air from heavy biopics, and overused visual effects films.  Now to see Hugh in a serious drama on his own, and then....more, and more, and more..... If one woman can walk away from this film not in love with this actor, I would like to meet her, she needs help, serious help. "},{"Title":"Let you girlfriend drag you to see this one.","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie your girlfriend will want to drag you to see. Let her so that you can rack up a few points with her and you might like it to boot. The movie is advertised as a romance but it is more like a `science fiction romance' involving time travel. Actually, the story line is more from the view of Leopold so it is more a man's story. So, if you like time-travel movies you will most probably like this one.SPOILER BELOW WARNING.A very interesting thing about this movie is the general release was delayed because the producers made an emergency change to remove something the audiences did not like in the previews. As you watch it ask yourself why Kate's old boyfriend went back in time to see Leopold? I have reversed the sentence of the answer for you to unscramble after you see it rehtafdnarg taerg sih si dlopoeL. "},{"Title":"another sensational meg ryan movie","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I'll admitt it- i'm a huge meg ryan fan.  However, didn't just go to see this movie for that reason alone.  It also appeared to be a great romantic comedy. And my assumptions were correct.  Hugh Jackman and Meg Ryan deliver a steller performance and the on screen chemistry will blow your mind.  I don't know the name of the actor- but the guy who played Kate's brother- Charlie- was an excellent supporting character.  You just loved him the second he came on screen.  This is a great date movie and family movie.  The ending is a little predictable but it's the only ending that would fit and make the ending happy.  This is an aweasome movie that I encourage EVERYONE to see.   "}{"Title":"even worse than I had expected (","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The problems with this flick pretty much doom it despite a few good performances.  I saw it in a theater of about 90% college women, they hardly laughed at all, and they didn't like it either.  The same audience liked Bridget Jones's Diary better, and at least that was more entertaining.  The director needs to reevaluate their career, and so does the writer.  The whole time travel element was done well and appropriately for a romantic comedy.  Leopold's disaffection for the status quo in 1876 makes headway, but is unable to save this mess from 'death by chick flick.'  I felt embarrassment for those involved with this attempt.  The heavy pre release advertising only confirms that the studio knows they are not going to be getting any positive word of mouth.Meg Ryan plays Meg Ryan with all the skill and diversity of Freddie Prinz Jr.  It was painful to watch her scenes.  Hugh Jackman does well playing the stock character of Leopold, but it was too predictable and flat of a story for any real performing.  Breckin Meyer as Charlie the brother of Kate, was the one supporting character that saved it from being a total bomb.  His scenes, and those of Roebling's mighty erection are about the only worth while parts of the flick.  Natasha Lyonne did well as Kate's lackey assistant Darci, and almost seemed as desperate to prop up this flick as to prop up her boss.Do not waste your time or money on this!*It is very unusual to alter a movie AFTER it has been publicly viewed.  They are taking out the ancestor connection between Stuart and Leopold, so that Stuart didn't date his great great grandmother for 4 years.  They will also remove the scene with the films producer 'or' director where he argues with Kate about the results of a focus group of a film in the movie. That scene was the best scene in the movie, and critical for Kate's later action. "},{"Title":"This is the best time I've had at the movies in all of 2001.","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Hugh Jackman is so utterly charming, honest, and sexy as Leopold that he easily carries this film.  Meg Ryan and the rest of the supporting cast are also very good (if you can get past Meg's unflattering hair-style!).  A thoroughly enjoyable romantic comedy with a sci-fi twist!  I'm looking forward to taking my 72-year-old Mom to see it (who will love it!) so that I'll be able to see it again too! "},{"Title":"Great Romantic Comedy","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I was lucky enough to catch the sneak preview last night of this film. Since I've been with my wife, I've seen more than my fair share of romantic comedies and this is really one of the better ones.  There were lots of opportunities for this film to become too cheesy which thankfully did not. I was even waiting for the music to get goofy or silly and it also didn't - it stayed respectable and appropriate.  I know I'm not going into plot details here, but this is one of the better romantic comedies that I've seen and it also had a Somewhere in Time feel to it for fans of that movie. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Uh, whew that Hugh!","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Hugh Jackman carries this delightful romantic comedy, yes, a real romantic comedy with a grace I have not seen since a Cary Grant or Gregory Peck. This is a man, folks, a real one, and it comes through all the lines, and he gracefully convinces me he is who the film portrays.  Before I knew it this movie was over, and I was left wanting to see more of Kate and Leopold. Meg was as cute as she has ever been and had moments that even made me cry a bit, for I felt for the Duke what she felt.  The script was had a beautiful lack of lewdness to it, and if the sneak preview is anything like the showing, there were as many woman sighing and men laughing as I have heard in a comedy in years.  Thank goodness someone can write without the toilet jokes, and with crisp dialogue.  I came out of the film thinking, Okay, it's been a while since we've had a Pretty Woman, but this time it's for the ladies.  Jackman is going to be a major, major star and every leading man in Hollywood better look over their shoulder and shake because this guy is a triple threat, he's stunning, he can act rings around anyone, and he is big, larger than life 6' 2 man.  He's got my $ 9.00 and so will Kate and Leopold again, it's a perfect date movie.  Now I hope I don't sigh when my husband is there next weekend, I just couldn't get enough of Leopold.  "},{"Title":"makes it through unscathed","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Kate and Leopold made it through the traps which befall many a romantic comedy.  None of the jokes fell flat.  The whole audience enjoyed it.  It was just a peice of cotton candy for the mind.  Hugh Jackman gets better everytime and Breckin Meyer does fabulously in his minor role as Meg Ryan's wannabe actor brother.  Although Meg's looks left a little to be desired for (mostly she looked like an admiral in the navy with much to much makeup)she is her adorable self, pulling through in a piece familiar to her style.Overall, on the romantic comedy scale, 8/10.  Worth seeing in the theatre but just as good as a rental.  But don't miss it, that's for sure. "},{"Title":"Simply beautiful!!!","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Kate & Leopold is a movie with it all - comedy, drama, regrets, joy - of course, with the so-beautiful Meg Ryan to light up that screen, the story is vibrant and heartfelt.  At first I wondered if the references to Leopold coming from 1876 might have been a mistake, because his clothing looks more like the Revolutionary War period.  But the film is set in 1876 and today - Meg, you never looked better!  Excellent date movie - and perfect placement of the classic Henry Mancini Moon River in the soundtrack!  Highly recommend --- "},{"Title":"A fun bit of fluff","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Kate & Leopold is the cinematic equivalent of comfy flannel pajamas and a hot cup of cocoa.  Hugh Jackman has the female swoon factor pegged and Meg Ryan is...well...Meg Ryan.Look for great supporting performances from Bradley Whitford, Liev Schreiber and Breckin Meyer.  The exchange between Jackman and Meyer over the dishwasher was a personal high point. "},{"Title":"not bad, not bad at all","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  i saw this film tonight at a sneak preview at my college tonight.  i must say i went in quite skeptical.  i must also say i was pleasantly surprised on some levels.  the film's first half is quite funny and entertaining with the way hugh jackman reacts to the present day.  the second half is more of a traditional love story, but the ending finishes up the movie quite nicely. this, while being an original story in a not so original genre, turned out to be one of the few movies i saw this year that i did not leave disappointed.  this is a good date movie to say the least. comedy for him and romance for her.  i rightly suggest it, you'll surely leave with a smile. "},{"Title":"Fantastic script!","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" About nine years down the track, I finally got to see this. And came from the DVD player to check a few things. Then read several pages of reviews.Sheesh! The complaints about Meg's hair -- what makes anyone think it was her choice? A movie is a collaboration of many who make choices for the role. Clue J.J.'s line about Kate being manly (paraphrase).A lot of nitpicking of this and that, and so far as I read, no one recognized that the script was superb crisp dialogue, great pace and timing, all characters' lines in character. What's not to like? I wonder if any of the history experts were aware that Roebling had ten bridge projects -- and the one that led to the Brooklyn Bridge was done across the Ohio River to Cincinnati, Ohio, in 1866? Lastly, this is a film that was supposed to be fun -- and it was. For me, anyway, "},{"Title":"The Lovely Kate and Leopold","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" It is only when one releases themselves from the chains of reality and cynicism, does one know how to appreciate this light hearted film.It shows how easily manners and appreciation of time and (of all things) food can be so easily forgotten and that, like all romantic comedies, true love can only be achieved by overstepping that boundary, that leap of faith and that overwhelming feeling that no matter how absurd, it still feels right.One of the better experiences of such a film is the ongoing feeling that once we see the two main characters who we want to fall in love, we forget that there is this plot line in the background. It is when the film allows us to ignore it for only a moment does a film within this genre succeeds.I love this film, and because of it, my respect for Meg Ryan had been restored, after having it been tarnished by poor casting in Proof of life. Which, in my opinion, was not suited for her. I will also disagree that Meg Ryan has lost her appeal from being type casted. I believe that if this type of role suits her, then as long as an audience can be comfortable with that role and not be annoyed by her casting being a sore thumb, then I will enjoy her performance.All in all, a wonderful film.Leo "}{"Title":"The Boy From Oz Excels Again","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" For any fan of Hugh Jackman, I definitely suggest this funny, romantic and well-thought movie. Some people may disregard it for its predictability but isn't that the case for any romance movie? Meg Ryan, perhaps, is getting too old for such a role but her performance was still of a high standard that I really enjoyed. Liev Schreiber was also superb and I loved his comic take on his role; purposeful or by accident. Also, as Meg Ryan's almost there actor brother, Breckin Meyer also excelled- and possibly needed more screen time. However, if there was any downside to this movie, it would certainly be the lack of detail concerning the whole time travel idea on which the whole movie rests upon. This aside, Kate and Leopold is yet another fantastic Hugh Jackman movie for fans of both romantic comedies and the gorgeous Australian actor.Although, for those few people out there who turn their noses up at a light, enjoyable movie- I direct this to you. A movie is a movie, and in most cases a movie is made purely to entertain; rarely concealing a deeper meaning or whatever some of you may be looking for. As for the entertainment side of things; I honestly find it fantastic and a great movie to sit down and watch on one of those days P. Oh! And for those who, quite bizarrely, refused to enjoy simple because of the casting- Hugh Jackman was superb, as was every other actor in this movie regardless of screen time (my only exception being Liev Schreiber).Lastly, just on a happy note- Kate and Leopold, although you may not like to admit it, is just one of those movies that gets better and better every time you see it; so why not rent it out and see for yourself D "},{"Title":"Cute, light, fluffy","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Cute, light, fluffy. This movie doesn't make any pretenses of being smart or provocative or intelligent. It's not going to be a classic, win any awards, or stay on anyone's memorable list for any length of time.But it was fun, entertaining, standard escapist fare. Nothing wrong with that. Both Meg Ryan and Hugh Jackman are good actors and are entertaining as a couple with fairly decent chemistry. The plot is fairly ludicrous, but the on-screen romance is fun. Bradley Whitford has a good small part as Meg Ryan's obnoxious boss - very different from the role he plays on the West Wing.To quote from the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, we can pretty much sum up this movie in two words Mostly Harmless. "},{"Title":"Excellent, fun, enjoyable, romantic comedy.. perfect to reduce stress and relax, in other words, decent quality entertainment","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed it. No, it's not Great Cinema but it's also not garbage... as so much is, stuff that plays to the lowest common denominator, sight gags, slapstick, bathroom humor. None of that. It was funny, it was witty, the acting was good, the actors did a decent job, and it's a great date movie or something that you know will end well.I realize there is a movement to have all movies end badly, since life ends badly and movies should therefore reflect life. Rubbish. There's enough stress in life; we don't have to have it in all of our entertainment -- I don't find stress entertaining. Something more realistic may be educational (for example, anything by Michael Moore is excellent and I can't wait to see his newest, just released) but I don't classify it as entertainment -- I class it as educational satire frightening (when you see the facts, you get scared for the future of this country) but you see what I mean. Kate and Leopold was fun.. it deserves a higher average score than that which it has been given thus far. There are so many BIG budget garbage movies that rely solely on special effects and are considered great and fantastic -- this movie relied on acting.It's like the difference between a Sidney Sheldon or similar garbage novel -- what's her name, the woman who writes all those horrible romance type novels.. that sort of thing is NOT entertainment because it's so poorly done.. ah, Danielle Steele -- that's truly trash. This movie ISN'T the cinematic equivalent of Danielle Steele, it's far better than that. It's not the Jane Austen either -- lol, but it's between the two. Good, fun, well-acted, not trash, enjoyable entertainment.And that's all it purported to be. And so, on that basis, I give it a high score. It's not pretentious, it's not trash, the acting is good.. what's NOT to like? If you're judging it on the basis of superb realistic cinema then of course, you'll grade it low. Or if you're looking for explosions and stupidity, then you'll grade it low because you won't get it. But if you understand that it's simply an enjoyable, but well-done, piece of romantic comedy, meant to relieve us of stress for a couple of hours, and make us smile, then you'll get it, and enjoy it.. we need more movies that are not trash, that are decently well acted, and that are lots of fun.Hmmm.. speaking of Meg Ryan, did anyone catch a film in which she acted OUT of her usual type-cast... she was an angry woman, because her French lover had basically used her to get his papers to stay in the country.. she appeared in it with Matthew Broderick... ADDICTED TO LOVE. Now THAT was hysterically funny.If you want to see Meg Ryan in a completely different sort of role, and really funny, you'll like that one. It too is intelligent and fun cinema.. also romantic comedy, but with more of a dramatic edge to it.  "},{"Title":"Why bother?","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Mild SpoilersWhy bother with the time travel thing?  The so-called science of it is murky and unconvincing and it doesn't do a thing for the plot.  They may as well have had Hugh Jackman as a modern upper-class Englishman coming to New York and the effect would have been the same; he would have been just as offended by the crassness of the advertising business without having to have come from another century, for Pete's sake.  They didn't even capitalize much on the fish-out-of-water angle.  It seemed like no time before Leopold was comfortable using the toaster and the telephone and wearing modern clothes.Why did they bother?  Out of sheer desperation to try to inject this run-of-the-mill, chemistry-free, Julia Roberts reject of a vehicle with a little pizzazz, but to no avail.  Take away jumping off the bridge and you've got Sleepless with the Duke of Albany.  Meg Ryan is getting a little long in the tooth to keep on playing the ditsy ingenue who needs to be told by a strong man that deep down she really does want love over independence.  And are we supposed to buy the notion that a woman with a choppy haircut who wears men's suits and strides around her glass-walled office building waving her arms in the air will really find lifelong happiness wearing a corset and tidying the knick-knacks as a 19th century housewife?Rating 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It has its moments, but...","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  WARNING! THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS!This movie definitely has some strong points, the main one being Hugh Jackman who was great as the charming but confused Leopold. There are also a couple of great supporting characters, mainly Stuart and Charlie. I particulary liked Leopold's giving Charlie courting advice and Stuart's speech about the dog finding a rainbow. But there were a couple of really, really huge problems. The first is Meg Ryan's character. For about the first half of the film she is incredibly bitchy and annoying, and then all of a sudden she is sugary sweet and cutesy enough to make you want to throw up. Still, I kind of went along with the romance, mainly because of Jackman...and then the second big problem comes into play - the ending. Why would any woman in her right mind willingly travel back to a period when women had absolutely no rights? I know, I know, it's a romantic comedy, there has to be a happy ending or there will be rioting in the theaters (although I think a bittersweet ending would have worked fine), but couldn't the writers have found another way to achieve it that wouldn't send such an awful message? After Kate traveled back to the past, couldn't the two of them have traveled back to the future together before the porthole closed? Leopold seemed happier in modern New York anyway, and Kate could have solved her unhappiness on the job by finding a more fulfilling career. It's frustrating to see such a potentially charming movie so unecessarily messed up. "},{"Title":"Out of the past, into the future.","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The previous films by James Mangold have been small triumphs for the director, who hasn't worked in a big budget feature with stars and the power of the Weinteins from Miramax behind him.It came as a very pleasant surprise to see this enjoyable and entertaining film make it big with a Christmas release date. Mr. Mangold proves he has what it takes to make it in Hollywood as he demonstrated before in the independent film circuit.This is a story of discoveries. For Leopold, the future, he hasn't even imagined to be like this. For Kate, the jaded advertising executive, is to observe the charming qualities in a true nobleman with impeccable manners and charm to disarm her.The interaction between Meg Ryan and Hugh Jackman works here very well and they fill the screen with style and flair. The rest of the cast is very good and blend well with the stars. Liv Schreiber very effective as the neighbor. Brekin Meyer, as Kate's brother is every sister's dream come true, nice but never obnoxious.This is a feel good film, not too brainy or contrived so one can forget one's troubles. It lets you sit back and have a nice time at the movies. "},{"Title":"Interesting concept, bad movie","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" If you read any of my other reviews, you will see I've chosen only to comment on movies I loved.Here's my first exception in the four years I've begun writing movie reviews here.This is one of those movies women think will be so charming and romantic. If they are not very sophisticated, this clunker of a movie may actually meet their expectations. For the rest of us, disappointment is what awaits us.What ruins a movie like this for me is the implausibility of the lead male actor falling in love with the female lead actor. The attraction is cloyingly forced. It's not believable, and that is just the kiss of death for the viewer who is too many times asked to suspend disbelief. If we don't believe in the attraction between the co-stars, the movie fails.This plot failure is what ruined the Freddie Prinz movie, She All That. Just as Meg Ryan's character couldn't possibly attract Leopold, Rachel Leigh Cook was so bristlingly unpleasant that Freddie Prinze's love interest in her is absurd. You can practically see the script being read out loud.Leopold (Hugh Jackman) plays a nineteenth century nobleman and inventor who gets transported to the 21st century. For some inexplicable reason, he takes a romantic interest in the very modernized, workaholic, stressed-out Kate (Meg Ryan). Perhaps Kate's modernity and sassy ways could initially be of some transitory curiosity to the refined Leopold, but a romantic attraction is more than I could force myself to believe.To be blunt, Kate is not exactly a prize. To be even more frank, Meg Ryan does not look very good in this movie. Add to this the fact that her character doesn't have that many good personal qualities (etiquette, grooming, taste, style, manners, etc.), and our ability to accept the implausible is stretched too thin.It's not until you've seen a movie like this that you appreciate how good other concept movies are. The Butterfly Effect with Ashton Kutcher is an outstanding movie that has to do with traveling through time.Travelling through time? Kate & Leopold just plods along, and wastes our time. . . . **Addition added January 16, 2009** I first started writing these reviews in 2005. Sometimes three years went by without even one thumbs up or down on a review. So now I just regularly ask people to rate it. I'm just curious how many people read these reviews. "},{"Title":"Mindless Fairy Tale  With Zero Common Sense","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I had to watch Kate and Leopold with two minds, and keep shoving one of them back into its rational hole.Primarily, Ozzie Hugh Jackman (here as a Brit) is, as the fictional market research focus group in the movie put it, a hunk. At least this is better than his previous Hollywood forays.Poor Liev Schreiber only gets one good speech, and he does it quite well. Meg is Meg (though one would have thought her character could have handled sexual harassment better).Here's the buts -- Happy Accidents is a similar and much better movie. Advertising and market research is a hackneyed target for criticism of the modern world. Jack Finney's Time and Again (and almost any of his tales) are a similar and much better story -- and far more historically accurate. I had to keep wincing on how the mattes and the editing got both old and new New York all wrong, even mixing up Manhattan and Brooklyn Heights, Downtown and Uptown, as if Madison Avenue was just off the Brooklyn Bridge. Funny how modern times bothered the Duke -- but not modern women's slight clothing or sexual mores, though the sex is off-screen (I expect Kate would be more bothered by 1876 plumbing and pre-feminism). And that's after the director edited out the implausibilities that the critics plotzed about at the previews or dealing with when La Boheme or Pirates of Penzance were first performed.Not only are the music selections not special, but it oddly relies on Henry Mancini's Moon River theme from Breakfast at Tiffanys to put the two characters in the mood - what does that have to do with a 19th century duke? If you can keep silly common sense out of your head, the movie is a sweet chick flick.(originally written 12/29/2001) "},{"Title":"Meg should throw in the towel","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Meg Ryan in a romantic comedy?  Say it isn't so!  Unfortunately the answer is 'yes'.  Kate is a woman unlucky in love.  She has a great job, a nice apartment by Manhattan standards and is rapidly climbing up the ladder of success.  Of course now a days, that is what women want - oh no, not according to this movie.  Successful woman really just want to be wined and dined and travel back in time to where they had no rights to vote, work, own property, smoke in public, drink at all or even open up their mouths to say 'no' - even if they did, their husbands had the legal, yes legal, right to beat them in public.  And if their husbands didn't do it, other men present were allowed and saw it as their civic duty. Yeah, sure, this is what you build a rom-com on in 2001.  The cliches are a-flyin' here people more fast and furious than room full of brides-to-be running through a bridal store going-out-of-buisness sale.  Brecken Meyer is good, Liev Schrieber is solid, Jackman is on the ball and the best part of this movie, and poor Meg looks like she left half her body wieght back in South America on the POL set. She has done this so many times before, even SHE looks bored to death. The historical inaccuracies are laughable because they are so easy to research and correct.  Doesn't look like a lot of thought was put into this puppy, I am sad to say.  How modern woman can watch this and walk away with a feel good glow is hard to understand.  Why you ask? Because I find the idea of a modern woman throwing away all that her fellow women in the past fought for just to have a man a sad premise to build a rom-com on.  My 3x's great-grandmother was a suffragette, and my granny is turning in her grave fast and furious.  "},{"Title":"An adorable romantic comedy with a time travel twist","Date":"9 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Critics of this film need to give it a rest. No the plot is not fantastic. But what romcom is? We don't watch them because they are so fabulously written (maybe with a few notable exceptions). We watch them because they make us happy. We watch them because they give us hope. And in that vein, Kate and Leopold has done a fantastic job. I would also like to applaud the producers of this film for being creative. When I say that other romantic comedies are unrealistic, I find it annoying that many of them at least act as though they are depicting the lives of normal humans and fail miserably. This film does not pretend to be anything it's not. It's unrealistic because it contains time travel, an idea which is actually refreshingly original. The charm of the movie is further amplified by Hugh Jackman's phenomenal acting. I love a good story about someone who time travels and has to adjust to a new time. Jackman does this flawlessly and adds to the overall appeal of the movie, not only with his good looks and perfect accent, but also with his ability to perfectly portray the character. "}{"Title":"a compromise","Date":"27 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" a compromise between old fashion romantic comedy and the contemporary pink films. so, the basic virtue remains the balance between worlds. like the story. the atmosphere of fairy tale lost in every day reality is an easy and not comfortable solution. and this detail explain the cast. and the motif of time travel. and the humor. and the need to remind the source of meeting. but many of exercises to do credible the subject are far by success. and the strong pillar remains the same Meg Ryan who, like in other occasions, is the ideal choice for save the romantic atmosphere. it is a charming film, great for escape by common temptations/errors of genre. it is a seductive story about a man and a woman, a not ordinary meeting and the final option. all in the right package. "},{"Title":"Time Travel Formula.","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Kate and Leopold (2001) Dir James Mangold / Cast Hugh Jackman, Meg Ryan, Liev Schreiber, Breckin Meyer, Natasha Lyonne Practically the same movie as Just Visiting only perhaps more captivating. Hugh Jackman stars as a Duke who is set to choose a wife for his kingdom when he notices a peculiar stranger. He follows him through a portal to present day. He is bewildered until he meets the stranger played by Liev Schreiber who is an inventor, and his ex-girlfriend played by Meg Ryan. Though it makes little sense even for the stretch of the imagination, it is an interesting choice for director James Mangold who previously made Cop Land and the overrated Girl Interrupted. Mangold counters the preposterous elements of the story by concentrating of characters with likable qualities. Jackman is charming as he tries to relate to present day culture. Ryan is smart and witty as Kate who is curious with regards to Leopold but is heading to an ending that is hardly satisfactory. Schreiber rises above the nonsense of the plot with humour in tact although how he created the portal is a rather dim plot device. Breckin Meyer steals scenes as Ryan's actor brother who learns much from Leopold particularly about romancing a female he is interested in. Other characters unfortunately play to the stereotypes of the genre. As with Just Visiting, it is a romantic comedy about traces of love through time. Score 5  / 10 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable - but with a fatal flaw","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" As many do, in fantasy, one must suspend disbelief in order to enjoy the unfolding of the story. But, when there is an essence of Science Fiction - ie - time travel, then there also needs to be a careful use of fact to validate the fiction.In this case, three failures occur - the first is the insistence of a 200 year gap between the time of Leopold and that of Kate - - when, at most, we are dealing with about 125 years. The second, and more troubling in that it is unnecessary, is the plot point concerning the discussion of music. La Boheme While the script did, before the end of the scene catch the import of the language of the opera being in Italian, though set in France, it did not take into account that the opera was not written until 20 years after (1896) Leopold's journey into the future. In addition, there was a discussion of Pirates of Penzance as well - - with Leopold familiar enough to play the accompaniment on piano while he and Charlie are singing Model Major General. Leopold is supposed to have jumped in 1876 - - and Penzance did not premiere until 1879.Finally, the perfection of the modern elevator by Elijah Otis was in 1852 - not sometime after 1876 as implied in the movie - - and by that time, the concept would have been well known. "},{"Title":"comfortable","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" romanticism in pure form. seductive performance by Hugh Jackman. Meg Ryan in her long time role. not very coherent but comfortable. seductive, nice, mixture of fairy tale - the expected prince is only duke - and history. nothing great but interesting because it escapes from many romance clichs, despite the not care for the fast adaptation to the XXI century for the poor Leopold. in many scenes, it seems be the film of one actor and that fact covers many errors of scriptwriter and impose the film as classic. nice and comfortable. that is Kate & Leopold. almost a fresh air because it is not only a romantic story but a seductive modern fairy tale. so, see it ! it could be a kind of soup for soul. "},{"Title":"A Matter of Style or Simply Good Looks?","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" In this movie, a tall, good-looking aristocrat from the nineteenth century goes through a time portal and ends up in the twenty-first century. He meets a woman named Kate, and befriends her brother Charlie, who is a funny-looking little-guy. Leopold and Charlie end up one evening at a nightclub, where they sit at a table with some beautiful women. Charlie tries his best to amuse the ladies, getting nowhere, while Leopold just sits there being the strong, silent type. Later, as they are walking home, Leopold tells Charlie that he is a Merry Andrew, a clown, and that is why he gets nowhere with women.Now, I guarantee you that if Leopold had acted like a Merry Andrew, and Charlie had just sat there being silent, it would still have been Leopold whom the women were wanting. In fact, the movie might have been more interesting had the actors switched parts. If Charlie had been tall and good looking, but was a flop with the ladies, while Leopold had been a funny-looking little-guy who succeeded with women on account of his Victorian manners and aristocratic demeanor, then that might have been interesting. Not realistic, but interesting. As it was, the hapless Charlie, whom fate had provided a plain face and small stature, had to endure the additional insult of being told by a man both handsome and well-built that he is doing it wrong. "},{"Title":"Loved it!!!","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I have always been lured by the things of past- the era that was the language- those ornamental, flowery words of 'my lord's and 'my lady's, the mannerisms, fashion and stories. I always enjoy and look forward to visiting palaces, reading historic fiction, and discover tales and legends of the past.Loved Kate and Leopold- the movie, the characters, the plot, everything. Who wouldn't fall in love with a Duke from the past, and his overtly courteous manners, even though a bit exaggerated for the real world? It was such a sweet story, and kind of a fairy tale- I love fairy tales. I so much hope and wish and dream that portals were for real, and loopholes did exist in time!I love time travel. "},{"Title":"Little mistake in the review","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Agree perfectly with the review about how Leopold adapted promptly with out questioning the many commodities there are in the 21 century.But nonetheless its kate's ex boyfriend who travels in time and not her brother.In order to submit this review I have to write minimal ten lines.I will do this by complimenting Hugh Jackman for his performance. I always liked his acting, and as in The Prestige, Jackman is credible as a nobleman.No use to stress out the mistakes or plot holes that can be found while watching this romantic comedy. I don't like movie critics in general cause I believe they don't have taste (that doesn't mean they are always wrong). In Latin you say de gustibus non disputandum est roughly translated as tastes are not disputable cause each individual has his own. Obviously this movie is not perfect, but why should one spoil some others people experience in watching a movie.I liked the movie and would have done it different. More I won't tell. Do you like romantic comedies? Than you should probably try this out. "},{"Title":"Successfully keeps 1 foot in historical romance and 1 in modern romance","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Beautifully acted with grace and sincerity by Hugh Jackman, this film brings the charm of historical romances and intertwines it into today's modern love stories.Yes, you must suspend disbelief in this movie, as with any other work of fiction. The fun of this movie is taking classic and modern archetypes and turning them on their heads. Leopold (Jackman) is an aristocrat but one with a passion for science. He seeks to break free from the constraints of societal conventions in 19th century New York. Meanwhile, Kate (Meg Ryan) has pushed to break out from traditional female roles. As her boss J.J. (Bradley Whitford) comments, You're a rarity among women, Kate. You don't cling to illusion. You don't get caught up in emotion. You don't do pretty. You skew male. You're like a man. A man who understands women - their desires, their needs. You understand them but you're not really one of them. Some people may need to justify a romantic comedy in order to give it value. If that is the case, note that this story is about two people who are struggling with conventions and have lost their own identities in the process. Flailing at opposite ends of the spectrum, Kate provides Leopold with the inspiration to break from conventions and be true to himself while Leopold provides Kate with the safety and security to allow her guard down and be true to her own femininity. There is a greater thematic meaning to this film beyond simple love. It is about the pressures of society, how success can seem tied to having to conform to societal conventions, how we lose ourselves in the pressure and how relationships with others can ground us and help us find ourselves amidst the mle of societal forces.Although the story of Kate & Leopold's romance is the center of the film, it is not the only relationship which provides a grounding force. Kate's relationship with her upstairs neighbor and former beau, Stuart, who remains an intimate friend despite her bitterness and her relationship with her brother, Charlie, provide her with the strength to face the unknown and the security to take a chance on love. For Leopold, it is his manservant, Otis, who plays the role of father while Charlie and Stuart are also renewed in their relationship with Leopold. Surely, this is not just a romantic comedy but a story about the relationships in our lives and struggles against societal conventions.The highest praise I can give this movie is that I purchased it - a rare occurrence. I do not see the point of owning something unless I am willing to watch it many times over. It was the first and one of 6 movies I own.Hugh Jackman's acting is charming, sincere and genuine. My reaction was Wow! What a great actor. He made it easy to believe in his character.Sometimes I find Meg Ryan a bit rough but that was the purpose of her tough, manly facade. This is what makes the moments she lets her guard down and becomes a woman so special.Enjoy it as a fun love story or listen to the deeper themes of integrity and compassion. Either way... the cinematography is gorgeous, particularly as it juxtaposes new and old New York; the costumes are delightful; the music is passionate.One warning - BYPASS THE DIRECTOR'S CUT. It muddles the story with a bizarre choice of familial intertwining. I watched it once with someone who had never seen the theatrical version - yuck! It spoiled the movie for me and the other person missed the magic of the original cut. STICK TO THE ORIGINAL. "},{"Title":"Most unlovable  movie of lovely Meg","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Considering the fairy-tale nature of this movie, I found the character played by Meg Ryan totally misplaced. The woman she's playing is nosy, rude, aggressive and rather hysterical. Not even a hint of grace or loveliness about her. I think the reaction of a true gentleman for such unwomanly woman would have been contempt (or even pity), rather than falling for such a witch. On top of that, Kate's wardrobe is appalling. OK, she's supposed to be a non-feminine type, but this does not mean that she has to dress like a nun (always dark colours and horrendous white shirts). Even the gown she wear at the end is depressingly grey. Was this woman also supposed to be colour blind? Finally those straight limp strands forever falling on her face drag her features down, making her seem older. I usually enjoy Meg's movies (also the serious ones, like Flesh and blood) but this one was a flat-out, predictable, disappointing movie. If you enjoy Meg's comedies, watch You've got mail, Sleepless in Seattle or When Harry met Sally instead, or my very favourite Addicted to love, where she's also playing a character more sour than her usual ones, but at least one with some sense of humour and a GREAT wardrobe. "},{"Title":"Lovely advertising for OTIS elevators&#133;","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie delicately unfolds a compelling romance. Writing compelling romances means leaving details to the imagination. So I never try to analyze the history or the background aspects of it. Just enjoy the coincidences and the sweet romance. Simply let yourself be swept away by the classic gentleness of the English gentleman. Perhaps that's why I find Hugh Jackman extremely attractive in this movie.The final timeline somehow reminded me of terminator 1, where a future man returned to the past to be with the woman whose picture he fell in love with to give birth to the future key person that started the whole terminator sequel. While this movie had it reversed, where the romance started from a series of coincidences that brought a future woman to the past to be with the man she fell in love with as a result of all these coincidences, and stopped at that.I simply love the romance and the frequent laughters that it can bring. "}{"Title":"an incredible romantic comedy","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I found this movie to be an incredibly witty and romantic production. I found it in no way insulting to women. The characters are very charming. The McKay's are witty and funny, and Jackman's character is just downright romantic. Before I saw it I thought the idea of the movie was too absurd, and I almost didn't watch it. But in a way, the storyline is so unrealistic that it makes one almost wish to be apart of it, because it could never happen. There is something about the love match which keeps one on the edge of one's seat. I found myself rooting for the main characters the entire time. I absolutely loved this movie. It's definitely on my favorites list. "},{"Title":"OK, yay for Leopold.","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" But I just have to say, it's really fun watching Hugh Jackman throughout this silly romantic comedy which I quite enjoyed.There seems to be something wrong with Meg's makeup - it's kind of gray and isn't applied to accent Meg's good features. I've been trying to figure out if some bitter envious queen in the makeup department sabotaged it; but then it would have had to have been a conspiracy because her hair's kind of bad too.I laughed and cried; although I was sometimes surprised that I was laughing and crying.Sometimes the Hollywood formula does work. "},{"Title":"Enchanting Romantic Comedy","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" At first glance, this film seemed like an very odd choice. I normally would not have watched a movie with this synopsis. However, Breckin Meyer being my favorite actor, the fact that I had not seen him in this role finally got to me. What a found was an extremely enchanting modern day fairy tale. Basic elements of romanticism and 'family' were enhanced through the supernatural aspects of the film, which is something I find rare. Common themes, such as finding yourself within another and thinking outside of the norm, were certainly uniquely displayed within the film. I'm not suggesting this title is for everyone. On the other hand, don't be so fast to pass it up. "},{"Title":"Superb Romance Movie (spoiler)","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful romantic movie. I loved this time-travel idea and it's proof that this can be done without making any of the characters look overly stupid.Hugh Jackman is charming (dashing?) in the role of the perfect gentleman (Leopold) that i think most women still wish to meet. Meg Ryan is re-doing her single woman looking for the right man and needs a better hairdo, but she plays Kate well. However, it took the excellent chemistry between these two, the well-written parts of the other actors, and comedy to make this movie superb!Leopold falls for Kate while winning her love through his good manners and proper courting. I especially love the part where Leopold says, . . . that love is a leap but I sadly have never been inclined to jump. (If that's not a direct quote, it's awfully close.)However, there is a point that you honestly think she's ending it! You're not sure if she's going to change her mind until she literally LEAPS for love.  "},{"Title":"Fabulous!","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I am completely enchanted with this movie. I love a lot of Meg Ryan's movies, but I've never been particularly fond of Hugh Jackman. However, Jackman's performance in this movie quickly made me a fan! Ryan and Jackman are perfect together, creating a couple that simply lights up the screen. Though some might claim that Kate & Leopold glosses over plot to smash two characters together, I do not feel this is true at all. The relationship builds realistically, and it is clear that these are two characters who truly do love each other by the end. They're both lost, until they find each other. The movie's sets are also wonderful to watch, and the cultural differences that are presented are interesting and thought-provoking. In Leopold, Jackman creates what I and several of my friends have deemed the most romantic man alive, and in Kate, Ryan manages to craft an intriguing, intelligent woman. Kate & Leopold is a must see!  "},{"Title":"Stings soundtrack alone makes it worth the purchase.","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Another nice romance/comedy that is enhanced greatly by the directors comment about what he was trying to deliver.  Not sure why, but this piece actually reminds me of the 1997 Val-Kilmer-version of The Saint. Leopold's directness is one of two parts (Stings music is the second part) that make this movie worth the watch.  Really, the way to tell someone you like them, is to tell them, directly, that you like them.  It is very refreshing to see what kind of man could and probably does exist...somewhere out there.In addition Leopold's rejection of the indignities that we tolerate for the sake of personal advancement is a cue to the fact that having to bend over so far is not advancement.  It is simply bending over.I think Leopold gives one of the best definitions for Brave that I have ever heard ... The brave are simply those who see clearly what is before them, danger and glory alike and not withstanding go out to meet it.  I hope that's close.  If you can get beyond the time travel and really look at how these characters change each other, this piece becomes a life lesson.  "},{"Title":"A little gem","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I have to say that I thought Hugh Jackman would totally biased my opinion on the film because I'm so in love with him o) but I was pleasantly surprised. The plot, however impossible, was actually made believeable. The cast were fantastic. Meg Ryan at her usual best, Hugh Jackman in fine form and a brilliant supporting cast - especially Liev Schreiber (Stuart) and Breckin Meyer who plays her brother. For all of you rom-com sceptics out there I'd give this a go.Though at times it can be a little cheesy (aren't they all a bit?) it's a feel good movie - great for curling up on the sofa when you're babysitting - just make sure you have some chocolate to go with it! "},{"Title":"Great romantic comedy!","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is pure fun to watch, if you're in the mood for a romantic comedy escape from reality. The characters are charming and the movie as a whole, is quite clean. I was encouraged by the lack of foul language in this movie compared to others I have seen. And there's no gratuitous sex scenes, either. This movie gets two thumbs up from this viewer! Meg Ryan's characters are usually amusing, and this is no different. Jackman's character is gentlemanly and restrained, and he is a handsome addition to the cast! This would make a great date movie, even though it may be considered a chick flick. You can catch it quite often on satellite TV, which I find quite delightful.  "},{"Title":"No offence, but, zounds!!","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  All I can say of this is that is is utter tosh, the plot is holier than the Pope and Hugh Jackman should have been better advised by his agent, saying that, if it wasn't for his usual reliable and charismatic performance then this movie would have been a complete waste of celluloid. "},{"Title":"Nice date movie where the past meets the present","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Well boys, if you're looking for a date movie which you'll also enjoy.  Kate and Leopold is it.  Meg Ryan is at her usual best.  The story involves a British/American Duke being accidentally transported from the late 1800's to present day New York.  The story evolves nicely, right up to the end.  Some of it's predictable, but not ridiculously so, like some movies. "}{"Title":"Escapism or Pure Romance ?","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  As unfortunate as could be, I have never seen Meg Ryan in a movie that made myself think beyond the movie time bounds. Never had I liked those so-called romantic movies, that seem to catch one by letting him know how we all feel about life. Does love exist or not ? that the only question raised in this pretentious script, using the long crear of comic-movies-Meg Ryan to make it seem real. Non of the time-traveling issues were established sincerely, maybe because the question is love, not physics. The only reason, may be as low as hormons, to watch this Tipical-American-Romantic-comic is Hugh Jackman. As lovely as such outbraking actor haven't I seen for long time. The charm and the mind. This guy knows his job. But an actor can not make the movie. He is just a part of this bizzar legend, trying to give those young-boyfriendless-girls of America the optimistic belife that love do exist, and we will all live happily ever after in the arms of amazinig Hugh Jackman (he is merried...isn't he ? dear god ! how could this happen?). Well, nobody really knows the future, nor the undefined truth of life and love, and even if this kind of movies could become a-nice-time-spending, this one just leave you with the Why didn't happen to me feeling rather then the Oh, I'm crying out of happyness one. I'll just go on watching foreign movies. Somehow these American-delights seem to be too sweet for myself. "},{"Title":"Love, Romance and Chivalry all Here!","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is what a romantic-comedy should be! Fun, light-hearted with goodlooking stars and a story that moves along and  doesn't get boring! This movie has excellent performances, especially Hugh Jackman and Liev Schrieber! And Meg Ryan may not look as young  and perky as she once was, but she still is a nice looking woman! And the guy who played her brother was cool. He was  funny as heck in the scene where he is trying to pick up a girl and he and Hugh have this dialogue where he explains to him  how to court and win a ladies heart!  We could all learn how to be a little more like Hugh's character..he was so full of courtly manners! And the best part was his  explanation of what a meal should be! This diatribe ends up getting him cast in a commercial for Megs firm and of course he  is a big hit with the ladies! But he ends up detesting the product and all seems lost for Megs ambitions to be a corporate VP!  But in the end she gets what is really important..love!A surprise ending and full of romantic twist and turns! I am a guy and I found myself tearing up several times because what  happens to the lead characters, Meg and Hugh, is what we all wish could happen to us! And although it is just a far-fetched  movie, the sentiments of love and romance are so strong we only wish it could happen to us!I loved the movie..it is one of my favorites of all time(up there with Titanic) and I watch every chance I  see it on cable!****1/2 out of  "},{"Title":"Really awful! but Hugh Jackman makes it a must-see","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Do not miss this film, because Hugh Jackman if wonderfulOverall this is a very bad film. The plot is full of holes and Meg Ryan is extremely irritating. None of it matters when Jackman is on screen - he looks splendid and acts superbly. "},{"Title":"First Rate, A Feel Good Comedy Sure To Please Fans Of Both Millennia","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a charming comedy. Definitely worth watching more than twice -). The only potential hole that I noticed in this film is the 300 or so feet that these actors fail to fall after making their respective leaps of faith. But then perhaps this too was an intentional message to Follow your own heart Live your Dreams and Damn the torpedoes. -). 9 Stars and a lasso over the moon! See it with someone you Love, Or Heed it's advice and tell someone you love them -). "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I realize Kate and Leopold was a fairytale, but nevertheless I really enjoyed the movie. I bought the VCR tape and my family just about scream when I watch it again and again. I sincerely wish Hugh nothing but the best and hope his career really goes great. I like Meg in the movie but I felt that Hugh stole the movie. Being a guy, married with two kids I usually do not compliment other men, but he was great to watch. Both of the X-2 movies were also fantastic. I wish I could go to New York to see the Boy from Oz, but no such luck. I also liked Swordfish the acting range of Hugh is tremendous. "},{"Title":"A sweet confection","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Kate & Leopold is kind of the movie equivalent of chocolate. There's not much substance to it, the content doesn't bear close scrutiny, and a steady diet of the stuff would be both dull and unhealthy. But oh, it's such a delight to indulge in.I confess, I enjoyed this movie, almost in spite of myself. Even while the rational part of me was pointing out plot inconsistencies and logic errors in the whole time-travel premise, the die-hard romantic part kept telling it, Shut up, I'm watching this. It helps a lot that Hugh Jackman plays Leopold, the 19th-century aristocrat who gets dragged into our time and falls for modern gal Kate (Meg Ryan). I'm a bit biased on this score, I'll freely admit. I find Jackman very attractive--one of the sexiest actors to come down the pike in recent years.He has that mix of talent, energy, and dark good looks that I find very appealing in an actor; I imagine he could turn a phone-book reading into a watchable production. Here, he transcends the silliness of Kate & Leopold's basic concept by creating a very charming leading man. Leopold is set up as a romantic ideal, and Jackman fits that part nicely, but more importantly he brings an accessible, human element to the role. There is a moment, for example, when Kate is trying to hail a cab, and Leopold is drawn to one of the horse-drawn carriages that drive through Central Park. His attraction to this quaint sight, so comfortably familiar in a place which is so alien to him, is very touching.For her own part, Ryan just has to step into the romantic-comedy shoes she's inhabited so often before. She's an old hand at this sort of movie, and she coast through it with the easy confidence of a professional who makes their job look easy, perhaps because for them it is.The first part of the film is mostly devoted to some standard fish-out-of-water scenarios, not all of which work. Things pick up a bit when Kate's brother Charlie (Breken Meyer) arrives and strikes up a friendship with Leopold. Charlie's an actor, and he assumes that Leo is simply a particularly devout practitioner of the dramatic arts. Meyer is by far the best of the supporting cast, and the scenes where he and Leopold try to sort out each other's love lives are some of the better ones in the film.Liev Schreiber plays Stuart, Kate's ex and the scientist responsible for putting Leopold into this century, but his character is mostly sacrificed to the demands of the story.Kate & Leopold is, ultimately, a romantic fantasy. It's not about the reality of love, but the kind of dream we partake of for a short while before returning to reality. If you enjoy that sort of thing (and you know who you are), go ahead, make up a nice big bowl of popcorn, curl up in front of the DVD player, and indulge yourself. I won't tell anyone. "},{"Title":"Good film, well worth watching.","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I'm not really a Meg Ryan fan (and no more so now she's worked with the co-star of this film!) though she plays her part very well.Hugh Jackman's acting is impeccable. Perfect for the character.If romantic comedies are your thing, then make sure you watch this one.5/5 "},{"Title":"One scene to prove them all","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I'll keep this as short as possible. Though this movie should've had deep sentimental meanings for me, you know, girl who is a friend thing with me, it was somewhat the opposite. It wasn't terrible, but it wasn't good either. Just one example. It's a spoiler, yeah. How could Kate have been on the picture if she wasn't there yet? Just asking. Rhetorical question, yeah, I know. There were some fine parts, some funny parts, some silly romantic parts, sobs and tears for those with fears. I have my fears, love fears even, but I didn't feel anywhere near...feeling. So just think of my rhetorical question. It kind of summaries the whole movie.  5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Who hasn't dreamed of the fairytale romance?","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I may be a cynic on most days where love is concerned, but there's still a little girl inside me that dreams of meeting Prince Charming when he rides up to me on a solid white horse.  Who on this earth, male and female, doesn't have a fairytale romance that they'd love to see happen?  Well, if you say you don't, then you're lying.  And I'd be lying if I said this movie was your average romantic comedy.  Hugh Jackman and Meg Ryan make a believable pair even in the light of a fanciful tale of a man out of time finding his soulmate in 21st Century New York.  While Meg's the pure cynic in this one, selling products like diet butter to fat housewives wanting a reason to switch to this nasty tasting stuff, she finds herself wooed by the ever suave, ever romantic, ever gentlemanly Hugh who doesn't know any behavior but that which he was raised with from his own time.  When a fight and subsequent break up takes him back to his own time, there is soon a reason for Meg to join him...but you'll have to watch for those details yourself.  I highly recommend this movie.  Go out and get it right now if you haven't seen it.  Watch it with friends.  Watch it with your significant other.  It will put smiles on your faces and love back into the cynical 21st Century hearts.  It did mine.   "},{"Title":"Silly Hollywood Romance. All fun, no brains.","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this film very much. I'm not the kind of guy who'd normally sit through a Meg Ryan film willingly but I wanted to see Hugh Jackman outside of the Wolverine role I got to know him as. You have to accept this film is a fantasy, then a romance, then fantasy again. Fantasies don't *have* to make sense and this film doesn't really. But it melted this cold heart. I'm sure you've read the plot outline by know and know what happens, but this film has been criticised for being 'unrealistic' which is ridiculous - of course it is! Fantasies are just that. The time-travel makes no sense, nor does the whole chronology of the film. But this is recognised in the cab drive at the climax, it shows these aren't mistakes but a willing stretch of the imagination. Recommended. *** out of ***** "}{"Title":"Good and unique comedy!","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I'm not big on comedies but Kate and Leopold was pretty good. Good acting by Meg Ryan and a very good by Hugh Jackman and Liev Schreiber was funny!This movie is really different and if you haven't seen it then check out Kate and Leopold today! "},{"Title":"Not bad, not good, not great. Not anything, really.","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS HEREINI saw the original version of this movie in a private screeningbefore the movie was released to the public. In this movie, Stuartis Leopold's descendant (they had to change it because the waythe plot worked, Stuart would have been sleeping with hisgrandmother because Leopold turns out to marry Kate) I'm notsure how much they changed the movie, because I never saw thechanged the version, but the version I saw was pretty good. MegRyan played a different charactar for once (sort of, though she'sstill not very good.), and Stuart was funny. Leopold was romanticand his reactions to life in the 21st century were hilarious! This isnot a great movie, it's not a good movie, it just meets expectationsand has a bit of humour thrown in too, and as always,  I'll finish bysaying it would have been at least 5 times better with Julia! ) "},{"Title":"Fun, entertaining. . .oh what the heck, I loved it!","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I must say I adored this film.  I resisted it for a couple of years, just as I often do with romantic comedies (I like to think that I'm somehow above enjoying silly fluff films, but I'm usually wrong), and once I acquiesced and rented the DVD, I found that it was exactly as fabulous as I was afraid it would be.  For those who say that the science of the time travel was murky, I say I agree with you, but I don't care.  The film set up its own set of rules and obeyed them. . .to a point.  The only issue I might take with the filmmaker is a minute one.  (SPOILER alert) Kate's skirt in her jump back changed to a more period silhouette, whilst both men's clothes remained as they had been when they jumped.  Now, this might be intended as an emphasis that she has softened. . .  Ok, I miiiight be persuaded on that point.  This issue, however, is a minor one, and really didn't dampen my enjoyment of this fun piece.  I have been crazy about Meg Ryan since the When Harry Met Sally days and I am now officially in love with Hugh Jackman.  I must begin his inclusion into my DVD library )  "},{"Title":"Coarse, Cliched, and Clunky.","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Kate and Leopold(2001)** Meg Ryan, Hugh Jackman. I like Meg Ryan, and I like romantic comedies, but this was stupid. There was only one scene that amused me. This looked good, but really failed at winning your heart, even though it tries so hard. Not recommended. And if I don't recommend it, it must be bad because I am a person who enjoys almost every movie that I watch.A Tedious Nightmare( beseides the hilarious secene)!KATE & LEOPOLD CPG-13 for language. "},{"Title":"Cutest Movie ever","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I thought Hugh Jackman would stick with roles like Eddie in Someone Like You, but he actually played a duke with a pretty good english accent too. I was appalled. He's even cute playing a Duke from 1876. Well I don't like movies having to do with time, and someone from the past coming into the future, this film didn't make sense. The point is that two people from different times cannot get together. But I guess this movie was trying to change that, and make life more interesting. It was a pretty good film, but I don't understand the whole time thing. Back To The Future is a better movie than Kate and Leopold, if having to do with time. However Kate and Leopold makes a wonderful love story. "},{"Title":"romantic and funny","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  i like meg ryan and this is one of her greats -- not as good as When Harry Met Sally -- but still worth your time. one favorite scene is what he does about the toaster. another his opinion of NY dog poop laws. Also i like the ending. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly catchy","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this with my mom-in-law and we were both laughing aloud at the misunderstandings and such in the movie. It's certainly not one to pick apart for continuity but it was a very fun chick flick. Great for a girls' night out.I avoided this movie for the longest time as I thought it would be silly and incredible (in the true sense of the word). A lifelong fan of the *clean* Regency/period romance novels, I suspected this movie would fail to accurately represent a truly honorable gentleman. In this last, the movie does fail to some extent but it is also very tastefully done. Sex is never directly implied, so much so you would think the director abided by the Hayes Code.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as I would have expected from Meg Ryan.","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  From the previews I thought this movie was going to be an entertaining, funny romantic comedy but it wasn't.  The writing pretty much sucked. Important details from the main characters past and presant were left out leaving the film choppy.  As much as I like Meg Ryan, her acting was disappointing.  The story line was predictable and bland.  The only good thing about this movie is Brecklin Myers.  He does a great job playing the comic relief of the movie.    "},{"Title":"Good until the last drop","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I found that the majority of this film had a lot of inspiration, good writing, and good acting that was able to produce an original and entertaining romantic comedy. Well worth watching.Unfortunately, the conclusion in the last few minutes is very uninspired and predictable. Still a worthwhile movie, but a shame they rushed the ending. "},{"Title":"Just doesn't work","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  My wife bought us this movie for Valentine's Day 2003. Being a SciFi fan, I thought the premise was promising. But the science behind the time travel is minimized to the point of absurdity. So that leaves the story and the acting. The biggest flaw, and it was fatal, is that I just couldn't believe that Leopold was attracted to Kate or why he would ever be. No real chemistry to get it going. Meg Ryan is completely unlikable in this film, quite unlike her previous performances. And so, again, one cannot fathom why Leopold would fall for her. The movie simply does not take the time it needs to show that relationship building. I was quite disappointed (although I didn't tell my wife all of this!) "}{"Title":"Does this movie suck or rule?","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film last night I don't quite know if it sucks or rules. Kate and her actor brother live in Albany,  New York in the 21st century. her ex boyfriend Stuart lives in the apartment above her and finds her space. There's was a part where Kate was going for a walk. And Kate and Leopold go out to dinner. I fell asleep through this film. It looked like this film took place in Hollywood a little bit. "},{"Title":"A Good Turn-Off-Your-Brain Movie","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  If you would watch Kate & Leopold and poke holes in its use of theories of the space-time continuum and time portals, you won't enjoy it. In fact, you likely would not have rented it in the first place.Kate & Leopold is a pleasant, predictable little movie, that gives us the exact minimum amount of science necessary to gleefully carry on with its plot - a 19th century Duke caught in present day New York. The Duke is a New Yorker, but not the kind that that we know. The movie dwells more on his adaptation to rudeness, quick pace and lack of culture than anything else. A gentleman is a gentleman, and there are things that he does and does not do - end of sentence.Intertwined is a fluffy plot about Duke Leopold and Kate (Meg Ryan) meeting, disliking, falling for, being cautious about, confiding in and having fun with eachother. Does she believe he is a Duke? Does she understand the space time continuum? The movie does not care, so neither should we.Kate & Leopold contains some wonderful scenes of discovery as the Duke finds his old home, the bridge that was being built in his day, and small remnants of refined culture (a violin player on the street). That said, I would have appreciated more attention to the details of the opera and musical quoted (La Boheme and Pirates of Penzance), both which debuted after the Duke left his time in 1876.Kate & Leopold has a very strong supporting role from Liev Schreiber (Sum of All Fears, RKO 281), showing good comic abilities as Kate's ex-boyfriend who is the only one who knows the truth about the Duke. Naturally, he is thought to be insane.To describe the plot is unnecessary, since you already know it if you have seen When Harry Met Sally, Sleepless in Seattle, You've Got Mail and countless other Meg Ryan movies. Still, she is charming and watchable, Hugh Jackman is convincing as the Duke and the whole film is funny, sappy and entertaining. *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"The perfect movie for a Sunday afternoon on the sofa","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Another romantic comedy with Meg Ryan. Why not? I like it. But I can hardly say more. A harmless entertaining flick, but something you will not remember for long. Hence, you will enjoy watching it again. And I bet it will be on TV every now and then.Unfortunately, this movie uncovers something else Meg Ryan doesn't get younger. She should consider looking for different roles. Her times of great romantic comedies like Harry and Sally, Sleepless in Seattle, You've Got Mail and all the rest of it are over. She just doesnt look no more like the girl looking for a boy. Meg, look for new challenges, go for it!Kate & Leopold is not very accurate on details. I dont think that a bloke who just got transferred to the future by more than 100 years, would ride in a Taxi like him, ie. as if he'd done it thousand times before. But do I care? This doesn't do this film any serious harm. It is still worth watching. There is one thing that cant be excused though La Boheme was released in 1896. So how could Leopold know about it when he claims to be from the 1870th????Anyway. Well worth a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"it had potential","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie has potential but just doesn't pan out.  It had all the ingredients of very good looking man, Meg Ryan who usually does well in these films and an interesting story line.  Instead it ends up being a very cutsie movie that was so predictable that I wasn't sure I wanted to stay around for the end.  And what's up with Meg's hair????  "},{"Title":"Entertaining and lighthearted","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I'm a fan of Meg Ryan and sci-fi.  Put the two together, sprinkle it with a bit of olde English chivalry as portrayed by Hugh Jackman and you have me hooked.  This is a movie that begs to be enjoyed rather than analyzed; remember it's a sci-fi romantic comedy.  Sci-fi aside, this movie has the same appeal as You've Got Mail and Sleepless in Seattle.  You won't get any smarter after watching this movie but you will certainly be entertained. "},{"Title":"a nice couple...","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Having strange stories about time machines and traveling in the future and back in the past is the most wanted thing and many crazy people would say that it can get happiness. And watching this movie, you really see that. Nice casting, interesting and funny story, so you watch it. "},{"Title":"some funny scenes, but overall average","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The dinner scene and some of Hugh Jackman's 19th century talk were rather funny.  But, there really isn't anything original about this chic flick. Hugh Jackman was enjoyable, but only because he is so cute. But, I couldn't get over the fact that Meg Ryan is rather old for him. She's over 40 even though she may not look like it.  And her hair looked awful in the beginning even though I'm sure it was a really expensive hair cut.(SPOILERS) And I didn't like the ending. I don't believe she would just agree to go through the time warp and never see her brother, parents, and friends again. Did she not think about those things before just agreeing to jump off the Brooklyn Bridge.  FINAL VERDICT  OK, especially if you like Hugh Jackman.  The plot is not very immaginative, but a couple of funny scenes make it better than most chic flicks. "},{"Title":"a love story out of a fairytale","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I believe this is one film to remember for its beauty, charm and hypnotizing appeal. Hugh Jackman is the incarnation of every girl's dream as an XIX century truly, believable and loveable prince (Duke, in this case) charming.Meg Ryan's character is not as consistent as Jackman's, and the downside is that she is rather annoying at times, but one learns to come to terms with her (and forgive her in a way) once the film is over such a jewel in the film industry needn't be thoroughly perfect! "},{"Title":" I want more of 1876","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Meg Ryan is classical as Kate in this homey romance movie. The supporting cast is pure. The costumes are lovely. One of the good films in the genre, Kate & Leopold will take the viewer on a voyage through time. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Cute, Exciting, Weird and Not Bad All At The Same Time","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  MPAA Rating PG-13My Rating 8 and UpMy * Rating 7.0/10Kate and Leopold was cute. The relationships and the storyline is summed up with that one word Cute. However, each end evry scene builds up and up until you almost cant stand it anymore and is all unleashed at the final scene of the film. The concept of time travel in my oppinion is surely fiction and could never happen scientificly, but it's still fun even to this day to figgre out the logic of how the hole in the time travel worked.The film was good. It was as long as it should be even though the opening was slow paced. The entire movie, however, besides the fact and issue metiononed seemed to bee right on target. Let any of your kids watch this film. Not only is it appropriate, but they'll love it. "}{"Title":"Good fantasy","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those fantasies that is light and airy and well worth the desert like atmosphere.  It is boosted by a predictably cute performance by Meg Ryan.  The writers were slick and the stage business was correct for this show.  I gave it a 6 because it is good but not great.  "},{"Title":"Innocent, pure, and pleasantly simple","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Though this movie has a rather linear storyline and not much intertwiningly complex plot, that just helps it shine where it should.  It is heartwarming and nice, and fills you with happiness ).  Your classic chick flick except where the girl doesn't believe the guy until finally it's too late and then she sacrifices all she's ever lived for to be with him.  Hugh Jackman's innocently perfect personality is totally fake but hey, when you need a movie to cheer you up why bother throwing in the bad stuff?  A nice movie to walk away from that though it may bug the average male in its simplicity and spotless purity, it left me with a happy feeling inside.  This is one of those happy ending movies that could cheer just about anybody up.  And make your average easy-to-please girl laugh.  I gave it a 9 out of 10 but only because I was in the right mood.  This is one of those movies you just have to see when you are seeking something happy. "},{"Title":"slight problem with family tree","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was very interesting.  If you haven't seen this movie yet, DON'T read any further.I seem to be the only one who realizes that Stuart is the great great grandson of the wonderful Leopold.  If Kate went back in time, she would have been his great great grandmother.  Stuart and Kate were dating for 4 years before the galant Leopold reared his beautiful face.  That means for everyone that isn't following me so far that Stuart for 4 years was sleeping with his great great grandmother.Now, am I the only one who has a problem with this? "},{"Title":"Good movie.  Unexpected and unexplained ending.","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I'll say the movie was pretty decent.  I was entertained for 2 hours.  However, the ending was what somewhat disturbed me.  I know there's a lot of people, especially guys out there who would have been like aww what a boring chick flick n all.  However, there is reality to what people cxall chick flicks and God knows what those are.  The movie was good.  Anyone who has ever been close to a girl knows what it's all about.  The ending got me though.  Disappointing.  Just not right.  Doesn't work like that.On the whole, decent movie.  As for those who say such chick flicks are a waste of time...get a date! "},{"Title":"Fluffy and entertaining, but lose the haircut, Meg!","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I thought it was an amiable way to spend 2 hours.  I ignored the historical inaccuracies (didn't the writers look anything up??) and settled back to enjoy the handsome Hugh Jackman looking spiffy in his Victorian duds.  I'm not a huge fan of Meg Ryan or her unfortunate weed-whacker haircuts, but she wasn't that bad in this movie.  However, I do wish that she would try to stretch her acting muscles in other roles and leave the winsome romantic stuff to others.  She has had her time as America's sweetheart, but what went over well when she was 30 is a bit harder to take from someone hitting 40.  The ditzy charm of Innerspace and French Kiss has given way to the self-absorbed, solipsistic Kate.  I suppose she needed to be uptight and career-driven to make her transformation under Leopold's Old World charm more apparent.  (Wait, but isn't that what usually happens in her movies????) Anywhoo, it was extremely hard to like her before that happened.  Luckily there was Hugh Jackman and the funny Breckin Meyer (I'm still laughing at his Apu spin) to give the movie what it needed to make it work. "},{"Title":"Not profound but enjoyable","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is not, as the expression has it, rocket science.  But it held my attention and amused me for two hours,which is more than I can say for many films full of deep meanings.I didn't mind Meg Ryan's hair, as do so many other commentators.  I am no expert in hair style, but it seemed to me just the sort of deliberately disheveled style that might be adopted by some hyper New York business type. She is, though, getting a bit old for her usually cute and perky roles.One incongruity that nobody else seems to have spotted - Leopold is portrayed as a 19th Centry English gentleman, with a vast knowledge of various cultural matters, including, specifically, Puccini's opera La Boheme.Just how he acquired this knowledge is unclear.  None of Leopold's 21st Century companions seems to be an opera lover.  And, in 1876, when Leopold left the 19th Century, La Boheme had not yet been written. "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a charming romantic film.  Really quite innocent and entertaining.  I was bothered by Meg Ryan's hair, which appeared to have been cut and combed by a three year old, otherwise an entertaining film with good professional acting.  Ryan is a delightful young woman who played well with Jackman.   "},{"Title":"Beautiful and romantic movie!","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a beautiful and romantic movie!To me this will be a classic movie in time to come!It makes me feel great!A movie to send as a letter to someone you love!I give this 9,5 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Thank God for Hugh Jackman","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I am a huge fan of Hugh Jackman and have been since seeing one of his earliest films 'Paperback Hero' a very charming Australian film that gives us a taste of things to come as far as Jackman is concerned. But, what can I say about this movie, disappointing?  Dire?  Heavy handed?  Yes, it is all those and more, with one exception and I promise that I am not being biased here, Hugh Jackman, if it hadn't been for his lovely turn as Leopold then this film would have no saving graces whatsoever, this is an actor who can carry a film all by himself.  The premise of the story is very good, but, for some reason it is never fully capitalised on and by half way through it has become thoroughly boring and I only managed to stick with it to the end simply because of Jackman, who makes any movie watchable, but, in this case only just.  As for Meg Ryan, I have to agree with many others in saying she is now a bit too old for playing these kind of roles, she was very good in many earlier films, especially the 'chick flicks' of which I'm a big fan of, but, now she is unconvincing. All in all I was desperately disappointed and couldn't sit through it again not even for Hugh Jackman, who, by the way, is a major talent with incredible charisma and screen presence and should be offered better roles than this, I look forward to seeing him in X-Man 2 and in better things in the future.  3 out of 10 for the movie, 10 out of 10 for Jackman who deserves to be a huge star. "},{"Title":"How many are willing to jump the bridge?","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a nice one. I confess that I watched it without any major expectations. The story is OK, not that original. The director wisely avoided to focus the movie on the technological contrast between the two world. But the movie is not that trivial if one read among the lines. The message of the movie is clear Love is not free! Maybe we have been asked or maybe we will be asked to jump the bridge. How many will be running the risk??? Not so many in real life! "}{"Title":"Quite Funny","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  After watching the most awful Serendipity, i was a bit scared to watch this movie, but i love both the leads, so i thought, Yeah watch it. Well it was quite a lovely movie, Hugh Jackman was well cast, he made the movie quite funny, and even her brother the actor made me laugh aswell. Yes, i felt Kate (Meg Ryan's), character didn't provide anything to make Leopold fall in love with her, apart from maybe her looks, but i didn't hate her character, but something didn't feel right. I was disappointed with the ending, did they rush it perhaps? or did they not know how to end it, anyway, watch it, it was quite good. "},{"Title":"Dashing Duke meets lucky lady...","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't really all that excited to see this movie because I'm not a real Meg Ryan fan, but the thought of seeing her leading man, Hugh Jackman was the deciding factor for me.  This was also not a movie that I had heard particularly a lot about, so I was curious to se what was happening. I certainly wasn't disappointed that I took the plunge.The movie has by no means a faultless script or screenplay, but the story quite frankly, works.  I liked the fact that there were genuinely funny moments, and that the story steered clear of all the melodramatic love bits that could have been incorporated in the movie. It was a love story that was kept simple and uncomplicated and was quick to get to the point.  No time was wasted on soppy, unnecessary and cliched love scenes that could have bored the audience and spoiled the films appeal.Unfortunately for me though Meg Ryan was a disappointment.  She should really try something new, like testing her acting abilities in other genres of film.  Although I liked her in this role, her acting represented nothing that I haven't seen her doing before. Her facial expressions, tone of voice, sometimes neurotic routines...its been done so many times before in her other movies.  In her previous movies however it was sweet, this time I found it to be mildly annoying.  Not that she doesn't still look the part, after all these years she is still able to carry off the sweetheart image to perfection.  I just think that its time that she experimented with other more diverse acting roles, instead of trying to do the same thing all the time.  To be fair to her though, I was pleasantly surprised at the chemistry between her and Hugh Jackman.  I really wasn't expecting that.  Nice one!Hugh Jackman is however worth the cinema ticket alone!  He is fantastic in this film.  I love the way he brings this character to life, the manner in which he chose to portray it, and sincerity with which he brings Leopold to life.  The dashing, debonair and gentlemanly manner of his character is something he manages to bring across so well. This is definitely something I would like to see him do again.  It just proves that he is an actor that gets better with every role. It's easy to see why he's currently hot property in Hollywood.Also just a quick word about Breckin Meyer who played the role of Charlie, Meg Ryans brother, this is another young actor that's carving a name for himself in good movies. He really holds a major source of the films appeal and humour, a good actor that will soon have script writers banging on his door.This is a harmless funny and romantic movie. It makes you wonder what ever happened to chivalry! ) So if you're looking for a nice night out, this movie gets my vote. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Quite a disappointment","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Possible spoilers, I suppose.My husband and I are fans of Meg Ryan, and so we had meant to watch this movie for quite some time.  We rented it tonight and we were quite disappointed for several reasons.First and foremost was Meg Ryan's character.  I don't know if it was the way she played Kate, or the way the scriptwriters wrote Kate, or the way the directors directed Meg, or a combination of the above, but I could not stand this woman!  And that goes beyond the dislike for her twitty, totally dense nature. I don't know if we were meant to like her, but I certainly didn't. By the end of the movie, I didn't want her to go back in time simply because I didn't want anything nice to happen to her.  I thought it would serve her right to spend the rest of her life sucking up to her philandering fake of a boss. If it wasn't enough that she was clueless about people and had totally backward priorities, her mannerisms and her appearance were completely irritating.  And what on earth happened to her hair??  Is this even the same person who was in Sleepless in Seattle?  I know it's not trendy to be pretty these days, but has it gone so far that an actress making millions of dollars for a film has hair (and at times clothes) that a scarecrow wouldn't be caught *dead* with??  In short, I never thought I would see a mediocre movie where Meg Ryan was the weakest spot, but now I have.Hugh Jackman was OK, and he acted his part well.  However, the writers had him adapt a bit too easily to life in the 21st century, even for an inventor who would take things in stride a bit better than most.  He adopted modern mannerisms too naturally, in my opinion.Among the few bright points in the movie were Kate's administrative assistant, Darcy and her brother Charley, with Jackman's gallantry having a minor role in pulling the movie out of the worst I've ever seen category.  Maybe the producers would like to hire these three to star in a movie that would actually be romantic and funny.  It would have to be better than Kate and Leopold, anyway. "},{"Title":"Huh?!","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Not to be taken seriously, this romantic comedy is enjoyable if you focus on Hugh Jackman's acting ability and the other supporting cast.  Meg Ryan doesn't seem to be able to hit the right note here - jaded or innocent? - and there was nothing about her physically or emotionally that would logically appeal to Jackman's character.  If you can see past a poorly written role for the female lead, Ryan's beyond-awful hairstyle and some plot discrepancies (wasn't La Boheme written after the Duke's time?) this is a perfect curl-up-with-the-popcorn-and-sigh sort of movie. "},{"Title":"very entertaining...=)","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  My friend actually suggested this movie to me, and sort of gave me a weird summary about some guy getting stuck in an elevator and ended up in another time era. *blinks* Yea, weird, I know. Haha, anyway, I saw that Meg Ryan was in it, and decided to watch it. I didn't expect to fall in love with Hugh Jackman, but that's exactly what happened after the first couple minutes into the movie. He lit up the screen, and made the movie so believable. He was charming as a Duke, and made me crack up with the butter ad bit. Meg Ryan was stunning in the movie, and gave the movie just the right about of her cuteness. I loved the movie, and I'm sure you will too!  "},{"Title":"This movie got me about halfway through it","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I will admit that the time travel idea was just so-so at first , I thought I had seen it before with Time After Time and Somewhere In Time. So I went in with not very high expectations.When the two characters fell in love though, I was there with them. I had effectively been seduced by the plot.There is a skill in writing when the audience is brought along slowly and allowed to feel with the characters. This movie was one of them.It will not be a generation defining love story as some of Meg Ryan's other movies have been, but it is a sweet story and worth seeking out. "},{"Title":"refreshing, bright and witty","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  When's the last time you saw a chaste kiss in a Hollywood flick? Good premise, well done. Lots of smiles and a feel good movie. About my only complaint is Meg's hairdo for most of the story.cheers, Boom "},{"Title":"marvelous fun","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a not cinema as great movies are dubbed, this is a flick and a preciously great one. I love Meg Ryan movies (with the exception of the dreadful one where she fed her ex boyfriend strawberries) and Hugh Jackman as the love interest created so much good natured romance. It was a treat for a summer night (or any other season for that matter). See it with someone you love (or would like to). "},{"Title":"Meg Ryan's worst performance ever!","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie would be so, so much better than this. Hugh Jackman was the only reason I gave this movie a 5/10. I have always been a huge Meg fan until now! Her character, Kate, was very unlikeable until the very end. All in all....another movie mistake!    "},{"Title":"A Predictable yet Delightful Comedy","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  At the request of my mother, I sat down on my couch and viewed a DVD copy Kate & Leopold.  Upon going into my home theater I expected yet another boring chick flick romance film but what I got was a delightful surprise. Upon the start of the film the viewer in transported into 1876 New York and into the life of an English Duke Leopold, played by the wonderful Australian import Hugh Jackman.  Leopold laments at the emptiness of his life and his desire to make something of himself.  Leopold then meets a strange man Stuart, played by Liev Schreiber, and follows him into a time portal and straight into 2001 New York.  Here he meets Kate (Meg Ryan) who plays a tough corporate woman in an advertising agency.  Basically then it's a predictable romance between the nave Jackman and the savvy yet romance starved Ryan.  The movie has some really funny moments relating to the anachronistic Jackman.  The comedic performance by Jackman is light and whimsical and has the audience with grins on their faces throughout the picture.  The movie also has tender moments which although adding to the general effect of the picture tend to slow it down almost to the point of boredom.  Perhaps female viewers will not find this fault but in this reviewers opinion the last half hour of the movie kept on begging me to fast forward to the end.  The ending is bright and feel-good which redeems the boringness of the last portion of the movie.  Finally, what truly made this film were all the extra features that were on the DVD.  The disc contains two great featurettes on the making of the film and the costume design of the film.  Also on the disc are about 5 or 6 deleted scenes which when viewed with the director's commentary provide great insight into the mind and intentions of the director.  Bottom line Great rental for a date or with your family. "}{"Title":"Charming, delightful, and funny","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A romantic comedy between two characters from different times is an idea rich in potential.  Writer/director James Mangold takes full advantage of the possibilities in this enchanting film that juxtaposes the cultures and values of the late 19th and early 21st centuries New York City.Mangold shows his versatility here by venturing into the light and breezy zone after strong directorial showings in the more heavy handed `Girl Interrupted' and `Cop Land'.  Despite the clear departure from his previous melodramatic films, Mangold again proves is that he is an excellent actors' director, inducing terrific performances from the entire cast.The story is full of heartrending moments and hilarious culture shock gags as Leopold (Hugh Jackman) attempts to adapt to the technology and attitudes of modern society.  Mangold is successful at making the point that though much has changed around us, we as people are still very much the same.  Unfortunately, in his zeal to tell a great tale, Mangold plays fast and loose with historical details.  If one is going to make a time travel film, one should research the respective eras and represent history accurately.  The film is rife with anachronisms, especially regarding theater and opera.  Leopold is from 1876, but makes reference to `La Boheme' (1896), `Pirates of Penzance' (1879), and `Tosca' (1898), none of which had yet been performed by the time he left the past.  Also, Brooklyn Bridge architect John Augustus Roebling is seen giving a speech seven years after he died, and Leopold mentions Jack the Ripper, who didn't commit his first murder until the late 1880's.  Still, much can be forgiven for a tale so touchingly and amusingly told.The acting is excellent by the entire cast.  Hugh Jackman's career grows exponentially with each new role.  A veritable unknown when he took the part of Wolverine in `X-Men', he blew the doors off that part and never looked back.  Since then he has delivered three outstanding performances (`Someone Like You', `Swordfish', `Kate and Leopold'), in all cases rising above the vehicle in which he appeared and eclipsing numerous fine actors.  Jackman has the potential to become this generation's Cary Grant, having dapper good looks and an amiable personality with the versatility to glide effortlessly from serious drama to charming comedies.  In this part he is absolutely magnetic, giving a performance that is as powerful as it is captivating.Meg Ryan returns to her best genre and gives another terrific performance.  Ryan has enjoyed thirteen fabulous years since she broke through with `When Harry Met Sally' in 1989, but is in the twilight of her romantic comedy years.  If she hopes to continue as an actor, she will need to move to different roles that don't require the freshness and adorability that fade with age.  This role is a good hybrid, having her deal with the serious issues of a career woman, while also allowing her to slip on the romantic glove that fits her so well.Liev Schreiber, Breckin Meyer, Natasha Lyonne, and Bradley Whitford all give strong supporting performances, stealing scenes left and right from the two leads.This film is a marvelous date flick that is easy to enjoy by men and women alike.  The humor is truly funny, the romance engaging and the acting superb.  I rated it an 8/10, penalizing it a bit for the historical cheating, but if you like romantic comedy this film will deliver a wonderful evening of delightful entertainment.    "},{"Title":"precious romantic comedy!","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  We did a girls night out. This was a precious movie! We laughed. I would definitely recommend this one. It is a chick flick though. My husband did not enjoy it as much as I did. (we rented it later for him to see) If you liked Sleepless in Seattle or Serendipity, this movie is for you! "},{"Title":"Predictable and pleasant.","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Hugh Jackman is very charismatic, a type-defying choice after his breakthrough as Wolverine/Logan in X-Men.Meg Ryan is Meg Ryan.The movie is predictable, but it's pleasant. "},{"Title":"Not bad for a chick flick","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It kept you interested with the sci-fi of time travel and some comedy. Had good acting and Meg Ryan for the guys. The story line and writing is great, especially the way they added all the old dialect throughout the whole movie and didn't just abandon it half-way through like most, they stayed away from all the cheesy love scenes that these movies usually try to build off of. Recommend for the date night.  "},{"Title":"My Favourite","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Kate and Leopold starring Meg Ryan (aging but still great) and Hugh Jackman (a charming 19th century duke) is wonderful. Meg Ryan is getting a little old for those romantic comedies, but this was a good farewell party for her, as she has already announced that she wants to start producing and doing more serious roles. Hugh Jackman (a brilliant new actor) can't be described in words. He has great lines and scenes (fresh creamery butter?) and is especially good in the early scenes in 2001. I would rank this one way up there with other Ryan movies--Sleepless in Seattle, You've Got Mail, French Kiss, etc. Liev Schreiber is just great as well. The asylum scenes are the best. And Breckin Meyer is hilarious as Charlie. A must-see for any Meg Ryan or romantic comedy fans-----11/10 "},{"Title":" She's the woman I want to marry","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"   Meg Ryan lights up the screen in yet another rich romance. By far, her best work, Kate And Leopold enchants the viewer. Hugh Jackman is nice and should do more films in the genre. It's an awful shame that people are giving this movie two thumbs down. It's worth the opposite actually. Give it more of a chance than someone will tell you not to. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Very average Love Story","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Here's my review for this movie.  This will be the shortest movie review I have written on this website.  It was nothing special and it was not terrible either.  I was really looking forward to seeing this one and when it was done I was disappointed.  It's one of those movies you will forget as time passes on.  This movie is yet another example though of how Meg Ryan has declined as everyone lovable actress.  Have you seen Proof of Life?  Nough said.  When K & L was done, my wife says to me I don't like Meg Ryan anymore, she is not cute anymore and she just looks very worn and hard.  Dennis Quaid musta really worn her down.  So So movie. "},{"Title":"Jackman was wonderful, Ryan was trite and forced","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I should start by saying that I am a diehard romantic.  There is nothing I like more than a good romantic comedy, and if you throw a little historical stuff in as well, even better.That said, this movie really left me disappointed.  In the first place, it seemed like the dialogue was written by two different people. All of the men have great lines, while Kate's dialogue is extremely bad.  I normally love Meg Ryan, but in this film, she is not enjoying herself and it shows.  The chemistry between her and Jackman was nonexistent, which I think was mainly due to her aforementioned lack of enthusiasm.  I absolutely hated her character as well, who displayed quite the split personality by switching from bitter, jaded career woman to hopeless (literally without hope in this case) romantic without any rhyme or reason.  I have never wanted to slap someone so badly as I did when she made Leopold leave her apartment during the dinner scene. Drunk or not, what a horrible woman!Jackman gave a stellar performance in this movie and basically carried the entire thing with admirable help from the other supporting characters (particularly Schreiber). I look forward to seeing more of him at the box office, but I really think this movie could have been much better if they had cast someone else for Kate (Jennifer Aniston, who has performed very well in the films she has done and can play a similar type, came to mind). I really just wanted Ryan to go away.  I don't know what her problem was (perhaps this was filmed during that mess with Russell Crowe?), but she pretty much ruined this movie for me.In short, it's well worth seeing for Jackman's performance, but Meg Ryan was abysmal. I would hate to see these two paired up again in the future. "},{"Title":"Didn't suck (that bad).","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Kate & Leopold is a chick flick (pardon the term) in the strictest sense. You know the drill before you even press the Play button on the VCR. Meg Ryan is gonna fall in love with Hugh Jackman. Duh. So predictability aside, the movie isn't bad. It's just what the genre is all about. Leopold is a Duke from the 19th century who accidentally follows Stuart (Liev Schreiber) through a time portal, in which Stuart has just discovered. But the time portal is the last thing this movie is about. In fact, little time is spent on it at all, which is strange because such a discovery deserves a little more marvel than these characters give it. But anyways, back to the love story. Once through the portal, Leopold falls into place in modern day New York a tad too fast. A few gawks at buildings and stares at appliances and he's already over the fact that he just traveled through time. Talk about adjustment. But character logic aside, Jackman is ultimately charming as a 19th century gentlemen, sent to the 21st century to sweep women off their feet and spout dating (ahm...courting) advice to Kate's lost brother. Kate and Leopold don't grow close until about an hour into the movie, which is a shame because a lot of wasted scenes could have been cut to make this movie the proper length (it's a tad long). The romance works okay, mainly because Jackman is such fun to watch with his accent and snobbish remarks on society. Surprisingly, Meg Ryan's Kate isn't a very adorable character. I know this is her turf, God knows she's had enough practice playing the romantic lead in a picture, but Kate isn't a very likeable person. She yells a lot at Leopold, is career-driven, and quite dull. What Leopold sees in her is beyond me. In fact, many of the characters here aren't very useful. Liev Schreiber spends the majority of the movie in a hospital while Kate bonds with Leo. And Kate's brother is rather annoying. As a love story, this one is really jumbled. No real complications besides Kate's stubbornness exist to stop the relationship. The story is almost as flat as the characters. A romantic movie this is, and a romantic movie you'll see. But don't expect another Pretty Woman. In the end, Jackman is the reason the movie can carry on as long as it does. I give it **1/2 stars out of *****. Perhaps the Director's Cut is better. But if it's any longer than the Theatrical Version, count me out. This movie has run its course. "},{"Title":"The stuff that romantic comedies are made of...","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is the way romantic comedies should play out.  We all know they (most) are basically predictable, with a slight twist to a story line, solid, believable acting and a well thought out story, the difference lies mainly in the actors themselves and a little differentiation in the plot.Of course they have become almost mainstay for Meg Ryan.  She still has what it takes to keep everyone's attention and this new kid on the block, Jackman, is well on his way to superstardom.I wont get into all the technical aspects of filmmaking because so many others do here, but have to say this for me, was fresh, lively and thoroughly enjoyable and though it might fall into the genre of chick flick, was cool from this guy's point of view also.With an assortment of failures lately in this area (Angel Eyes for one profound example) it's nice to see somebody put out a work that shows that someone in Hollywood still has the chops to earn their keep at the box office.  Some of the more recent tripe really must make some people angry for money not well spent.  This flick, I hope and  believe will be a bit more redeeming in its great cast, super, unseen special effects (see 'em on the dvd) and heartfelt idealism in story.  It did for me...and is worthy of all the praise I might give it...     "}{"Title":"Great romantic comedy,when there are too few these days.","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Hugh Jackman's performance alone makes this movie worth seeing.Everyone should see it just to see what an amazing actor he really is.He reminds me so much of the great leading male acting legends of another time in movies, when you actually had act!He has it all, good looks,great acting,he can play action,comedy,romance, just a great talent!! I really believe he should have been nominated, if they can nominate Renee Zelwigger for her romantic comdey roll that was deserved, I believe Hugh's performance was well deserving a nod. The movie is enjoyable and fun only made better by Hugh's performance. "},{"Title":"Delightful romantic time-travel fantasy. DVD has director's cut.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" SOME SPOILERS - I'm always disappointed to read reviews by certain viewers who just seem to enjoy finding fault. Why do they watch movies anyway?? If we start out with the premise that this, and any other, movie has flaws, then we can begin to enjoy it. Kate and Leopold is not to be taken seriously. It is a fantasy romp where Kate's boyfriend, destined to be her own great, great grandson (is that future past incest??), discovers a crack in the time continuum that allows one to travel by jumping off the Brooklyn Bridge. Imagine that!! So, don't try to make too much sense of it. Hugh Jackman is so good as the reluctant Duke who is being pressured, in 1876, to marry a rich woman. So Leopold ends up in modern NYC, meets Kate, she finds out what a true gentleman is, and how she really despises her job fooling people into thinking they like something. But when she is ready to commit, Leopold has traveled back, otherwise how would elevators work? And what else in history would change if he never married? Perplexed, Kate sees a photo of herself, obviously in the crowd back in 1876, and has to jump off the bridge to join Leopold. Lots of funny scenes, and funny dialog. No foul language, no overt sex, no one gets killed, basically a wholesome movie with a cute story very well done. And, Bravo! to the marketers of the DVD. They included both the theatrical release and the almost 5 minutes longer director's cut, which is the one we watched. It's about time we get choices like that on the DVD. Plus there is a fairly interesting making of featurette.Overall good entertainment and viewing time well spent.Update April 2011, we watched it again. Still good entertainment. "},{"Title":"What's wrong with a little civilized romance?","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A beautiful love story with manners.  No f-words, no bare T & A, Josh did the right thing, and Sting sang Until at the end.  What more can an old-fashioned romantic ask?  I'm still on cloud nine.  The only thing I found hard to believe was the walk across the girder--in heels, no less.  Not even for Hugh Jackman could I have done that! "},{"Title":"expand your beliefs, like romance, and you'll love this flick","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Kate lives in the apartment below Stuart, her ex-boyfriend. Stuart has found a time portal below the Brooklyn Bridge, and takes a sleek little camera into 1876, where a duke named Leopold prepares to pick a wife. Intrigued, Leopold follows Stuart all the way to the bridge and accidentally lands in 2001 with him. And soon, he meets Kate. Kate is used to a very fast-paced life, while Leopold takes things slower--which is the beginning of a very long list of their differences. And at the beginning, their relationship--if they even have one--is rocky. But Leopold remains interested in getting to know Kate, and eventually, Kate realizes Leopold is the man she's been looking for. Me, I'm a sucker for really romantic flicks, but before I saw this, I don't remember anything that I liked this much. For people who don't like romantic comedies, it would probably seem sappy, but to me, it was excellent. This was the first movie that made my eyes water that wasn't sad. The chemistry between Ryan and Jackman is unbelievable. Leopold is so sweet to Kate that all the single women out there will probably wish a smart, poetic gentleman will come out of the past for them. I saw the director's cut, which adds all the footage you see if you click alternate versions, and I thought it was fine. I won't spoil anything, though. If Kate and Leopold had any flaws, it would probably be that there isn't enough screen time of the two title characters together. There's too much of everything else around them. But in the short time it shows, it's VERY romantic. And some of the time-traveling stuff isn't very believable, but hey, it's a fantasy.Meg Ryan's character, Kate McKay, is pretty likable. . She is a little outspoken, but I think that's what Leopold liked in her--she wasn't afraid to speak her mind. Also, he says her beauty is like moonlight shining on her face, or something similar. Hugh Jackman is just about perfect as Leopold. I read that he had training, and you totally believe that he's a duke from 1876. I just love the scene where he gets Kate's purse back for her. And another great thing is the end credits...or the song played during them. Until by Sting is a keeper, and ranks up on my list, just like Kate and Leopold with movies. Although it's not picture-perfect, Kate and Leopold will always be one of my favorites--------8/10    "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I just watched this movie and there's only one word to describe it Excellent. Though i have to be fair about it, this is a movie that you'll either LOVE or simply HATE. Don't expect to make sense of this movie, it doesn't but if you believe in love and that love can do everything, then well, this is a movie for you. Meg Ryan is a typical girl-next-door kind, whatever happens to her, you can easily imagine it happen to you although falling in love with a man living in the 1980s is a bit too much, but watching her, you would still think it can happen to you, falling in love with a perfect gentleman. Hugh Jackman is an amazing actor, his gorgeous looks alone would have captured your heart, his character in the movie, his charm and gentleness makes him the perfect man. Watch the movie, it's TOTALLY worth it!  "},{"Title":"well acted but strains credibility","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Contains Spoilers I'm not talking about the time travel; this is a well worn, but in my mind, always fun literary device.The story is somewhat like the plot of the Wagner opera Lohengrin. It has been some time since I've seen Lohengrin, but I think it goes something like this A mysterious knight appears from nowhere, and saves the heroine from ruin. He marries her on the promise that she never ask him where he came from. She ultimately breaks the promise, and he goes back to where he came from. I think Wagner kills her off for good measure.In Kate and Leopold, Leopold is a cultured nobleman from 1876. He rescues her from a purse snatcher, a boss set on sexual conquest, and professional problems (he gives her a major career boost by appearing in a commercial). Kate in turn is a neurotic and slovenly bore who betrays him by causing him to unknowingly endorse a worthless product, something entirely contrary to his code of honor.The climax to the movie has Leopold going back to 1876. This might work; the people he meets in the 21st century learn from their acquaintance with him, and perhaps he has learned something from his adventures in the 21st century that will cause him to make appropriate moral choices when he gets back.But then we have the inexplicable anti-climax. Kate is somehow persuaded to jump off the Brooklyn Bridge, and goes back to 1876, where Leopold happily announces their engagement. Believe me, there is nothing whatsoever in this movie that makes it credible that the shallow and dishonorable Kate would jump off a bridge for love, or that Leopold would be happy to see her if she did. She should have been left behind like the heroine in Lohengrin (although perhaps not to die; Wagner's antipathy to women was played out a bit far, there).Oh yes, and at least one colossal anachronism. Leopold at a dinner berates Kate's boss about his ignorance of La Boheme. A neat trick considering that the opera did not come out until 1896. "},{"Title":"It's not Somewhere in Time!","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A pleasant film, a wonderful way to spend a hot afternoon in an air conditioned theatre. I enjoyed it very much but it doesnt match up to my favorite, Somewhere in Time. If you liked Kate and Leopold, You'll love somewhere in Time. "},{"Title":"Jackman,yes,Ryan,no,but has anyone noticed the big boo-boo?","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It's worth seeing for Hugh Jackman. Meg Ryan is looking a little too old for these cutesy roles and has done one too many, and one has to swallow the improbability to really enjoy it. However, I was irritated by the lack of research shown in the conversation about the opera , La Boheme. Jackman,who in the film is supposed to come from 1876, gives a detailed correction of the details of the opera to Ms Ryan's boss, unfortunately, La Boheme was first produced in 1896, so Jackman's character could never have seen it unless he'd time travelled before! Perhaps a basis for sequel, I hope not, it's time for these actors to move on.    "},{"Title":"Fun, frothy, forgettable","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Meg Ryan &#150; now 40 &#150; was probably born a cute and ditzy blonde with a shaggy dog hair style. Indeed she may well have emerged from the womb crying `Yes! Yess!! Yesss!!!' I've been a fan since seeing her in `Innerspace' and who could forget her fake orgasm scene in `When Harry Met Sally'?So she is a natural &#150; if typecast &#150; in this romantic comedy where she plays the New York advertising executive Kate McKay. More surprising is Australian-born but London-based Hugh Jackson &#150; Wolverine in `X-Men' &#150; who sports an impeccable English accent as the suave Duke of Albany transported from 1876 via a crack in time located at the Brooklyn Bridge (which  - perhaps fortunately - I didn't notice when I was there).There have been many &#145;fish out of water' movies set in New York, ranging from `Crocodile Dundee' to `The Dream Team'. This one is likeable but light, frothy but forgettable.  "},{"Title":"Meg's last fling","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Somehow I feel that this could prove to be Meg Ryan's final fling as the top romantic comedienne. 'Kate and Leopold' is a good movie; definitely not 'Sleepless in Seattle' (her best, in my view) but it's a big improvement on stuff like 'Serendipity', which was very Meg-like stuff. The reason I think it will be her last romantic hit is that she is probably getting fed up of people noting that she's now 40, and will move on to do other stuff, and probably mainly produce in the not too distant future. That said, I enjoyed 'Kate and Leopold', but the writing must be on the wall, because the mainstay of this clever candyfloss is Hugh (Wolverine) Jackman, proving that he's not just an X-Man at all. Performing with all the charm of some of Hollywood's Great leading men, he holds this picture together, so Meg doesn't really have to try. After all, she can do this stuff on auto pilot anyway. Not a great movie, but one which is definitely watchable, with some capable supporting actors as well. "}{"Title":"Meg Ryan's hair is AGONY! HUGH JACKMAN is incredible!","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It distracted me from the movie. It took effort to make her hair look that bad. Hair doesn't naturally fall in clumps of uneven strings like that. It hurt to look at.  Did anyone else find it to be as hideous as I did? On a positive note, I enjoyed the film. It would have been ten times better had they combed Meg's hair, but nonetheless it was sweet, light, romantic, funny, and enjoyable. (And all the men were gentleman after the show ) Hugh Jackman's performance was flawless. He nailed down every aspect of his character. I was impressed with his acting. Had anyone else had the part, I probably wouldn't of rated the movie so highly. "},{"Title":"&#145;Leopold and Kate'","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  **contains spoilers**This light and frothy rom com is as predictable as they come. It is a true product of the rom com formula of boy meets girl, girl meets boy, everything is peachy for a while before boy loses girl due to some sort of misunderstanding, friends and/or family intervene, boy and girl discover error of their ways and get back together again, the end. This movie is no exception, so do not expect anything original in spite of a little time travelling, because the &#145;fish out of water' concept takes a backseat to the budding romance between Kate and Leopold. Now that's established, sit back and enjoy a non-demanding, nonsensical piece of feel-good fun.Meg Ryan may receive top billing, but believe me it is Hugh Jackman who carries this film. Clearly an intelligent actor, Jackman is perfect as Leopold. Sexy, masculine, charismatic, charming, clever and articulate, with shades of Mr Darcy. In short, he is every girl's dream! How depressing that he should end up with someone as two-dimensional as Kate. Her character appeared under-developed next to Leopold, she was never really given a chance to shine and she spent most of the movie being annoyed with somebody or something, and seemed to be immune to Leopold's charm most of the time &#150; I'm not sure how! Their scenes together were sweet overall, but I thought the chemistry could have been stronger between them.All credit to Jackman's skill in managing to play the charismatic, and chivalrous Leopold without making him appear effeminate or convoluted which could so easily have happened. He is convincing, but most importantly, still masculine. And he does a fine job! One objection I might make is that for someone who has found themselves 125 years into the future, Leopold gets used to his new surroundings very quickly considering the short time he is there! He is seemingly unfazed by the concept of T.V., phones, cars and modern day music. And the movie neatly avoids any reaction Leopold might have to sticky subjects like premarital sex, illegitimacy, secularisation, not to mention 21st century colloquialism. He has no difficulty understanding the slangage of Kate and the other characters, and all of this is attributed to Leopold's intelligence, his forward-thinking attitudes and his knowledge of scientific advancement. Yet, is this really enough? Ok, so this movie is obviously not supposed to be taken too seriously but at one point, Leopold prepares a sumptuous meal for Kate. Would a 19th century aristocrat really know how to cook? Hmm... This movie is ultimately about questioning what is important in life and prioritising accordingly. Effectively, Kate has it all. She's just got her long-awaited promotion, and now she's found Leopold. If she could have them both she would. But this just isn't possible. Forced to choose, she follows her heart. Yet despite the happy ending, this movie left me feeling rather unfulfilled, particularly in the last scene. I also wish Kate's 'acceptance' speech could have been better written and more poignant, rather than being along the flimsy lines of 'It's nice to get what you want, unless you find that the thing you thought you wanted, isn't what you wanted at all', which looks doubly clumsy alongside Stuart's touching 'dog and rainbow' monologue and the majority of Leopold's dialogue. It would be nice to see a sequel to this movie, perhaps entitled &#145;Leopold and Kate' that deals with Kate's integration into the nineteenth century under Leopold's tutelage, and perhaps a flying visit to 21st century New York through the newly-opened timehole, to clear up the loose ends! I'll keep hoping!  "},{"Title":"Dreadful old tosh","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I had to watch this on a very long flight after I had finished my book and was unable to sleep, which may have coloured my view of this picture.Besides the fantasy premise, which could have been more originally handled, as this particular plot is wearing thin, Meg Ryan just coasted through this. Jackman does his best but perhaps if anyone did this it should have been Colin Firth.The Brits are all hackneyed caricatures and the former boyfriend and brother just plain annoying. Hardly a funny line and little real love interest mean the words romantic comedy are stretched somewhat here. "},{"Title":"Bland","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers.Bland, but I guess you get what you're expecting which is romance meets time travel.  All the cliches are here in both themes (two lovely people who can't find the right significant other for the former and person from the past who is amazed by technology for the latter) so if such unoriginality bohters you, then skip this one.  If you want something predictable (the coup de theatre attempt was weak) and warm then give it a shot. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  After last year's relative flop of Someone Like You (aka Animal Attraction), Hugh Jackman finds himself with another chance to make himself a household name in a light, New-York-based romantic comedy. His part in this film is fairly good, however the film as a whole doesn't even measure up to his previous effort (which wasn't particularly memorable itself).The concept of the film is unashamedly unoriginal - a blatant combination of the fish out of water comedy, with the typical boy meets girl, they fall in love romance which has been done so many times before. The first half of this combo succeeds; the second does not.The best thing about this film is the dialogue. Hugh Jackman's character has travelled through time from 18th century England, and some of the things he has to say about modern day New York are very colourful, very funny and rather well delivered. However, only Jackman's dialogue is any good - most of Meg Ryan's lines are utterly vapid (You need help, Stuart. You need help.) and her character seems generally unmotivated. It's almost as if the two parts were written by different people, one of whom had an iota of creative talent.To add to this problem, there is not much chemistry between Ryan and Jackman. At least, if there is, James Mangold does a pretty poor job of showing it - switching between shots of the two leads with various random expressions on their faces. The relationship should be based on the actions, and dialogue, of the two characters; here, there is little or no interaction taking place, and we can only assume that the bond developing between them is 100% physical attraction. This is quite a serious problem - it seems as if the film-makers think you can just stick two attractive people on screen together, and that having them fall in love is the logical result. It's not. It's unrealistic. Especially since Ryan's character seems for the most part to be a depressed, career-driven woman who wants nothing to do with the male contingent of the population.All that aside, there is still something for me to criticise; the basic premise, for starters, is obviously rather silly, but I'll forgive that; the intricacies of the plot which make up the story are very contrived - something needs smoothing out at the script stage; the main subplot seems irrelevant and unnecessary; the Moon River bit was a very unimaginative way to insert some romantic New-Yorkicism; the list goes on, leading to a film which in most places just doesn't feel right.Thumbs up for Jackman's dialogue (and his performance in general - he comes off as a likeable fellow and good romantic lead) and a couple of other comedic moments (thanks to Breckin Meyer)... Thumbs down to pretty much the whole rest of it. It may seem a bit harsh, but it didn't do much for me. And I know Meg Ryan can do better than this.Oh, and for all the goof-spotters out there Puccini's La Boheme premiered in 1898... 100 years after Leopold's time. Oops. "},{"Title":"Another romantic comedy from Meg Ryan. This time she falls for a time traveler from the 16th century but the flick runs out of steam half way through. Aussie Hugh Jackman does well with uninspiring material.","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Meg Ryan is an industry. She's a film type who was born cute, with sucked mango hair and (increasingly) pouty lips, in Sleepless In Seatle when she faked an orgasm in a cafeteria. Except for a couple of aberrations (When A Man Loves A Woman, Courage Under Fire) she's stayed with the romantic comedy formula and it works for Meg Ryan. If you want hate mail rubbish Meg (real name Margaret Mary Emily Anne Hyra according to the IMDB). She's an archetype who's bland to most but much loved by many women who'd love to look like her and be swept of their feet by handsome gentlemen like she is. And she's the pin up girl by many gentlemen for whom Meg Ryan represents the perfect woman.There's a scene in Kate And Leopold which typifies Meg Ryan beautifully. She has a win in the  office and goes down to the street. On a whim she launches into a hyperactive dance of joy. Somehow  that literally unbelievable dance perfectly represented the concoction that is Meg Ryan.She's a creature of the glossy, over embellished side of Hollywood, but it was still very memorable, even if girls only in their dreams would ever do that in real life. Meg is a film star!Kate And Leopold has Kate (Ryan) falling for a handsome 17th century gentleman called Leopold (Australian Hugh Jackman) when he's presented to her in 20th century New York through the mysteries of time travel. The first half of the film works well enough as Leopold very quickly adjusts to modern times.But the magic wears thin about half way through when Kate And Leopold become more acquainted. Jackman (X Men, Swordfish) does well yet again in an unchallenging roll and Meg does Meg beautifully. Breckin Meyer as Charlie Kate's brother gets the best lines and the only character with any real energy. He makes every turn a winner.As romantic comedies go this ones only OK though. It's let down by a thin script.2 Meg Ryan Flys Out Of Five "},{"Title":"Fun Story but Meg needs to do something else maybe a villain","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  For the most part the movie was entertaining It didn't drag on the two hours went by fast.  However the on-screen chemistry between Jackman and Ryan was not convincing.  Hough did a great job as Duke of Albany but Ryan seemed disinterested in her co-star.  Anyway it was a decent story.  I would love to see Ryan do something completely different thought like may be a villain. A stalking girlfriend some thing except sugar and spice and everything nice. "},{"Title":"Quite Perfect for its Genre","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Kate and Leopold is a romantic comedy twisted by fantasy that pleases the audience without being corny or unoriginal. In other words, this movie has the right elements for its genre.I watched this movie with my friends during one of our hang-outs and we definitely loved having to spent the time for this movie. Some ideas in it like the time warp thing may sound crazy but it is what makes this film a good fantasy without spoiling it. Kate and Leopold made me smile almost throughout the film without me realizing it until my jaw ached. It's one of those few light romantic comedy films that leaves you with that warm fuzzy-feeling inside.Hugh Jackman just smolders in this movie. He's got that charisma and charm, not to mention his very handsome face, that make him perfect for his role as Leopold. Meg Ryan is ever pleasing as the queen of romantic comedies. Other performances by Breckin Meyer and Liev Schreiber, and the rest of the cast sum up for this movie to be a great one.This movie is perfect to watch with your sweetheart and with your friends. You will certainly enjoy this film if you like romance and comedy movies, or likewise, you'll just adore Hugh Jackman in it. "},{"Title":"Had all the right stuff","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  First, it didn't really make sense to me that the disappearance from 1876 causes the elevators to malfunction, when it seems there wouldn't even be any elevator shafts, and people wouldn't even know they were to even be invented.That, the only real glitch, said This was an awesome movie!  If there's anything to regret in going to it, it's that my girlfriend now holds me to a new standard, and I have to improve my charm.  Hugh Jackman, as Leopold, was thoroughly convincing as the Duke of Albany, Meg Ryan was solid in here role, Liev Schreiber deserved a little more air time for the great quirks he had to offer, and Breckin Meyer stole scenes with his hilarious dialogue and perfect comedic timing, which was totally evident with the constant laughs from the audience just for some of the expressions he pulled.It was an absolutely enjoyable and funny romance that I might just have to own when it comes out on video. "},{"Title":"The Jackman and Schreiber show","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is the 1000th Meg Rian movie. But it is really a Jackman and Schreiber show. I realy liked it, though the movie never becomes original at all. Ryan acts like a robot. Fortunately she is not in so many sequences. Well, my point verry watchable with a date. "}{"Title":"Leopold IS what every man should be! (minor spoilers)","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I tried so hard to really like this film. I truly enjoyed certain parts and aspects, and others weren't to my taste. First off, Hugh Jackman is thoroughly enjoyable as 19th century duke Leopold, who is magically transported to 2001 NYC through a tear in time. Once Leopold realizes how blithely some men treat women, he is stunned. He always stands when a woman answers the phone, opens doors, and even rescues Kate's snatched purse. Leopold is a true gentleman whose love and chivalry would make the world a better place if more men followed his example. The costumes, props and lighting in Leopold's 1876 home are breathtaking. I'm no history expert, but the costumes and cobblestone streets and such reminded me more of 1776, but oh well. Frankly, Meg Ryan is miscast. Sure, she could pull off the spunky, romantic sweetheart at age 25, but she's too old now. She and Jackman seemed to be forcing chemistry, and it didn't work. Still, she's passable, to say the least, and Breckin Meyer and Bradley Whitford provide able supporting performances. You'll know what the ending is a good 45 minutes before it comes, but is you don't mind a predicitible movie, and are intrigued with time travel romance (even though I feel the subject was better explored in Somewhere In Time), Jackman's performance alone is enough for me to put it over. "},{"Title":"Another missed opportunity","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Why is it that Meg Ryan always gets caught in movies with precipitous or unfulfilling endings? Sleepless in Seattle, French Kiss now this. laying aside criticisms about the length, her age, etc., my only real beef was that the ending had no play out.  He sees her in the crowd, announces her, the end. What about her future? What about her brother, ex-boyfriend, ex-boss? There were a whole slew of loose ends that could have been neatly tied up before or even during the closing credits.  First, I would have loved to see her as Duchess of Albany, going to that estate in England that her ex-boss had purchased and leaving him a note, which he could have found and ....something, expressed incredulity or amazement. She could have fixed things in the past so that her brother suddenly had opportunities he wouldn't have had, a la Frequency. And of course, guiding her descendents, the current Duke of Albany would have to be fabulously wealthy, the family having known how to invest during two world wars, depressions, peace protests, industrial booms and high-tech booms. Yes, many possibilities overlooked here. Seeing a little of the results of her leap of faith would have made the movie much more satisfying. Well, so too would have been seeing a little more of her brother's flame; Charlotte Ayanna's role was too short. "},{"Title":"Light and romantic","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is definitely a romantic comedy light, funny, and well, cute. Hugh Jackman was great here, just seems to show a bit more of his talent. I think he's a good actor. This is the kind of movie you can watch with your date. At least, that's what most people seem to think. "},{"Title":"Fun stuff","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was kind of cheesy, but was a good movie to just have a good time. I really like Hugh Jackman (Leopold) and I have seen his other American movies.  I would suggest to watch this if you just want to have fun. If you want a real serious movie, I wouldn't watch this one.  But it is pretty cute and entertaining. I liked it a lot! "},{"Title":"A romantic movie that will make you feel amused","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A romantic movie that will make you feel amused, and concerning only about the kind of the end of the story. And of the 3 options that you think are possible, the one that you less believe is the one! Meg Ryan is, as usual, fantastic (her new hair style is perfect with her beautiful face) and Hugh Jackman is perfect as a 19th century gentleman (you almost believe that he's in reality a duke). If you enjoy romantic stories, this movie is a must "},{"Title":"Now the time is what they have to overcome...","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Watching many Meg Ryans' movies, you can see that there is a pattern in her films. In sleepless in Seatle the obstacle they had to overcome was distance. In You got E-mail the main obstacle was money, and the competition between companies. And the main obstacle is time itself...It is the same story but in different epochs. "},{"Title":"Huge BLOOPER concerning La Boheme!","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this film very much. But it contained a huge BLOOPER which indicates that neither the script writer nor the director nor any of the producers know anything about opera. If they did, then they would have known that Leopold, who went through the time portal in 1876, could not have known anything about that opera because it had not yet been written in 1876. Puccini was born in 1858 and was 18 years old in 1876 when he saw the opera Aida and was so inspired by it that he decided to become a composer. He entered the Milan Conservatory to study composing in 1880. His first opera Le Villi had its premiere in 1884.La Boheme had its premiere on 1 February 1896!!! "},{"Title":"a charming film","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  well, I watched Kate and Leopold without any great expectations, and I found it simply charming. that is, i found Hugh Jackman charming as always!Meg Ryan is still pulling up the same old tricks from her sleeve. but her antics are very much intact with the whole film. although ryan and jackman lack chemistry with each other, i couldn't have chosen a better cast! also, the best part of this film (aside from Hugh Jackman, and his acting) is the song by Sting, Until. a very good song, and it really makes you feel in love!all in all, i'd give this movie a B+. could have been better! Jackman and Breckin Meyer and Liev Schreiber were terrific in this film. if you want to have a good time, and a few good laughs, watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Hugh Jackman carries the movie","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was very heartwarming and I laughed and wanted to cry all the time while I was watching it.  Meg Ryan and Hugh Jackman carry that kind of fun romantic chemistry that made you want to just cheer for them the entire movie.  Hugh carries the kind of sexiness that makes all women want to swoon and fall at his feet.  I would watch this movie over and over again and it would make me believe in fate.  I will watch again and again. "},{"Title":"*****refreshing!","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I had expected this movie for a long time because both leading actors are my favor. Undoubtedly, this is another typical Meg Ryan's romantic comedy. Although she still hasn't made a break through this time, she played not so bad either. (I personally feel her thinness makes her executive job more persuasive.) The plot is light! It's a good choice for people who want to turn off their noodles. If you are a woman, it's not hard to understand how depressed it is when you can't find a good man. If you are a man, you may quiet surprised that how powerful some old fashioned ways are. It impressed me when Kate eating the breakfast which was cooked by Leopold with eyes brimming with tears. It's a very complicated feeling and Meg expressed it well. I also appreciated Hugh Jackman. As a soul role, he has done his best. Besides his gorgeous looks, he possesses every gentleman qualities. It's such a big difference with the Wolverine. He is definitely one of my favorite actors. Please don't be stubborn in reality when you see the movie. Just throw your suspicions away for a while and follow the flow. Hope you enjoy it! ;-D  "}{"Title":"light and airy flick, but fun to watch Jackman","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A light, skillfully done classic romantic comedy. The actors are lovely, and so is the easy flowing dialog. The basic plot is modern girl falls for guy out of the past, and all through, the film even manages to avoid all of the `I'm out of this world' cliches. The modern fisty girl is Meg Ryan is doing her non-harmful comeback to the trademark blonde sweetie role (always named Kate or Catherine for some reason), and is mostly not annoying at all. The male Lead by the non-Hollywood-wimp-(finally...), Hugh Jackman is probably the best part of the movie, since apparently the guy can act rather well and is very much at ease with celluloid and himself. I believe the film has three basic points a - you don't really have to think during the viewing or after it. b - CGI can be nasty when used in a romantic comedy. c-  And now for us girls It turns out that even if you are Meg Ryan, with your own personal stylist team  24/7, it is impossible to find a good man today, and your only option is to make your friends at Miramax get you one that does not really exist(please Make a cool Aussie dude talk with a British accent, ride a horse, and have the staff write in some manners too). And, when you do find him, immediately drop everything you have worked for in your life and follow him anywhere, in a ravishing ball gown and pearl earrings naturally!  "},{"Title":"I have to say...","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  If all men acted like Leopold. I would be so happy, I could cry...But they don't do they? I wish all men could go watch it and take notes. After the movie. I wanted a man just like Leopold. I know I am shallow. But what can I say? I fell in love... "},{"Title":"Great Movie (especially the earlier version)","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie.  The actors were charming to watch, the dialogue was quick and funny, and the plot had just the right amounts of comedy and romance (not to mention a clever way of including time travel without making the movie too cheesy).  Luckily for me, I was able to see a sneak preview before it opened in theaters.  This is lucky because some people got upset with a certain aspect of the movie that implied incest (I think people are waaaaay too touchy especially since I didn't even think of that implication until a few hours after watching the movie), and the makers reacted to the complaints by cutting out the parts that included this aspect.  Unfortunately, taking out all parts pertaining to that aspect REALLY affects the movie.  The plot makes a little less sense now, and without these scenes, the movie seems more unrealistic and cheesy than in the earlier version.  For those of you who have seen it (i.e. for those of you who don't want any parts ruined for you, don't read the rest of this), the aspect they took out was the fact that Leopold is Stuart's relative (if I recall correctly, his Great Grandfather), thus making Kate also his relative (again, if I recall correctly, his Great Grandmother). Personally, I don't see the big deal (I would bring up the many reasons why, but this review is already somewhat long).  Anyway, the problems with taking this out are this explains why Stuart went back in time to see Leopold in particular; this emphasizes the importance of getting Leopold back in time (so he CAN'T stay in the future with Kate) since if he doesn't, Stuart won't be born; this also explains the importance of getting Kate to go back in time; finally, there are multiple references to this piece of information that add humor and continuity to the film.  So, in other words, I may have a skewed view of the movie since I saw a different version, but I still think it's great. "},{"Title":"It was one of the best romances I've seen.","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This was a great story for people who like time-travel romances.  Personally, it's my favorite kind of story.  The romantic and funny parts are well picked and they have the right amount.  And for those that like Hugh, it's also a good movie. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is the best movie for anyone who believes in true love,or for anyone who hopes to find it. The actors are exceptional! I have seen this movie 4 times and plan to buy it as soon as it is out on video. It is a great story of love and hope. It makes the viewer feel like nothing is impossible. "},{"Title":"The First Meg Ryan movie I have ever liked","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Kate and Leopold is not your typical romantic comedy. It has a fantasy twist to it. Meg Ryan stars as a young single woman working in New York. Then, when her ex-boyfriend finds a time portal, and brings a handsome man back from the 1800's,(Hugh Jackman) he sweeps her off her feet. He is charming, funny, brilliant and poetic. But their difference  get in the way of their love. Can Kate and Leopold get over their generation differences and make room for love? Watch this charming romantic comedy to find out! I give this movie 10 out of 10!  "},{"Title":"If one could time travel they would want to bring back Hugh Jackman with them everytime.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is pure female eye and brain candy, but who doesn't need a little fantasy every now and then?  Guys get their Playboy magazines and we girls have our Meg Ryan films. Guaranteed to satisfy.  Even though they were playing with the details of this fable til the very end and even though they probably used the same media focus groups in the movie to graph the proper ending for optimum audience response I still watched it twice in the theatre.  It is a pleasant little fantasy with enough comic touches to make it interesting. Hugh Jackman as Leopold Alexis Elijah Walker Gareth Thomas Mountbatten was truely the fabled idealized guy we all dream about - a Cary Grant from the last century.  Ahh for a taste of chivalry for us all. And they've actually aged Meg appropriately.  Liev Schreiber is thouroughly believable as Stuart Besser, Meg's ex-boyfriend who's found the portal in time that we all know exists somewhere, who'd of thought it was just off the Brooklyn Bridge. Anyway Liev has a touchingly well written scene about colorblind dogs. Final mention, Breckin Meyer as Meg's younger brother, Charlie McKay, who's returned from actor's camp, is excellent as the acting student ready to take any information Hugh Jackman is willing to share on acting and women.  Girls if you're down this is just the fantasy to pick you up. "},{"Title":"Verrry funny & romantic, too. Great Valentine's Day flick.","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the most entertaining and funny movies I've seen in a long time.  There are lots of intense, dark, intelligent films out now, but this one stole my heart.  Why?  It's just so funny, and Ryan and Jackson are such opposites.  I'll see this again, to re-watch some of the more hilarious scenes.  Ryan is one of the few (if any) actresses today who really is funny on screen.  I appreciate how Meg Ryan is able to stand back and let other actors shine, while delivering solid entertainment.  I must admit, I never grow tired of her, or her films.   "},{"Title":"OK, OK, so I admit it...","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It is without a doubt very light, predictable, a fantasy filled movie plagued with historical errors.   However, I must admit...I liked it.  Fine! I said it! (I'm sorry, I know this means I may have to give up my membership to the HE-Man Testosterone Club.)Maybe I just like Meg Ryan (You've got to love Meg). Maybe I just knew not to expect a Gone With The Wind.  If you do see this movie, just be prepared NOT to expect too much.  It's a fun movie, fun plot, fun characters.  Just don't think too hard- enjoy it.     "},{"Title":"Good performance strange plot","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  In all the confusion the ending was just seconds away from credits rolling and basically that's when the whole movie just changes. Leopold is bored and very modern for a young, poor Duke when he spots a strange man named Stuart running around his mansion in Brooklyn, New York 1870. He leaves the party where he was to announce a bride of wealth by the orders of his uncle. He chases Stuart and both jump off a bridge landing in the present time, our time. Kate lives one floor up above her ex boyfriend Stuart and she gets startled meeting Leopold, who is a true gentleman, which confuses Kate because she doesn't seem to believe in love or meeting the right guy anymore even so Leopold is confused too yet tries to make the best of things as Stuart promises he will get him back to his time. The only problem is Kate works for an ad company and Leo seems to be a perfect spokesman and the attraction between the two leaves Leopold wondering what he should do... Romantic, funny yes, but there was something again missing from this film, but I can't quite place it. 6 out of 10 only because I loved the accent of Hugh and even sitting back and watching this movie you can easily fall in love with Leopold,he truly seems to be too good to be true, but why he falls in love with Kate is a good question. "}{"Title":"Undemanding after-dinner fare","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Went to see this with a couple of my friends on girls-night out. We chose this movie over seeing I am Sam chiefly because I did not feel like thinking that night.  I just wanted to unplug my brain for a couple of hours and digest my dinner.   The is by far the most mainstream movie I have seen this year.  I am more of an arthouse movie girl who likes to be challenged.  However, the sweetness was not heavy-handed and therefore tolerable. Could have used more humor and creativity, though.  The margarine ad campaign could have been hilarious! Visually, the fellow in the lead was a hottie, which definitely helped, and not to sound shallow, but Meg Ryan's hair and lipliner was distractingly badly done! (What is this thing Hollywood and the modeling world have with extending a woman's natural lip line beyond recognition?)  On the plus side, I loved Leopold's big old house and the period ball costumes. Meg's actor brother taking advice from Leopold in how to attract women the old fashioned way was definitely the strength in the movie.  Also, this movie includes an excellent line about sundays that rings true for working folks.  Not a good movie to see if you are going through a breakup as it may hit too close to home about what women hope for in a guy.  My friend was in that situation and felt that the movie played into the fact that some women swoon over the least little courtesy. People seeing this film in a happy state of mind may find some validation of a belief that simple things are what makes life good.    "},{"Title":"Moviemaking dictated by market research","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It's ironic that Meg Ryan plays a market research professional in this film, because this movie was so clearly a paint-by-numbers effort put together to please a specific demographic.  Hugh Jackman (easy on the eyes) + Meg Ryan (non-threatening goofy beauty, although what is up with her hair in this pic?  Aaaarrrgh!) + contemporary career and love conflicts + historical romance = perfect movie for women 18-54, right?  Wrong.  Yes, it's as light as air, and there's nothing wrong with that.  But despite good character development for the leads, there's never much support for Hugh and Meg to develop a relationship, particularly one that creates the ending in this movie.And oh, the ending.  C'mon guys, spend a little more time trying to wrap up some loose ends next time.  We get about 115 minutes of storyline, followed by a ridiculous 5 minutes of okay, let's wrap this thing up, we're getting close to exceeding the magic two hour mark! "},{"Title":"Beautiful Fluff","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Look, it's a Meg Ryan romantic comedy.  It's not going to be anything particularly unusual for its type, but it's still a pretty decent little bit of fluff.Hugh Jackman, as others have already mentioned, is beautiful.  Meg Ryan's haircut, as others have also already mentioned, looks like a porcupine resting on her scalp.The plot of this movie is the same as the plots of all the other Meg Ryan movies, although there are a few beautiful scenes, all of which feature Jackman, usually alone.  Ryan's character seems unusually stupid in Kate, and I'm starting to wonder why she always has to be clumsy.  Is Ryan clumsy in real life?Jackman is the soul of this film, and without him, it would be absolutely dreadful.  With him, it's merely vaguely enjoyable.  The ending is a foregone conclusion, but at least it's not more sappy than the usual Hollywood fare.I can see where this would be dismissed as a chick flick. "},{"Title":"Meg Ryan looks terrible in the film.","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Jeez.  Who did her hair!  It was so bad it was distracting!  Not a good match Meg Ryan and Hugh Jackman.  He is so obviously theatre trained and Meg is Meg which has always been good but I don't think her bits work for her anymore.  She's gotta reinvent herself.  I'm also tired of toothpick thin women.  It isn't beautiful.  I thought that Helen Hunt would have been better casting for the role, then I thought, Oh no! She's too thin, too! Besides the body type, the movie was cute.  The time traveling thing and the mental institution thing were unsubstantial devices.  The Duke assimilated too easily and let himself be talked into going back without even a word of regret. All this romance and then the guy doesn't even ask why he has to go back?! Duh. What was the dog thing?  After Stuart fell down the elevator shaft the only purpose for the dog was to drag the Duke all over town. Lame.  Really, lame. The best thing about this movie was the emphasis on Old Fashioned Manners which will be wasted on anyone under 35 who will think manners are quaint.  "},{"Title":"WHEN HUGH MET MEG...","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" KATE & LEOPOLD (2001) **1/2 Meg Ryan, Hugh Jackman, Liev Schreiber, Breckin Meyer, Natasha Lyonne,  Bradley Whitford, Paxton Whitehead, Spalding Gray, Charlotte Ayanna, Philip Bosco. (Dir James Mangold)I love Meg Ryan.  Have since Top Gun and Innerspace  when her beguilingly cute kewpie doll kisser popped onscreen with her plucky and feisty sexiness on full display that has since parlayed into a cottage industry as The Single Girl Alone on Saturday Night (her trifecta of romantic screwball comedies with Tom Hanks - Joe Vs. The Volcano, Sleepless in Seattle and You've Got Mail ) which have solidified her as one of the few actresses working today in Hollywood as 'bankable' (Sandra Bullock, Julia Roberts and Michelle Pfeiffer are the others that come immediately to mind with Gwyneth Paltrow in the wings).  And When Harry Met Sally. confirmed her mettle as a comedienne mixing it up with surly Billy Crystal into an unlikely coupling that has only endeared her to me even despite her recent gossip rags off-screen romantic life (you know who and with who so I won't sully her already troubled persona).I just wish Meg would realize she is a genuine hottie and perhaps 'stretch' a little as an actress by avoiding the typecasting as an old-maid for the new millennium.  In her latest she treads familiar territory but with a unique - although not highly original - slant time-travelling romance a la Back to The Future with current hot-throb, Jackman. The fun begins in 2001 New York City when intrepid scientific researcher Stuart Besser (Schreiber excelling in the Ralph Bellamy role with some welcome slapstick buffoonery) who has discovered a portal in a rip in the fabric of time (yes that old chestnut in sci-fi) in hurtling himself in the time-space continuum by visiting Old New York circa 1876 where he follows the fascinating Leopold Alexis Elijah Walker Garteh Thomas Mountbatten (Jackman) who is a sullen duke of  a well-to-do snobbish family that is insisting he marry a socialite to save the family name.  Upon discovering Stuart snooping around his manor Leopold gives chase up The Brooklyn Bridge whereupon both pursuer and persuee wind up hurtling back to 2001 and the out-of-sorts gentleman crashes at the erstwhile time traveler's Manhattan pad. Enter Kate McKay (Ryan), Stu's neighbor and current ex-girlfriend, who comes across Leopold and figuring he's a flaky expat pal of Stu's paying him no mind as to who he really is and treating him like everyone in her life on the superfluous superficial edge of her contempt.  Kate is a go-go getter junior ad exec jockeying to join the creative team of her superior JJ (Whitford in another of his patented a**hole types) who just wants to jump Kate's bones in the long run. When Stu gets into a nasty accident - taking a header down an empty elevator shaft - and finding himself declared mentally unstable (thanks to his rapid-fire demeanor and explanation of his discovery, natch) - Leopold makes himself at home as best he can with Stu's apartment and traveling thru New York with the aid of Kate's younger brother Charlie (Meyer, late of the ill-fated sitcom Inside Schwartz) a struggling actor who (at first) believes Leo to be a true Method thespian working his craft.Leopold eventually develops some unknown feelings (i.e. love) for the brassy Kate and she melts for him after some feats of gallantry and gentlemanly manners never before witnessed by her in her attempts at relationships with men.  The two are naturally perfect for each other but time is ticking for Leo to return by the end of the week to 1876 or else his invention of the elevator will never occur (among other things). The film is a bit too cutesy yet it is appealing in the long run thanks to the pleasantries of Jackman combining his good looks with comic aplomb and his pairing with Ryan proves chemistry is indeed an exact science.  The screenplay is an odd choice for indie filmmaker Mangold (who co-wrote with Steven Rogers) yet is not a complete loss thanks to the ideal ensemble especially the always welcome Lyonne as Kate's Girl Friday and the aforementioned Meyer who nearly steals the film particularly his wooing of the fair and unobtainable Patrice (Ayanna). A likable 'date' flick of the high order by all means but I hope our fair Ms. Ryan avoids going to the well on her next gig.  "},{"Title":"I'm just a fan...and I loved it.","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Unfortunately, I haven't been a tried-and-true movie critic since I wrote for my high school newspaper. Even though I carry a college journalism degree, I won't use this to write a review. I'm going to be a fan, plain and simple it was wonderful. Yes, I'm a chick, but I'm a chick that doesn't cry. Only the sappiest or heartwrenching of movies make me cry. This was neither - I left feeling overjoyed, but not to typical romantic-comedy tears. I was saddened (being a single chick and all), but not completely devastated and bitter about my Hugh-less life. I don't know if other reviewers have given spoilers, but I won't here. I was content with every part of it, and that makes for an excellent movie. I wondered, before I saw the movie, why Meg Ryan hadn't been nominated for a Golden Globe, like Hugh Jackman was for this movie. But, even an unprofessional eye can spot why. Even though we have all adored her in her forte as a romantic-comedienne, where she absolutely blossoms, and she still does in this You've-Got-Mail-Meets-Back-To-The-Future flick. (That may be a lame comparison, but who *doesn't* think of the 1985 classic when someone mentions the space-time continuum?) But Hugh Jackman breaks out of his normal action-figure role into something completely refined and cordial. I adored him in X-Men, and seeing him play Leopold (and garner a worthy nomination) makes me realize he was more than just hunky and cool to watch as Wolverine. I've heard he played his character well in Password Swordfish. It proves this man is an actor, and I dare say, soon-to-be an actor's actor, like we see in Meg Ryan's sleepless romantic counterpart. I'd also like to note very well-played roles by the director from 'Scream 3', and Schwartz.  "},{"Title":"Lacks substance; left many loose ends.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The movie relied too much on the stars, instead of the actual story. There were a lot of holes left in the plot that doesn't get tied up in the end. I felt as if the ending was also given away too early in the script, foreshadowed by Kate says to Leopold that life isn't a fairy tale.  The characters were not memorable at all, at least Kate.  The focus was too much on Leopold and how he is adjusting to the 21st century.In general, the movie was for women.  Men, if you are in the dog house, this is the movie to see.  Try not to fall asleep.  The movie is sprinkled with jokes (although they seemed forced), but some of them are funny enough to make you laugh.  Meg Ryan plays the predictable role of lady in distress. Hugh Jackman did a great job with his character.  The accent and behavior of his character was very real.  My recommendation is to see it without thinking too much and maybe you'll enjoy it better than I did. "},{"Title":"Meg Ryan","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a fine film.  It is directed by Girl Interrupted Director which is a fine adult drama.  Kate and Leo is a fine comedy.  I am a history professor and this film is accurate enough.  No person's experience is the same as another.  This film has the style of Princess Diaries or Legally Blonde.  It is light but very inventive.  It has something for everyone and is appropriate for all ages.  In the end, the story is not about men or women but about honesty, ambition, and sincerity and freewill.  It has a much more satisfying ending than You Got Mail.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Audience applauded!","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Delightful story. Well cast. Well acted! I saw three films, three  nights in a row over the holidays -- Lord of the Rings, Vanilla Sky and Kate & Leopold -- of the three K&L was the only one that the audience applauded when it was over!  Highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Hugh Jackman works great with Meg Ryan, Great Casting!!","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A really enjoyable flick, that leaves you feeling good and delivers what it promises. Meg Ryan is always super, although I think her hairdresser could use a few lessons.  Meg Ryan and Hugh Jackman are a delightful combination!!  Hope to see him in more films of this type and hope that Meg Ryan continues with this type of film instead of depressing ones that take her away from what she does best. "}{"Title":"Hugh Jackman light up the screen...","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  His suave looks and great acting made this movie worth it. Meg Ryan wasn't wonderful, as you see, when she always acts. She acts like the kind of person she is. My saying is,'A great actor is someone who acts what they are not.'. Hugh Jackman played his role very well, it was odd yet amusing. Its was funny and yet sad. I cannot say if Hugh Jackman was very good, but to me I was satisfied. I was pleased. And is that not the thing that was worth it? But in Meg Ryan's case, I am sorry but I saw right thru her. Her acting is too fake. Not real enough to prove me that she is Kate. How Hugh Jackman acted. I was convinced that he was Leopold. He was a duke, and Kate was, Meg Ryan trying to fit the role. As one can tell Hugh Jackman has been nominated for best actor and he deserves it. I do believe that Meg Ryan was not nominated at all. But the movie was over all wonderful for a person like me who thinks that Hugh Jackman rises above all. The movie is worth the price to pay. Hugh Jackman has a way of playing his character, so that he is real. "},{"Title":"Meg is back... Hugh is a star","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" James Mangold's Kate & Leopold is a funny and sweet romantic comedy. It marks the return of Meg Ryan to movies that she does best, and another impressive star turn from Hugh Jackman. Director Mangold, who also wrote the screenplay with Steven Rogers, constructs a charming time travel romance which asks the audience not to concern themselves with the technical details, and care for the characters as they do. This is what works best. Stuart (well played by Liev Schrieber) is a preoccupied inventor, who discovers a time portal to the 1870's near the Brooklyn Bridge. On one of his trips back to present day New York, Stuart is unexpectedly accompanied by Duke Leopold (Hugh Jackman). Kate McKay (Meg Ryan), Stuart's ex-girlfriend, who lives in a downstairs apartment, meets Leopold and initially is not too impressed-- noting that Leo is dressed like Sgt. Pepper. High powered ad executive, Ms. McKay, soon finds herself drawn to the 19th century Duke. Chivalry lives in K&L.Mangold and Rogers avoid the very trite fish out of water comedy by the use of it's characters. Leopold is an inventor-- he would invent the elevator. So Leopold is fascinated by technology, and is perplexed by modern society-- or lack there of. Leopold is a gentlemen among the clueless masses including Kate's boss, JJ (a slick Bradley Whitford), who is hitting on Kate. Leopold also befriends and coaches Kate's brother Charlie (a very funny Breckin Meyer), a wanna be actor. The strength of the movie comes from the integrity of it's main characters played by Ryan and Jackman. Meg Ryan's Kate is the successful modern woman, who sold out on a lot of things in her life including love. Ryan plays Kate with the right tough covering for the girl, who knows that her life is incomplete. Hugh Jackman is the classic romantic leading man. He is handsome, charming, and a natural gentleman. Jackman as Leo is a gentleman. This authenticity and integrity of character breathes life into the story. Leopold loves Kate. He would do anything for her. In a great scene Charlie asks Leo who he really is. Leopold says I am the man who is in love with your sister. Meg Ryan and Hugh Jackman are wonderful together and under the direction and care of James Mangold, Kate & Leopold is something quite special. "},{"Title":"Very Very Cute","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Cute and entertaining.  Pure fluff!  I enjoyed every minute of it.  This is one thing I like about romantic comedies; that they don't try to be unpredictable.  You can see the plot twists coming a mile away.  Anyone who bases a romantic comedy for being predictable, isn't familiar with the genre.  They're a light snack, a fun quick ice cream bar that we enjoy to giggle over, every once in awhile.  They lift us up on dark days and make us smile.  This one succeeded at doing just that. "},{"Title":"A Pleasurable Chick-flick","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I personally am not a fan of chick-flicks and for good reason.  However, Kate and Leopold was a very decent romance movie and it didn't revolve around sexual themes.  I found the movie to be quite entertaining even if it was a chick-flick.  It was in its own way a cute romance movie that everyone should see. "},{"Title":"There is still a place for ... good manners, chivalry, and respect for one another ... in the name of Love ...","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a clever film ... a fairy tale ... a frolic through time.  A great date movie.  In a good fairy tale, there's always a moral to the story.  So too here.  The moral is that good manners, chivalry, respect for each other are qualities that have been compromised in 21st century life, as the sexes have merged to equality.  There is still a place for each of them, particularly in the name of Love.  And that's the message I came away with...the moral - as it were.I liked the cast.  Good chemistry.  It worked!  Meg Ryan is the quintessential catalyst to make everyone get along.  Hugh Jackman is far more likable leading man than Hugh Grant, who seems like a pompous ass though I'm sure he's a very nice person once you get to know him.  And mark these words there's a place on screen for the likes of Breckin Meyer, whose (TV) Inside Schwartz leaves much to be desired but who plays Kate's (Meg's) brother as though he was every kid brother.I give it 7 / 10.  I have a soft spot for films involving time (1876 and 2001 in this case).  Which reminds me, Liev Schreiber was very good too. He was at his best, though, in that RKO-581 film.  See Kate & Leopold on Date Night.  "},{"Title":"Historical Anachronisms (Goofs) in Kate & Leopold","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Leopold has fallen through a crack in time and has been whisked from the year 1876 to contemporary New York.  So far, so good, but Leopold also seems to know quite a bit about the years in between1. He refers to Thomas Edison's incandescent lamp, which was not invented until 1879.2. He teaches a child to sing I am the very model of a modern Major General from THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE, which was also not composed until 1879.3. In a key scene, Kate's boss has pretentiously declared his love of opera, claiming that he learned French from watching LA BOHEME.  Leopold correctly berates him because the opera was written and is usually performed in Italian--but it was not composed until 1896! "},{"Title":"Lighthearted fluff","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a light hearted romantic film which has Hugh Jackman as a 19th century duke transported thru a time portal to the present day New York City where he romances Meg Ryan's frustrated career woman. While entertaining for the most part, primarily due to the charms and relaxed nature of Jackman, the film does have some credibility issues with its storyline and Ryan's character is often simply annoying. Still, it's a pleasant enough diversion. GRADE C "},{"Title":"this'll be quick","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Meg Ryan -- Her usual, bubbly self (sickening isn't it?) Hugh Jackman -- Delectable and worth shelling out your cinema dollars for over and over again Breckin Meyer -- Hilarious and perfect (and also a little bit cute) Liev Schrieber -- Sadly misused and wrongly cast (a brilliant actor allowed no brilliance) Bradley Whitford -- plays jerks to perfection (too bad, I'd like to see him be charming one day in maybe a leading man film role)All in all, a cute movie, with some funny scenes. I enjoyed it. I don't agree with the many who say that it makes women look bad. On the contrary, I take offense with that, because if the film really makes anyone look bad, it's our doltish, egotistical, smarmy, and unsympathetic men......and frankly my dear, that's entertainment! "},{"Title":"Incredibly Sweet and Romantic","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was absolutly charming!  AS good, if not better than reading a great novel.  The acting was high rate, and the writing was fantastic!  I would recomend this movie to anyone.  A great date movie and definetly a chic flic.  "},{"Title":"A truly romantic movie that makes you yearn for earlier times.","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  When I saw the trailer to this movie I dropped what I was doing and looked up, on the screen I saw a commercial for a movie that I knew I needed to see.  I love the romantic much that many movies put forward, but even though this movie doesn't dwell on it too much, it still is an excellent movie and shows more of how the way our world has changed, for the worse and for the better over the past 100 years.  I wish that all men were as chivalrous as Leopold is, and look at some of the rules that we have come up with, the doggy poo rule is so stupid it is only going to disinigrate anyway! Meg Ryan does her Meg Ryan thing in this movie but I must admit that she does have amazing chemistry with Hugh Jackman,but truly the movie does belong to him and he deserves the Golden Globe Nomination.  This movie has come along at the right time if you ask me, we haven't had a good romantic romp in a few months and after the past Fall that we have had I think that Kate and Leopold is the perfect prescription for what we need to see and be shown. "}{"Title":"Date level chick flick","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Park your brain at the door and enjoy the show.  For the scifi fans, the whole time travel thing is messed up and inconsistent (someone shows up in a photo during a time they weren't even there).  Despite what some critics say, the dog was fine.  He moved the plot, provided (sometimes weak) comic interlude, and gave the leading man an opportunity to impress us with his winning ways with animals.  We were beautifully set up for him to then apply those winning ways to a horse and the leading lady, respectively.Meg Ryan has lost about three points on the perkymeter, but she is still more adorable than anyone except Sandra Bullock.  She breaks no new ground in this little film, but neither does she disappoint.  If you liked her in the past (Harry Met Sally, Sleepless in Seattle), you'll like her here. If not - check out Vanilla Sky for the antiperky Penelope Cruz!The real (no big) surprise is that Hugh Jackman continues in his conquest of the American filmgoing public.  He is intelligent, charming, handsome, sincere - a Mel Gibson for the new generation.  He reminded me of a real man's version of Rupert Everett.  This guy should be around for a long, long time.I caught Breckin Meyer on his short-lived sitcom, Inside Schwartz.  He continues to delight with his open, accessible wit and vulnerability.  I don't know what kind of career this fellow has ahead of him, but, if any casting directors are reading this, I like him.  He has that innate ability to play the best buddy ala Bruno Kirby or Jim Belushi.  Breckin may not be leading man material, but he will make your leading man more effective every time out.In conclusion, while this movie is not a waste of money, you'll probably enjoy it more if you watch it while curled up on the sofa with your main squeeze.  I give it a 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"Best Love Story Yet","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  If you love romantic stories about time travel and love gentlemen of the old time, you will love this movie.  Hugh Jackman does a wonderful job as Leopold.  It is a story I could watch many times and fall in love with Leopold many times.  I feel that most women will be extremely attracted to Mr. Jackman in this movie.  I highly recommend it to every romantic.  I also highly recommend it to any men who want to know how to treat a lady and win that lady's heart.  A must-see for all ages! "},{"Title":"Finally! A romantic comedy that really is.","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It's been a long dry spell between true romantic comedies, but Kate & Leopold was truly worth waiting for.  Hugh Jackman was wonderful and very convincing in a heroic, romantic sort of way.  The story has been explained in other reviews, so I will just say that I also liked Meg Ryan.  I thought her portrayal of a more driven, not quite so cutesy heroine was right on the money and may have been a little uncomfortable for some of her fans.  The supporting cast was also good as others have mentioned.  I think Bradley's character was juxtaposed brilliantly with Hugh's character.  The 19th century sequences were wonderfully realistic.  I would have loved a few more scenes played out there.  I also love the thought of... the possibility of time travel; however, I didn't like where the portal was in this film, the Brooklyn Bridge??  I've read much better ideas in about 50 romance novels.  I had one other teensy problem with the ending and the photograph-- did anyone else notice?  I have explained it to myself by saying that if Leopold doesn't chase Stuart then Stuart was there to take the picture.  Well, it works for me.  If you love true romance and believe in true love this movie is for you.  Could we PLEASE have more films like this--is anyone listening????  "},{"Title":"Amazing Romance with a little Sci Fi","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  First, I am a man. I normal HATE romances. This movie was the perfect combination of a tiny bit of sci-fi with a beautiful romance. It was funny and moving. I really felt for the characters. The acting was superb. If you are a man and have a girlfriend see this with her. This movie does not work well with your male friends. There were also plenty of perfect moments to start making out at. I, however, was too entertained by the movie to interrupt it with that... Instead I waited until after the movie and had a wonderful time). The song at the credits was just perfect.... In closing, it made for a wonderful date and a great a movie I will always remember.. I can hardly believe I just gave a romance a 10, considering that puts this movie in my top ten all time, and I see almost every movie..... What are you waiting for? Call up your special someone and tell her to get dressed, because you are going to go see a movie together. "},{"Title":"Hugh Jackman saves the day","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I am not a Meg Ryan fan and this movie confirmed those feelings.  Her role in this film is completely unoriginal. She's done too many characters like that. In the course of the movie, I never understood why Hugh Jackman's character had any interest in her.  Jackman with the help of Breckin Meyer made the movie worth sitting through.  I would have walked out otherwise. "},{"Title":"A fun film -- worth seeing","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  KATE AND LEOPOLD  **+_  / Romantic Comedy / Meg Ryan, Hugh JackmanLeopold inadvertently falls through a Time Portal from the year 1876 to the present. He's still in New York City -- just 125 years later. There he meets Kate, who takes most of the film to believe Leopold is really from the past. The film is a bit slow paced (no explosions or car chases), but provides a quite a few good laughs. It's not a classic, but it's fun, and definitely worth seeing.   "},{"Title":"Sappy, but cute","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  OK, I'll admit it -- I'm a sucker for sappy Meg Ryan love stories. This one has a ridiculous premiise, but somehow manages torise above it with a very well-written script and excellentperformances (Hugh Jackman is especially good).Meg is her usual cute self. "},{"Title":"hugh rules, meg sucks","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  the movie's plot is interesting in the beginning.  The time travel concept is a little different, and i'm very glad the writers don't focus too much, if any, on how the time travel actually works.  The movie would have been a lot better if Meg Ryan wasn't there.  She does the same movies with the same type of character and I just can't stand her anymore.  >On the other hand Hugh Jackman is very charming and adorable.  He was great in X-men, and did just as well in this movie. I would recommend a rental. "},{"Title":"A wonderful, romantic film!","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I admit it -- I'm a dyed in the wool romantic.  This movie sounded like exactly the type of movie I'd like to see and for the most part, I wasn't disappointed. It was just the type of movie we need these days... something to allow us to suspend our disbelief for just a little while. I was enchanted by the handsome hero and his attempts to cope with his new situation.  Hugh Jackman was the quintessential 19th century Lord, and I hope he does more such roles.  The actors who played Stuart and Charlie were also good.  And Bradley Whitford was quite the obnoxious boss -- quite a departure from his role on West Wing.I confess, though, to being disappointed by Meg Ryan -- oh, her acting was fine, and she had a nice rapport with Mr. Jackman, but there was something off.  It may have been her severe work wardrobe and her hair style that bugged me.  Also, some of her closeups were very unflattering, which isn't her fault.All in all though, I thought it was a lovely movie, and I highly recommend it to anyone who wants to escape real life for a short time.  "},{"Title":"It was a wonderful film, with plenty of humor, and the /romance/...","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Gosh, the romantic aspects...wouldn't it be /glorious/ to have a man like that...so polite that he would rise from the table every time you prepared to leave it... I'm a hopeless romantic, really, and although normally, I sit in a theater and have the occasional urge to look at my watch...this time, I admit I felt no such urge. I was lost in a completely fabricated world, one that had me forgetting that in two days I was to take a driving test, or that in five days I was to start my second semester of college. I was riveted, wanting to call for her to 'take that leap'...or for him to give her the ring, as they cuddled so comfortably apon the landing outside her apartment. Meg Ryan did an excellent job playing the non-believer, as did Hugh Jackman, playing the man who didn't fit in, but tried so hard in his own way, and reached his goal. Not to mention, getting the woman of his dreams (all thanks to Stuart, of course, who I was happy to have back, only because of his genius at the end). And who couldn't love Kate's brother, Charlie, who obviously loved his sister a great deal, to encourage her to chase the man she loved to the far reaches of time...This movie, if you're a sap, like myself...this movie is certainly for you. "}{"Title":"Silly and fun!","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this film solely for the gorgeous hunk, Hugh Jackman, but was pleasantly suprised with the film as well. It was pure whimsy and charm done in a satisfying manner. Not at all overly cutesy or sickeningly sweet like I though it would be. The dialogue was excellent, especially with Leopold character, someone did their homework on the history, mannerisms, and culture of that time! There were also many good funny moments as well.  "},{"Title":"Nothing Special","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Typical love story with very little to offer.  Not a terrible movie, but nothing worth running out for.  The acting was decent, although the story-line had quite a few holes and frankly was not all that entertaining. Wait for video, but even then don't get too excited.   "},{"Title":"Good Comedy...Bad Love Story","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Though I did enjoy the comedy of this movie...I was very disappointed in the love story these two shared. It took them forever to fall in love and left you wondering throughout the movie...is there an attraction here?? Now however, hands down to Breckin Meyer for a wonderful comedic performance which will leave you laughing and laughing. And even though I did not enjoy the love story of this movie, congrats to Hugh Jackman for his Golden Globe nomination. Good comedy...bad love story. "},{"Title":"It is a classic story of Prince Charming, with a twist.","Date":"31 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Call me naive, but I didn't care about the camera angles. I simply did not notice. My eyes were too focused on Mr. Hugh Jackman. Hugh Jackman...*sigh* I loved his work in Someone like you but he was just literally stunning in this movie. If you haven't seen it yet, please go see it. I'm sure you'd like it too. I am at least going to go back and see it once more. Yes, it was that great. Well, at least I thought it was. It was the..old 'style' movie that you don't often see now-a-days in our world of James Bond, or Die Hard, or the Matrix..It was just an old fashioned love story. I am a sucker for romantic comedies. The one thing I really did not like about the movie was Meg Ryan's hairstyle. It just didn't do it for me. Sorry Meg! Other than that, I enjoyed her acting, and onscreen chemistry with Hugh. It was sweet. Almost too sweet. But, that's alright. Above all, I came to see a movie. To see a love story unfold. I didn't come to study camera angles, and direction. It really wasn't that bad. Hugh Jackman, as Leopold, can literally charm the pants off of almost any woman he pleases. No offense meant in that last statement. He portrays a character who has never felt love, until he happens to come to the 21st Century and fall in love with Kate. You have to really sympathize with both characters, who were indeed meant to be together. It leaves the viewer wondering if something as magical as that could really happen...It left me floating on a dream for hours. It's the kind of story that you could tell your kids, maybe even take them to see.In conclusion, Kate and Leopold is a must see movie. It is a classic story of Prince Charming Duke of Albany, with a twist. -- 10/10 "},{"Title":"silly but fun","Date":"31 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I normally hate time-travel movies. They are usually very formulaic Put someone in the past/future and then weave 2 hours of slapstick around not knowing how to drive a car or ballroom dance. If Meg Ryan wasn't starring in this I might not have bothered to see it.However, I was pleasantly surprised because this movie is more about romance than time-travel. Hugh Jackman plays the Duke of Albany Leopold, who inadvertently follows Stuart (Liev Schrieber) through a time-travel portal into the future. Here he meets Stuart's ex-girfriend Kate (Meg Ryan) and falls in love. Rather than resorting to watching Leopold bumble around the 21st century, the movie centers on Kate's distrust of men and Leopold's capabilities with them. Breckin Meyer plays Kate's brother Charlie and adds the humorous elements to the film. As we watch Kate and Leopold fall in love, the story does take a few twists and turns that kept me grinning. Hugh Jackman is just charming in this role and you can't help but fall in love with him as well (what's a few centuries difference, anyway?)Not much is spent on the technical aspects of time travel, and the few instances of learning to make a toilet flush or marveling over a toaster you see in the trailers is all you see. Leopold embraces the future with the same suave he does socially; so in that respect you canbelieve it when he runs the dishwasher with no difficulty. Like most Meg Ryan films, the ending is fairy tale enough to justify the silly plot. I enjoyed it very much.My biggest beef with this film was the blantant product placement! It was so bad I started counting and made it up to 10 major placements in the first 40 minutes. Note to Ms. Ryan Take a stand on this. Having your character dump a latte all over her white shirt only to have her coleague call up Barneys and order a Donna Karan shirt is beneath you now. I don't think Starbucks needs to pander to such antics. My other complaint is to the movie theatre that has the nerve to charge eight bucks for a matinee with a screen the size of a postage stamp and a sticky floor. When will this madness end? "},{"Title":"Two star movie by design, but men might learn manners","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"    Guys Help a lady with her coat.  Use your silverware properly.  Stand when a lady leaves the table.  You can learn these and other polite acts in this movie.  What this movie will not do is entertain you very much.   This movie is not inspiring, not very funny, not very interesting, not thrilling, not challenging, not really anything.  It is not good science fiction, not good drama, not good comedy.  It is like a so-so sitcom, by design, on which millions of dollars have been spent.  It is sad to think of all the wonderful movies that could have been made with the same money.    Breckin Meyer is the only real bright light in this film.  He plays a funny young actor to perfection.  He'll get a lot of roles off this film.  He deserves them.   Meg Ryan is pretty as always but still can't act.  Everything is the same with her.  Every line is said exactly the same, with exactly the same inflection.  There is one scene where she supposedly falls asleep and gets carried into bed.  She can't even play asleep.  Hugh Jackman and Liev Schreiber are fine in roles that could have been played by almost anyone. Spaulding Gray is supposed to be some character in this movie.  His name was in the opening credits.  It may be worth going back to see just what he contributed to this mishmash.  "},{"Title":"Okay... but lacks strong plot.","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Kate and Leopold is a great date movie to watch; yet, it lacks a solid plot, working up to a weak climax.  Good movie to watch if you're into a sentimental love story, but be warned... that's all you'll be going for. Girls will like Leopold... charming with his manners (and girls), but lost when it comes down to basic twenty-first century common sense.  Watch this movie if you choose to, but for a better love story, see Serendipity first. "},{"Title":"Cookie-Cutter Romance","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I wanted to take my mom to a movie and this was our only choice (I couldn't take her to see Ali or Lord of the Rings, right?) While we were the lone mom-&-son, sure enough there were many mom-&-daughters in the audience.I enjoyed this fantasy fluff, because I came to it thinking it would be exactly that. I wasn't at all disappointed. The movie met my expectations superbly.As much as Meg Ryan is the queen of romantic comedies and she's quite wonderful as Kate, I couldn't help feel sorry that at age 40 she's still playing the same kind of roles she played when she was in her 20s.Hugh Jackman is the great discovery in this flick. He's got a lot of screen presence, even though his character seems to go all over the map. And he didn't even have to take off his shirt!My complaints are as follows1) I don't mind that James Mangold sold out to the major studios to do a mainstream film. But I truly hate that he lifts Moon River from Breakfast at Tiffany's to elicit the romantic emotion that we would have felt from the Audrey Hepburn movie. That is plain cheating!Nora Ephron did the same thing in You've Got Mail by ending the film with Somewhere over the Rainbow.2) Couldn't somebody have checked that La Boheme premiered in 1896? This means Leopold couldn't have known about the opera in 1876!3) I think Kate's brother makes a comment to the effect that women probably think Leopold is gay because he's so gallant and good-looking. I don't quite remember exactly. But it seems Leopold should have reacted to the use of the word gay. Not only because Leopold could not have understood the concept, but for the screenwriter, it seemed like an opportunity for commentary and humor. "},{"Title":"Hugh Jackman once again proved that he has the ability to adapt to any role and do well!","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was cute and Hugh Jackman kept all the women in the theater glued to their seats. Not once did I or any of the other women leave the theater to even go to the bathroom!  Meg Ryan was her usual perky self though for some reason she didn't seem to shine in this role. The co-stars like Kate's brother and ex-boyfriend were added bonus's in the movie.  I enjoyed the movie though I have to say that the chemistry between Jackman and Ryan wasn't as good as with Jackman and Judd in Someone like you.  The movie is still worth the time and a nice way to pass a evening.  "},{"Title":"Suspend Disbelief and Just Enjoy the Film!","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Meg Ryan in a SciFi flick?  Yep and with co-stars Hugh Jackman and Liev Schreiber they do a great job of showing us a New York City that doesn't exist.  Well, not entirely.  Could there be in New York a young, pretty, ultra-competent, driven, blonde TV ad marketing exec who has to balance deeply held ethical values against the jaded, ego-inflated demands of bosses who bow before market forces and supercilious sponsors?  I kinda think so and Ms. Ryan plays that role convincingly.This film demands freedom from serious analysis and expects acceptance of the absurd.  It's the cast and their interaction that make Kate and Leopold come together.  And there's a new star who, hopefully, will soon return to the screen.  His character's name is simply Bart and he's one big time scene-stealer.There was a lot of laughter in the West 13th Street theater where I saw this film today.  And laughter like that we can use.Enjoy! "}{"Title":"Mildly Entertaining Fluff","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I like movies that have no pretensions.  Sometimes, a movie is just a movie, with no particular message, no social commentary, no controversies.  It just aims to provide a pleasant couple of hours.  Kate and Leopard aims squarely for this category, and pretty much hits the mark.Meg Ryan is getting on a bit to be playing roles better suited for ingenues.  She would be well served by telling her directors in no uncertain terms NOT to put her in extreme close-ups.  I cringed a few times when the camera zoomed in or found a particularly unflattering angle.  Since the plot revolves around a handsome fellow quickly falling in love with her, this is not a minor point.  A nice actress for light romantic comedies, Ryan could be termed the Doris Day of her day, and leaves a number of fine performances.  It's just that her day appears to be passing.  She should consider choosing different sorts of roles, with more mature male leads.This is Hugh Jackman's movie.  He dominates every scene in which he appears.  One can easily imagine him being picked for the ad spot that figures prominently in the plot.  Very suave characterization.  I expect great things from him.Breckin Meyer, as Ryan's wacky brother, steals several scenes.  He adds an entire dimension to the film, as an example of how the extreme casualness and narcissism of modern life has in some respects gone too far for everybody's liking.  He learns his lesson in an engaging sort of way.The plot shamelessly borrows elements of Being John Malkovitch and dozens of time travel films (and tv shows) without adding anything particularly original.  There are some historical inaccuracies (Roebling's bizarre speech about time as the fourth dimension toward the beginning of the film is particularly anachronistic), but those are fine points.  We are meant to be entertained by the fish out of water scenario, and the likable actors certainly help that process along.The first half is far better than the rest.  Jackman as gallant hero who struggles to win over Ryan's affections is amusing.  Once the plot descends into murky questions of artistic integrity and it becomes fairly obvious what Ryan must do, the film loses focus and becomes fairly tedious.  Sleepless in Seattle this film is not.  It is far lighter, less engaging and lacking in emotional punch.  But, again, it may divert you from your cares for a couple of hours, as intended.Nice date movie, also know as a chick flick.  Don't expect too much, but you should get some chuckles in the first half.  Five out of ten.        "},{"Title":"Hugh Jackman! Is there anything better?","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the greatest Hugh Jackman movies ever made (so far anyways).Even if you dont like him the movie is great. If you get to the theater early, Hugh Jackman is worth the wait and the admission.To all the women out there, I would just like to say... ISN'T HE HOT? "},{"Title":"Romance lives on without using nudity or flash","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed the film in that the romance developed by using the treatment of a lady and not by the normal cliches that one sees in romantic comedies. Hugh Jackman deserves the Golden Globe.  Every woman only could wish to be in Kate's place. This is a must see movie if you are a hopeless romantic. "},{"Title":"A fun, but implausable romantic comedy...","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  KATE & LEOPOLD B-KATE & LEOPOLD is a cute and funny movie, but lacks the sharpness of, say, SERENDIPITY. Hugh Jackman and Meg Ryan have a good chemistry, so it works as a romance movie and has a good bit of humor.Jackman plays a man from 1876 named Leopold. He is transported into the future through a time portal located at the Brooklyn Bridge. The fault lays with Stuart (Liev Schreiber), he was the one who discovered this portal and Leopold follows him and falls into the water, they both go to New York in 2001. Leopold meets Kate McKay (Ryan), Stuart's old boyfriend. At first, she's a bit uneasy about this guy, but they slowly develop a friendship and inevitably falls for him. The problem is, Leopold needs to go back to 1876, or the elevator wouldn't have been invented and Stuart wouldn't exist.Leopold is the perfect gentleman, he's polite, handsome, caring, kind, and sensitive. He is full of compasion and chivalry. Leopold is scared of things like the television, rock music, and the telephone. He is overwhelmed by New York as it is today. He can't believe that the bridge still stands. Leopold meets Kate's actor brother Charlie (Breckin Meyer) and finds him quite interesting. Charlie thinks that Leopold is an actor, a damn good one at that. The romance between Kate and Leopold grows, but Kate isn't a 100% sure she believes him about being a Duke or coming from 1876.KATE & LEOPOLD's story is implausable and it doesn't really make complete sense. It works for what the movie is really about, but the screenwriters could have made the time-travel subplot make more sense. The screenplay by James Mangold and Steven Rogers has moments of cleverness and humor, but lacks a certain charm that SERENDIPITY was so full of. But thank God it wasn't as bad some earlier attempts like SOMEONE LIKE YOU. The movie has some great moments, but seems like it wants to get past them. It misses some great opportunities for big laughs, but does provide plenty of humor.The main reason I am recommending his movie is because of the great performances by the two leads. It's a nice change for Jackman and Ryan is always great in these types of movies. Meyer, who usually does raunchy teen movies, has a lot of funny one-liners (I especially like the line If a man washes a dish and no one sees it, did it really happen?). Schreiber has fun doing physical comedy for once and is also very funny.Although KATE & LEOPOLD is unbelievably far-fetch and misses some great opportunites, it's still an enjoyable and fun romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"Pleasant, entertaining, but...","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Pleasant, entertaining.  Belief, obviously, must be suspended in all time travel movies, but couldn't the editors have checked to see that Leopold, transported from 1876, knew all about the opera La Boheme, though it wasn't written until 1896?  (Not to mention Pirates of Penzance, premiered in 1880). "},{"Title":"Cute!","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Most Meg Ryan films are cute, and this one is the epitome of such. But it's well done, there's definitely chemistry between the main characters, and the side characters are intriguing too. Some painful physical humor moments, but overall it's funny, heartwarming, and everything else you might expect of a Meg Ryan sci-fi romantic comedy. One fairly big plot hole at the end but maybe it'll just leave room for a sequel ;) See it. You will be entertained. "},{"Title":"Romantic-Jackman's worth price of admission","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This takes a little bit of science and stretches it out of shape... but Mr. Jackman's performance as a refined and cultured Duke, temporarily trapped in the 21st century, was wonderful. In the passage of time, manners have become a forgotten relic... a pity.  Meg was having a bad hair day.  The ending left me scratching my head.  But even with it's scientific flaws, it makes you feel good. "},{"Title":"That's Entertainment!","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Kate and Leopold provided a thoroughly entertaining afternoon.   We left the theatre upbeat and smiling -- isn't that the point of being entertained? A formula movie with a predictable ending?   Perhaps, but as long as Hugh Jackman can stay out of trashy movies (like Cruise's Vanilla Sky), I'll fork over the price of a movie to see him no matter how many stars the movie rates.  (Now, if they could only make a flick with both Jackman and Gibson....)  For the guys who get dragged along to this flick, Meg Ryan provides a touch of class and real comfort for the eyes  -- except for the hair.  Bad hair day doesn't even begin to describe it.  Hollywood seems to have a contest to see who can give her the worst haircut and still have her shine.  This time it looks like someone dropped a haystack on her head -- dry straw hacked to random lengths.  Maybe that's one reason we came out smiling -- we will never be as gorgeous as her, but we KNOW our hair looks better. "},{"Title":"suspension of disbelief fantasy","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  i actually went to the theatre to see another film but was turned off by the crowds.i was intrigued by the concept of kate and leopold but hesitated to see meg ryan reprising the roles she has played before, and with good reason. would advise her never again to utter the words, yes, yes, in a film.that said, the movie had its endearing moments the 1860's settings were convincing, hugh jackman was thoroughly delightful, and new york never looked so romantic.eliminate the dog from the movie, put your love of contrived happy endings in your pocket, and enjoy this bit of fluff. "},{"Title":"This movie will take you to a complete different world!","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie will take you to a complete different world! Very well written story and script by James Mangold (Girl Interrupted) and  Steven Rogers (Stepmom ).  Kate, Meg Ryan (You've Got Mail)  and her brother Charlie, Breckin Meyer (Clueless) live in N.Y. in the 21st Century. Charlie is an actor. She has dated Stuart, Liev Schreiber (Walking and Talking, Scream) a guy who lives above her apartment. Kate can hear everything that goes on up there. She fights a lot with Stuart. He is very smart and very interested in the topic braking the time barrier.  This movie reminded me of the movie `The Love Letter' with two of the best actors of turn of this century Campbell Scott and Jennifer Jason Leigh. I have the tape and love that movie. In that movie they can correspond thru this drawer in an antique desk that he bought! In this movie the gap in time near Brooklyn Bridge that Stuart finds.  Stuart goes back to the eighteen hundreds and takes pictures of a party.  Leopold, Hugh Jackman (Swordfish) is a man living in the 1870's.  He sees Stuart's small camera and decides to follow him and they both end up in this century. Leopold is clueless about his new  surroundings.  He gets help and insights from  Charlie, Kate's brother. They exchange lessons in `how to make a woman fall in love with you.' Leopold and Charlie become very close friends.  Charlie makes Leopold realize that he is falling in love with Kate. Leopold is a highly intelligent man and tries his best to learn and even improve the modern conveniences that he encounters such as trying to modify a toaster.  He invented the elevator but somehow his friend, Otis was his name on elevators.  Leopold is a absolute dream of a prince on his white horse. He is smart, romantic, so honorable, polite and has a title also. He represents the best of his civilization!Kate is climbing the corporate ladder in advertising. She represents the best of our civilization! She hired Leopold to be in a commercial. That helped her to get to the top of the ladder, but when she gets there she is no longer interested in it.  Leopold has made Kate reflect upon what is really important in life such as  savoring good food, to enjoy a life style of simplicity and slow pace, sincerity, not to represent a company that he does not believe in among others. Favorite Scenes Kate and Leopold ridding a horse in Central Park. Leopold walking the dog. Leopold finding the place where he kept his treasures. The dinner in the roof full of candles. Favorite quote ` Hi, Sargent  Pepper!' I recommend. Meg and Jackman are a great pair. I can't wait until I can buy the video or the DVD. I am sure I will watch it several times. "}{"Title":"When Leopold met Sally...","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I'm sure was an alternate title.  Meg has definitely found her nitch. she does the romantic comedy thing better than anybody else, (even Julia, bite my tongue). She's so good at it, I'm sick of it. I don't need to see her do it anymore. She's done it to death. Hugh Jackman on the other hand impressed me much better than he did in both Swordfish and X-MEN. He was witty, charming and handsome. He embodied the type of man that would make a woman want to leave her time coordinates for another. As with most of Ryan's films, it was warm and funny. Relatively original, it did what it was supposed to do. It stroked our romantic nerves and made us believe in love. Entertaining, worth the buck if you like that sort of schmuck. "},{"Title":"All men need to get a little Leopold.","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  There's a new slogan at our house  Why don't you get a little  Leopold?  That's what I find myself asking my son and husband after seeing the movie on Christmas Day.  Talk about your Renaissance Man!  I thoroughly enjoyed the film, and wish that the last 1/3 could  have had the same tempo as the first 2/3. An otherwise charming film became a little sluggish toward the end. "},{"Title":"Could have done better.","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I work at a movie theater and I was lucky enough to preview it before it came out. However, I think I could have waited for it on video. Hugh Jackman was wonderful, as always. He pulled off the job of an English gentleman very well and I loved watching him ride a horse! ) Sadly, Meg Ryan's character sucked, once again. She hasn't done a decent movie since City of Angels and even that wasn't great.  She was ever the businesswoman and sucked totally. "},{"Title":"Great Feel Good Movie!","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie has it all, solid performances, good comedy and elements of drama when needed.  Not as predictable as I thought it would be. Of course, it's a romantic comedy with Meg Ryan so we all know the ending! Meg is usual cute, cynical self which she is good at portraying.  Hugh Jackman is excellent as the 19th century Duke of Albany. This man's acting was made for period pieces which makes me believe he is a great actor. This movie covers many elements of taking risks, dealing with rejection and being true above all to one's self. The movie takes it time and develops the characters, even the supporting cast. I highly recommend this movie! "},{"Title":"I thought the movie was wonderful, surpassing my expectations. Warning Minor spoilers.","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was absolutely wonderful )  Hugh Jackman was superb as the Duke of Albany.  He played the role with grace and a hint of pompousness that made it a delight to watch.  I was looking forward to seeing this movie since I saw the first preview and it completely surpassed my expectations. Meg Ryan and Hugh had an incredible chemistry on the screen.  I really felt for them when they experienced their ups and downs.  The two characters deserved to be together and I was very happy that the movie ended the way I wanted it to. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"14 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Kate & Leopold is one of the best movies I've ever seen. If you like romance, nostalgia,and erotic tension (instead of in-your-face sexuality) blended with humor, this film is for you. I've seen it five or six times, first at the movies then on video. It's a film that I can't stop thinking about. The chemistry between Hugh Jackman and Meg Ryan is dynamite. Hugh Jackman (Leopold) is at his best as an English aristocrat. Kate (played by Meg Ryan) is an engaging career woman, who is so accustomed to being treated as a sex object that she is confused and overwhelmed by Leopold's show of respect and good manners. A friend gave me the video, and then I bought the musical score. The first time I saw the film, I was so fixated on Hugh Jackman that I barely noticed the music. Now I keep the CD in my car. The music complements the film's nostalgic setting, mood, and theme. While the entire cast is exceptional, Jackman and Ryan steal the show. "},{"Title":"Above average for it's type, thanks to it's originality, and splendid chemistry, between Ryan&Jackson.","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Kate& Leopold is a refreshingly breath of fresh air when it comes to Romance movies, these days. It starts off rather dull, and took me a little while to get into the plot of it all, but when it did, it put a huge smile on my face, that rarely left until the movie was finished. I loved the originality in Kate& Leopold. Having someone love someone, straight from another century, was absolutely brilliant if you ask me. It was great to see two completely different styles, try to mesh with each other. But what benefited the movie most was the believability and conviction Hugh Jackman and Meg shared together. They sizzled with chemistry,they bought in to the idea. Mangold was entering into dangerous territory with this one, due to the silly nature of the plot, but he managed to make it worthwhile, injecting originality, and skill into the whole production. Seeing Hugh Jackman walking around clueless, to all that was going on around him, gave me plenty of chuckles. His suave,well spoken performance was the heart of the film. Okay, so Kate &Leopold isn't the perfect romance film. It drifts off into standard soapy romance, but it has a lot of heart, integrity and so much originality in it, that you won't even care.Performances. Meg Ryan has played this type of role many times before, but she's so charming, she's always able to come out of it looking good, and here is no different. Her charisma carries, what could have been a one-dimensional role, and manages us to make us care for her character. Hugh Jackman is absolutely wonderful as Leopold. It's no wonder why women go crazy over this man. There are not many actors around now a days with his charisma, nor his charm. His suave, sophisticated performance, often highlighted this film. Meg was excellent, but Hugh was the film. Liev Schreiber is decent as Stuart. He has some weird ticks sometimes, but he managed to play his part fairly well. Breckin Meyer is very funny as Charlie. I adored his scenes with Jackman, they were real, and very cute. Natasha Lyonne has a small part as Kate's secretary. She managed to make the most of her part with her likability and enthusiasm. Bradley Whitford plays his role as J.J very well. He was effectively full of himself.Bottom line. Don't let the silliness of the plot scare you off. It's actually very original, and for a 123 minutes, except for the 1st half an hr, it breezes on by. As far as Romantic Comedies go, Kate&Leopold is one of the better ones out there. It's light and very effective, therefore I recommend it.7/10 "},{"Title":"Horrid Meg/New York Women","Date":"26 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The 7 points are exclusively for the cast EXCEPT Meg Ryan and for the lovely premise of this movie. I have trouble stomaching Ryan in most films after Harry & Sally, she's usually so stereotypical that it curls my toes and there's no acting involved on her side at all.But here her horrid mannerisms practically kill the movie. Everyone except her gave a sterling performance, Hugh Jackman is phenomenal and the guy who plays Kate's brother is genuinely funny. But if there really exist such women as the one Meg plays here, then I feel very, VERY sorry for American males (and I am female, JFYI). I have had it up my back-teeth (yes, they are really swimming by now) with this neurotic stereotypical New Yorkian females like Kate, where you already know from their first line on that if there is a bed scene she will be on top.I just watched this movie again, and it is so absolutely implausible that a guy like Leopold would truly fall for a female like Kate and vice versa that it just about kills the else entirely charming plot.Now, a Maggie Gyllenhaal probably would not have worked in this movie, but there are loads of actresses who would have been less grating on the nerves, Julia Roberts for instance would have provided a better counterpart to Jackman and unlike Ryan she can act her way out of a paper-bag without enervating everyone on the way. "},{"Title":"A Enjoyable Sci Fi Romantic Romp","Date":"29 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Meg Ryan and Hugh Jackman present a predictable but romantic couple out of time with a delicious dose of elegant tradition contrasted against the rapid fast paced and perhaps ungentlemanly present. There is a nice fusion of a man of culture out of time and there is a fun and entertaining clash of cultures in this romantic comedy where time travel seems to held a fascinating underlying delightful paradox when the inventor of elevators is transported into the present. Similar to the classic fun loving movie Time After Time (1979) along with elements that would be borrowed in Enchanted (2007), Kate and Leopold is a mindless, date movie that offers up just enough of a dumb, predictable comedy but in a fun and charming way that the American or at least our fantasy version of it is fulfilled in this fairy tale sci fi movie. "},{"Title":"One of the better romantic comedies of the last decade","Date":"18 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" In recent years, romantic comedies have become more predictable and less original. Films like 27 Dresses and America's Sweethearts, although they can be enjoyable, lack any true emotion and therefore lack a very important element of this genre. Kate & Leopold, although not a perfect film, is one of the more likable ones I have seen recently. It's a simple plot involving Hugh Jackman playing a Duke from the 1700s becoming transported to the 21st century where he meets and eventually falls in love with Meg Ryan. There are plenty of laughs, as usual, in the style of films like Enchanted in which the character finds themselves in situations unlike the ones in their own time and therefore have a hard time adjusting. The film gives us a sense of just how rude and ill-mannered our world is today by contrasting us with the ways of Jackman in the 1700s. Meg Ryan is perfect for this type of film, as usual. Breckin Meyer has a good and funny supporting role as her brother here. It's a pleasure to see a romantic comedy in this century that has true emotion and allows us to care about the characters and want them to be in love. The film gets a little slow in the middle and is therefore not perfect. Nevertheless, this is funny, romantic, and easy to watch. I'd place it up with the better romantic comedies of the decade, such as Hitch and 13 Going on 30. *** out of **** "}{"Title":"It has held up well after eight years!","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Other comments talk about how this film is far fetched or stupid. C'mon. It's a romantic comedy/fantasy. Suspend expectations about a need for scientific accuracy and you'll have a great time with this movie. My teenage daughters and wife love the romance, and I find the characters to be a lot of fun. Only drawback - Meg Ryan must have just had collagen implants on her upper lip before this movie was filmed, and it looks awful to the point of being distracting (she looks like she must have just been punched in the mouth, and the swelling hasn't gone down). She's good in the role - but she looks odd. Hugh Jackman, Liev Schrieber and Breckin Meyer are great. Costumes are terrific... script is a lot of fun. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Not bad for a romantic comedy","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Well at least they're being a bit original about this one. I mean, they still use the basic formula of having two people contrast and having them fall in love, then fight, then fall in love again but hey, time travel, that's not bad. Sadly the film is dragged down because it has gotten pretty goddamn impossible to look at Meg Ryan without a disgusted grin on your face. Who the hell has been giving her plastic surgery, a motorcycle gang? You don't really care what she has to say, you're just wondering what kind of highly illegal material her lips are made of. Anyway, this love story is very nice, the actors really seem to be enjoying themselves. It's very predictable, but that's pretty much where romantic comedies get their power. You're not wondering whether they'll kiss, just when. And this even manages to be funny at times, I'll be damned. This is one of those typical girlfriend movies that is better than the box suggests. "},{"Title":"Charming leads in frantic, noisy romantic fantasy","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Hugh Jackman, the Duke of Albany in 1876, arrives in modern day New York City through a portal in time (via the East River!); he meets working girl Meg Ryan, who doesn't buy his amazing story (she doesn't even take the time to listen to him). For the first full hour, Kate & Leopold is nothing but a witless melange of noise and story contrivances. After the plot pieces are sloppily set up, however, the charisma of stars Ryan and Jackman take over and almost transcend the fish-out-of-water silliness. Director James Mangold, who also co-wrote the screenplay, turns out to be a rather surprising fan of the old-fashioned romantic comedy (as well as time-travel stories); he follows a familiar dot-to-dot pattern that--depending on your mood--is either frustrating or warmly reassuring. Either way, the results are not particularly genuine, but the stars do give it a boost. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Cute romantic comedy, but lacking in time travel aspects","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Kate and Leopold is a cute, funny, and delightful comedy romance, but falls distinctly short in its time travel portrayal. In this respect, I might compare it to the old fashioned fantasy romance Somewhere in Time, where the time travel also leaves much to be desired. I wouldn't expect elaborate technical science fiction explanations in what are essentially romances, but surely the screenwriters could manage something a bit more plausible than the self hypnosis of Somewhere in Time or this film's ridiculous time gap near the Brooklyn Bridge. They either shouldn't be putting this particular movie in the Science Fiction category or else come up with a more plausible mode of time travel. You have to suspend all brain function and logic for this explanation.The plot revolves around a pretty 21st Century advertising executive named Kate, who lives in a New York City apartment with her brother, Charlie. Kate's ex boyfriend, Stuart, who lives upstairs, stumbles upon the time gap hitherto mentioned and travels back to the 1800's where he encounters a European aristocrat named Leopold. Circumstances prove such that Leopold follows Stuart forward to the 21 st Century, and Charlie becomes convinced that, like himself, Leopold is an actor. Confusion and hilarity ensue as Leopold, the proverbial fish out of water, tries to cope with the modern world and, in addition, the chemistry that is developing between him and Kate, who has sort of adopted him and obtained an acting job for him in a commercial.Meg Ryan is her usual charming, endearing self in the role of Kate, and the handsome Hugh Jackman most suitable as the dashing and chivalrous 19th Century Leopold. Supporting cast all seem competent, as I recall. However, I agree with another comment made that Kate swears too much (lazy screenplay writing) and it's odd that Leopold, who's from a more genteel era, seems to indicate no disapproval.For the most part, I actually enjoyed this light hearted bit of fluff, apart from the time travel dimension being silly and unconvincing. I found the plot details quite confusing with regard to the time element, as to exactly what's supposed to be going on here. I would suggest that screenwriters avoid time travel altogether unless they can pull it off a little better, and simply stick with pure comedy romance. This is an entertaining chick flick or a good date movie, but definitely NOT science fiction. "},{"Title":"Eye candy in movieland Prozac","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" For all of you who ever had an overdose of reality, Kate and Leopold says hop in and escape for a sec'!!This film is not serious. This film is full of historical inaccuracies. This film is utterly aggravating in its conclusion, in regard to evolution of the life conditions of women. Yes, yes and yes, but who cares?Just look at Leopold there would never have been any feminist movement if men were like this! What would there be to get liberated about??Jackman IS the film, forget the Kate and in the title. He is handsome, hunky, elegant, and withheld in this portrayal (should I rather say creation) of a progressive-thinking man of the past (a highly improbable creature if there ever was...we're into pure fiction here, don't forget!).On the other hand, Ryan is surprisingly outdated here with her lumberjack stance; is that supposed to express the modernity in contemporary women? She looks like a giant mop-headed Laurie Anderson... Her character's robot-gray success outfits are ridiculous. I like Ryan but here she's definitely miscast - or misdirected, or misdressed - or all of the above.Anyway, Ryan schmyan this film is an ode to Hugh. Enjoy (as many times as you wish, it's the kind of candy that won't make you fat!!). "},{"Title":"7 on a scale of 10","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I love romantic comedies and Meg Ryan is the best. But, this wasn't one of her bests and not a romantic classic by any means. I liked the time travel element. That certainly gave it some meat. Otherwise, it would have been weak.Ryan and Hugh Jackman had good chemistry. I actually thought he was the better of the two. I think part of the problem is that Ryan no longer looks like the innocent girl next door that you are rooting for. Well, OK, she looks like that person - just not as much. The fact that she got her lips ballooned up not only doesn't look good, but reminds us continually that she isn't such a young woman anymore. We don't want to be reminded of that!The story did not flow very well. It seemed choppy. The script wasn't tight. And, her ex-boyfriend (who was good) was mostly wasted. I would have sure liked to have seen more of him. Maybe even a secondary relationship between him and her secretary.Anyway, it was an enjoyable 2 hours, but I would have liked to see more. "},{"Title":"Again, a cinematic teaming involving Ryan makes somewhat 'kitsch' material work... !","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Meg Ryan is surely the doyenne of impossibly fantastical Hollywood romances.  I must muse that it's certainly akin to the 'alchemy' of the modern age...  Pair her with a male co-star who has a similarly engaging presence to the one she possesses herself, and you surely have the recipe for a thoroughly enchanting crowdpleaser.  Tinker with the formula too much and you've got something else on your hands... (it's French Kiss, really, isn't it... ??!)The variation therein that we get here is pleasingly 'offbeat', at times.  Nobody finds much to remark upon about Leopold's distinctive choice of attire or modes of address, and even in his anachronistic ways he is still a delightful companion to the descendants who surround him.  I got the impression it was not 'lazy plotting' that brings this about; more instead a cute acknowledgement of the 'breath of fresh air' that Leopold represents.  Characters are so enamoured by Leopold's old-school charm and grace that they become willingly induced by the fiction they've invented for themselves (he is an 'actor' - implausible as the explanation for EVERY idiosyncrasy that confronts them!)  Facing up to the reality that there's no EARTHLY reason for him to sustain such a facade in times when it provokes unnecessary complications would simply spoil the illusion for them ALL, my deah!!!!It's refreshing in the 'innocent abroad' genre to note that such a character is not parlayed by his creators as being 'dumb' to get more laughs.  Leopold is a man of great intelligence and dignity who nevertheless displays a completely disarming 'boyish enthusiasm' every now and again, played extremely well by Jackman.The whole enterprise can accurately be described as capable, but without too much 'pizzaz'.  There isn't really a crucial event that galvanises the plot into something more.  It can be reduced very basically to an 'opposites attract' theme.  Still, if you're hankering for a recreation of the ole Hanks/Ryan Seattle magic, and Mail disappointingly failed to be delivered straight to your door, Hugh steps into the breach as being very much an able substitute; that is until the baying (and paying!) cinema public almost inevitably increase their demands that the sweetest couple be reunited once more...(6/10, or ***/***** in profile ratings system.) "},{"Title":"This is a spoiler review...","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  First of all, the only thing even remotely tolerable about this movie was Hugh Jackman, but I wonder why he agreed to do it.  Kate (Meg Ryan in YET ANOTHER role as the unfulfilled woman who needs her man more than anything, but is still quirky and looks good with artfully tousled hair) is the modern-time woman unhappy with her life she's clumsy, smart at her job, wants a promotion, just broke up with her boyfriend, and her boss is using their working relationship as leverage to get sex.  Leopold (Jackman) is the nineteenth century romantically unsatisfied impoverished aristocrat who is being pressured to contract a marriage for financial profit by his uncle.  When Leopold is brought to the present, these two are attracted to each other but have to adjust to their cultural differences, and at the end Kate follows Leopold back to his time where we are to assume they live happily ever after, until her dark roots start to show and she dies in childbirth (why not?).  I found this premise to be more escapist propaganda about love at first sight and throwing everything away for love &c., and this movie was probably even more annoying than these typically are.  Leopold treats Kate to a weekend of leisure time not unlike what he is accustomed to relaxing, fine food, more relaxing, and drowsing.  All this is supposed to be pleasures from his time period, unlike Kate's and our own rushed time--nothing is said about the terrible poverty of the poor in the Victorian era and how they struggled and suffered (read some Dickens if you can't handle straight history Dickens wrote quite a bit about the Victorian poor and some was based on a youth that included working in a blacking factory as a child).  We are to assume Leopold's leisure time has nothing to do with his own privileged background--maybe his family is hard up for money, but obviously not so much so that they live in squalor and scrounge for food I think it's fair to assume his uncle's idea of poverty means something different than what the actual poor of the time experienced.  Nothing is said about the improved standard of living for the poor in industrialized countries since the Victorian era.  We are just supposed to link Leopold's time to relaxation and Kate's to stress, and her need to be rescued by love. When Kate gets Leopold an acting job in a commercial, he complies until discovering he will have to lie to sell foul-tasting diet slop he confronts her about the innate dishonesty of her job and tells her it is the reason she dreads her work week.  Leopold also openly accuses Kate's boss of sexual harassment, which shames him into giving her the promotion.  By resisting all of her boss's sexual overtures, Kate makes herself seem chaste and therefore appropriate to marry Leopold.  Having broken the glass ceiling, she absconds to the nineteenth century where Leopold decides to marry her (instead of the un-photogenic rich contender his uncle prefers) and ensure poverty for the next generation of his family.  One wonders how her disappearance will be explained--maybe all that policeman who tried to prevent her apparent suicide/jumping to Leopold's time off the bridge girder will remember is how the two men with her, her brother and ex-boyfriend, tried to stop him from stopping her.  Their story will be what?  'We were respecting her decision to throw it all away for the love of a man she met barely a week ago who lives in the past?'  How symbolic is it that the cop assumed Kate was attempting suicide?  How stupid is she to elope with a man (who hadn't actually asked her to marry him before her leap of faith) she's known only a week?  How stupid is he to marry a woman he's known only a week (and has already demonstrated she is willing to lie for money)?  How stupid was I to bother watching it? "},{"Title":"One sentence could have kept Stuart out of the locked ward.","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  He got in there because everyone thought his talk about the space-time continuum was the ramblings of a schizophrenic. But if he had just ended his explanation with _and that's why all the elevators disappeared today_, that would have gotten their attention. Hospitals use a lot of elevators, so the medical staff would have been well aware of the phenomenon, and, really, would anyone else have had a better explanation? ...this is, of course, overlooking the continuity error that if the elevator had never been invented, there would have been no empty elevator SHAFTS...  "},{"Title":" This is a terrible film!!!","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The comedy Kate&leopold, is a movie that truly is terrible. The script is recycled, the performances suck and the movie itself is unfunny. This is another movie aimed mainly at the romantic comedy crowd. The plot focuses on a man named Leopold who travels forward in time to 2002 and meets Meg Ryan. Just do yourself a favor and don't watch this film. "}{"Title":"If it wasn't for Jackman, I would have turned this off.","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Wow, what a disappointment.  Unoriginal story, boring pace and very little chemistry among the stars, Ryan and Jackman.  Hugh Jackman's performance was the only saving grace.  His dashing delivery of well scripted lines saved this film from being one of the worst of the year.  A weak romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"A must see movie for romance lovers!","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The Duke of Albany travels thru time to present day and meets Kate.  From that moment on, nothing he knows is the same! A must see for romance lovers and for those who enjoy a glimpse into the past.  Hugh Jackman was wonderful and Meg Ryan never disappoints. "},{"Title":"One Great Movie","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Meg Ryan does it again.  Her costar whom I do not know was equal to the task. He did an awesome job of acting in this film as a man of manners from a century ago. It is just one pleasant, enjoyable movie. They make so few good movies nowadays. Mostly special effects, car chases, and noise.  This actually had a plot.   "},{"Title":"The Magic Just Isn't There","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  	In itself, there's a sense of the romantic in the notion of time travel; and when you introduce the idea of two people traveling through time to find one another-- when you factor in love-- it puts the romance in the romantic.  It's quite a concept, and it's the basis of director James Mangold's `Kate and Leopold,' starring Meg Ryan and Hugh Jackman, a film that asks the audience to suspend disbelief for a couple of hours and just go with the flow.  In other words, don't look too deep into this one; if you can do that, you may have a good time with this film, but bear in mind you're going to have to meet it at least half-way for it to be what it was meant to be  Pure entertainment; no more, no less.	It's New York, 1876; the Brooklyn Bridge (which ultimately figures prominently in the plot) is being built, and though John Roebling's `erection' (as it is referred to) is of great interest to Leopold Mountbatten (Jackman), Duke of Albany, there are more pressing matters in his life.  His Uncle Millard (Paxton Whitehead) is insisting that Leopold choose a bride from amongst the most rich and available of society, and has arranged for a ball to be held at his mansion, at which time his nephew will announce the name of the lucky lady.  At the ball, however, a stranger catches Leopold's eye, who-- when he notices he is being watched-- bolts from the premises with Leopold in pursuit.  The chase takes them to the bridge, whereupon something inexplicable happens, and Leopold suddenly finds himself in New York, 2001, in the apartment of the man he had been chasing, Stuart Besser (Liev Schreiber).  Things happen fairly rapidly after that, and very quickly Leopold meets Stuart's ex-girlfriend (who lives upstairs), Kate McKay (Ryan).  And then the real story begins as, not surprisingly (refer to title of film here), Kate and Leopold discover that there may be something more to their chance meeting than just a newly founded friendship.  But there's a problem, and it's a big one  They happen to live in different centuries...	In the final analysis, this mildly diverting, minor romantic fantasy is buoyed by the star power it employs, without which it would barely stay afloat.  Not that it's a `bad' movie, but it suffers from a decided lack of originality in both story and presentation.  Given the concept of the film, it needed an imaginative touch to really make it work, and unfortunately, Mangold was unable to provide it.  And it's a shame, because in Ryan and Jackman he had two of the main ingredients for success, but he failed to make the most of it.  Like mixing metaphors, mixing genres is a hard sell to begin with, and it's imperative that the filmmaker have a definite vision going into such an undertaking; Spike Jonze did with `Being John Malkovich' (from which this film borrows the concept, as well as the context, of the `time portal,') and was successful.  Mangold, however, failed to realize such a vision, and the moment passed him by.	As the Duke, Hugh Jackman gives a convincing performance, complete with a passable British accent.  And you have to give Jackman credit for constantly striving to expand his horizons artistically; he's done science fiction (`X-Men'), romantic comedy (`Someone Like You'), action/thriller (`Swordfish') and now this, which is different still.  Also to his credit, he's done well in them all.  With such a diverse resume, he's already demonstrated his versatility and ability as an actor, and add to that the fact that he has a definite screen presence, and you know-- without a doubt-- that you're looking at a `star' who is only just beginning his ascent, the kind who will bring more than `celebrity' to whatever role he takes on.  Definitely an actor of whom we will be seeing a lot more.	Meg Ryan is a versatile actor, as well, who can do drama (she was outstanding in `When A Man Loves A Woman'), or action/drama (`Proof of Life'), but her forte is romantic comedy (`Sleepless In Seattle,' `You've Got Mail').  As Kate, however, she gets caught up in her character with the same misdirection that characterizes this entire film.  On one hand, Kate is sweet and perky (traits upon which Ryan has successfully capitalized elsewhere), but there is also a more jaded side to Kate, the businesswoman striving to get ahead (More like Diane Keaton's J.C. in `Baby Boom'), and these two sides of Kate's personality, rather than making her a complex character, simply do not seem to gel, and at times the demands of the way in which the character is written takes it's toll on credibility; and in a story like this, the one thing you absolutely need is believable characters, people you can accept as presented.  And there are too many moments in which the side Ryan is attempting to convey seems forced.  I hasten to add that it is not entirely her fault; the character is poorly written, and Mangold did not serve his star well.  It goes back to the vision of the director.  A Nora Ephron, for example, knows how to get the best out of someone like Ryan, whereas Mangold simply does not.	Turning in notable performances in supporting roles are Liev Schreiber, another gifted actor who has yet to have his day in the spotlight (he has one of the best voices in the business, so effective in his terrific portrayal of Orson Welles in `RKO 281'); and Breckin Meyer, convincing as Kate's actor brother, Charlie.	The supporting cast includes Natasha Lyonne (Darci), Bradley Whitford (J.J.), and Philip Bosco (Otis).  The anticipation for this film was high, but ambiguous direction and lack of definition causes `Kate and Leopold' to misfire at just about every turn.  Ryan, Jackman, Schreiber and Meyer deserve better than this, and so does the audience.  The magic just isn't there.  6/10. 	      		 		 "},{"Title":"The latest product of the demon seed.","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  What is it about Meg Ryan that makes me irate beyond all reasonable comprehension?  What is it about her blue eyes and sunny demeanor that conjures up images of torture so foul that they would make even James Ellroy weep with disgust?  I guess it's because she reminds me of the girls who picked on me in Junior High.  But in any case, that's my problem and not yours.  But what is your problem and indeed everyone's problem is that this woman hasn't been in a decent movie since 1986. (Innerspace)  Can this woman not be stopped?But my gripes with Kate & Leopold spring not from Ryan, but rather its director, James Mangold.  Is the direction of Kate & Leopold bad?  No.  It's like most other films where you don't even notice the technique behind the camera.  My problem stems from his selling out.  Mangold has made two very intelligent and powerful films Heavy and CopLand.  Those films told absorbing stories and were powerfully acted.  He also directed the critically accalaimed Girl, Interrupted, which has not been seen by me at this date.  And he decides to follow these films up with a Meg Ryan romantic comedy?  I will mail the man No-Doz, for he has fallen asleep at the wheel.One of the major plot points in the film involves Ryan's artist ex-boyfriend (Liev Schrieber) who finds a portal off the Brooklyn Bridge into 1876 New York; where he finds Hugh Jackman's Duke of Albany, and brings him to the present, where he can fall in love with Meg.  How does this guy find this damn portal, anyway?  How does he know how long it's gonna be there?  How does he know that jumping back into the waters below the Brooklyn Bridge will get him back to the present?  Where did this guy get his degree in science?  But we aren't supposed to ask these questions.  We're supposed to be lulled to sleep by Meg and Hugh making eyes at each other.But what makes this film plummet from Bad to Downright Insulting is its round-about defense of focus groups in the motion picture industry.  Meg Ryan's character works as an analyst who hands out the questionnaires at the ends of test screenings to find out what people think about the movie.  This chokes the life out of the American Cinema.  As a matter of fact, Mangold himself makes a cameo as a director who shows up at one of the test screenings and tells Ryan's character that.Oh for shame, James.  It's almost as if he's trying to shift the blame from himself to Miramax Films for his movie sucking.  But I blame you,  James.  I blame you for making Natasha Lyonne's indie cred vanish into thin air by casting her in this.  I blame you for further sullying the once good name of Miramax Films.  I blame you for making another Meg Ryan movie.  I blame you for wasting two hours of my life that I will not get back.I blame you, James Mangold.  You are choking the life out of American Cinema.*1/2 out of 4 "},{"Title":"GREAT movie!!","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I was invited to a private screening of the film, and it was just awesome!! I know it looks really hokey from the ads and trailers and stuff, but it was actually a very sweet movie, one of the best romantic movies all year - a feel-good movie in every way that a movie could make you feel good.  Oh, and Hugh Jackman is amazingly good-looking!  swoons "},{"Title":"Should be avoided by those outside target audience but has solid values and plenty of charm","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" In 1876 Leopold is a Duke, a man of nobility and a man of science who's far-thinking ideas will shape his New York far beyond his lifetime. When he spots a man who seems out of place he gives chase only for the two of them to fall off the partially constructed Brooklyn Bridge. Leopold awakes in the home of the man (Stuart) to find himself in new York of the year 2000. Stuart explains to him his discovery of a time portal that exists between the two times and how they can move between the places in time with relative ease &#150; however Leopold seems equally as intrigued by the modern world around him. On the floor below Stuart lives his ex, Kate, who doesn't believe a word of it. When Stuart falls down a lift shaft it leaves Leopold in the care of Kate, a frosty proposition at best. Meanwhile a little thing called the time-space continuum is starting to show signs of stress.Although it made little at the UK box office, was kicked by critics and unloved by audiences, I decided to give this a go. The film was given its UK terrestrial premier at the same time as one of the World Cup matches on the other side, which shows that the channel in question knew what audience sector it was going to draw &#150; mostly women and one movie geek with a video recorder. The script moves quickly through the hard-to-swallow plot set-up so that we have little time to scoff at it, however it then has to deal with all the fish-out-of-water stuff. It blends from this into the romance of the title towards the inevitable conclusion. None of it is brilliant and parts of it are downright clunky but it does have a certain amount of charm to it. Mangold's direction is patient and avoids the music video montage trap of fish/water stuff or romantic comedies while the script is reasonably good even if it never overcomes the unlikeliness of the whole thing.What carries it is the playing from the cast &#150; or rather the star turn from Jackman. Most famous for this tough turn in action movies, Jackman plays it straight and charming from start to finish &#150; not overdoing anything for laughs or allowing himself to wander too far out of character although the script does push his limits by what it has him do. Ryan is not as good which is a bit ironic since the romantic comedy is where she was forged. She ticks the genre boxes easily enough but she can't convince to the degree that she needed to in order to lift the material. Schreiber has a weak character early on and doesn't do much with it until late in the film where he has at least one good scene. Support is solid enough from Meyer, Lyonne, Gray, Whitford and a few others but really the film belongs to Jackman who leads it with charm and conviction.It isn't a great film and it has a limited appeal and plenty of weaknesses. However having said that it does have a certain style and appeal to it, thanks mainly to Jackman's impressive turn and Mangold's solid direction. Those that hate the genre should avoid it of course but it is a rather charming little thing nonetheless. "},{"Title":"I didn't fall in love with the characters!","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I don't know what it was, maybe chemistry, acting, but throughout this movie, I didn't feel that the Meg Ryan character and the Hugh Jackman character worked together well. I'm a big romance/romantic-comedy guy, but this movie just didn't do it. I couldn't find the magic in it. Compared to Meg Ryan's other movie City of Angels, Kate & Leopold does not stand up. The plot is a completely different story. I am also a geek, next to my rom-com personality, and I could not make much sense of the whole time thing, either it was poorly explained or poorly conceived, either way, not much sci-fi/mind-boggling/pro-founding ideas. With no chemistry, (e.g. you don't sit through the movie just wishing they would get together and fall in love), not much of a plot, and no new pro-founding ideas about time travel, this is the one DVD in my collection of 60+ I wish I never bought! I actually found the little fling between the Charlie and Patrice character more appealing. "},{"Title":"Meh","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie on television last night. Generally, I like Meg Ryan and I think Hugh Jackman is adorable, but Kate and Leopold didn't give either one of them much to do. Additionally, what on earth did the movie's hairdresser's do to Meg's hair? I've never seen her look so unattractive throughout an entire movie which was increasingly aggravating to look at after awhile and left me wondering what it was that attracted Leopold to her in the first place? The trite story (isn't this the same story as Crocodile Dundee?) and shallow characters (honestly, what would anyone see in Meg Ryan's character?), the stupid overused gimmicks (tripping at inconvenient moments, etc.) and unnecessary foul language made this movie less of a pleasure to watch than it might have been. This is not your basic cute, fluffy romance much to my disappointment. "},{"Title":"They live in the same BUILDING, and they're still not perfect for each other","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  We see a duke (and the inventor of the lift) snatched out of the year 1876 and plonked in 2001, and the film's primary concern is how soon and in what way he'll get together with Kate, the first 21st-Century woman he happens to lay eyes on. It becomes ridiculous. Stuart, the man who brought Leopold to the 21st Century, finds himself detained in a psychiatric ward through a contrived series of events that isn't worth the effort of describing (and it's all played for laughs, even though it isn't the least bit funny), yet for a long, dead stretch of time, the film simply ignores him, in order to concentrate on the courting of his ex-girlfriend Kate, who comes across as the most irritating, shallow, self-absorbed and mean-spirited woman in New York - in addition to being physically unattractive (the plain debutantes we see throwing themselves at an unresponsive Leopold at a Nineteenth-Century ball are far more pleasing to the eye) and not very bright. This woman had nothing to offer Stuart, has nothing to offer Leopold, and has nothing to offer us. She's a waste of everyone's time. We only know she has any importance of any kind because she happens to be played by Meg Ryan, who is, on the strength of films other than this one, a star.Meanwhile, back at the assylum, Stuart meets a gorgeous young woman who (in marked contrast to Kate) actually believes in him. What about THIS romance? It's over before it starts, even though Stuart is far more deserving of happiness (and far more likely to know what to do with it if he finds it) than Kate is. We're told that the failure of the relationship between him and Kate is all his fault, but it's hard to believe if he's absorbed in his work, she's absorbed in HER work, the difference being that while his work is tracking down portals in time for research purposes, hers is tricking the public into buying rubbish. Not enough is made of the vileness of Kate's job. The inevitable scene in which Leopold tells her off for her moral blindness is badly mishandled. What she does may be clearly less wrong than designing weapons for the Pentagon or setting up loans for the World Bank, but it's no less clearly wrong.And what about the time travel? Not only is it (as you'd expect) inconsistent, it is (unlike Back to the Future) inconsistent in a dull and unimaginative way. The immediate effect of taking the inventor of the lift out of the 19th Century is that the lifts stop working. (Yes, I know.) But then, they start working again, and the incident is never referred to again. It's as though the director feels ashamed to have even introduced this plot point in the first place. Rightly so. "}{"Title":"Utter tripe - 3 of 10","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Hugh Jackman is the only shining point in this film.  Meg Ryan was awful (again).  She did not look good, nor did she act well.  On top of that, her character was annoying.  The supporting cast was decidedly sub-par and the plot stunk.  Hugh manages to shine through the entire mess, but don't see it just for that.  They owe me two hours. "},{"Title":"About two hours too long","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  What a dreadful bore this film was. I cannot believe the number of 3 star reviews this film received - it deserves no more than one star.Meg Ryan looks and acts terrible, the pacing is slow and boring, the scenes that are supposed to be funny aren't, and aside from Hugh Jackman, all the acting is forced.Also, given Kate's character, her decision at the end makes no sense.Avoid this film at all costs - it is not even worth renting. "},{"Title":"This movie projects the worst possible message to women","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Talk about the wrong message for women of the 21st century - this is it! Here's Meg Ryan playing a very successful business woman. Maybe she's not had great success in past relationships, but hey! there are plenty of non-successful women in the same boat. At least she has a life - she knows what she wants and goes for it. AND she doesn't give in to the sexual harassment her boss attempts to guarantee her the promotion she wants so dearly.So, she gets the promotion - head of the New York office! And what does she do? She throws it away in a heart-beat to go live in the 19th century with a guy she's known for a week, and spent one evening and Saturday with. Yeah, that's a great place for a go-getter business woman! They'll be sure to welcome her with open arms in the business world of the 1800s. After the starry-eyed infatuation wears off, I'd hate to see the life these two manage to carve out!Message finding a man is way more important than any success a woman may find in business. A woman's place is with her man no matter what she has to give up for him. YUK!! Give me Legally Blonde over this movie any day! Altho Reese Witherspoon started out thinking her life revolved around some guy, she came to realize that who she was mattered much more than what (she thought) he wanted her to be. Much better message - in order to be happy, find yourself, then the right man will come along.Now besides this (as if this yucko message to women wasn't bad enough!) there was one major flaw which kept me distracted the whole movie. Here's this inventor from the 1800's (he supposedly invented the elevator) suddenly thrust into the 21st century. Does he show even the slightest curiosity about all the innovations from the past 100+ years? The only item he seemed interested in was the toilet. Guess they thought they should go for the lowest humor possible on this movie. Why wasn't he interested in the television, telephone, answering machine, cars, computers, etc. His main concern was with being polite. How shallow can a guy be? I can't begin to see what Meg Ryan saw in him.I give this movie a huge thumbs down.  "},{"Title":"Chivalry Is Dead","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Absolutely charmless and the most unwelcome piece of misogyny to come along in years.  I wish I could say that this movie has an insidious streak of woman-hating in it-- but truth be told, its hatred is presented rather blatantly.Meg Ryan plays Kate, a terrifying shrew (although I think you're supposed to find Kate adorable because she's played by Meg Ryan) who is doomed to be alone because she has a career and wears pants.  Hugh Jackman plays Leopold, surely the most enlightened man in all of the nineteenth century, who suddenly finds himself in 21st century Manhattan thanks to a poorly developed script device.  There are many, many condescending scenes of women being charmed by Leopold's courtly, old-world manners-- boy, ya gotta love any movie that asks ladies to romanticize a time when women were denied the right to vote and were essentially treated like empty-headed two-year-olds.As this mess grinds on, Kate, against her better judgement and repellent nature, starts falling for Leopold.  Leopold, in turn, falls for Kate, for no discernible reason.  Eventually, thank God, it ends.  But not before Liev Schreiber delivers one of the most convoluted, insincere, embarrassing monologues ever committed to celluloid.  Perhaps he can undergo hypnotherapy and forget he ever agreed to do it.  Pray for him.This film made me yearn to travel through time myself, to an age before Meg Ryan was ever born.  Everyone who made this movie possible should be ashamed. Crummy. "},{"Title":"Its Not Butter","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Spoilers herein.I think this may have started out well. The main character was the Brooklyn/East River Bridge, a paragon of romance -- the wife secretly doing the engineering after the husband struck with the bends. (Actually, he couldn't have given the speech shown at the beginning for just this reason!)Then, take that metaphor and extend it as 'reaching out,' 'forming connections.' Add in a few erection jokes, and the notion of 'elevation.' On this, mix in lots of self-reference to romance theater ('Breakfast at Tiffany's,' Pirates of Penzance'). Then structure the story around a woman who manipulates media and sees the light. I love self-reference of this kind. But it turned on itself and became more self-referential than intended. It announces why it is bad.This is a film about not letting focus groups run your life, about being true. About not sticking to a vacuous formula. But it follows a vacuous formula itself. It was radically re-engineered from a finished version -- the original vision was transformed into this incoherent mess because the producers blindly followed, yes, a test audience! Incest don't you know. It must have been weird editing out the section in Meg's speech where she literally says you can't let focus groups run your life, compromise your values.It about true love instead of superficial arrangements. But the 'true love' is Meg's preference for Jackman's self-rejected manner instead of JJ's even more false sophistication. And that 'true love' involves Meg's patented perky character, surely one of the most fabricated confections in modern film. Problem is though her face has has been preserved through surgical maintenance, it is hard to love a forty year old loser as the girl next door. She has devolved to an almost carbon copy of a similarly aging Melanie Griffith.(I think there should be a warning about any movie that has our cute-as-a-button heroine pump her elbows and yell 'yes!' after connecting with her dream date, and he has left. I've seen three such movies in the past week.)The filmmakers should roast in hell for patronizingly telling us not to sell margarine that tastes like suet just for the money. And then do just that. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and cute romantic comedy with fantasy elements","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Yeah, this movie isn't historically accurate and the time travel portal thing is dumb. But that isn't the main focus of this movie. Which is two characters from different time period that has different characteristics and way of thinking falling for each other. Yeah, a lot of movies and dramas that is in the romantic comedy area, well in this case a romantic comedy fantasy that has two characters that are very different falling for each other. But the main thing that makes this one different is that both of the two main characters are not from the same time period. Which leads to backlash with one another because of different cultures and way of doing things. Which works well, but wished there was more clever moments revolving around that area which leads up to building a bigger romance through those struggles. Which works out at the end. Kate is this very rational and practical woman, well at least practical in her own mind. That had to work herself up and doesn't believe in love. Leopold is a Duke and this chivalrous gentleman with dignity that lived during the time period 1876 but falls into a portal and goes into the future or present which was 2001 or 2002 New York. This is a fun romantic comedy with fantasy elements that work well together as a whole. In fact it's a great movie to watch as couples and has a lot of the right elements to make it worth watching. Even if the ending seems way too abrupt and rushed. Meg Ryan who plays Kate is good with her role, well she continuously played these romantic comedy movies throughout her career. But the main show stealer is Hugh Jackman, he was just perfect with the role he was given as Leopold.7.8/10 "},{"Title":"Let go of the snobbery, believe in fairy-tales, forgive the multiple improbabilities and you will enjoy Kate and Leopold.","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Leopold, an eighteenth century duke of Albany lands in the 21st century after falling into a portal along with Stuart, a weirdo amateur physicist who initiates the event after experimenting with time-travel and going back in time. Leopold is Titanic's Rose's male counterpart, an elegant, eloquent and veracious person of royal blood and title but having no material wealth, in spite of possessing the supreme wealth of wisdom. He is a connoisseur of art, music, literature, typically seen among the royal breed, and finds it demeaning to cave in to worthless/dubious material. He is also extremely handsome, and ladies swoon aver him, eying, smiling, blushing and giggling when he enters, but they don't interest him. His trip to the 21st century proves to be crucial to his future, because he meets Kate, a worked up modern gal who is not good with men and who can get nasty in her expression, and this results in attraction between the two opposites.Kate and Leopold manages to be better than most average love stories because Meg and Hugh create chemistry in the situations in which they're placed rather than implying that the situations have created a chemistry amongst them. In the recent failure The Bounty Hunter, Gerald and Jennifer do the latter i.e. we see the pair traveling around the country and slowly realizing that they are in love, however, the chemistry there is rather implied than created. While Hugh and Meg handle their characters well enough to blending with the story and gradually getting intimate, and there is not third person to tell us that they are in love (like that stupid old couple in Bounty Hunter), but we feel that intimacy between them.Story wise, Rogers and Mangold circumscribe themselves to a fairy-tale like romantic-comedy that has tremendous potential to be something more. The improbabilities of time-travel aside, we still are left with characters that could have created a universe analogous to an epic Titanic, but instead produce a good chick flick. If going through a time portal is that easy, then the present would have progressed by light years. Just jump off the bridge, get back in time and show the past what can be done in future. Also, the fairytale seems too good to be true, what if Kate was a mental patient who dreamed of finding a suitable man after a failed romance with Stuart, something sinister like Mangold's previous venture Girl, Interrupted? After all, her speech, especially after realizing Leopold's true identity seems somewhat icky and delusional. Then again, we find ourselves glad for Kate and Leopold and are satisfied by the story's linear approach. Maybe if Hugh had given more characterization to Leopold, instead of seeming like a storybook prince, then the movie would have been a shade better. But his act is sincere and believable enough for the movie; Ryan is equally likable, though she does not have much chemistry with the supporting cast as she does with Hugh. Her wry humor helps though. Liev is funny too, maybe too buffoonish and farcical at times while Meyer lends great support throughout. Do not watch Kate and Leopold expecting it to be representative of something vital about society (there are scenes where Leopold seems puzzled at the changing attitudes of women, work and most importantly tastes, though). It entertains more than it inspires, and I don't mind a good entertainment!My Rating 6.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"congratulate","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I think , this film is good but not very good. There are love, history and a little adventure.Kate is very beautiful and Leopold is very handsome.They are very great.But If Stuart wasn't there, the film would be better.Leopold was bad, perfidious person for Stuart was there in the film.But Stuart's dog is very sweat and funny, I think.Some film stages are very realistic and I like them.Lepold invented the elevator in real.In Leopold's future, there isn't elevator and this is very creative and interesting, I think.Kate says to Leopold You aren't real.All of them is your imagination. sometimes in the film and I love it.I CONGRATULATE TO STEVEN ROGERS. "},{"Title":"very good movie","Date":"7 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I love time travel, so this is one good movie. I also love Meg Ryan. But what did she do to her perky look? She got plastic surgery and looks like a fake face. Really, Meg, do you think that you look better? We fans think you should have left it age, with your true beauty. You were gorgeous!!! Too bad, Meg, you have fallen far due to your insecurity re your looks. The acting is great and Hugh is fantastic. Meg pulls the part off great, it is just her appearance that is distracting. Somewhat predictable, as are all Meg Ryan movies. She plays the part wonderfully.Drhoh "},{"Title":"Hardly original,  but enjoyable.","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Conceptually derivative and full of clichs, this film nevertheless is an enjoyable viewing mainly down to excellent performances by the cast The story concept is a rehash of the time travel romance genre, which has been done before in films such as Somewhere in Time, Time After Time, Back to the Future Part III, The Lake House, and more obliquely in films such as the Terminator and Star Trek IV. However, compared with these films this film plays the comedy to the fore, though making comedic opportunities from a character coming to a different time period to set up a 'fish out of water' is hardly new. The strength of this film is, however, the excellent performances by all of the key cast. Congratulations have to go to Meg Ryan and Leiv Schreiber, who are both charming and funny in their roles without hamming it up too much. However, the real standouts are Brecklin Meyer who is extremely funny as the Meg Ryan's character's brother, but also warm and accessible, and Jackman who is spot on as the 19th century scientifically minded aristocrat who plays his character with bucket's of warmth, charm and integrity. James Mangold's directing is understated and he wisely allows the actor's to shine. He also doesn't really emphasise the more serious considerations about time travel, a weakness in a lot of films in this genre, and Schreiber's character's connection to Jackman's character is insufficiently fleshed out. Technically the film is very polished, with impressive photography (by Stuart Dryburgh), and a enjoyable score by Rolfe Kent. Sting's song Until won a Golden Globe for best song. The film's ending is clichd but emotionally satisfying and makes for an enjoyable experience, if hardly a profound one. "}{"Title":"Not gonna lie but I loved this movie starring a very charming leading man","Date":"19 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" In 1876 New York, the Duke of Albany Leopold(played by Hugh Jackman sporting a British accent)has come to NYC to be with his Uncle Millard,who wants Leopold to marry a bride before his 30th Birthday,as his uncle has a suitable bride for Leopold called Miss Tree(played by Kristen Schall in her movie debut) as if Leo doesn't marry he would lose his fortune.That night however and Leopold spots a mysterious young man called Stuart(played by Liev Schreiber,who arrived on the scene in the opening of the film when the Brooklyn Bridge was been opened for the first time in 1876)and Leopold gets very suspicious about Stuart and decides to follow him.But of course Stuart freaks out and does a runner while Leopold goes after him so when Leopold tries to save Stuart from jumping off the Brooklyn Bridge,he falls in with Stuart and gets transported to modern day New York City in 2001(thanks to a time portal that is found below the Brooklyn Bridge which was created by Stuart Bessar(the man that brought him to 2001 NYC present day in the first place.As it turns out he is an eccentric time traveler who just broke up with his girlfriend Kate McKay(Meg Ryan)and he happens to be Leopold's Great Grandson(depending on what version of the film you seen). His ex girlfriend on the other hand is tired of him and she is a rather cynical businesswoman who is looking for a suitable actor to star in her Farmers Bounty advert,and she swore off men since her breakup with Stuart.Leopold however at first struggles to come to terms with our society but he quickly overcomes this and decides to dress like his from the 21st century resulting in him to be mistaken for just an actor as Kate's brother Charlie(Breckin Meyer)meets Leopold later in the film. But when Leopold meets Kate later on in the film (as Stuart ends up being gone from the story for a very long time thanks to having no elevators since Leopold is the inventor of elevators BTW) romance blossoms between Leopold and Kate(even though when Kate first meets Leopold she doesn't believe for a second that he is who he says he is a 19th Century bachelor who was transported from 1876 to 2001,and she thinks his too good to be true). Leopold however gets on so well with Kate's younger brother Charlie who helps him out with winning a girl called Patrice, and later Leopold saves Kate's purse,and then he sweeps her off her feet with a romantic candlelit dinner on the top of the apartment building and he of course falls in love with Kate. So will he and Kate ever get together,and will Leopold either stay in the year 2001 or 1876?Bottom line I really enjoyed this film in actual fact I consider this film one of my favorite movies of all time as well as it being a guilt pleasure too as it reminded me of that 2007 film Enchanted. The main reason why I loved this movie was because of one actor Hugh Jackman. He just took this movie and made it his own. His charisma and persona lit up the screen every time he shows up with Meg Ryan(who was one of my favorite actresses as a kid)and his character Leopold was like a Disney prince for the older audience. As for the rest of the film yes its a tad but stupid with a very contrived plot but like I said I really enjoyed it,between the chemistry with Ryan & Jackman as they were funny and sweet together not to mention Jackman's character Leopold is so dashing you can't help but fall head over heels in love for the guy. The music by Rolf Kent was nice as it fit the mood of the movie,so was the cinematography where it starts off in old New York City for like 10 minutes and then it goes into modern day New York City in 2001 and of course the finale of the movie was a bit silly as (spoiler alert)Meg Ryan ends up going back to 1876 as she was in the photos her ex boyfriend Stuart took while he was in the year 1876 at the beginning of the movie and Kate ends up been chosen as Leopold's bride at the end. But having said that it was a harmless sweet romantic film with that Cinderella vibe to it mixed with old- fashioned romance which I haven't witnessed in a romantic film in a very long time. Also the romance like I have mentioned was slow paced yet you knew when Leopold was going to fall for Kate as they were destined to be together.Best part Hugh Jackman wooing Meg Ryan over and tries to propose to her character as they listen to that Breakfast At Tiffany's song Moon River but for me it has to be the chasing scene with the thief stealing Kate's handbag and Leopold saves it for her by riding on a horse saying 'give me your hand,your hand woman'. Hilarious stuff.Worst Part The whole time traveling thing was kinda stupid and the plot is OK as you need to be able to follow the plot and take all in once you watch this film,especially as it repeats itself when Leopold goes back to his world and he has to relive the previous day all over again.VerdictA nice heartfelt,harmless fantasy that will leave a sense of love and warmth after you have seen it and stars a very charming man indeed.Rating B- 6.9/10A feel good movieEdited on 25/03/2016 as I seen it last night and I had to tweak the review for it. "},{"Title":"Women, everywhere, would love to have this film as a Valentine's Day gift","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Kate (Meg Ryan) is a workaholic who has had difficulty in the romance department. Her ex-boyfriend, Stuart (Liev Schrieber) still lives in her apartment building and is a constant reminder to her of what went wrong. One day, however, Stuart has a new roommate named Leopold (Hugh Jackman) who is a bit unusual to say the least. His clothes are from another century and so are his impeccable manners. This is because he actually IS from another century! It seems Stuart found a time warp near the Brooklyn bridge and brought someone back on his latest trip. Kate, who is in advertising, sees Leopold as a great spokesperson for a butter company and arranges some new commercials. Leo is a big hit! But, he really wants to return to his own time. Admittedly, he and Kate have become very close, so how can there possibly be a happily ever after scenario? This is one of the best modern-day romantic comedies out there. The cast is wonderful, with Breckin Meyer adding to the fun as Kate's offbeat brother. The costumes are lovely, as is the setting in New York and the other production values. Then, too, the script is imaginative and romantic to the core. A love that will transcend the boundaries of time and space is a true love indeed. Gentleman, if you want to give your partner a great gift on Valentine's Day or any day, find this movie to share with your beloved. As you hold hands on the sofa, you will find her inching closer to you by the minute and smiling to beat the band. "},{"Title":"A Superior Romantic Comedy","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" It is a cut above most romantic comedies. Either they've incorporated some nifty historical references or they faked it. Either way, it added an elegance sorely missing in may films of this genre.The casting was first rate. Jackman was superb as was Liev Schreiber who played the time traveler/ex-boy friend. Breckin Meyer, Kate's brother Charlie played his supporting character smoothly, energetically, and more than held his own. Actually, I thought Meg Ryan was the weakest link, playing her average heroine character, but she was adequate enough that the others elevated the scenes she was in.Liev Schreiber keep making me think of Albert Brooks but without the cloying sense of self Brooks employs.I could have lived without the clichd part of the ending (involving a taxi cab ride). Additionally, there were a few perfunctory scenes that could have used a little more creative thought, but the male characters were so engaging the little flaws didn't really matter. Incidentally, those scenes wouldn't have stood out except that so many other scenes were done so cleverly.Leopold, in the present day, teaches us about the importance of grace and style from a time that we have dismissed, even ridiculed, in favor of an empty, tasteless pursuit for material goods over spiritual wealth.The majestic bridge that is the focal point of the opening celebration is now relegated to being just a bridge to us while Leopold sees it as a masterpiece that has withstood the test of time. In a nearly unisex world he, alone, cherishes the fairer sex and love, over sex and money.Not only is he a reminder of what once was, but he touches and improves everyone he encounters. In conclusion, we like to think we have come so far from the 19th Century, but maybe that distant we've covered was in the wrong direction. "},{"Title":"Kate&Leopold","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The movie is one of the best I've seen ever. The actors did a great job here(so did the director). The story is... how could I say this... amazing. I haven't seen a film that had such a great impact on me. It made me realizes some things. And It's just one of the best ever! It's not a movie like any other romantic movie. It goes way further then that. And that's what makes it interesting. The way Mr Hugh Jackman acts in the movie is amazing. If you see the movie, you think way further then 'oh I'm watching a movie', and the actors made that for a big part. The way Mr Hugh Jackman moves, talks and behave makes us feel like we're back 1876. Every time I see this movie again, I fall in love with it. "},{"Title":"Romantic Story!!","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie is my favorite love story and it is very romantic! Surely, every women have dreams such a this story.Kate(Meg Ryan) has job and she is good at job. One day, her former boyfriend discovers gap of time so he backed to 18th century. He meets a nobleman, duke Leopold(Hugh Jackman) who is the father of elevator. Then, they come to today world. Kate and Leopold live together, first, they have bad relationship, but they gradually have good friendship each other. Kate decides that Leopold presents the CM which is related to her job. However, this thing is a key to promote or decline their relationship. Meg Ryan appears many romantic stories, but this movie is not a stale movie. The plot speed is appropriate and acting is good, too. The last scene is unpredictable for me. I think if you don't care about details, you will enjoy this movie! "},{"Title":"I liked it, I really liked it possible Spoilers","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie at the theater, I have seen this movie on Video and DVD, and I totally bought into it.  You mean I wasn't supposed to?  Oh dear.  First of all, it bears an amazing resemblance to Jude Devereaux's romance novel A Knight in Shining Armor so much so that I was surprised that this book was never mentioned in the credits.  The scene of going to an historical home that was once the abode of the main character, and that character knowing exactly where a 'secret' panel was behind the wall, which contained 'treasures' from the past, is straight out of the above-mentioned book.                                                                                 I also found similarities with that very good film of Malcom McDowall/Mary Steenburgen's called, I believe, Time After Time, where H.G. Wells traveled to modern day San Francisco, only to find true love and bring his modern-day gal back to Victorian London with him.  Since, in real life apparently, H.G. Wells was married to a very modern 'ahead-of-her-time' feminist woman, this was a charming little twist.  One can easily imagine Kate in this film also bringing her 'modern' ideas about women in society to stodgy old Victorian New York, and shaking things up a bit.  Perhaps along the lines of novelist Edith Wharton.                             Also, there is nothing to suggest that these 'time-travelers' will be forever stuck in one place in time.  I assume if the scientist (Kate's ex-boyfriend) figured out how to access a portal in time once, he can do it again.  And again.  And again.                                                         See, at no time was I muddled, it all made perfect sense to me.  -)  And since I myself am over 40, stuck in a career path that no longer interests me, and sick to death sometimes of the tediousness of the Rat Race, I have no quarrel with a woman who is suddenly confronted with a man so drop-dead sexy (and who can sing and dance too, by golly) that she chucks off her boring life with hardly a blink of an eye, and takes a Leap of Faith that somewhere, anywhere, is probably better than what she already knows.  At least she won't be bored.                                                        Unrealistic?  Not at all.  Kate will be appalled at the horrors confronting the working-classes in the urban 19th Century, and will become known for her innovations as a social worker.  Leopold will realize he's going to have to work for a living, and hence he turns his invention of an Elevator into reality.  Who knows, he might invent a lot more things, considering that Kate will be able to give him lots of good ideas.  This sort of thing was played up with charming effect in Peggy Sue Got Married.  I'm buying all of this, I'm telling you.                           When Kate becomes pregnant, and realizes there are complications, Leopold will simply pick her up in his big strong arms and leap off of the nearest bridge through the next oncoming time portal, and save the day.  No, really.  This is a lovely, fun, enchanting movie!                                                "},{"Title":"I want to meet a duke from 1876!","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. It was so romantic. Meg Ryan and Hugh Jackman are so cute together. The plot actually made sense. I just know that I loved this movie. It's so romantic and funny. Kate and Leopold just got to me, I don't know. But I proudly give it a10/10 "},{"Title":"Love between persons of two different periods","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It seems that Hollywood tries more and more to produce films giving the idea of more than one life for each human being. An example of this trend is the comedy Just Visiting (2001) directed by Jean-Marie Poir and the present film Kate & Leopold (2001)of James Mangold with acting of Meg Ryan and Hugh Jackman. Meg is living in New York and working hard in a kind of company for advertisements while suddenly a British Duke or a Count is brought from 19th Century to 21st one (???) and is introduced into some of the habits of the modern era, he was polite and handsome while the others around him were simply badly educated in their manners. He was able to ride a horse and to defend a woman attacked by a pickpocket, he was simply a gentleman of 21 st century. So the plot is original and the film will entertain any person who wants to relax for a bit.            "},{"Title":"great romantic comedy","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this was an impressive romantic comedy starring Meg Ryan and Hugh Jackman. Jackman is pulled through a time portal in 1876 and arrives in modern day New York City. There he falls in love with Ryan. I loved the efforts made by Jackman to fit in,his initial bumbling, and the love scenes. Though for a while no one believes him when he tells them who he is and where he was from, it was fun to see him try. Overall, I think this was an excellent movie and one you should definitely check out.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"THE BEST MOVIE EVER!!!","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie, I think it's the best movie I have seen. I can't wait to see it again. Hugh Jackman and Meg Ryan are awesome, and on top of being romantic Kate and Leopold is also really funny. This movie has something for everybody. I would recommend it to anyone. "}{"Title":"What a refreshing, warm-all-over movie","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I love this film.  Hugh Jackman is gorgeous, along with his character. So refreshing to see good old fashioned standards, ethics, morals and straight out manners popularized.  I think modern men would do well to take notes.  One of my favorite movies. "},{"Title":"Give me Corsets!","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Yeah, Kate is sick of the year 2001-she'd rather live in a time before the Civil Rights movement, before the fight for equality for women and before Tampax.  She trades her dental plan and fridge for a life of spoiled decadence, a time when well-mannered servants knew how to keep the mistress of the house happy and poor folks knew better than to even try to show up at the polls.If this is what all blonde princesses dream off then they should form their own Republic, perhaps called Dementia or Prissville, where they can pretend to be high born ladies who prance around  in corsets and prance around in bloomers while sipping tea while the rest of the world goes to hell in a handbasket. "},{"Title":"Delightful!","Date":"19 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Of all the film genres, the one where chemistry between the actors is the most important is the romance. The goal of the romance is to get the viewer to want the characters to be together, but too often actors are matched based on their box office profitability, not whether they can make a connection between them. But every so often, a movie comes along that actually picks actors that work well with each other. This is one of them.In 1876, Leopold (Hugh Jackman), the Duke of Albany, is being pressured to marry for the sake of bringing cash to his name. But the arrogant and proper Duke wants to wait for love. At the dance where he's supposed to choose a wife, he sees something strange. A man (Liev Schrieber) has been taking pictures of him all day with a tiny little camera. Leopold follows the man, and ends up in 2001. While there, he meets, and subsequently falls for, the man's ex-girlfriend, Kate McCoy (Meg Ryan).This is not a departure for Meg Ryan in the least. The blonde actress has made a career out of these kinds of movies, and while she's ventured elsewhere a number of times, this is where she's always been home. What's surprising about her performance in this movie is that she's a little flat, and is outshone by her co-star, Hugh Jackman, who is positively irresistible. Cultured, sweet and polite, Jackman dominates the role and walks away with the film. Jackman is a great actor, but this is easily his best performance. Schrieber and Breckin Meyer, as Kate's brother, provide comic relief, but this is Jackman's show.This is a solid, but overlong romance. It has all the requisite elements likable characters, good humor, and smoldering chemistry between the leads. But it's way too long, and the film loses a lot of its vitality whenever Jackman isn't around.Still, if you're looking for a good date movie, Kate & Leopold is a great option. "},{"Title":"New Yorker discovers portal in time to 1876.  His great grandfather accidentally follows him back to 2001.  Havoc and love with the grandson's downstair's neighbor ensues.","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Okay, okay. It's a chick flick. And it's not the greatest time travel movie of all time. But then again it does NOT have as many goofs as Back to the Future or Milennium, for example.What is it? Charming. Hugh Jackman portrays Leopold. Sketching the ceremony of the erection of a New York bridge, he turns to see someone acting strangely. Overcome with curiosity, he pursues Stuart Besser (Liev Schreiber at his quirky best), inadvertently into the year 2001. Stuart's sudden disappearance from his apartment brings his downstairs neighbor, Kate McKay (Meg Ryan), into Leopold's life and helps him adjust to this jolt into the future.Hugh Jackman is brilliant and commanding. Meg Ryan, at 39, who has just wasted the best years of her life to Stuart, her ex-boyfriend, has given up on love. Her acting brother, Charlie (Breckin Myer) arrives to visit and adds another dash of comedic flavor to the mix.Without giving away any part of the story, I will leave you with some of the most poignant moments that I found very appealing.There is an huge container of pens in front of Leopold, but he has no idea what they are. He finds a feather among a container of craft items, makes some ink in a glass, and sits down to compose a letter. He lightly blows air on the completely letter, slowly blinks his eyes and re-reads the letter.Although I am dismayed at Meg Ryan's choice to alter her lips and cheeks cosmetically, I applaud her decision to forgo an abundance of makeup. As Kate, she looks tired and overworked, true to the character of a marketing executive who works long hours and has no personal life. Kate's reaction to a line in French, when it's full meaning was interpreted to her, and the expression on her face at a surprise meal, was adorable. And that's the reason audiences respond to Meg Ryan so well. She has an inner beauty and glow that needs no cosmetic enhancements.Liev Schreiber exhaustingly tries to explain his theory of the space/time continuum to a young lady. His facial expressions and gestures as Stuart are absolutely hysterical but the young lady finally gets what he's saying. Just thinking about this witty big of dialog makes me smile. I can see a little bit of Charlie Chaplin incorporated into Schreiber's physical portrayal so I wonder if Schreiber was an admiring fan of Chaplin's? A sweet homage.Guys if you're looking for science fiction, go to the search box at IMDb.com and look for something else. If you want to curl up with your girl, put the popcorn in the microwave and put the DVD or videotape of Kate & Leopold in the machine! Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Kute and Leo-bored","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Do movie makers, long before the first contract is signed or the first piece of the film is shot, know that their work is utterly, totally inconsequential? Kate and Leopold is just that sort of movie--it's all the way through your brain's digestive tract the second the abbreviated and ad-cluttered credits on TBS begin rolling. I taped it off TV last week and figured, what the heck, how bad can it be? Well, K/L isn't bad (Quentin Tarantino movies are bad; cheating on your wife is bad, believing the mainstream media is just plain stupid . . . and bad), but you have to know what you're getting into with this hopelessly cutsie time-traveling chick flick. The details of how British nobleman Hugh Jackman jumps from 1876 to 2001 defy logic (and aren't even really explored), Meg Ryan's used as a vehicle (and what a chassis!) for lots of fashions and a pretty cool haircut, and the rest of the cast is filled with stock characters doing stock things.I called it a chick flick and that's what's wrong with Kate and Leopold. It could have been so much more. Jackman, who has quite possibly the best voice since Sean Connery in Marnie, never really breaks out of the part of honorable English aristocrat. If the time-travel aspect had been explored more, he would be an honorable aristocrat 125 years out of time! K/L could have been a love story and a satire on our cultural self-demolition. Instead, all we get is the occasional wheezy joke about operating dishwashers and picking up dog poop.Ryan just gets sexier with every year (and at 39, when this film was made, there were complaints about her playing the same character over and over), but there's an actress, a really good actress under that soft voice and perky bounce and it would be nice if, by the time she turns 50, she plays something deadly serious and seriously real.With the edited version on TV, I figured it would be alright if my 10-year-old sit in (she isn't aware of the dubbed Shoots! and Fudges! I can hear from years of watching movies on TV) and, golldangit, she loved it! She thought Jackman was nice and Ryan was pretty, she laughed at the jokes, cuddled during the scary parts, and asked me to pull the tab off the tape.I thought the movie was two hours of mindlessness, but the kid declared, It's a keeper!Maybe Kate and Leopold isn't inconsequential to everyone? "},{"Title":"This movie was great..","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" ..if you like heaps of steaming turd. The actors weren't even believable as real people. Meg Ryan's ex-boyfriend tells her to jump off the side of a bridge in order to go through a crack in the fabric of time in order to be with the one she loves, a man from the 1800's who surprisingly wasn't overwhelmed by the dramatic change of technology being that he was the inventor of the pulley (the pre-elevator elevator), and astonishingly she does so.If only it were so easy to get rid of people.Don't see Kate & Leopold "},{"Title":"Get back into a corset where you belong!","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  *SPOILERS*This film looks like a lovely fluffy Rom Com. In fact it's pretty noxious. All Leopold's pronouncements about the integrity of advertising and how a meal should be savoured, are presented as evidence of his belonging to a previous, more civilized age. In fact they are the result of the fact that he belongs to an extremely privileged class. I don't suppose the Industrial workers starving in the slums of C19th Manchester did much standing up when a woman left the table, or taking time to savour the flavour of their butter.That's not the worst of it, though. Leopold is shocked that Kate is going to go on a date without a chaperone, that she has never been properly wooed in candle light with a violinist in attendance, and that she is entertaining a slimy boss who is offering her a job but also hoping to make her. How quaintly anachronistic of him, and how charming his manners are, and how we cheer when she gives up her career to follow him back in time. The fact that she goes back to a society where she doesn't have a right to a Vote, let alone a job, to a marriage where her property automatically becomes her husband's and she no longer has any control over it whatsoever, and where Leopold can physically beat her without any legal comeback, is curiously not explored.The advances of the C20th were social as well as technological, although you wouldn't know it watching this film, and indeed there are points where it seems like an anti-feminist manifesto. I don't care how tasty Hugh Jackman is, if my basic human rights are the price I have to pay for luurve, then I'll stay single, thank you very much!If you want an antidote to this crap, I suggest you watch Gaslight (1940) - Anton Walbrook is every bit as sexy as Hugh, and Diana Wynyard hasn't done anything un-natural to her lips - ahhh! the charm of a more civilized age!  "},{"Title":"dreck","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Hugh Jackman was wonderful in this movie, but he was the only good thing about it.  Could Meg Ryan have been more annoying?  What in the world would a classy 19th century duke see in such a self-absorbed, whining woman?*SPOILER*  It was all so implausible, I wanted to jump off a bridge. "},{"Title":"A pleasant little diversion for romantics","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Kate and Leopold is a light hearted little romantic comedy about an English Duke (Jackman) from the late 19th century who travels through time and happens across the love of his life (Ryan) in the present day. Overall the film is a good production. However, the time travel thing makes it a bit unwieldy, squeezing the juicy stuff between a protracted setup and denouement while making the suspension of disbelief considerably more difficult than with conventional plots. Nonetheless, the film moves along quickly, spares us the usual dose of Kodak moments, and tightly knits its clever but cumbersome story. A fun watch for romantics and a possible disappointment for skeptics. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have seen in my entire life!","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It has NO point whatsoever and Meg Ryan Is AWFUL. Like thats really gonna happen? Well not in my world!I thing you can find something more useful to do with your time! They can throw this movie back into the time portal where it came from! "}{"Title":"A poor man's movie","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Well, Hugh Jackman (Wolverine from the X Files)delivered the goods to an extent in this movie. If it were not for Hugh Jackman (Wolverine from the X Files), this movie would have fallen flat on it's face. I am shocked to see how well Meg Ryan acted in this wonderful movie, or should I saw so so movie. I believe that Hugh Jackman (Wolverine from the X Files)has a great future in this business if he keeps up his roles as a man from the 18th Century. Hugh Jackman (Wolverine from the X Files)does a great job as a charming, yet uncannily goofy gentleman who is also a Duke. I hope to see Hugh Jackman (Wolverine from the X Files)in a remake of this movie in years to come. I was shocked to see the Cameo from Patrick Stuart in the dance hall scene. "},{"Title":"Funny and romantic!","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I didn't know anything about this movie until I seen the preview on payperview on cable. That means this movie was release on dvd already in June. This a funny love story between Megan Ryan and Hugh Jackman. This is now one of my favorite romance and comedy movies.   "},{"Title":"Don't be fooled - it's bad","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This film deserves to be trashed because it could have been much better.  Like, for instance, if Meg Ryan hadn't been in it.  She was horrible.  Her acting was as good as her hair in this movie.  The only reason I ranked it a 2 instead of a 1 is because Brekin Meyer was great.  Hugh Jackman was also good.  But the poor editing and horrible performance by Ryan made this film almost painful to watch.  Don't waste your time.   "},{"Title":"AGH!","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a disaster. I absolutely hated this movie. My sister made me watch it with her. It was an awful experience. It was a waste of my time. I could have done something better with my time. I could have watched Star Trek The Wrath of Khan. I could have watched 13 going on 30, which is only a smidgen better than this film. Unfortunately, my hate for this movie cannot be summed up in one measly post. I am posting this to let the world of IMDb users know that I have contempt for this film. I shudder to think which users gave this movie a vote of 10. I gave this movie a vote of 1. That is all I have to say.--QT is a god.  "},{"Title":"insulting to women","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I went to this movie hoping for something light and enjoyable, but it didn't do anything for me but make me hate just about everyone connected to its making.Here's a woman who has it all... so of course she's unhappy. Oh, and she's rather needy and self-absorbed, too. It takes a guy who is 100 years out of his time to make her realize this, and to make her come to the conclusion that she'd be happier in a world where not only is there no rat race, but no rights for women. She just needs a man, darnit! She doesn't need to maybe find the right career for her skills, or maybe choose a slower-paced life in her own time... no, she just has to jump off the Brooklyn Bridge to a time when women didn't even have the vote, in order to be happy.Right. I can't begin to effectively express my contempt for this movie. "},{"Title":"An even worse concept than Shallow Hal","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Okay, I think we've seen just about enough of these movies. This film makes an even worse social statement than Shallow Hal, a film in which the most shallow person is the morbidly obese woman Hal falls in love with.Since the castration of the modern male by the onset of feminism gone wrong, men have become far more sensitive and considerate than anyone ever wants to admit. It might be argued men were always more sensitive, if you look at the poets, writers and musicians of the classical era.It's women, in fact, who've become aggressive, arrogant, and completely lost consideration for the feelings of men.So I find it offensive Hollywood is churning out movies like this, where a gentleman from the past tries to show us what jerks modern men are; it's modern women who've lost all sense of compassion and common decency, who could take some lessons from a true lady.I was utterly appalled by this movie, the worst since the outrage that was Pretty Woman. Why does it appear that every woman, despite being horribly self serving and inconsiderate, seems to believe she deserves a handsome prince charming? Movies like this only help perpetuate that utterly outrageous (and unfair to men) dream. "}]