[{"Title":"One Of The Greats!!!!","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"63 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Reading some of the comments here left me wondering, in some cases, whether the writers had this film confused with some B-movie potboiler. Some have written scathing contumelies with not a single positive remark to be found. It's amazing how differently two people from the same planet, same culture, can view the same thing. For me, this has always been one of my favorite movies, with very few flaws to be found. Gary Cooper could never be accused here (or anywhere else) of over acting. His style has always been one of understatement. He, in fact, was one of the actors who helped change the style of acting from the theatricality of the silents, to the more realistic method still in vogue today. Here, he is perfectly cast (Hemingway would accept no other)--the quiet, stoic, ruggedly handsome American. Ingrid Bergman is my favorite actress, so it's probably hard for me to be objective, but I feel this is one of her greatest roles, playing the damaged, yet still innocent, Maria (it was, in fact, the role for which Bergman felt she would be most remembered). True, her accent could hardly be mistaken for Spanish, but this seems trivial when this is stacked up against her immense talent as an actress. The criticisms about her appearance have no justification at all, as has been pointed out by others. All Spaniards do not look alike. Ms. Bergman is absolutely radiant, luminous, stunningly beautiful. Her scenes with Coop are wonderful. You can see Roberto's interest in her immediately, first of a carnal nature, but increasingly with tenderness and concern. Their's is one of the best love stories on film.The supporting characters are superlative; Akim Tamiroff is fine as the once courageous but now cowardly (and possibly treacherous) Pablo; Vladimir Sokoloff as the lovable aging guide--but where did they find Ms. Paxinou? Her Pilar is a fascinatingly vibrant character, full of grit and valor and indomitable courage, and yet capable of being deeply wounded by the thoughtless actions of a child. She apparently never did another film either before or after this one--just taking her well deserved Oscar and slipping away Edit (Dec. 2005) I've since discovered that Ms. Paxinou DID appear in a few less prominent films after this one. It's true that war is not romantic, and the film shows some of the horrors of this enterprise. It is also true that it does to some extent romanticize this war in that it emphasizes the self-sacrifice and courage of these people. In any case, I feel most people will find themselves moved by the sacrifices and **SPOILERS** the doomed romance of the leads. The story has been altered a bit from the wonderful novel, but this is inevitable. Still, it follows it much more closely than most Hollywood filmizations. The scenery is spectacular--the color, the cinematography are top notch, and Victor Young has composed a lush and moving score that wonderfully underscores the action and emotions of the players--his creation being among the best in cinema history. The direction strikes an excellent balance between showing us the details of day to day survival by these hunted insurgents, the suspense of battle, and the growing romance. Some have criticized the dialogue, but I find it quite believable. That last speech of Jordan's and his thoughts right after, have in particular been singled out for scorn. But for me, it is extraordinarily real. He doesn't utter some plasticized ideal of what a parting speech should be--no it's something someone might actually say, filled with simple but heartfelt phrases. Well, dear reader, you simply must see this film. Then judge for yourself whose comments are more accurate--those above, or those who have reviled the film. I know where I'd put my money. "},{"Title":"The Bell Tolls for Republican Spain","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"38 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Ernest Hemingway was most particular about how is work should be portrayed on screen. He had hated the version of A Farewell to Arms that was done ten years earlier.What he did like was Gary Cooper's portrayal of a Hemingway hero. He and Cooper got to be good friends, so he was Papa's first and only choice to be Robert Jordan in For Whom the Bell Tolls.The novel grew out of Hemingway's experience in the Spanish Civil War that raged for almost four years. A number of generals not liking the leftist trend the new Spanish Republic was taking pulled a military coup d'etat. The whole world took sides with the Soviet Union aiding the Republic's defenders and Italy and Germany aiding the Nationalist Generals.The USA was officially neutral, but people had their opinions. Believe it or not many supported the rebelling generals seeing them as upholding traditional Catholic Spain. But some in America organized the Abraham Lincoln Brigade, a group of volunteers who fought for the Republic. Some in there were U.S. Communist Party members, but a whole lot were idealists. All of them had a lot of difficulty after World War II, for shall we say being to prematurely anti-Fascist.Gary Cooper plays just such a volunteer and he's got a mission, to blow up a key bridge in the Guadarrama mountains. He makes contact with the guerrilla band of Akim Tamiroff and Katina Paxinou. Of course fighting with them is Ingrid Bergman, so we had some romantic interludes there which steamed up the screen.This was quite a year for Ingrid, she did Casablanca as well that year and her name became synonymous with romance. She was not the first choice here. Director Sam Wood did not like his original leading lady Vera Zorina and replaced her with Bergman who he really wanted in the first place.In fact Wood was a second choice. Paramount originally scheduled this film for Cecil B. DeMille. I'm betting there were some creative differences between DeMille and Papa Hemingway. If this had become a DeMille type film, it would have been a disaster.Gary Cooper, Ingrid Bergman, Akim Tamiroff, and Katina Paxinou all got Academy Award nominations. Only Paxinou won the Oscar for this film. A great performance, but also probably a tribute to her refugee status. She had fled her native Greece when the Nazis took over where she was a leading member of their national theater. She accepted her Oscar in memory of her late colleagues there.The only criticism of the film came from those that thought it lingered too long on Cooper and Bergman's romance. Something by the way they were having in real life as well.But Ernest Hemingway liked the film just fine and I think most will as well. "},{"Title":"the best screen adaption of any Hemingway novel","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Set against the backdrop of the Spanish Civil War, the prelude to WWII, this is one of the great action/adventure films of all time and the best screen adaption of any Hemingway novel.  Cooper and Bergman set the sparks flying like Bogie and Bacall, and are sexier on screen without ever taking their clothes off than any of todays red hot lovers stark naked.  Coop's hat alone deserves an honorary Oscar for Best Costume.  Old pros like Vladimir Sokoloff, Akim Tamiroff and Fortunio Bonanova (whom film buffs will recognise as the opera coach from Citizen Kane) keep that inimitable Hemingway dialogue moving at a brisk pace and Katina Paxinou, who copped the Best Supporting Actress award, is the embodiment of one of Hem's greatest characters.  I have the 156 min version taped off cable and the added footage makes you hungry to see the whole 170 minute version (if it still exists).  Don't miss this one.  Four stars. "},{"Title":"Plot Summary","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The film opens with a tolling bell and a quotation from John Donne's No Man Is an Island. Then the action literally explodes on the screen with an act of sabotage by Robert Jordan (Gary Cooper), who has just struck a blow for the young Spanish Republic against the fascist Nationalists. As one of about 60,000 foreigners who have come to fight for Spain's freedom, Jordan's story plays out against a background of cataclysmic world events.Jordan is immediately assigned the task of blowing up an important bridge behind the Nationalist lines in the Guadarrama Mountains, near Segovia. The main story line follows him as he joins a ragtag troop of guerrillas in pursuit of his mission. The guerrillas are led by the forceful Pilar, in an Academy Award-winning portrayal by Katina Paxinou. An equally pivotal character in the band is cunning, treacherous Pablo (Akim Tamiroff), who may at any moment defect to the Nationalist side if it profits him. The guerrillas are a motley crew of pan- European characters, each with his own life story and reason for being in that place at that time.And then there is the innocent, vulnerable, incredibly beautiful Maria (Ingrid Bergman), who was rescued from Nationalist rapists and is now protected by the guerrillas. Under Pilar's watchful eye Robert and Maria fall in love. With the signing of Ingrid Bergman to play the role of Maria, Paramount jumped on the post-Casablanca bandwagon. Echoes of the earlier film that were not in Hemingway's novel crop up as Robert morphs from the stalwart freedom fighter to the lover who is torn between duty and love. A lengthy film of about 160 minutes, FWTBT takes time to explore the relationships between characters, even the lesser lights. We find out who is strong and weak, who is in favor of the war and who is not, and get a glimpse into how each one might react when the chips are down. A particularly meaningful interchange is when Robert explains to the guerrillas that although the Communists are on their side (under orders from the Soviet Cominterm), the fascist governments of Germany and Italy are supplying the Nationalists with Panzer tanks and Stuka dive-bombers. In reality those governments were testing their armament in preparation for the coming world war.SPOILER The end of the film is a whirlwind series of scenes in which Robert almost single- handedly demolishes the bridge as the Nationalist army approaches. Then fate takes a hand. To escape, the guerrillas must ride across an open area through a hail of enemy machine-gun and light artillery fire. Everyone makes it across but Robert, bringing up the rear, who is blown from his horse by an exploding shell. Too wounded to ride, Robert must be left behind with a machine-gun to slow the advance of the Nationalists. With courage and great pain Robert delivers his hill of beans and where I'm going you can't follow speeches to Maria. He promises that they will be together in spirit but stops short of saying, We'll always have Guadarrama. Maria is thrown onto the back of a horse and the band gallops away, her screams fading into the distance. Fighting nausea and unconsciousness, Robert sets up the machine-gun and fires directly into the camera (mirrored at the end of Bataan with Robert Taylor). Smoke and cordite fill the screen, and the scene dissolves to the giant bell tolling a warning to mankind.In 1943 Hemingway and the everyone in the film knew to their sorrow that the Nationalists had won the Civil War in 1939 and that Spain now lived under the dictatorship of General Francisco Franco. They could not know that, ironically, with Franco's death in 1975 Spain named King Juan Carlos I sovereign of the democratic constitutional monarchy that rules the Kingdom of Spain today. "},{"Title":"For Whom The Bell Tolls","Date":"28 February 2014","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This is a fine film, very popular in its day for depicting the desperate fight for freedom that even civilians engaged in by choice, at a time when democracy was in fact truly threatened and there was a very real possibility it would disappear from the earth. Because of the bravery of so many men and women of that time, the freedom that many today take for granted was assured. But it is by no means permanent.The film is relatively heavy but certainly many modern films about current events are equally heavy. One is either involved or not but I found it a great story of a small group of people who have survived a great deal of pain in life and who have little to lose. The film presents the characters very well, allowing us to like and understand them. It was shot in Technicolor on realistic locations and beautifully designed by William Cameron Menzies. The music by Victor Young is outstanding.In case anyone may not know, Ingrid Bergman was the choice of Ernest Hemingway. In fact, he went out of his way to see to it that the ballet dancer and actress Vera Zorina, who was originally cast and who had begun shooting the film, was replaced by Bergman. Hemingway also wanted Gary Cooper and no one else to play Robert Jordan. How can these actors be 'miscast' when the author who created the characters felt they were perfect for the roles? "},{"Title":"Spectacular and colorful adaptation  based on  Hemingway novel with two classical  myths  Cooper and Bergman","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The picture narrates how an American professor(Gary Cooper) enlisted to the International Brigades (Brigade Lincoln) resolves to join himself with a group of rebels during Spanish Civil War (1936-1939)  The guerrilla is formed by a bunch of peasants  Vladimir Sokoloff , Akim Tamiroff , Arturo Cordoba , Katina Paxinou and he then falls in love with the gorgeous Ingrid Bergman . He's ordered by the Republic's authority blowing up a bridge and he'll have to confront a lot of dangers and risks and stifle the facing off among the members of the motley commando .Runtime film is overlong , the run is about two hours and half but isn't dreary . It's based on Ernest Hemingway book magnificently translated to Cinemascope big screen . The movie has tension , drama , a love story , derring-do, warlike adventures , heroic events , romantic tale and although sometimes is slow-moving , isn't boring , neither tiring . Cooper and Bergman are attractive and romantics , both protagonists were especially selected by Hemingway . The secondary cast is impressive  Tamiroff , Vladimir Sokoloff , Joseph Calleia , Fortunio Bonanova but Kattina Paxinou -actress myth in Greece- is top notch, thus she won the Academy Award , Oscar , as the best support cast for her role as the impulsive , lusty and brave guerrilla woman . Exceptional and glimmer cinematography by Ray Rennahan and enjoyable music by Victor Young . The motion picture was well directed by Sam Wood. The picture was prohibited in Spain by the censorship until recent years . Rating Very good . Above average . "},{"Title":"For Whom the Bell Tolls","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I have this movie on DVD for weeks, I thought this would be a long and boring movie. So I waited a long time and today I thought let's give it a chance and I had a really good time, the movie is great and a true classic, that every classic movie fan must see. It tells the story of a bomb expert (Gary Cooper) he get's the order to destroy a bridge, he stays with a few people in a cave. The leader of the gang Pilar (Paxinou) is a woman with girl power, the misfit pablo (Tamiroff) and the young Maria (Bergman) during the story Cooper and Bergman fell in love, but they both can't help that Paxinou steals the show with her great acting, she plays the stars from heaven and she really deserves her Oscar for best supporting actress, unfortunately we never saw great things of her later. You can also see that this movie was made to win a lot of Oscars, you really should see this movie. "},{"Title":"A Spanish Microcosm","Date":"20 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Based in Ernest Hemingway's world famous bestseller, this film is one of those classical melodramas, even though not in a Douglas Sirk style and maybe of quite another matter. In the book, Hemingway worked up his own experiences in the Spanish Civil War of the 30s - the film was shot in the middle of World War II - and that is why certain things are plain clear. Of course, the whole plot of the film takes place solely within the lines of the Republican forces. Of course, it takes an unequivocal stand against Franco's fascism and its followers. Of course, the male lead, an expert for explosives, is a sincere American who stands on the right side. But without any cynicism, For Whom the Bell Tolls is in an utterly positive sense straight, straightforward, clear, or however you want to word it.Sam Wood shaped the story through three strands the love between María (Ingrid Bergman) and Robert (Gary Cooper), the preparations of a detonation and the conflict in the group with Pablo (Akim Tamiroff). Here, Wood presents a set of excellent characters. Pablo, brilliantly played by Tamiroff, as the most enigmatic of the ensemble, does not only bring trouble into the group, but also impersonates a man who is torn between friendship/solidarity and personal interest. Robert is a sober, prudential, reflecting man who knows what he wants, but sees danger in his love for María. He is not an ignorant macho, but someone who carefully listens, evaluates and then decides. And then there is Pilar, played by Katina Paxinou, this rough, angular, active woman with heart, a heart which is not only on the right place, but also has a deep feeling for what is going wrong in her country and what danger is coming up for her and her people if Franco might win the war. It seems as if Wood adapted a real and important protagonist of the Civil War with the character of Pilar the Communist leader Dolores Ibarruri aka La Pasionaria.With this variety of human patterns, Wood gives us a cross-section through a small, spatially limited civil society where the story line can be interpreted in context to the events in 1943 in Europe. Hitler and his allies are at the high peak of their conquest- and extermination campaigns. In this respect, the film asks the question, how democracy is going to work after the terror is defeated, taking also those into account who are erratic and cowardly like Pablo. And it asks the question for consideration between betrayal and solidarity, love and necessity. "},{"Title":"By the end, I was riveted","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" For Whom the Bell Tolls (1943) This is Ernest Hemmingway's story of Germany and Italy attacking Spain in 1937, and the anti-fascists who fought against them. Nearly three hours in length (originally with an intermission), there ARE those epic moments (issues of freedom, sacrifice, etc.), but overall, it was released mid-WWII as a drama and romance of a very high level (equal to The African Queen). Handsome Gary Cooper and lovely Ingrid Bergman star with a cast of gritty mountain fighters, including the bawdy, tough-as-nails Katina Paxinou. Cooper is an explosives expert from America, who makes the private effort to join the anti-fascists. He sees the writing on the wall if the Axis isn't stopped in Spain, they'll take Europe, England, and then America&#133; which of course WAS the actual plan of Germany. Bergman is an accidental member of the fighters, who was saved by this disparate band. The main goal is to destroy a huge, important bridge spanning two mountains, which the Axis needs for transporting troops and weapons. Despite the almost lurid Technicolor (you CAN get it adjusted to something reasonable if you try) (or just switch it to b/w), this is an engaging, if sometimes drawn out story of one effort to destroy one location by a small group of fighters who are willing to die for their people and freedom. The characters and story are more complex and unpredictable than a typical Hollywood film, thanks to Hemmingway. The love story should be expected, but IS used as a device to establish epic issues. By the end, I was riveted to the increasingly tense outcome. "},{"Title":"I no provoke, Inglis!","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"19 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I have read most of Hemingway's novels and enjoy him for the romantic he is (why is it some people view him as a realist?).  However, when I see this film, as well as the Tyrone Power version of THE SUN ALSO RISES, I am left wondering if the problem with Hollywood adaptations of his work was that they were TOO faithful.  That's right, all you Hemingway lovers too faithful.  The man's dialog works on paper, but when spoken by the actors--good actors at that--it becomes downright silly. Hemingway once wrote a play, THE FIFTH COLUMN, that was snickered by theatre-goers in 1937.  He learned his lesson and never wrote another play.  Some of the Hollywood scriptwriters might have also learned, if not from the reviews of THE FIFTH COLUMN, at least from the film of THE KILLERS the best way to adapt Hemingway is to steer away from his dialog, not stick so close to it.That said, I must confess I enjoy this film like the others...though I can't help but chuckle at it sometimes. "}{"Title":"Hollywood Presents Hemingway.","Date":"25 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Among the cast which, in the novel consists of one American idealist and the rest Spanish guerrillas in the Civil War of 1937, I counted two actors actually born in Spain, one Mexican, one half-Cuban, a Yugoslavian, a Swede, two Greeks, two Hungarians, one Maltese, a Siciliano, and the rest Russian. Oh, and Gary Cooper.Hollywood in the 1940s was never particular about these niceties. A foreign accent was a foreign accent. In many of the movies of the period, a British accent would serve for Axis spies.But who cares, right? This is Hemingway after all and old Ernie can overcome this kind of wanton casting. Except that Hemingway was always difficult to transpose to film. His best passages -- those pebbles in the clear stream; the frozen carcass of the leopard on Mount Kilmanjaro -- tended to be descriptive. His dialog, sometime very funny, could also be very purple, ultra violet even, and those seemed to be the particular pieces of dialog that appealed to writers and producers. Here we're stuck with Ingrid Bergman's first kiss. Where do the noses go? And that long, incomprehensible explanation by Gary Cooper of why Bergman must leave him and his broken leg behind to provide a rear guard for the others. If you go, we both go. Go and we go together. But if you stay, we don't go, so we don't go together. (Something like that.) At least he doesn't say, Forget about me. Save yourselves. And we're also spared, from the novel, the observation that when Cooper and Bergman have sex, the earth moved. Hemingway had a fable about dealing with Hollywood. You drive up to the California border. The producers are on the other side. You throw them the manuscript and they throw you the check. Then you drive away fast.The movie is really constructed in four acts. I Gary Cooper, the ex prof, is introduced to the dozen or so guerrilla fighters hiding out and slowly rotting in the mountains. II. Cooper romances Bergman. III. El Sordo (Joseph Calleia, the Maltese) is trapped on a mountain top and dies fighting Franco's troops and airplanes. IV. Cooper and his companeros blow a bridge and some of them are killed, including Cooper.The locations were shot in the beautiful crisp air and granite rocks and evergreens of California's Sierra Nevada mountains. The outdoor imagery is very impressive. Most of the scenes are shot in a damp, dark cave that looks studio-built. The robust and ugly Katina Paxinou livens up these scenes and it's a good thing because most of the dynamics are a little gloomy. Akim Tamiroff, in a dramatic part, is half coward, half burnt-out revolutionary. Some of his grimmer lines are, in context, almost funny, what with his echt-Russian accent. Sullen and resentful, his face painted a ghoulish green, Tamiroff swills down wine and insults people at random until people punch and slap him and threaten to kill him. His mantra is smothered in sour cream and mushrooms and cabbage soup -- I doan prowoke. Cooper is pretty good. He's handsome and virile; he manages to activate both facial expressions, and it fits the part. And Ingrid Bergman is nicely tanned considering that she's just spent a winter in the icy mountains of Spain. Her short haircut detracts not at all from her fresh beauty. She glows with her love for Cooper. At one point the script has her become hysterical as her lover rides off to battle. Oh, please bring him back safely. Please. I big you. I will do anything you say!, and she buries her sobbing face against the neck of an indifferent horse. I wonder if the writers deliberately tried to torpedo what virtues were found in the novel.The film, like the novel, takes sides. Well -- it HAS to. Who, in 1943, was going to give a break to Hitler and Mussolini? But the Republican side doesn't come off as exactly saintly. When they take over a town they drunkenly torture and kill anyone who was linked to the loyalists. It's a horrifying scene, a flashback narrated by Paxinou. Overall, a film with considerable impact, even today. "},{"Title":"Melodrama At Its Most Hollywood","Date":"25 November 2012","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Spanish Civil war is a conflict that has seared itself upon the romantic idealist . It's good versus evil of fascists on one side and idealistic freedom fighters from all across the world fighting to save a democratic socialist Republic from the jackboot of Hitler , Mussolini and Franco . Of course much of this conflict has been romanticized . It's often forgotten that Joseph Stalin was supporting the Republican cause while following his own agenda and the leftists spent more time fighting amongst themselves rather than fighting the Falangists . Regardless of this I've always viewed it as good versus evil , an opinion reinforced by a conversation I once had with a Spanish workmate who was of  Marrano Converso  linage whose grandparents were murdered by the Franco regime . I told her gloomily that's the worst thing about the 21st Century - there's no crusades to go on , no chance of jumping on a plane and changing the world . Though later when I thought about it there is a modern day equivalent and that is young people joining the military in NATO countries knowing fine well they'll be serving in Afghanistan fighting against murderous jihadists . Was it not Orwell himself who described all tyrannies being  theocracies in nature  ?Perhaps idealism gets the better of me and I have grown out of it because the opening scene of FOR WHOM THE BELLS TOLL has stayed with me since childhood . Two freedom fighters blow up a train , make their escape only for one of them to be wounded and he begs his comrade to shoot him . It's an impressive scene though its impact is negated having been done so many times in other films . I guess this was probably the first time I'd seen this type of scene and that's why it stayed with me . The mind of a child is very impressionable and idealistic I'm afraid that my idealism towards this film has become somewhat revisionist after seeing it again as an adult. Not a lot happens in the movie which is composed of a handful of characters sitting on two or three sets of studio exteriors spouting clichéd melodramatic dialogue along with an annoying incidental score that never seems to go away . Interesting to note that the screenplay has most of its politics exercised and there's only one scene where the idealistic manly hero Robert Jordan played by Gary Cooper at his most wooden explaining the reason why he joined the good fight This means you're a watching a film lacking in scope . When I say nothing much happens I mean this literally . Some people might appreciate the set design or cinematography but the film concentrates on the romance between Jordan and Maria and Jordan's abrasive relationship with the band of Gypsies . There's very little sense of time and place and I had to keep reminding myself that it's set in Spain in 1937. It's also a film that is very static and dated even to fans of Classic Hollywood like myself and someone would do better reading George Orwell's Homage To Catalonia than watching this Hollywood melodrama "},{"Title":"Going well and fast and far","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Not enough time to deliver the proper material here, so will return another day. But as for this quibbling with the casting, etc., etc. Some negative reviews mention the word turgid. But for years, in the Sunday New York Times weekly TV listings, the capsule finished with Thank you Victor Young. Sooooo -- Akim Tamiroff IS Pablo, gives the performance of his life, should have won the Oscar. Joseph Calleia as El Sordo is just one example of how the supporting cast carries this flawed giant on its collective back. Watch young Joaquin's lips move as he prays his last prayer while El Sordo and his men die fighting. Watch Pablo tell Anselmo, Do you want to die? Then shut up. Watch Pilar tell Pablo, No one understands you -- not God, nor your mother, nor I. BUT ABOVE ALL ELSE is Victor Young's score, and Young's love theme is among the most beautiful ever used in ANY MOVIE ANYWHERE. It's final appearance comes as Jordan sends Maria away, and no one cries better than Bergman. Now you're going, and you're going well and fast and far.... Heart rending is not done with a finer edge than this. One of my life's true regrets is I didn't get to see in in a real movie theatre of my childhood. So go ahead and whine about all the faults. Tears still come to my eyes every time. And that's what Hollywood is all about. If Hemingway were here right now, drunk or sober, he'd say the same thing, with some cussin' thrown in. "},{"Title":"Slow to start but then compelling","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This film has a reputation for being somewhat boring, even turgid. For the first hour, I can certainly see the point of that. Not a great deal happens in the first 60 minutes or so, other than a rather predictable and over ripe Hollywood romance springing up between Cooper and Bergman. There's no action, no real sense of an external threat (surprising considering the setting) only a few not too interesting squabbles between the partisans.This however changes pretty much when the weather changes. As the snow begins to fall there is a new urgency to the film. Nationalist troops show up and the squabbles take on a darker edge with a real sense of menace. There is a truly superb performance from the drunkard which deserved an Oscar. Then Pilar (well played too) recounts his past history and we see him in a more sympathetic light. From then on our feelings towards the drunkard constantly shift between disgust and pity, perhaps the subtlest aspect of the film.One can say the dialogue is rather over-blown but this is typical of romantic films of the time. But the scenes of the atrocities committed in the name of 'freedom' are well done and surprisingly brutal even for a film of 1943. "},{"Title":"There was a war in Europe...","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" As a Spaniard and a historian, I've always found this film deeply moving. Here in Spain, the films on our Civil War have become so common that, for youngest people, the war seems to be some kind of ancient mythology. This movie allows us to see how the Spanish War was perceived by other countries in contemporary dates. Actually, we cannot forget its importance as a test for WWII. Maria's life remind me of the stories that my grandma used to tell. Men went to war, but women were often ravaged by the winner army as revenge. What really amazes me is the lack of awareness that many people have on my country and their audacity on showing it. I think that's the effect of decades of Mexican actors playing Spaniards in Hollywood films. As a blonde, pale skinned, Caucasian woman, as the majority of my compatriots (remember, we're Europeans), I think Bergman's appearance fits perfectly her part. "},{"Title":"Just one great story","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I first read this book at least 30 years ago and last read it at least 25 years ago and I can still remember many of the scenes and lines from it. It has to be one of the top ten books of the last century and one of the top ten ever by an American author. The book (not necessarily the movie) reveals the courage and horror of war about as effectively as anything else I've ever read. Cooper successfully underplays as an American explosives expert fighting the Nazis in Spain while working with some dicey (to say it mildly) locals and an appealing Bergman. Here's the rub - the movie is actually TOO faithful to the book (you'll never hear me say that elsewhere), they literally lift the dialogue off the pages. Hemingway's books read better than they talk, too often the dialogue comes out stilted or over-dramatic when filmed. The casting is great, the scenery magnificent, so I can live with this other thing (as Ernie might say). "},{"Title":"  Regardless of where you go,  I'll  always  be  with  you ","Date":"26 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" It was said that Ernest Hemingway wrote  For Whom The Bell Tolls  with Gary Cooper in mind to play Robert Jordan. The story itself tells of an America teacher who joins the rebel cause to fight against Government forces with the specific task of destroying a crucial bridge. Once in, he meets up with the rebels and discovers much dissension in their leadership, which is further complicated by falling in love with Maria (Ingrid Bergman). However his most difficult task is among the leaders and especially with Pablo (Akim Tamiroff) whom he doesn't really trust. Integrated within the story is a passionate love affair which transfers easily from the novel to the silver screen and becomes more memorable in the treacherous and rugged landscape of the lofty Spanish mountains. There is much conflict between characters as well as explosive forces of the two belligerent sides. Central to the conflict is the theme of the bloody Spanish Civil which explains much to the audience and which in the end creates a definite Classic between Ingrid Bergman and Hollywood leading man Gary Cooper. Although acknowledged as a bit lengthy it's still a must see movie for fans of both stars**** "},{"Title":"Love story amid Spanish civil war","Date":"20 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" For Whom the Bells Tolls is a thrilling novel and one of the most acclaimed books of the 20Th century. It depict very accurately the turmoil of Spain during the civil war alongside the upheavals of the previous century.Only three years after it was first publish and in the heights of WW2 this movie was very relevant upon debut.Set on the mountains between Madrid and Segovia, Robert Jordan, the reflection of Hemingway himself or shell I say his alter ago, joins a group of insurgents in the Fascists side, together they show us the complicity of war, while everyone need to choose their side whereas opinions and creed sometime prove us that nothing can be black or white, add it the toughness of daily fighting and you get a fabulous story. Gary Cooper and Ingrid Bergman enshrined us that this movie will take us all the way to the path of glory, though, Katina Paxinou, as Pilar took the best supporting actress in the academy awards. As one of my favorite books I was more than looking forward to watch Sam Wood adaptation. The book influence was poignant, showing us the life of the simple soldiers in the Republic and criticise the high rank of the local Communist party and the Soviets in particular, it was banned in the Soviet Union for many years on. Unfortunately the movie doesn't show the political intrigue that eventually causes the Republic to loose the granting Franco decades of reign, instead the movie put it emphasis on the love story between American explosive expert, Robert Jordan (Cooper) and beautiful young comrade, Maria (Bergman). To my opinion, the movie took from the book it main objective, nevertheless the movie is worth watching and can be describe as good American love-drama. "},{"Title":"War Time Busy Cinema","Date":"24 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This is an excellent adaptation of Ernest Heminway's novel. Paramount & the author were very happy with the film. It was nominated for Best Picture & 8 Oscars all told. Yet when the 1943 awards were handed out, this movie only received a Best Supporting Actress & that in spite of the big budget color feature this was. The busy cast of this movie is quite an accomplishment in itself. Gary Cooper & Ingrid Bergman were shooting Saratoga Trunk this year too though that movie would not be released until a couple of years later. They came to this movie at Paramount almost straight from their work at Warner Brothers. Sam Wood who directs this one also directed them in Saratoga Trunk. These 3 working together so soon should have really provided the spark. What happened is now legend.While over at Warner Brothers, before doing Saratoga Trunk, Bergman did a little assembly line black & white picture with Humphrey Bogart known as Casablanca. That little black & white film which Bergman did not particularly like, trumped this movie at the awards. Even the great writing of Ernest Hemingway could not beat the day to day writing of some lesser known assembly line writers of the other picture.It is interesting how in this color feature, Gary Cooper looks younger & better than he does in the black & white Saratoga Trunk where he looks older. Maybe he had a bad make-up man in that film? This is a mystery. Bergman looks great in every movie. Imagine though in a short span of three years, Bergman works in two Sam Wood movies, does SpellBound with Alfred Hitchcock, & yet today is most remembered for the movie she liked the least, Casablanca. The irony of this just shows how life can achieve greatness by accident. If Bergman had skipped the Bogart film, you wonder what the result of these other fine works she did would be.In For Whom The Bell Tolls, Bergman is just as fine with Cooper as she is in Saratoga Trunk, though Trunk is more of Ingrid's Gone With The Wind Performance. Sam Wood is a fine Director, who did a good variety of films. While these Cooper-Bergman films are an accomplishment, his most remembered directing effort today might just be that comedy known as A Night At The Opera. Just imagine Wood's resume without that crown jewel though this effort is outstanding. The Bell Tolls for thee,& since these people answered the bell, they have a lot of good work. Imagine Gary Cooper's career without High Noon, which is really his crown jewel. Once again, this is an excellent film, still it has not been the crown jewel of anybodies career except for Ernest Hemingway. It is the best screen play of his best novel. "},{"Title":"Solid Romantic Drama","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I've not read the Hemingway novel on which this film is based, nor will I spend any time summarizing the plot, as others here have already done a fine job of that. Let me just add my voice to those who have praised this film as a very good romantic adventure of its time. It of course has one foot obviously placed squarely in WWII propaganda (Gary Cooper as the iconic romantic American hero), but it's also highly entertaining.It's longer than it needs to be, and it's a bit talky, but it nevertheless doesn't drag. The highest praise must go to the art directors, who fashion an impressive set perched among some rocky mountains that feels extremely authentic. The color photography isn't as vibrant as other Technicolor products of the time, but that may be due to age. And there's a terrific lush score to go along with the action.I've never been a huge fan of Ingrid Bergman, but she's not bad here. Gary Cooper is perfectly cast and is required to do little more than just be Gary Cooper, but it works. The most colorful performances come from Akim Tamiroff and, especially, Katina Paxinou as two members of the Spanish revolutionary group. Paxinou is a firecracker, giving an intense performance that dominates the screen whenever she's present.A highly enjoyable Hollywood product from the war years.Grade A- "}{"Title":"Really entertaining romance","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" What most people usually get wrong when they see movies is that they all should be so damn realistic.Don't you people have enough realism in your own lives.When I watch movies I want to be transported to either fantasy land or experience something different than just the drab existence of life. For Whom the Bell Tolls is a romance set against the Spanish Civil War.The Civil War isn't the important thing of the movie,it's the beautiful love story between Gary Cooper and Ingrid Bergman (how lovely she looked at this stage in her career).The whole cast perform great with especially Katina Paxinou's towering performance of Pilar a standout.Beautiful color cinematography and a great score by Victor Young are assets that makes for an enjoyable movie experience. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Hemingway Adaptation","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Gary Cooper and Ingrid Bergman smoulder in this Hemingway adaptation. Filmed in glorious Technicolour, the two stars give among their best performances amidst the backdrop of the Spanish Civil War.I wonder why this film seems to be almost forgotten today. It certainly had a huge effect on me after my first viewing- it stayed with me for days. The Cooper-Bergman teaming was amazing. Coop gives a great performance and is very attractive as our hero, Robert Jordan. American Jordan is working for the Republicans, hiding out in the mountains for the opportunity to blow up a bridge. A band of native freedom fighters are assisting him in his task, led by the strong-willed Pilar (Katina Paxinou). With them is the shy, innocent Maria (Ingrid Bergman). Maria has endured a horrible past, with the murder of her parents and her rape (it is implied, though never mentioned because of that Hayes Code)by enemy soldiers. Jordan (who she calls 'Roberto') and Maria fall in love, and Coop fights himself fighting for more than the noble cause.This is nicely disguised war propaganda from the 40's. World War Two was then in it's element, and a story of the Spanish Civil War with an American hero combating the fascists, communists etc must have seemed appropriate. Still, that assumption is not taking anything from the overall product we have here. It's a great adventure-romance story, well-crafted and handled for it's time. Many comments have been made about the Swedish Bergman playing a Spanish girl, but I for one have no qualms with it. Many Spanish have blonde hair and blue eyes, and Bergman's acting is excellent here. I just love the scene where her character gets her first kiss from Coop. Her line 'I do not know how to kiss, or I would kiss you. Where do the noses go?' is one of the most memorable and sweet in the entire film.An actress with incredible range, Bergman could play both the innocent and the seductive with ease. Just compare her role here with her Alicia in 'Notorious' (1946). Coop is often accused of being wooden, but his underplaying only adds to his performance. There are never any silly theatrics from Coop, his acting style is quiet, measured and steady, perfectly suiting his character. A colourful range of supporting actors complete the cast. Also there has been criticism of the handling of Hemingway's brisk dialogue. Yes, it loses impact when transferred to the screen, but Coop's last speech to Maria-'Wherever you go, I go'- is never anything but powerfully felt.9/10. "},{"Title":"Great showcase for Cooper and Bergman","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I enjoyed this DVD because of the sublime performances of the actors. Ingrid Bergman, especially, was so moving in her role I cried! Cooper as the strong silent type yet again is strong as well. I believe the actress who played the female guerilla leader won an Oscar for her role.Besides the romantic aspect, the plot is fairly hackneyed. Yet again it's a key bridge that needs to be blown up by underequipped and outnumbered guerillas with their own internal antagonisms. This movie is also quite long (about 2 hours and 40 min). I think they should've cut some of the plot threads and focused almost exclusively on the Bergman/Cooper romance. Of course that would've seriously bastardized Hemingway's novel, but it would've made a better film. Still, 7/10. "},{"Title":"Heavy","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  In the Ketchum, Idaho Community Library there hangs a photo of Hemingway and Gary Cooper standing beside a station wagon along a gravel road.  They're dressed for bird hunting, shotguns over arms, chatting amiably.  The choice of Cooper for the lead in this film - the quiet American, far from home, doing the job he was sent for - fits easily.  The film has a feel of authenticity - as if this was what Hemingway intended when he wrote the book.This does not make it an easy film to watch.  170 minutes is a long time, and it helps to have read the book first.  Including almost every important scene from a 400 page novel sometimes gives the sense of pages being turned rapidly.  The toned down love affair between Cooper and Bergman drags - the meaningful looks do not substitute very well for the brief, passionate affair.One of the great strengths of this film is the secondary acting.  Akim Tamiroff, especially, as the unpredictable and dangerous Pablo; his feisty wife Pilar; and Sordo's band of guerrillas/bandits.  This troupe creates a colorful backdrop for the romance to play out against. "},{"Title":"An excellent adaptation from the Hemingway novel","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The film proves more economical than the novel, reducing some of its weaker scenes. It has a couple of small problems. Gary Cooper is wrong for Robert Jordan, the American fighting with the resistance during the Spanish Civil War. The character wasn't all that deep in the novel, but Cooper, well, he doesn't do much of anything. He's much more passionless than the original character, I think. I've liked Cooper in a couple of films, but have found him weak in a couple others. The other thing I really don't like is the final scene. The novel's final moments were amazing, but Cooper's voiceover is almost laughable. I admit that this scene must have been very difficult to write for a film. One of the biggest improvements that the film makes is the character of Maria. She was damn annoying in the novel, and I was kind of hoping that she wouldn't make it out alive. That's pretty strong, but, man, she deserved it in the novel. Ingrid Bergman plays Maria in the film, and she brings a large quantity of realism and humanity into a character in which there was none before. The best characters of the novel are completely intact, and are played by a host of unrecognizable character actors (apparently most were Russian). The only one I know (and I know him well) is the venerable character actor Akim Tamiroff, who delivers one of his best performances as Pablo, the morally ambiguous rebel leader. He was one of the best characters in the novel, and Tamiroff is perfect in the role. Greek actress Katina Paxinou delivers an Oscar-winning role as the best character of the novel, Pilar. Also standing out above the others are Vladimir Sokoloff as the gypsy and Joseph Calleia as El Sordo (on second look, since that name sounded familiar, I see he was in both Gilda and Touch of Evil, where he played one of the most important characters; I didn't recognize him here). I think the film might work better for those who've read the novel. A lot of the tragic momentum that is found outside of the dialogue in the novel cannot hope to be transferred to film. You almost have to bring it with you. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Another Hemingway story that fails on the screen...","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Hollywood doesn't seem able to put Hemingway's works on the screen. This is a romanticized version of guerillas fighting in the mountains during the Spanish Civil War. It is supposed to be a classic but there are too many weaknesses to give it that status. There is no real tension. Bergman (gorgeously photographed) and Cooper fall in love instantly and we are never in any doubt about that. They are surrounded by some of the talkiest guerilla fighters hiding out in a murky cave (where much of the technicolor action takes place), each with thick accents that don't seem to match their characters. Katina Paxinou certainly does a stunning job as Pilar--and Akim Tamiroff is more than adequate--but the film becomes weary after the first hour and gets bogged down in too much talk before it finally zeros in on its main action sequence involving the blowup of a bridge. Again, Hollywood fails to inject a Hemingway story with enough human interest and fails to make us care enough about these characters. Transition to the screen just doesn't work when it comes to Hemingway whose writing style is best confined to the novels he wrote. The only bright note is Victor Young's pseudo-Spanish score which gives the picture its only lift. Not the film it was hyped to be at the time, depending on its status as a best-seller by Hemingway for a built-in audience. Satisfaction not guaranteed unless you are a huge fan of Bergman and Cooper. "},{"Title":"huggy, kissy war drudgery","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  One of the most boring movies I've ever sat through. I kept waiting for some action, and finally got some at the end, but mostly what I saw was a middle aged yankee going bonkers over a very un-Spanish looking woman. There was an overabundance of arguing and infighting among the rebels which accounted for an overabundance of dreary dialogue. Had the entire film been as fast paced as the final 20 minutes, I would have been far more satisfied. "},{"Title":"Not very interesting, but with a magnificent end","Date":"29 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I think this movie was uneven, and not very interesting at all until the end. THAT, though, was magnificent! It was also a pity that Cooper had to wear that silly, ugly hat almost all the time; it destroyed his looks so much! Ingrid Bergman was very beautiful, but her very strong Swedish accent and typical Swedish looks were totally wrong for her part. It seemed a little odd, also, that Maria was so smiling and happy all the time - when she had gone through such an awful experience as a gang bang recently. The woman playing Pilar was wonderful though - strange that I had not even heard of her before.I did not like the ageism. I mean when Pilar, who was of Robert Jordan's age (at least the actors playing them were of the same age), talked about herself as an old woman, and seemed to think that it was a matter of course that it was Jordan and the very young Maria who should become a couple. That no one could love _her_ anymore, when she was only 43...It was difficult to understand what the war was all about, and who the waring parties were. But I read now that the filmmakers did this on purpose - for political reasons.But the worst thing was, that the movie did not feel like Hemingway. It could have been any action story. "},{"Title":"Great action, ludicrous romance (Ingrid Bergman is . . . Spanish!)","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  What a weird casting choice  Ingrid Bergman to play a Spanish freedom fighter.  At first, I couldn't figure out what she was supposed to be  American, Swedish, Eurotrash.  Then, in the course of coming out to Gary Cooper, she tells of how her father was the mayor of a Spanish town, and they killed her mother and father in front of her, and then did unspeakable things.This odd casting is made even worse by the romantic plot set against a background of Spanish Loyalists--with a politically-motivated Gary Cooper as Ingles, the American, who leads the peasants, plus a gypsy and Ingrid (Maria, cough cough) as they blow up a bridge vital to Franco's nationalists.The action in this movie is excellent; the scenery spectacular for its day; and the character roles well-cast, particularly Katina Paxinou as Pilar--a real women's lib type well before such existed in the real world.  Yet, Pilar is a romantic.So as not to make Gary Cooper seem like a Communist, they stuck him with a speech about how bad both the Russians and the Germans are, and how both countries are just using Spain for a proxy war.  He is a freedom fighter who does not believe that the ultimate result of his actions will be freedom.  But there is no reason given why he does it.  He doesn't do it for Ingrid, because he only meets her when he starts hanging out with a loyalist cell that hangs out in some caves.  And he gives her up and dies for the cause, but makes a speech about how he will always be with her.So this is really a romance with some terrorism thrown in, rather than an action movie with romance.  And Ingrid is unbelievably bad  cloying, annoying, self-pitying, and stupid.  The role is far beneath her talents.  Cooper, on the other hand, is fine so long as the life is not drained out of him by Ingrid.So I gave the movie a 4. "},{"Title":"overwrought romantic war drama","Date":"23 April 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" It's the Spanish Civil War. Robert Jordan (Gary Cooper) is part of the beleaguered International Brigades. He is ordered to blow up an important bridge. He encounters and is aided by a group of local guerrilla fighters led by Pablo and Pilar. He is taken with fighter Maria (Ingrid Bergman) who was rescued from fascist imprisonment after her Republican mayor father was killed along with her mother.It's an old-fashion overwrought romantic war drama. There isn't much in the way of action in the first half. Ingrid Bergman is every bit of the Hollywood star. There is no denying her beauty but her character is suppose to be haunted and damaged. The acting is all big overwrought old fashion style. It is another time. Gary Cooper is the heroic Gary Cooper. Even the deaths are done in the old fashion ways. Nevertheless, the operation is compelling and there is good tension in the second half. "}{"Title":"Cooper and Bergman Have Chemistry to Cook With In For Whom the Bell Tolls","Date":"31 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Although Ernst Hemingway chose Ingrid Bergman and Gary Cooper as the leads in director Sam Wood's cinematic adaptation of For Whom the Bell Tolls, the novelist hated the movie because the repressive Hollywood Production Code Administration made Paramount Pictures excise virtually all of the political content of Stagecoach scenarist Dudley Nichols' script. Indeed, what the Production Code did was to remove anything derogatory about General Franco's regime, ruling in Spain at that point, that Cooper and his Nationalist resistance compatriots sought to defeat. This was certainly not the first movie that had its plot eviscerated. The 1938 Spanish Civil War movie Blockade with Henry Fonda has suffered a similar fate. It was obvious which side was right and which side was wrong, but the Code prevented them from identifying them by name.For Whom the Bell Tolls takes place in 1937 during the Spanish Civil War as the protagonist, American teacher-turned-Republican soldier Robert Jordan, blasts a Nationalist troop train to smithereens. Enemy soldiers swarm after Jordan (Gary Cooper of Sergeant York) and his friend Kashkin (Feodor Fedorovich Chaliapin Jr. of Mission to Moscow) and wound the latter. Kashkin holds Jordan to his promise to kill him because he refuses be captured. Nobody wants to fall into the savage hands of the Republicans. This form of mercy killing is a rule of thumb among the Republican. Nevertheless, Jordan hates having to kill Kaskhin and calls it murder. Meantime, Jordan escapes to Madrid to rendezvous with Republican General Golz (Leo Bulgakov of This Land is Mine) briefs him on a new mission to dynamite an important bridge at the same time that the Republicans launch a surprise air assault. Jordan has three days to prepare. An older Spanish guide Anselmo (Vladimir Sokoloff of Scarlet Street) leads our hero to the bridge spanning a gorge and then escorts him to a Nationalist outpost in a mountain cave not far from the structure. A small band of guerrilla fighters and Gypsy refugees take orders from Pablo (Akim Tamiroff of Union Pacific) and his fire breathing wife Pilar. According to his wife, Pablo has lost his nerve and she supervises their exploits. Pilar (Katina Paxinou of Confidential Agent) has nothing but contempt for her cowardly drunkard of a husband. Robert conceals the explosive in the cave and gets to know his new companions, among them a carefree gypsy Rafael (Mikhail Rasumny of Comrade X); Primitivo (Victor Varconi of Strange Cargo); Andres (Eric Feldary of Cloak and Dagger), Fernando (Fortunio Bonanova of Citizen Kane), and young Maria, (Ingrid Bergman of Casablanca), a Spanish refugee that the Nationalists raped after they shot her parents. Palo and his men rescued Maria from a prison train. Robert needs Pablo's assistance to blow up the bridge. Pablo, worried about a Nationalist reprisal, gives Jordan the cold shoulder. Meanwhile, Pilar warns Jordan that Pablo cannot be trusted. Pablo is not happy since Pilar has assumed command of his men and behaves in a suspicious manner. Later, Fernando reveals that he left camp to be with his wife in the city. He eavesdropped on loquacious Nationalists chatting about gossip of a possible Republican attack on the bridge. Pilar, Maria and Robert climb through the mountains to meet the rebel El Sordo (Joseph Calleia of The Gorilla), a renegade gypsy, who agrees to steal the horses they need to escape after the bridge is destroyed. Gradually, over a three day interval, Jordan and Maria become lovers. Eventually, Maria tells him that the Nationalist soldier abused her. Mind you, Nichols could not use the word 'rape' in 1943, and Jordan doesn't want to hear about the details. A snowstorm has everybody worried that Nationalist patrols may spot the tracks of El Sordo's stolen horses and follow them to the cave. Pablo's drunken behavior prompts the others send him into exile. After Pablo's departure, Pilar reveals that Pablo has not always yellow. When the war began, Pablo proved himself a courageous leader. Organizing the citizens against a Nationalist attack, Pablo helped save their town. He blew up the wall around the city hall where the Nationalists had been cornered and decided not to give up. Pablo forced these city officials to face the wrath of the citizens. These men brave a gauntlet before the enraged citizens hurl them off a high cliff to their deaths. The savagery of his countrymen sickens Pablo and refuses to participate in the fighting. Later, Pablo shows up at the cave with a change of heart and agrees to support Jordan's mission to blow the bridge. The next day, Robert has to shoot a Nationalist cavalryman who rides too close to the cave. A patrol rides up and El Sordo's gang diverts them from Jordan and company. El Sordo and his men take refuge in a mountain outpost and fight until fighter planes wipe them out. Meanwhile, the treacherous Pablo sabotages Jordan's equipment. Anselmo warns Jordan that Nationalist troops are fortifying the bridge. Robert fears that the Nationalists know of the Republican surprise attack. He dispatches Andres on a hopeless mission behind enemy lines with a message for Golz to cancel the offensive. During the night, Jordan and Maria make love. Before dawn, Pilar uncovers Pablo's treachery, and Robert rigs up make-shift detonators from hand grenade. As Jordan is placing the dynamite, a Nationalist armored column trundles into view. The bridge is destroyed, but Anselmo dies in the blast. As Jordan and company escape, the soldiers open fire and a shell knocks Jordan off his horse and he breaks his leg. Jordan convinces Maria to leave with Pillar and Pablo and dies when the soldiers rush him.Director Sam Wood paces the action so that he can tell several stories at once and he generates considerable suspense and tension in the final quarter hour of this epic. The legendary production designer William Cameron Menzies created the fake bridge over the gorge. Composer Victor Young's score is wonderfully evocative. "},{"Title":"times change","Date":"22 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This was an outstanding movie by real actors not the pampered, petted media whores of today. Folks alive today will never know what it's like to actually fight for freedom with the terror of losing was so great. The opening acts of world war two in Spain were just target practice for the true NAZI and Fascist in this world throw in the Communist who were more open about their intentions of world wide dominance and you have the era from which this movie and book came. The era of men and women who knew evil and were willing to die to defeat it. Today the world faces more NAZI's in Islam, Vlaams Belang and Communism is still here like a cancer trying to return. The problems now are more folks are confused and see the forces of civilization as the enemy their views obscured by the hatred for one man who when in power worked for the good of America and when his time was up stepped down with no attempt to make himself a dictator for life yet the calls that he is the evil one who wants to rule the world. As was written in the Novel;Do not ask for whom the bell tolls, for the bell tolls for thee. "},{"Title":"Bergman Steals It","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Gary Cooper was a friend of Hemingway and pushed for a script faithful to the book. I must say, I'm pleasantly surprised to see that it is very close to the book plot line. All the characters are fleshed out. Ingrid Bergman played a Spanish girl raped by the fascists after they kill her parents. It's a meaty role, and you would think a blond Swede could never pull it off. Well you don't know young Bergman till you see her as Maria. What a beautiful young actress she was.All the actors were good repeating Hem's short simple sentences, some of them rather formal in order to simulate a Spanish dialect. If we look back to the Americans that volunteered to fight Franco in 1937, you have to wonder what possessed them to leave their cushy jobs in academia or the arts to get into a bloodbath. Perhaps it was the appeal of Communism, which for so many Depression weary intellectuals looked attractive. The battle between the Republic backed by Stalin versus Franco backed by evil personified, Hitler, it seemed to be a crucible. The rest is pure American romanticism, which has its roots way back, before Huckleberry Finn. "},{"Title":"A bridge too long","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Howard Hawks had a saying that a good movie was three great scenes and no bad ones. For this movie, I would change that to; a great movie has three noticeably excellent elements, and nothing below average. And even by that standard, this movie falls just short of being great. By the one hour mark you've begun to notice an accumulation of better-than-average conceits (A wife puts her husband in his place and confiscates his power, Ingrid Bergman in the sleeping bag, a stand out performance by Katina Paxinou, some excellent photography) but problems lay ahead.First, the good The cinematography is above average. It occasionally offers a stunning visual (a horse bucking against a snow drift, a two-shot of Cooper peering from a rock with a strange, expressionist tree limb over his head). Occasionally some frames look like a Japanese print. And the darkness of the shoot in some places produces stunning results. They probably shot dark to disguise that a lot of the outside scenes are shot inside, but it produces a unique, inky look I've never seen anywhere else. The Technicolor process in more conventional scenes looks deeply weird. The palette is very drained forest green, gray, beige, brown flesh. But I kept thinking if this was shot in b&w, there's no way it could have the impact of these strange color visuals (Heresy, I know, but then of course it turns out to have been shot in Technicolor). But only the compositions are good. The film has a real lack of camera work to contribute to moments that should be heightened; the camera just kinda sits there for the whole movie. It seems they assumed one rock looks pretty much like every other rock so why move the camera.The blowing of the bridge (you know, the exciting part of the movie) is shot pretty dull. It's just kinda off in the distance (an obvious miniature) and half of it falls over. Without a great ending, you really don't have a great movie. Gary Cooper (like Warren Beatty) relies on understatement so much that when he's asked to deliver the films emotional climax, he just can't bring it. It feels hollow and a little pathetic. Each time he tries to sell it, it just sounds more vapid. (You're me now. I am you. We both go ...You're me too! ...We're not apart... Take care of our life ...Shes going on, with me) Ugh. He can't put that malarkey over. You just can't ask Cooper to be deep or to articulate deep convictions (See the Fountainhead, Meet John Doe). True to Hemingway's reductivist style, we know the plot is about blowing up a bridge very early, but it still takes 3 hours to get there. I can see why people go the extra mile to forgive it faults, and declare it a masterpiece. But it doesn't take a genius to see that the problems of two little people don't amount to a hill of beans when a war is waging. The movie really failed to make me care about the affair which eats up miles of celluloid. Bergman is inappropriately movie-star cute while hiding out with a team of rebels defending her homeland. Pilar (Paxionu) is always more compelling than the couple.Anyone who likes the big love theme in the score can not have heard the tune Let's Face the Music and Dance. Every time it played, I thought. 'How could they not know this melody makes people think of Fred and Ginger dancing around a swanky New York nightclub?' "},{"Title":"Standing the Test of Time","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The DVD archivally restored version of For Whom the Bell Tolls suggests that this film was deemed worthy of attention to preserve it for today's and future audiences. Watching this DVD, one can see why it's continuing to survive, where other films made during its time have tended to fall out of public attention. One thing which is extremely impressive is the peerless work of William Cameron Menzies.  His production design is artful, inventive, and just plain beautiful.  Shot for shot, there are wonderful compositions, set designs, lighting and photography.  The color is some of the most striking ever filmed, rich and vibrant.  Ray Rennahan's cinematography is also a joy to behold, and Victor Young's romantic quasi-Spanish score wraps up every scene with lush atmosphere and thematic character-situational motifs.The cast is uniformly excellent, with Katina Paxinou outstanding.  It is certainly a fine production.Alas, what I find completely cool is Hemingway's skewed consciousness. He occasionally paid lip service to sensitivity toward his fellow beings, but actually he did not appear to hold others in high value.  His attitude toward the enemy or the target is characteristic of his sickly way he tended to see things. The total disregard he held for animals in his real life activites emerges in his writings on human interaction.  It's a consciousness of violence, scheming, ploting, and general conflict.  That all this is the stuff of action and adventure allows the sickness to mask itself very skillfully. Scratch the surface, however, and one finds an ill view of the world.    "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but wonderful anyway!","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The quibbling over Maria's (Ingrid Bergman's) blonde hair is an example of overall, how good this movie is.  Cmon...anyone who has done a little Geographical and Cultural homework knows that Spanish people run the full gammut of size, hair colour, eye colour, etc.  Beyond this, I've read some comments about Gary Cooper being a bit stoic in his acting.  Hey, Coop WAS generally an actor who underplayed rather than shooting for the back row.  I still think it all works!  I first saw this movie when I was about ten years old...and it taught me more about love than any movie before or since. Admittedly, it is an idealised, romantic love...but I think this movie was one of the greatest love stories ever put on screen (and based on one of Hemingway's most hopeful, romantic works).  Of course, Tamiroff and the rest are an absolutely superb supporting cast; but here's the thing.  This is one of those movies that can thrill you and move you as much or more the second (or third or fourth) time you see it, than the first!  Every time I watch it (over two dozen times to date) I pick up nuances and subtleties I'd missed before.  Fantastic direction!  This is one of a special selection of black-and-white films that indeed, must not be colorized...simply because it would be a distraction! For me, Bell just misses my top-ten list (I place it at #12), and then only because it is a bit over-long, and the pacing needs to be tightened in places.  But acting/cinematography/scripting is all superb!  A must-see if you've never watched it before... "},{"Title":"Boring, too long  and poorly directed","Date":"14 September 2009","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Cooper gets his just deserts for poking his nose into someone else's war.Bergman keeps whittering on about her cropped hair, not appreciating that she looks much better with short cropped hair .Cooper and Bergman should have rented a motel room in Madrid and saved us all two and a half hours of rubbish.Over the top relationship hijacked the film despite Ingrid looking cute.If the film had been 90 minutes long without the dire music, it could have been worthwhile.At least they gave the Oscar to right person although Pablo also turned in a decent performance.Despite Pablo and Ingrid being fond of the horses, they did not seem to mind when several were shot in combat.No anti-piracy or advertising films thank goodness.Packaging quotes Variety as saying this is one of the most important films of all time ! I conclude Variety has a sense of humour or needs to watch a few more films "},{"Title":"Look What They've Donne To My Book, Ma","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Not for the first time I find myself watching a film in 2007 that was designed for 1943 retinas so that what seems hokey to me today probably seemed more than acceptable at the time. It comes across now - to me at least - as a film of individual performances rather than as a whole and Katina Paxinou towers so far above the rest of the cast that she threatens to overbalance the whole thing. Watching it today it's very difficult to believe that Akim Tamiroff's Pablo wasn't laughed off the screen it's so OTT. Top-billed Gary Cooper is as wooden as ever and there's no more chemistry between him and Ingrid Bergman that there was between him and Audrey Hepburn in Wilder's Love In The Afternoon some fourteen years later. Bergman, of course, is just simply ravishing and makes no attempt at a Spanish accent but who cares. To watch a film about one war whilst the world was embroiled in another, global war is always going to be different than watching it in peacetime but even allowing for that this is not something to which I'll want to return. "},{"Title":"The Bell Tolls ****","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Ernest Hemingway's tragic novel of a soldier of fortune was made into the 1943 outstanding Oscar nominated film, For Whom the Bell Tolls.With an award-winning musical score, Gary Cooper touched us in the lead role of an American fighting for the royalists during the Spanish Civil War of the late 1930s.While in a hideout he meets an assorted group of people such as Maria, beautifully realized by Ingrid Bergman. Their love burns bright but is destined to end tragically. Who can ever forget at the end when Cooper, unable to flee, tells Maria to go and live for the both of them. Your heart could sink when these words were spoken.As the fiery revolutionary, Katina Paxinou was named best supporting actress. She is equally matched by a fine performance by revolutionary Akim Tamiroff.A great film for romantics, history buffs and mankind. "},{"Title":"INGRID AND GARY FOREVER","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"14 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  No doubt about it ! This DVD deserves a perfect 5 (this is the second that I give after ROBOCOP director's cut).130 minutes of absolute pleasure with actors who were real stars  Ingrid Bergman and Gary Cooper. The colors are wonderful, the scenery superb and the musical score terrific.But I hear someone out there complaining  Gosh ! It's a 1943 movie, an antiquity. Don't be afraid, you will not be disappointed. There are also in this movie explosions, gunfires and even torrid love scenes. Just observe how Ingrid Bergman plays with her hair in order to seduce Gary and you will forget all the actual little starlets.This story of a three-days love affair during the Spain civil war is about idealism, self-sacrifice and hope. Themes that, I agree, are not specially in in 1998 but were developed by Ernest Hemingway, one of the best american writers.A healthy DVD in order to clean our eyes and ears.  "}{"Title":"A romantic epic about the Spanish Civil War","Date":"6 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" For some reason I have developed a liking for Ernest Hemingway, the writer of For whom the bells tolls. His characters have the bravery and lack of fear (or is it manliness?), which I also enjoyed with for instance John Wayne. With regard to the intellectual content, I am less certain about the excellence of Hemingways narratives. Nevertheless, For whom the bell tolls is a true epic. And the Spanisch Civil War is an outstanding stage for the unfolding of a story. Here the people had chosen a government that originated from their own ranks. And when the conservative military tried to seize power, the people put up a resistance that was both heroic and long lasting. The fascist military got support from its allies in Italy and Germany, whereas the Republic was reinforced with International Brigades of all kinds (but with a dominance of Bolshevists). In the film we see an American professor, Roberto, who works as a saboteur for the Republican Peoples Army Headquarters. He is ordered to blow up a bridge in the Spanish mountains, as part of a republican offensive. Unlike many foreign fighters, during his quest Roberto is embedded in a group of Spanish partisans. The film is easily accessible, and is never boring, alth0ugh it contains no surprises. There are little political moments, and actually the film has been dubbed as one of the greatest romances. For Roberto yields to the intimate advances of a young girl named Maria. During the war her republican parents were killed and she herself was raped by the nationalists. It is evident that she is in great emotional anguish, which combines with an adolescent instability. What does Hemingway intend to express? The dialogs seem superficial and devoid of clues. So I guess Hemingway uses the whole entourage as a parable, just to reflect on the war itself. For although the Spanish Civil War has gained an image of social progress and human liberation, contemporary sources suggest that the society was still primitive and in the feudal stage. It may well be that the Spanish situation resembled the turmoil in Russia around 1917, that has been portrayed so skillfully in Doctor Zhivago. In fact the leader Pablo of the partisan group was responsible for the massacre of the nationalists in his own village. During the expedition Pablo murders a few partisans from another group, who had joined him in an attack on enemy positions. I only care for my people, Pablo explains. It may well have been the experience of Hemingway himself, that the heraldic partisans were in fact simple farmers, who wanted to get rid of the land owners, and disliked anything outside of their field of vision. What appeared as anarchism was perhaps backwardness. Such a state of mind might explain the primitive cruelty of the war, as is portrayed in the film. Then the romance with Maria might represent Hemingways passion for the poor people of Spain. In the last scene, when Roberto prepares for the final battle, he ponders over his devotion. Is it towards America? Spain or the Republic? No, it is towards the desolate Maria. Anyway, I find the film recommendable. However, I definitely prefer the little-known film Fuenf Patronenhuelsen, also about the Spanish Civil War, and even about a similar mission. You might also consider the Ivens documentary The Spanish Earth, also with Hemingway. The Loach film Land and Freedom is also worth seeing. If you like social films in general, then have a look at my other reviews. "},{"Title":"The Spanish Word For Terrible Is?","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I'm currently studying the Spanish Civil War as told through the medium of cinema. I came across this film and with high expectations of a good story with fine acting I bought it from Amazon. How wrong can one be! If melodrama had a rating of one to ten and ten being the worst this would be nudging the ten. Apart from the fine acting of Gary Cooper, the rest of the cast were shameful. It seemed as if they were reading their lines from a board but had problems because they were semi-literate. Example To-morr-ow we sha-ll go to the bri-dge. Oh dear! The only decent lines spoken in normal fashion were those by Katina Paxinou.Even the delightful Bergman was so far over the top she could have met herself coming back. And those gleaming teeth! The studio missed a golden opportunity. They could have inserted a sponsors speech bubble every so often.Even in war you can have shiny teeth with new 'Gleemy-Teeth'.As for the war itself. A joke surely? Scant attention was given to anything political. I correct myself no attention was given.Finally it can't be put down to 'the films of the time' because lots of other films made in the same period were nowhere near as appalling - especially the war films.Bottom line. Hollywood has and always will be useless at making films about other countries wars.zero out of ten. "},{"Title":"Cooper at his worst","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" To suggest, as a number of reviews have, that Cooper's acting is wooden is being polite. His words emanate like some parody of a person learning English for the first time, stoned, and in a casket. Granted, some of the lines he is given are terrible (If I go, you go with me, and about 10 variations of this), but he is supposed to be an actor. At least, the others give some flair to their performance, but Coop was clueless. This is what happens when you get a Republican to play a Hemingway hero in the Spanish Civil War a truly treasonous performance. As much as I like him in some pictures, such as High Noon, his acting or whatever you call it in FWTBT is deader than Monty Python's Norwegian Blue. "},{"Title":"Classic Hemingway tale of love and courage in Spanish Civil War","Date":"10 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This movie made a strong impression on me when I saw it on television at fourteen. Even with two major sequences cut out, it was still a powerful drama. The complete film has been made available for home viewing now, and is even more authentic to Hemingway's story, albeit with some toning down of the earthier elements that the censors wouldn't allow in 1943.The movie is well acted by all involved, with strong central performances from Gary Cooper as the American volunteer, and Ingrid Bergman as the Spanish peasant girl he falls in love with. Especially strong supporting performances are given by Akim Tamiroff as the sullen Pablo, leader of the guerrilla band, and Katina Paxinou as Pilar, the true commander of the group. Tamiroff brings a range of emotions and moods to his character, showing Pablo as variously sly, fearful, drunk, treacherous, but still retaining some of the courage and intelligence that once made him a natural leader. It is a fascinating performance, the slightly comical tone of which never obscures the dangerously unstable nature of Pablo.Katina Paxinou is not only remarkable as Pilar, she becomes the character in such a way that it's impossible to read Hemingway's novel without seeing her every time Pilar speaks. It is the performance of a lifetime, and a good part of the success of the movie depends on it. Pilar is a no nonsense person who sees things clearly and speaks bluntly, sometimes too much so for her listeners. Disillusioned with her former lover Pablo, she can still see what made him a good leader at the beginning of the war. Her speech about what it means to be an ugly woman, but knowing she is beautiful inside, is a tour de force, ending with her sly grin at Robert Jordan and Maria, telling them that when she was younger, she could have seduced Jordan away from Maria, and perhaps even now. Jordan smiles and says he believes it, as Maria blushes. This is cinematic Hemingway at its best. Her other great moment is the recounting in flashback of the killing of the Fascists in a certain town at the beginning of the war. It is one of the most vivid parts of the novel and the film does it full justice.The use of color is good and there is a realistic feeling of the rugged mountains and forests where the fighting takes place. The film is somewhat slow and may try the patience of modern viewers accustomed to faster paced action, but it rewards the viewer able to take it all in and savor each moment.Some familiarity with the history of the Spanish Civil War would be useful to the viewer, but one can appreciate the story without having read the novel. I imagine that over the years, many viewers have been inspired by this movie to read the Hemingway original. In my case, it led to not only an interest in Hemingway's works, but a lifelong fascination with the Spanish Civil War.This is a classic film that every old movie fan should see, whether a Hemingway devotee or not. It is one of the best films to come out of Hollywood during this period of film making. "},{"Title":"You can see this movie many times and always enjoy it","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I've seen this movie again after, probably, over 40 years. And I enjoyed it as much as the first time. This is truly and first of all an unforgettable love story with the extraordinary and so beautiful Ingrid Bergman. The way she looks at Gary Cooper sounds so true, showing her enormous talent and beauty. All the actors are splendid, starting with Katina Paxinou who won an Oscra as best supporting actress. Akim Tamiroff is also great as Pablo, her coward. Gary Cooper is OK although he's is not the best performance in this movie. But also several secondary roles are excellent such as Vladimir Sokoloff's Anselmo, Fortuno Boanova's Fernando and Arturo de Cordova's Agustin. So this movie is a must and besides a very faithful version of Hemingway's great novel. Fredy Friedlander (February 13 2005) "},{"Title":"Cooper is wooden. What happened to most famous line?","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Gary Cooper is too wooden and detached in this performance. It may have worked for Wyatt Earp, but his stone face makes you wonder what Maria could possibly have seen in him.I read the book, which is far more subtle than the movie. What I find particularly missing is Robert Jordan's passion for Spain. It is because of his love for the Spanish people that he fights for the Republic. I do not see any of this passion in Cooper's performance.How could they possibly do this movie, and omit its most famous line? Did the earth move for you? A universal synonym for doing the diddly. I guess they were very puritanical in those days.The movie does a good job of depicting the incompetence of the Republican hierarchy, and why they lost the war.I have read a fair amount about the Spanish Civil War. Why did the West stand aside and allow these atrocities to happen? Hemingway's novel graphically illustrates the dilemma on one hand you have the Republic, socialists, communists, Anarchists, Russians and Stalin. On the other hand you have the Nationalists, Fascists, Franco and Hitler. Talk about the pot and the fire. "},{"Title":"Marvelous","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I have an emotional attachment to this movie.  Perhaps the two main actors are miscast, but so what, they are beautiful and their acting is great. The supporting cast is marvelous, the sceneries are terrific.  A must see. "},{"Title":"Dated Rendition of an Overblown Midcult Blockbuster","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Sorry, but after waiting nearly 30 years to see this movie after I first read a review of it somewhere, I find that its badness is confirmed in nearly every aspect of production. Beginning with the casting If Hemingway had anything to do with the choice of Cooper and/ or Bergman for the lead roles, someone should have realized that he had no head for cinematic adaptation, and shrewder minds should have prevailed. But EH was probably one of only a handful of famous authors whose production suggestions would have been taken seriously, despite the fact that Ernest himself had said many times that he wouldn't dare set foot in Hollywood, not for love or money. At least he understood his limitations. Too bad the studio heads didn't. To begin with, the novel of For Whom The Bell Tolls is probably one of Hemingway's least successful novels, and as a consequence, following its basic structure was probably a recipe for celluloid disaster. As the critics have said over and over, Hemingway's psychological self- projection of his imaginary persona into a series of he-man leading parts--beginning with the Nick Adams stories, and continuing through Death in the Afternoon, The Green Hills of Africa, and To Have and Have Not, and extended after FWTBT with Across The River and Into The Trees and Islands in the Stream--marred most of his fictional efforts. In imagining himself as the doomed, rugged, crusty soldier-of-fortune--hard-drinking, level-headed, romantically vainglorious--he created a series of improbable cardboard tragic heroes, whose wooden dialog and fatalistic affected charm appeared increasingly dated as the years passed.I won't go into detail about the production values of the Sam Wood fiasco, except to note that Ingrid Bergman's camp charade as the buffed-up Hollywood version of an oversexed Spanish hottie with cropped hair and perfect teeth had me rolling in the proverbial aisle. Realistic values notwithstanding, it was also a bit much to see Tamiroff and Paxinou stomping around looking grim and picturesque as Spanish peasant-puppets (a role reprised by Tamiroff in Topkapi--for laughs). The best part of the movie, surprisingly enough, were the cinematic tricks used to create split screen depth-landscapes and backdrops, which probably saved hundreds of thousands in location shots--the work is really superior and deserves to be studied. My favorite is the one where the hair-pin mountain road is pictured with military trucks moving in three directions at once from a camera angle far above. That's not something that I recall having been tried again until Patton (where the jeep convoys criss-cross up a steep hilly terrain in the scenes for the invasion of Sicily). Probably the biggest problems--aside from the bad casting, wooden dialog, and peculiar meandering quality to the narration--is that audiences today hardly realize the complex political, social, philosophical and religious issues which played out in Spain in the 1930's. All we really think we need to know is that this blundering American is blowing up bridges and needs to get his rocks off; which side he is fighting for, and why, probably is of little concern to present-day audiences. We're certain of one thing, though If Maria was raped by those Fascist bastards, that's probably all the proof we need that they deserve our hatred. In the end, I was left wondering why the little ragtag band couldn't improvise a quick mounted get-away for Cooper, but that would certainly have gotten in the way of the tragic hero's demise, mowing down cavalry with a rusty old machine-gun. Movie-making has come a long way since 1943, and thank god for that. It's astonishing to note that this movie was made in the same year as Casablanca, another vintage effort that has as many things right with it as this movie has wrong ones. "},{"Title":"Splendid","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Emotions run high in this leisurely paced but fascinating blend of melodrama and adventure film, filled with breathtaking shots that are pure eye candy. You'll have to search hard for a movie with more striking scenery than this.For Whom the Bell Tolls is a powerful and visually spectacular film experience to be enjoyed. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Mis-casting","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Gary Cooper is so wooden in this film, that he should really be a carpenter. Ingrid is so blonde and nordic. I really shouldn't be commenting as I fast forwarded a lot of it. Just read the book! I'm into classic films, including the delightful Rear Window , Breakfast at Tiffanies etc, but this doesn't make the grade. The tragedy of the Spanish Civil War was the failure of the UK, the US and the UK to support the legal government of Spain against the fascists.  "}{"Title":"a waste of Bergman.....","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a very entertaining film.  Most of the characters are good, and there is a surprising amount of action and suspense.  My biggest complaint, well, my only complaint is Ingrid Bergman's character, Maria.  She has to be the least interesting character in the whole movie.  She is supposed to be innocent, and I can respect that.  The character is written as too naive and ends up coming off as to weak.  Bergman should not have had to play a character that was so weak.  This annoyed me to no end, and ultimately lead me to hate the romance between her and Gary Cooper.  It me be a little old school, but there are stronger characters than Maria.  Watch it for the action, but certainly not for the romance(which luckily doesn't take up a whole lot of the film).  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A movie to make Starship Senior Officers cry","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  What a tearjerker!  The principle actors are just so sympathetic I struggle to name any other enduring classics with so tragic a finish (maybe Ben-Hur or OUT OF AFRICA).  This 1943 cinema classic apparently is part of the Top 100 most requested for Recreational Viewing on future space flights.  As a minor plot development about human compassion, the Starship Enterprise's alien doctor watched with keen interest the all-too-real emotional backwash when the film reaches its appropriate tragic conclusion.  I had never caught this great film from the WW II era until the TV Series allusion brought it before me.  I imagine it's a PARAMOUNT Studios classic and was in the Studio's interest to product place it like they did on the UPN weekly sci-fi series.   Just a super film with only one drawback -- for those of us uninitiated to the Ernest Hemingway novel and/or the particulars of the 1930's Spanish Civil War, we do need a Program to tell who the Players (good rebels and horrendous Army-types) really are and why we are so caught up in the side the mercernary is fighting for.  I for a brief time had an awful time thinking I might be rooting for the Taliban and al-Qaeda type cause; I don't think that's an apt conclusion, however.  Enjoy this 10* movie if you are looking for a diverting tear-jerker! "},{"Title":"Ingrid Bergman As the Spanish Partisan, Maria?","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Ingrid Bergman as the Spanish partisan, Maria?  I don't think so.  At least they could have dyed her hair.2/3s of the movie seemed to click into place perfectly.  There's a great story to tell; three days with Spanish Republican partisans as they plan and execute a daring bridge demolition.  The group's internecine squabbles and love affairs are brilliantly carried out by Katina Paxinou, Akim Tamiroff and the rest of the cast.  All except for the big two; Cooper and Bergman. Cooper seems wooden and bored while Bergman plays with her (short, curly blonde) hair too much.  These two weigh down what should have been a great movie, but as such is just an ok movie.At its long, nearly three-hour running time it's best to pass this one over.  "},{"Title":"A very enjoyable classic film.","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The actress who played Pilar was excellent. It's too bad she had such a short career in Hollywood, as she really gave depth and humanity to her part.It's probably due to her not having Hollywood looks - and maybe due to the dearth of roles for ethnic actors. I hope she had a career in Greece after she returned there.I thought it was priceless the way she stood up to Pablo. And I loved the way she still remembered the man he used to be.By contrast, I was not impressed at all by Ingrid Bergman. I guess she was a big young starlet of the time, but she came across as very flat and unconvincing. I saw this on TCM, so I heard the story about Wood and Cooper wanting to get Bergman, and the actions they took to ensure they got her. And that Cooper most likely had other motives, as he ended up having an affair with her. "},{"Title":"Gone With The Wind Gone To Spain","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  As a kid, this film impressed me, and I teared up at the end, but when I grew up, I wrote this in my diaryI hated everything about it. It is one of the trashiest movies ever made. And the casting was grotesque. Cold man Cooper is the last man on earth who looks like an idealist fighting for other people's causes (He loved The Fountainhead!!). Bergman is the last woman on earth who should be playing a guerrilla. Akim Tamirov's face is so comical, I cannot help exploding with laughter every time it shows up. Tamirov should be playing in Marx Brothers movies, God bless his soul. A good man, but FUNNY! In addition, it is perplexing, that such a fat and old a man would climb mountains and wield machine guns!! WHERE ARE THE HANDSOME YOUNG MEN OF SPAIN???? The film would have been more interesting if a handsome young Spaniard takes Ingrid away from Gary. Katina Paxinou won an Oscar, but she is barely competent. The writing is cliche-ridden, the characters are eminently non-memorable.This movie belongs to that pantheon of self-important epics like Gone With The Wind, The Bridge Over The River Kwai, Doctor Zhivago, Lawrence of Arabia, and the countless movies made on Biblical themes. I detest movies without substance, which require you to have read the novel. This film is all about romance, and the war is used as mere background color. What a sacrilege, what disrespect for all the people who perished in that war. WAR IS NOT ROMANTIC! Spain is not just a backdrop for American adventurers!  "},{"Title":"A true masterpiece","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is a real classic and I have watched it several times.  Regarding the comment that Bergman was not appropriate for the role of partisan Maria because of her blonde hair, let me clarify that Spain is a big country and if you go to the South, you'll find many people with dark hair but if you go to the provinces of the North, you'll be really surprised because the majority of the population is blonde.  My grandparents, both maternal and paternal, are from Spain and they are blonde with green eyes. This movie is a true masterpiece and I wish to recommend it to everyone. "}]