[{"Title":"A tribute to the oppressed who dared to fight Nazi brutality...","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"32 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" 'Hangmen Also Die' takes as its story, the assassination of Reinhard Heydrich, a German Nazi official, head of the security police, chief deputy to the head of the Schutzstaffel, Heinrich Himmler, who organized mass exterminations of European Jews during the opening years of World War II... and also the subsequent retaliatory devastation of Lidice, a Czech mining village&#133;With his usual skill, Lang weaves a tale of gripping suspense the Gestapo's efforts to find the assassin; the workings of the Czech resistance fighters; and the traitor who is finally hoisted on his own petard&#133;The film is an indictment of Nazi brutality and a tribute to the oppressed who dared to fight it&#133; "},{"Title":"Good anti-nazi propaganda, but not good history.","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"40 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  One suspects this film registered better with viewers in 1943 than it does today. Despite being suggested by the actual assassination of Reichs Protector of Bohemia and Moravia Reinhard Heydrich, better known to the Czechs as The Hangman because of his excessive brutality in dealing with residents of the conquered regions, it is almost total fiction. Even so it is not bad as a rather involved drama and was very likely good anti-nazi propaganda.Perhaps it is well to start with what actually did happen to Heydrich on May 29, 1942. Two young Czechs, Jan Kubis and Josef Ganchik, parachuted in from an RAF plane and managed to ambush the Hangman riding in his open Mercedes. Armed with both machine pistols and a bomb, the apparently did little harm by shooting, but did explode the bomb under the car. Heydrich's spleen was penetrated by bomb fragments and debris causing death several days later, possibly more by infection than anything else. The two Czechs evaded capture briefly, but witnesses under torture revealed their hiding place in a church and the SS killed them. In a massive retaliation, Hitler picked the village of Lidice, more or less at random, from among places known to harbor anti-German sentiment, and ordered its total annihilation. The people of Lidice had nothing whatever to do with the assassination, of course.In HANGMEN ALSO DIE we have the story of a lone assassin, using an English made pistol, whose getaway taxi was forced to move by German soldiers, causing him to take refuge during the curfew at the home of a Czech professor. The professor's daughter, Mascha, had impulsively directed the German pursuit away from him. The German police suspect the girl, but release her in the hope she will lead them to the wanted man. They also round up many Czechs, including the girl's father, and begin shooting them as hostages. The girl at first intends to give information, hoping to save her father, but in the end is persuaded otherwise by the Czech resistance. A plan is concocted to bamboozle the SS and save the assassin and the girl, but what it is you will have to see for yourself. Be assured it is incredible.As you see, this story has little to do with the historic assassination and its aftermath, beyond illustrating the SS brutality, but it does make a mildly entertaining wartime adventure with good propaganda value, largely because of the rather low key, intensely personal nature of the plot elements. Some of the characters are very real and believable, e.g. the Gestapo Inspector Gruber, the girl Mascha, and her father, all ably portrayed by Alexander Granach, Anna Lee, and Walter Brennan respectively. On the other hand, some characters are more like cardboard cut-outs and get wooden performances to suit. Brian Donlevy as Dr.Svoboda, the assassin, fits this category alas, as do a number of others. What realism there is seems likely to have been the contribution of Bertolt Brecht rather than John Wexley, who got the credit for the screenplay. One likes to think that Fritz Lang did the best he could with a mixed bag of acting talent, but this can hardly be said to be his best effort.Just why Hollywood producers seem to prefer fiction to the facts when dealing with historical material is a major mystery to me. In 1943 the general facts of the assassination were known, if not all the details, and could have made just as dramatic a story as this fictional one. It is worth a watch, though, especially if you like Anna Lee.  "},{"Title":"A Devastating Blow Against the Nazi War Machine","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"31 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Made at the height of WWII not long after the events upon which it is based took place, Hangmen Also Die is a testament to the patriotic spirit of the Czechoslovakian people under the most dire conditions imaginable. After the Nazis have invaded and conquered the country, a brave resistance fighter assassinates the brutal leader of the German occupation forces, SS leader Reinhard Heydrich, who, like Klaus Barbie, was a ruthless butcher of the innocent. Heydrich subjugated the Czech people by murdering, torturing and enslaving hordes of non-combatant civilians. Just before the Nazi tyrant is shot, he threatens to end a factory slowdown by the murder of hundreds of Czech workers. It is this threat that precipitates the assassination. The desperate killer of Heydrich, member of an underground Czech resistance group, narrowly escapes capture with the assistance of civilians who suffer the consequences immediately afterwards when many are taken hostage by the Nazis, with the threat of imminent death hanging over their heads if the assassin is not turned over to the Gestapo.At the center of the tense drama is Nasha Novotny, flawlessly played by Anna Lee, as the daughter of a distinguished university professor and patriot, portrayed by character actor Walter Brennan. Nasha is instrumental in aiding Brian Donlevy (as Dr. Svoboda, the assassin with ice water in his veins) to escape his bloodthirsty Gestapo pursuers. But when Nasha's own father is picked up by the Gestapo, she is forced to question her loyalty to the resistance, begins to regard the man she has saved as a deadly threat to her family and nearly turns traitor to save her father's life. Expatriate German director Fritz Lang and his scenarists show great sympathy in portraying this all too human failing. In a few simple touches they go far beyond stereotype in showing how the recalcitrant patriot overcomes her strong personal misgivings to rejoin the heroic struggle against the Nazis.Hangmen is not a movie for the mechanically minded. Its craft is the art of understatement. Many of the events dramatically most important to the story -- such as the assassination -- are not depicted or happen off-screen. Whole sections of the plot line are there only by inference. This is particularly true at the end of the film, when the entire conspiracy to frame up an enemy collaborator is only hinted at before it is sprung as a surprise upon the audience, as on the unwitting villain. How did the underground resistance fighters arrange to fabricate so deadly a case against a traitor? We can only guess, but may hardly object to the ironic way in which the informant meets his end.Fritz Lang has a well known reputation as a leader of the noir school of film maker. Yet, in spite of its horrifying premise, the movie is neither bleak nor pessimistic but a straightforward affirmation of the struggle against tyranny. Unlike many of his less gifted followers, Lang is no mere stylist but is just as much concerned with the historic and moral significance of his story as the artful way in which he presents it. To those who might object that the Nazis are portrayed as stereotyped bad men, the answer is that the Nazis were precisely what the film shows them to be ugly brutish travesties of human beings. And who would know that better than Fritz Lang and his excellent scenarist Bertolt Brecht? Both of them had lived in Germany under the Nazis and escaped to the United States to strike a devastating propaganda blow against the enemy. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film by Fritz Lang","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"33 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Superb addition to Fritz Langs wonderful catalogue of films.We see here his trademark 'almost documentary' style as well as propaganda (See The Last Testament of Dr Mabuse for another take on the Nazi regime). His trademark shadows (See 'M').Early in the film we see Heydrich, an evil dictator who used his mandate from Hitler in the fullest possible way. Here he is played by Hans Heinrich von Twardowski who really is scary in portrayal. Lang shows this brilliantly in the way that the Czech people fear him, and also that he is feared by his own men. The master stroke here is the way Heydrich speaks only in German with no subtitles, given an English translation by someone else in the room. People fear him as he is and even though they cannot understand him, they fear what he has said.The film centres around the reprisals after Heydrich's assassination. The assassin is still living/hiding in Prague. A few know his identity. But they know that if they inform the Gestapo they will be killed and they also know if they don't they may die anyway.The tight script builds the tension to the highest level to a brilliant climax.The cast are brilliant, especially the ever reliable Walter Brennan. An actor of the highest caliber. Abley backed up by Anna Lee, Brian Donlevy & Dennis O'Keefe.This film is made all the more brilliant by the fact that it's idea was conceived only a short time after Heydrich's real-life assassination, not necessarily from a propaganda point of view, but with Lang you know you will get a film that will bench mark the film industry for years to come and people will sit up and take notice. "},{"Title":"Gripping in its intensity","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"31 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  In 1942, the Czech underground assassinates Reinhard Heydrich, the governor of Bohemia-Moravia. Heydrich's assassin tries to escape capture.This is based on a true story of course -- it's a well-known episode of World War II. Czech commandos were brought in from Britain on a mission with a slim chance of survival for the selfless agents. They unfortunately met a sad end after being betrayed by a fellow Czech. The history is described very well in books such as Callum MacDonald's The Killing of SS Obergruppenführer Reinhard Heydrich.In 1943, when this film was made, were the full details of the actual events widely available in the USA? I'm not sure, but it seems unlikely.The story as presented here is the tale of what happens one day when a girl goes out to buy vegetables for supper, and when a taxi driver lets his finicky engine idle. Perhaps this plot was fabricated for want of any other alternative, but its sheer ordinariness adds to its immediacy.The reptilian Heydrich was one of the architects of Hitler's Final Solution. It's no coincidence that the plan to assassinate him was code-named Anthropoid.Hans Heinrich von Twardowski plays him briefly at the beginning of the drama. He's cold-blooded, vicious, rabid ... and a little effeminate. That aspect seems questionable. In 1943, there were at least as many reasons for knowing what his character represented as there were occupied countries in Europe. This particular embellishment seems to add little or nothing to the suspense.(Twardowski himself was a German exile in Hollywood. If you can read German and have a look at the titles of the films he made in 1928 and 1929, you can probably hazard a guess as to why he was forced to leave Hitler's Germany.)Brian Donlevy plays the assassin. It's not by chance that this character is named Dr. Svoboda. Svoboda is a common name, but it also happens to be the Czech word for freedom.I always find Donlevy effective, particularly so in The Great McGinty (1940) for Preston Sturges, but he does have a certain B actor limitation on access to his character's inner thoughts. He doesn't quite have the hunted quality of someone facing certain capture and torture. A perspiring lip might have helped.Better is Alexander Granach as the Gestapo man Gruber, a Bob Hoskins sort of person, only sinister. He's ruthless, cunning, perfect in the part.Walter Brennan appears as a Czech professor arrested and held as a hostage. Prof. Walter Brennan, that's right! He's very good. Considering the typecasting he must have been fighting against, he's excellent in fact.My moderate criticism of some of the performances notwithstanding, the suspense in the story was of the nail-biting kind, I felt. I wouldn't have wanted to watch this in 1943 -- it's just too bleak, too disturbing. When hostages are being held by the Gestapo, it's a lose-lose situation all around. All possible outcomes are disastrous.I guess the filmmakers felt -- knew -- that this would be more than a contemporary audience could really handle in the middle of wartime. Hence the film has an uplifting, artificial, fantasy ending which arrives like a deus ex machina.That's certainly a drawback for viewers now, but I can't fault anyone. The context of the times couldn't have allowed any other solution.Fritz Lang directed this return to Mitteleuropa, the scene of his youth and early classic films. He runs the show like a police procedural, making it all too real. He allows himself a couple of his great shots which I will allow you to discover for yourself.In real life, the actual Czech assassins -- Josef Gabcik and Jan Kubis, plus their look-out man, Josef Valcik -- were all killed in battle at their hiding place in the Karel Boromejsky Church in Prague on June 18, 1942.Heydrich's state funeral had been held earlier in Berlin on June 9. The Nazis had Siegfried's Funeral March from Wagner's Götterdämmerung played for the occasion, probably with extra added bombast.That's the sort of heroic farewell that the martyred Czechs should have received.  "},{"Title":"Why great directors make great films","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" The actors in this film made any number of cheesy B movies during the war, but with Berthold Brecht and Fritz Lang behind them they made a movie touching on greatness. Check out the characterizations of Heydrich, the policeman Gruber, and the other Gestapo agents. Walter Brennan as the patriotic father was an odd choice, but maybe I'm being blinded by his later Western sidekick roles. The sets are outstanding. Although obviously on a Hollywood back lot they made a very believable Prague, using in part pre-war travelogue footage of the city. Indoor scenes are excellent. The actors look like they live in a real place, not a cuckooland paradise that most hack directors would give you. "},{"Title":"Top notch WWII drama","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  This is loosely based on the true story of a member of the Czech underground assasinating the nazi regional governer, a ruthless fellow they call 'the Hangman'.  The story revolves around the assasin and the family that unknowingly hid him from the gestapo.  When questioned by the gestapo, the family says the guy was there to see their daughter, who happens to be engaged to another fine gentleman.  So this little situation complicates the story, as the gestapo detective,a very ruthless chap, tries to catch them in the lie.   From there the story moves along in chilling fashion when 400 townfolks are rounded up to be executed in groups of 10 each day until the assasin is turned in.  This causes people to question their inner strength and makes them wonder if it is worth it to sacrifice themselves to keep him hidden.  The story gets resolves in a very clever way which I will not reveal.  The movie has that film noir/Hitchkockian feel to it with the protagonist being chased down and making clever escapes by the skin of his teeth.  Although the movie drags a bit here and there, it ends up being a worthwhile suspenseful drama and also makes you think a bit about what would you do if you were put in that situation. "},{"Title":"Flawed but Entertaining War Propaganda","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" On 27 May 1942, in Prague, the Deputy Reich-Protector of Bohemia and Moravia Hangman Reinhard Heydrich is shot by the resistance member Dr. Franticek Svoboda (Brian Donlevy). After the attempt on Heydrich's life, Nasha Novotny (Anna Lee) gives the wrong runaway direction of Svoboda to the Gestapo agents. When Svoboda sees that he is trapped, he goes to Nasha's apartment seeking shelter and he introduces himself as the architect Karel Vanek. He is welcomed by the patriarch and former revolutionary Professor Stephen Novotny (Walter Brennan) and he spends the night with the family. On the next morning, the Gestapo captures hostages including Professor Novotny to force the population to denounce the assassin. Nasha goes to the St. Pancracio Hospital to seek out the resident surgeon Dr. Franticek Svoboda and ask him to surrender to the German authorities to protect the hostages. But sooner she learns that the occupation police has no intentions to let the prisoner go and she helps the resistance in the plan to frame the traitor Emil Czaka (Gene Lockhart). Hangmen Also Die! is a flawed but entertaining war propaganda film based on a true event, the murder of Hangman Reinhard Heydrich. The fictional plot of fight for freedom is engaging and it is interesting since it was filmed in 1943, before the end of the war. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Os Carrascos Também Morrem (The Hangmen Also Die) "},{"Title":"Fabulous for the time--right smack in the middle of it all","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Hangmen Also Die! (1943)The best part of this movie is knowing it was made right in the middle of the war, not in some recreation of the events. It's a little hyperbolic, for sure, but really well acted (both the Nazis and the Czechs), and it ends up being a battle of wits and tricks between the two sides.Fritz Lang was a refuge from Nazi Europe and made this in Hollywood, with an expected sensibility for the cruelties and barbarism of the occupying nasties. And they probably were this nasty--worse, in truth, though less comically so, as the movie sometimes pushes it a bit. Still, really enjoyable, in all. Yet, somehow, it was long. The twists from one scene to another started to sound familiar, and the tension was sustained rather than invigorated, if that makes any sense. Brian Donlevy is the leading good guy here, and he's always a little less than compelling, though he is not in most of the scenes so I suppose that's fine. The double-crosser was played by Gene Lockhart, whose presence grows as the movie gets on, and by the end he's really pretty amazing (far beyond the caricature of, say, the judge he played in Miracle on 34th Street). Walter Brennan makes an appearance, recognizable mostly by his voice. Two of the Nazi higher-ups were terrific, both the Pilsner guzzling brute and the slightly comical but scary gestapo head.Lang is no fool, and he makes this movie not only a pleasure, but an important tool to remind viewers to be involved, to realize that you can fight oppression, even Nazi oppression, with enough wits and sacrifice. "},{"Title":"Very good WWII war and crime movie","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  The Nazi protector of Czechoslovakia is murdered and Gestapo is let loose to hunt down the assassin. Will the underground resistance survive? Will the assassin be betrayed by the Czech people as Gestapo murders innocent people to bring the assassin forward?This is a very good movie, the plot brings lets the suspense gradually grow throughout the movie. This means that the beginning did seem a little slow, but given time, the patience will be rewarded. The ending is very good and you're not really sure exactly what will happen. The actors are good and the cinematic work very good.There is a portion of propaganda in there as well, however, the evident propaganda is cut to a few scenes and do not interfere with the plot or the movie in itself. Instead, it is rather well integrated in the movie, and actually only bring the movie to another level. Clearly set in the WWII, but this movie will never get old.8/10 "}{"Title":"HANGMEN ALSO DIE! (Fritz Lang, 1943) ***","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" One of a handful of propaganda films made by Hollywood during WWII to show how various occupied European countries dealt with the situation; similar films included THE MOON IS DOWN (1941), EDGE OF DARKNESS (1943), THE NORTH STAR (1943) and THIS LAND IS MINE (1943). This one, however, differs from these in that it tackles a real-life event i.e. the assassination of Heydrich - dubbed The Hangman (his assassination was the subject of two more films, the contemporaneous HITLER'S MADMAN 1943 and OPERATION DAYBREAK 1975) - and is further elevated by the contribution of two important figures of pre-war German art, director Lang and writer Bertolt Brecht.It also features a great cast (mostly delivering excellent performances, but is saddled with a miscast and rather stiff Brian Donlevy in the lead) Walter Brennan and Gene Lockhart are featured in overly familiar roles but their contribution is, as ever, reliable and entirely welcome; best of all, perhaps, are Anna Lee and Alexander Granach; beloved character actor Dwight Frye (most familiar to horror-film buffs) appears here in one of his last roles but, as was generally the case, is regrettably given only a couple of lines! Long and heavy-going, with the propagandist element coming off as fairly corny now, but the film is held firmly together by Lang's fine direction and James Wong Howe's superb noir-ish lighting (the Region 1 DVD by Kino was eventually re-issued as part of a 5-Disc Noir set). It also involves a couple of scuffles which are quite tense and energetic (Granach's death scene is especially striking), while the last third resorts to the organized frame-up by the Czechs of a traitor in their midst (collaborationist Lockhart) - which, in itself, is no less frightening an act than the heinous persecution of the Nazi regime! I'm confused, however, about the film's running-time the print I watched ran for 129 minutes in PAL mode (which would bring it to about 134 minutes when converted to NTSC); even so, it contains the ending missing from the DVDs released in Regions 1 and 2 which, being the same version i.e. cut and having the same length (134 minutes), would indicate that the Kino edition is a PAL conversion - which means a full running-time of 139 minutes (a minute short of the 'official' length, as per Lotte Eisner's book on Lang)! To make matters worse, both the Leslie Halliwell and Leonard Maltin film guides I own cite HANGMEN ALSO DIE! as being 131 minutes long!! "},{"Title":"Fritz Lang and Bertolt Brecht's resistance juggernaut from WW2 Czechsovakia","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Under the name 'Bert', Brecht teamed up with director Fritz Lang to craft this cunning and ultimately suspenseful tale that borders more than consciously on propaganda, but for all the right reasons considering the period. It wasn't a period piece but something urgent of the time and place- not to mention a stark battle cry from Lang, who fled Germany in 1934 following a calling from Goebbels to become the propaganda filmmaker of the 30s- and it stands still as one of those under-seen pieces where loyalties and betrayals and double-crosses and vendettas are all abound, and the truth is something tricky and twisty on either side. The main plot concerns the dramatized story of Reinhard Heydrich, the hangman, who is then put on by the Nazis as a figure of the past to haunt the Czech people the assassin MUST be found. The assassin is Dr. Franticek Svoboda, aka Karel Vanek, who may also have another alias, and is well played by Donelvy, who hides with a Czech professor (Brennan) via a chance meeting weeks before with Nasha (Anna). Once he escapes following a curfew that night, many people are rounded up- hundreds- to be executed by the Nazis if the assassin isn't taken in. Anna's family is questioned, her father on the list of those to soon be killed, but what of Svoboda (and the resistance, or the cruel Nazis at the gestapo for that matter)? It's a typical Langian procedural in the very tense and exacting sense, and it's a lot of tense fun and there's always a sense of danger with how the characters cross one another in one scene to the next (I loved when Vanek comes back to Anna after the first night, she's mad at him, but this is right after she's been questioned by cruel Gruber, performed by Granach as half caricature and half power-hungry monster, and there is a wire to her apartment, only to have him feed her lines through index cards). It's just as intense as a more modern espionage thriller, only Lang has the upper-hand at crafting it with an equal hand of social indictment (like M or Fury, the people in the Czech city have a role to play in what happens, and there's great scenes of small mobs going crazy like in the movie theater) and of a more general grilling of the sadistic Nazis. There's not much room to make them very three-dimensional, however Hangmen Also Die! features the Nazis performed not in very simplistic ways. Maybe my favorite is the traitor- a Nazi collaborator played by the large Gene Lockhart who can go from being happy-go-lucky to frantic and pushy on a dime, and is the total puppet of the sneaky inspector Gruber, who is funniest when trying to get back to sleep following a night of frivolity with some girls.The storyline isn't completely free of a few heavy lines of dialog, and the whole sub-plot involving the 'is she seeing someone else' thinking for Jan Horak (O'Keefe, best at looking stone-faced in semi-shock) who is the fiancé of Nasha is the least effective of the lot. But what is here is a striking example of balancing real thrills (it's hard not to be on the edge of your seat in the last fifteen to twenty minutes, mostly as characters talk if not in tense cat-and-mouse theatrics) and a great message at hand. Lang makes this a story meant to pull people into action- the film ends with NOT and then super-imposed THE END- and like with M, there's many a moment when the common-folk, like a maid or a taxi driver or butler, become the real heroes in saying who was where or what one did at a given time. And of course Lang is also totally on top of his game at crafting this with many images of sadistic shadows (watch as Nasha is prisoner and a guard comes into a second shot in silhouette) and enclosing angles. "},{"Title":"Bitter WW II movie","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this today for the first time on TCM TV.  This is an apocryphal version of the assassination of the Nazi leader and Czech protector Reinhard Heydrich by resistance fighter in World War II.  The assassin evades the widening Nazi dragnet in Czechoslovakia even to the point of self-sacrifice.  The Nazis plan to provide an assassin who is actually a Czech traitor, played admirably by Gene Lockhart.  Brian Donlevy plays Dr. Svoboda aka Karel Vansky and Anna Lee is Nasha Novotna with Dennis O'Keefe her fiance as Jan Horak.  Many old movie oldtimers are in this film, and the intensity builds up to immense pitch.  Some say this is all propoaganda by Hollywood, but lest we forget, it could happen here.  I notice lately TCM and AMC TV are playing a great deal of the old WW II movies. "},{"Title":"Swift and Brutal","Date":"9 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Quite a few Nazi exiles were involved with Hangman Also Die, a project that even if hardly true is many cuts above the typical wartime propaganda flick. Director Fritz Lang, writer Berthold Brecht and many in the cast knew the Nazi mentality well and what it was like to live under them. They had the intelligence and foresight to leave while the getting out was good.We in America knew about the assassination of Reinhard Heydrich, but scarce few details before the war was over. Lang and Brecht created an apocryphal tale of what should have happened. Hangman Also Die is one intricately plotted affair, a lot more than you would see it in a film of this type in wartime America.Hans Heinrich Von Twardowski is on ever so briefly as Heydrich in the beginning. His performance reminded me of Christopher Plummer as Commodus in The Decline And Fall Of The Roman Empire. Heydrich was far from the colorful character he's portrayed here in real life. This was a man who could go home to the wife and kids, home and hearth after a day's gassing at Auschwitz. Still Twardowski is memorable if not true to life.We never see the actual shooting. We do see Brian Donlevy who is a doctor as well as an assassin fleeing the scene of the attack and Anna Lee misdirecting the pursuing Nazis just by patriotic instinct. The Nazi response is swift and brutal. They start shooting chosen hostages one of them being Anna Lee's father university professor Walter Brennan.I have to say I was pleasantly surprised at Brennan here who gave a well thought out and restrained performance. In the North Star I thought he was out of place as a Russian peasant. I was expecting the same, but it was nice not to have expectations lived up to.The whole film is about a collective crisis of conscience for the Czech people. What do we do about this assassin, do we hide him, support him, or do we turn him in hopes that hostage shooting will cease? In the meantime the Gestapo presses on with the investigation.Gene Lockhart is also in the cast as a collaborator. His exposure as one is one of the best scenes in the film. Lockhart played many roles like this in his film career, but he was absolutely at his best in a part he honed to perfection.It should have happened this way in real life. The way the Gestapo closes the books on the Heydrich case is really well done. All I can say is that Brecht and Lang play on the characteristics of the Nazis, most of all their paranoia. Intricately plotted and executed beautifully by Fritz Lang and his cast. "},{"Title":"Frightening and brilliant","Date":"5 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" This is a very interesting film produced at the height of the war in Europe (1943). The script was based upon actual incidents but was fictionalized for a heightened dramatic effect. It's a frightening and at times depressing film, yet fascinating at the same time. Walter Brennan plays a straight role of a professor whose family is indicted in terror when the eldest daughter (Anna Lee) unwittingly assists an assassin (Brian Donlevy) escaping from the Nazis. This film portrays the cruelty and the overwhelming terror of the Nazi occupation of Czechoslovakia. Directed by Fritz Lang and written by Lang and Bertolt Brecht, it is very powerful, forthright and unflinching with an almost documentary like style. Particularly strong performances by Brennan and Lee with Gene Lockhart and Alexander Granach as the films two unbelievably despicable villains. The filmmakers don't shy away from war in it's most terrifying form - the destruction of the lives of average people. "},{"Title":"overplotted","Date":"4 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" The names Fritz Lang and Bert Brecht (yes, he's called Bert, not Bertold, in the on screen credits) can go a long way to giving credit in a movie, but I think reviewers here are over-praising this film. First, I'd criticize the script as being overplotted, with too many tangles and endless complications, like a Baroque church with too many ornaments. Some of the dialogue has to be criticized, too. I know it was written during the war and served as a propaganda tool, but here we judge films as entertainment, maybe even art. At several points the movie stalls while a character speechifies, sounding oh-so-noble but at the same time oh-so-unnatural. People may act nobly in real life, but they seldom accompany their actions with little speeches aimed at some distant audience, beautiful cooked-up phrases for the ages. It's jarring, understandable perhaps because of the war, but it adds a false note to the realism of the film. Second, at one moment I was quite shocked at the directing. Fairly early in the story Natasha angrily accuses the assassin of cowardice for hiding while the hostages rounded up by the Nazis are paying the price with their lives. The way she leans forward over his desk, extending her arm to full length from the shoulder and jabbing it at him, not once but twice, looks completely unnatural. That's not the way a real person points an accusatory finger. It's obvious that the actress has had bad direction to move and pose in such a false manner.Yes, this film is interesting to some extent, perhaps as a period piece. The plot complications, while over-done, at least create the air of something adult and intelligent. The outdoor scenes are all done on a stage set, so it doesn't have the benefit of complete authenticity.I enjoyed seeing Walter Brennan playing an elderly professor with some brains, having had quite enough of his typecasting as a lovable but cantankerous old codger with that high-pitched, whiny voice of his. "},{"Title":"Engrossing WWII film","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Having been to the beautiful country of Czechoslovakia and met its wonderful people, it's hard not to have an even stronger feeling for the way this country has suffered at the hands of oppressors. In Hangmen Also Die, director Fritz Lang captures the indomitable spirit of the Czechs using a true story, the assassination of Reinhard Heydrich, one of Hitler's enforcers in Czechoslovakia.In this story, a young woman, Nasha Novotny (Anna Lee) misdirects the police as they search for a man she saw running away, in fact, the freedom fighter, Dr. Svoboda (Brian Donlevy) who shot Heydrich. Eventually her entire family is under suspicion because, without knowing it, they actually house the man who showed up on their doorstep later. Until someone in the country gives up the assassin, Hitler has ordered stiff reprisals and many hostages are taken and executions carried out. The head of the Novotny household (Walter Brennan) is ultimately taken hostage. In order to save him, Nasha wants to turn Svoboda over to the Gestapo.This is an exciting and nerve-wracking film, if overly long. Anna Lee, who played the matriarch Lila Quartermaine on General Hospital for many years here is a young woman, and she does a wonderful job. Donlevy is perhaps slightly miscast. Dennis O'Keefe as Nasha's fiancée is even more miscast than Donlevy - both those male characters could have used more color and depth. Walter Brennan is marvelous as Nasha's father. The rest of the cast is excellent.Marcia Davenport dealt with the Czech freedom fighters in her book The Valley of Decision - alas, that section was not included in the film version of the book. Davenport in real life was in love with Jan Mazurek, who was defenestrated. Hangmen Also Die is another example of bravery and heroism from the common man during an evil war. "},{"Title":"Vee Heff Vays Uff Making You Talk.","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" If you're going to enjoy this, you'd better clear your mind of any knowledge you might hold of the assassination of Heydrich in occupied Czechoslovakia. Treat this as a fictional tale about a fictional hunt for a fictional assassin in Prague.The historical facts are too depressing anyway. Heydrich was murdered by two guys. The Nazis tortured Czechs until one of them squealed. Then they tracked the assassins to a church and the two killers committed suicide. The Nazis then destroyed a village that had nothing to do with political events. See Operation Daybreak.Here, we have Brian Donlevy as a doctor in Prague who shoots Heydrich. He then has to seek immediate shelter in the house of strangers, in this case, the home of Professor Walter Brennan and his family, including daughter Anna Lee.The Gestapo are understandably upset and they organize a manhunt for the killer, which centers around Donlevy and around the family that sheltered him. The Nazis round up and execute Czechs at random but nobody talks. And, in the end, the underground frames a Nazi agent for the crime.The Nazis aren't shown as stupid brutes. Alexander Granach, the Gestapo Inspector, is positively clever in a swinish, almost comic way. Fritz Lang has him with a haircut that the punk rockers of the 80s would have envied. His military mustache curls up at the ends, as in a morale-boosting poster left over from World War I and his plump neck hangs over his collar. His gestures are operatic, his perceptions acute, his consumption of beer heroic.Not far behind, if in fact he's behind at all, is Reinhold Schünzel as the uniformed Gestapo officer. He smiles pleasantly, leaning back and tripling his chin, while describing the torture that a suspect is about to undergo, but in an avuncular way, as if about to buy a child an ice cream cone. While the victim stands shivering, Schünzel grins, swivels in his office chair, and cracks his knuckles one by one.Less of an actor but more of a straight figure is Tonio Selwart as the Chief of the Gestapo. Less of a caricature, more of a character. He doesn't smile or squint. He speaks quietly and with sweet reason. And he wears those great uniforms with riding breeches and boots, and he wears a monocle, and Fritz Lang shows us Selwart peering into a mirror and squeezing a zit on his cheek.The good guys are much less interesting. Brian Donlevy is referred to as a young man but he's a little old for that. I mean, the guy was in Mexico with General Pershing in pursuit of Panch Villa, wasn't he? And anyway, he's practically ligneous. If his expression ever changed, I missed it, and he walks with his chest thrown out like a pigeon's. Dennis O'Keefe, in a minor part, is harmless as always. Walter Brennan, toothless old Walter Brennan, comic sidekick, does rather well by the role of a professor of history, and Anna Lee as his daughter is cute as hell. Slender, wide-eyed, shivering with fright. I love her. The problem is that all the good guys stand around spraying patriotic clichés just as a lawn sprinkler sprays water.No, it's not Fritz Lang's best picture but neither is it is worst. The script credit goes to Berthold Brecht but I understand he didn't contribute much. Still, I'm glad he was in Hollywood instead of (gulp) elsewhere. His songs for the comedy Where Do We Go From Here? are memorable. Lang was a popular director in Germany and was asked by Goebbels to head the movie propaganda program of the Third Reich. As he describes it, he replied, I'm tickled pink, and was on the next airplane out of Berlin. He brings some of his expressionism and originality with him. The dark, deep, dramatic shadows of films like Ministry of Fear are already adumbrated, so to speak.And he does something that should earn him a medal. Lang was fond of using mirrors in his films for some reason. (Check out Woman in the Window.) Here, he has Granach run to a mirror to inspect some smeared lipstick on his cheeks. And -- guess what -- Granach looks AT HIS OWN REFLECTION and not at the camera lens. When the actor looks at the audience instead of himself, it's a jarring estrangement for the viewer, who is hit over the head with the realization that this is not just a movie, but a clumsily directed one, an insulting one, at that.You know, considering that so many of the cast were born in Germany, you have to wonder just how often directions were given in English. Lang was quite an authoritarian. I can see him now, strutting about with his boots, riding breeches, and monocle, bellowing orders through a bullhorn. "},{"Title":"Amalgamation of genres","Date":"28 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" The film reminds one of 'The Mortal Storm' made a few years earlier by MGM, especially the part about the professor father who is sentenced to die. But that is just one element of the story, and there is actually a lot going on in Fritz Lang's great film. Hangmen Also Die! contains elements of noir, and there is a detective angle to it as well. The performances by Brian Donlevy and Anna Lee are good, but it's Gene Lockhart who steals this movie. He's simply fantastic as the doomed beer tycoon who has sold his soul to the Gestapo and gets double-crossed. The scene at the end, where he is told to take a walk has a gangster picture feel to it. So what we have is an amalgamation of genres, and it all comes together in a suspenseful way thanks to Mr. Lang's capable direction. "},{"Title":"Fine WWII story by Lang","Date":"4 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Very good anti-Nazi propaganda from Fritz Lang. The story concerns the real-life assassination of Reinhard Heydrich, the commander in charge of the Czechoslovakian occupation. The Nazis round up a bunch of adult men in Prague and threaten to execute a number of them every day until the assassin turns himself in or is turned in. Brian Donlevy plays that assassin, a doctor working with the Czech underground. He is helped after the assassination by Anna Lee. Like all good Czech citizens, she wants to protect Donlevy, but when her own father (Walter Brennan) is taken hostage by the Nazis, she is torn. Anna Lee is one of my favorite underrated actresses from the classic era (my favorite of her performances is in the Val Lewton picture Bedlam), and she's wonderful here. Most of the rest of the cast is quite good, as well, especially Gene Lockhart as a Czech who is collaborating with the Nazis. The one big exception in the cast is Alexander Granach, who plays the chief of the Gestapo. He overacts quite a bit. The direction and story (co-written by Bertolt Brecht) are quite good, though I think it starts to get sloppy near the end. It definitely goes on a tad too long. But I very much liked it as a whole. "}{"Title":"An excellent war period movie","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Hang man also die! is an excellent war period movie. It however does not show war as such, but portrays a very believable account of the lives of a populace living under an occupational, dictatorial and brutal regime. The film narrates the frustration, the anger and the yearning for freedom of the Czech people, living a subjugated life under the German army. The screenplay is very tightly woven; there were almost no dull moment during the nearly two and a half hour duration of the movie. However, the film lacks a multi-layered plot and varied shades of the characters in it. The plot is too linear; it is throughout the same story of good versus evil, where the distinction between good and evil is clearly drawn out. Consequently, the charterers are also portrayed in black and white- Germans always as evil, sinister characters, and, the Czech characters are just the opposite to them. Although there were moments where, briefly, some other shades were glimpsed upon, for example, when the protagonist doubted whether he should hand over himself to Gestapo, in order to save the execution of the innocents, and, when the lead female character is torn between love for her country and concern for her father's life. However, these moments remain as glimpses only- Lang does not develop them further. In the end, the film merely tells a story of a fight between good and evil, and it does that very well. However, a too linear narrative structure, and, black and white characterization stops the movie from achieving the heights, achieved by, for example, Rossellini's war trilogy, or, Battle of Algiers. "},{"Title":"Somewhere the war goes on.","Date":"1 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Here and there you see faces that popped up throughout the forties. Brian Donlevy and Walter Brennan. I see most people consider this Fritz Lang film of 1943 to be quite good. I truly wish I could concur. The Germans don't act like Germans in the office behind a desk. The film is two things..world war II propaganda and massive over dramatization.. It is a lot of over acting..only ever able Walter Brennan does somewhat of a decent job, but I am quite sure he knew this would not be anything but rousing the spirit of all oppressed under the boot heel of Adolph Hitler..No acting nominations came of this and the dialog doesn't come off as authentic..I wish I could urge you to see this, but I cannot. There are many old forgettable films..alas, this is one.Sorry! Good actors..not good acting. "},{"Title":"Brecht had a point, but film still good","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Considering the complicated and fascinating back story of this production (how the Hollywood system represented by producer Arnold Pressburger and director Fritz Lang undermined the intentions of scriptwriter Bertolt Brecht in his first and only US film effort), it's amazing not only how effective the final product turned out to be, but how well it holds up after several decades. Yes, it's melodramatic; yes, there are Langian tricks; yes, the villains are extreme types; yes, there is sentimentality; yes, there is slick over-simplification and distortion of fact &#x96; but it still works powerfully as a tale of innocent people (the Czechs) fighting against a powerful aggressor (the Nazis in the early days of World War Two).If you're going to make a movie about Nazis, it certainly helps if the writers are German, and the story by Lang and Brecht fills that bill. So there is a living, breathing familiarity with the subjects, with significant sections delivered in German, effectively giving non-German- speaking audiences a sense of the alienation the Czechs felt from their occupiers. There are four main Nazi villains, each one of whom leaps off the screen. We start with Hans von Twardowski as Reinhard Heydrich who creates a memorably vicious, almost comically cruel autocrat, the kind of hateful person one wouldn't mind killing. And we don't have long to wait because his assassination is what sets the whole plot in motion. We are then presented with three finely etched Gestapo figures, each horrendous Tonio Selwart, a well- groomed, perfectly tailored, ramrod straight martinet given to chain smoking and examining a large pimple on his cheek while conducting his bloody business; Reinhold Schunzel, flabby faced, gravel voiced and highly strung, who pops his knuckles and slurps tea while interrogating his victims; Alexander Granach, the unshaven, beer guzzling, skirt-chasing Inspector Gruber. And then we have Gene Lockhart, the epitome of small-minded corruption, as Emil Czaka, a businessman who betrays his own people. Walter Brennan is appropriately noble as Prof Novotny, lean and lithe and stoic as he is taken hostage after Heydrich's murder. Even the splendid Dwight Frye shows up briefly but strongly as a Czech hostage.Brecht and Lang are said to have disliked poor Anna Lee, who plays the young daughter of Prof. Novotny. Even if one is unaware of the nasty stresses unfairly imposed upon her during filming, one gets the sense that the weak moments in her performance result as much from the script and direction as from any lack of ability on her part. Brian Donlevy as the hero of sorts, was never a very interesting leading man but there is so much intrigue going on around him that his casting does no harm. Speaking of intrigue, a scheme that is hatched by the Czech underground to trap Czaka is so intricate and masterful (and implausible) that one cannot help but recall the diabolical maneuverings of Lang's 1922 creation, Doktor Mabuse, der Spieler. Hangmen, like much of the silent Mabuse, also has an in-studio look, largely due to the fact that Lang had to work with a skimpy budget. The street scenes are obviously fake but what goes on in those streets is so compelling we are persuaded to ignore their obvious fakery. James Wong Howe's noirish cinematography is a plus under these constrictions.There is no way to know if a better film would have resulted had Brecht prevailed, so we're stuck with what we have an action flick instead of an epic social drama. Despite flaws it's still one of the better World War Two era thrillers. "},{"Title":"Outstanding character actors make this film outstanding.","Date":"9 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" This is one World War II film that required no super stars. Although Brian Donlevy was a highly respected movie actor, he wasn't in the must see league. However, Donlevy holds-his-own in this unusual release from the war years (1943).I referred to this picture as unusual because the real heavy acting was presented by the great Walter Brennan, a multi-Oscar winner who was usually cast as a character in westerns --- possibly as the side-kick to Gary Cooper or John Wayne. In this feature, he ably handles the part as a serious and highly educated gentleman with perfect speaking abilities. Mr. Brennan also had eye-power on the big-screen. He didn't have to speak a word in order to present a heavy thought.Then, there is Gene Lockhart, playing a role that fits him perfectly. Mr. Lockhart simply followed the style and technique utilized in similar character assignments that he had presented so well for decades in Hollywood ... every one of them unbeatable. A bit like Walter Brennan, his facial expressions revealed his true acting magic. Of most importance, Gene Lockhart's character was the heaviest role in this outstanding motion picture, demanding tremendous acting ability. He managed to hit every solid mark with perfection.Anna Lee and Dennis O'Keefe handled their characters very nicely, but were not quite in the same classroom as Brennan and Lockhart.Brian Donlevy, who was given star billing in this picture, didn't sway from his general method of acting. This isn't to say his role was a failure ... he just didn't outshine those with lower billing. He simply remained Brian Donlevy, but handled his role in an acceptable manner.The story content is outstanding --- as is Fritz Lang's excellent direction. Hangmen Also Die is, indeed, a movie that will hold your attention. I've viewed it several times down through the years in order to watch the old familiar character actors as they shine in classic, irreplaceable form. "},{"Title":"Fantastic wartime thriller","Date":"4 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Fritz Lang has done it again. He made solid work in the 30s in America but from what I've seen, this is his first near classic under American production.The story follows an assassin who kills a Hangman in Nazi occupied Czechoslovakia during World War 2. What follows is a twisting an elaborate thriller involving secret underground counter intelligence groups, a love affair of sorts, adventure, and a thrilling end to a near masterpiece.Scenes that stood out immensely involve the assassin meeting with the female he whose house he briefly stayed in. She did not realize who she was, and when finding out, plans to turn him into the Gestapo. They eventually meet in her house again, only the hero knows the room is bugged. Incorporating a brilliant scene involving them exchanging sentences on a note card detailing what to say, while at the same time, vocalizing as if they're having a lover's spat to keep the Gestapo fooled. Brilliant.The other scene involves trying to catch the traitor in the underground movement. Suspecting him of actually knowing German, they devise a plot to have a waiter at dinner, to tell a joke in German. Once the joke is finished they intensely watch the traitor for his reaction. Fantastically well done, once the viewer is in on the sneaky trick you're on the edge of your seat.As a Lang film of course you get great shadow work throughout. A man entering a door, the viewer only sees the shadow of a man with a bowler hat on, suspense builds especially since your only implication for a few seconds is the reaction of the female who opened to see who it is.The end could have been edited down a few scenes. They tried to outstretch the capture a bit too long, following under the dreaded idea that it could have ended in a few spots. *** SPOILERS*** The final scene is also sort of a slap in the face when you find out the Gestapo report realized the person they convicted could never have been the real assassin. ***END SPOILER*** A slap in the face after just completing one of the most edge of your seat thrillers of a wartime flick I have ever seen.Often overlooked, I've never seen it mentioned on any lists, whether it's Lang list, 40s list, thriller, or even noir (though I would not call it a noir, seems everything around this period gets that label). Definitely one to see that will remind in your mind for awhile! "},{"Title":"The Aftermath of the Heydrich Assassination","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Under the quaint nickname of 'Bert Brecht', one of Germany's leading playwrights wrote this story jointly with fellow-exile Fritz Lang, as part of the anti-Nazi wartime film effort in America. They chose as an excellent focus for their story the spectacular assassination of Reinhard Heydrich, the sadistic and fanatical anti-Semitic Reichs-Protektor of occupied Czechoslovakia. They did not bother trying to get the story straight, they created a fictional tale round the aftermath of the true event. The direction is good, the cinematography by James Wong Howe excellent as usual. The film contains a wonderful supporting performance by Gene Lockhart as the character called Czaka. The other performances are by actors who were obviously second-choices, and Lang had to make do with what he could get. Brian Donlevy is a bizarre choice for the assassin, and is seriously miscast. Even more miscast is Walter Brennan as a distinguished professor, and every time he opens his mouth with his familiar gravelly voice of a character actor from Westerns, one expects to see him spit 'chawin' tobacco' into a spitoon rather than be serious and worried about the Nazis. Anna Lee does extremely well as his daughter, caught up in waves of hysterical fear and angst (more familiar Lang territory). Dennis O'Keefe is fine as the fiancée of Lee. The film manages to be extremely gripping despite all these shortcomings, because Lang was such a pro he could make a good film with matchstick men if he had to. Perhaps it is unkind to criticise Brennan and Donlevy, as they did the best they possibly could and knew how, but they were just wrong, that's all. There are some good expressionistic moments, but not as many as we would like. This is a powerful film which packs a punch, but imagine what a classic it could have been if Lang had not had to scrape round for the cast and instead had his pick of the best casting. Certainly, the atmosphere of total fear and oppression under the Nazis is well conveyed, and the execution of innocent hostages by way of reprisals is rubbed in our faces. We are left in no doubt just how despicable the Nazis were, and this film must have been extremely effective in motivating Americans to fight the Hun with even greater ferocity, outraged as they would have been at having seen this vivid portrayal of what 'German Europe' was really like. "},{"Title":"No wonder McCarthy hated this film!","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Supposedly, this film was suppressed in the USA because it came out in favor of the Communists. I just watched it today, and I can only remember one faint mention of the Russians (and don't forget, they were our allies at the time!). What must have really irked McCarthy was this film's scathing portrayal of those who snitch on their friends and co-workers, and those who coerce them into doing so.Gene Lockhart, whom I always think of as likable Bob Cratchit from the Reginald Owen Christmas Carol, deserves high honors for his intense portrayal of a Czech traitor who works behind his neighbors' backs to betray them to the Nazi occupiers. Anna Lee is strong in her central role as the woman caught up in a dangerous plot. Many of the supporting characters also shine, such as Alexander Granach as the lusty Nazi enforcer Gruber. I couldn't quite warm up to Brian Donlevy in the central role. (He looks too much like an American businessman, like Raymond Bailey.) And Walter Brennan, although he looks great, seems out of place because of his heavy New England accent.What makes this movie a standout is the script and direction. There's not a wasted moment in this long film, and plenty of interesting set pieces (the theater, the cab ride/street confrontation, etc.). Brecht and Lang weave a web that grows larger but not looser as the film progresses. "},{"Title":"OK film, very bad history","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Hangmen Also Die is an OK sort of film, fatally marred by the fact that it is pure propaganda, obviously slanted towards a wartime audience. The plot, involving an elaborate scheme to incriminate a Czech, who is both a businessman and Nazi informer is a complete fiction! One is left with the idea that the real assassin simply got away with it! The real facts were generally available at this time, and I'm amazed that Lang and the others involved here got away with this! The real story is a bit less upbeat Heydrich was killed by not one, but two Czechs, who fired at him and finally killed him by lobbing a bomb at his vehicle. The two hid out in a church and were hunted down and killed just shortly thereafter. Sadly, not all the Czechs were as loyal to the resistance as those shown in this film. Someone informed on the killers, which led to their speedy demise. This is the incident which triggered the famous reprisal, carried out by the Nazis for revenge for the murder of Heydrich they destroyed an entire Czech town, Lidice, the locale chosen at random. Since this is very famous part of wartime history, I am sad that so many viewers don't know what the real story was. The theme of Nazi reprisal is worked in very well, but the film steers clear of the much more shocking and ugly truth. A pity-for the real story would have been a much clearer picture of the true brutality of the Nazis. I guess 1940s audiences weren't considered mature enough to handle the truth! Again this gross distortion of the facts here is a fatal flaw. Sad, since I think the director, with more accurate material could have produced a great film...tragedies such as these were more his forte. "},{"Title":"Some Flaws But Worth Watching","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Hangmen Also Die! (1943) *** (out of 4) Based on the true story of the assassination of Nazi Reinard Heydrich, known to many as the Hangman. Lang's story focuses on the aftermath of the events and the terror that the Nazi party much on the Czech people while trying to find the real assassin (Brian Donlevy). Lang's film was released the same year as the similar themed HITLER'S MADMAN but there's no question that this is the better of the two, although I still walked away somewhat disappointed. For the most part this film is a success but there's no denying that it has some major problems in its story as well as a few actors who are really miscast. The biggest problem in the cast is Walter Brennan who never seems very comfortable in his role as a Professor who finds himself being held by the Nazi party because they believe he knows the identity of the assassin. Donlevy makes for a solid lead, although at times one thinks he's way too stiff for the part. I think the sternness actually works in his favor but there are times where you'll wish he'd loosen up just a bit. I also wasn't too impressed with Anna Lee as I felt she underplayed several scenes here including a really bad one early on when she tries to tell her father that she thinks she knows who the assassin is. Gene Lockhart, on the other hands, steals the film in each scene that he's in. He certainly plays the type of villain that people will want to hiss out and he's perfect in each scene. This is especially true towards the end when he becomes the main suspect after years of helping the Nazi party. Horror fans will want to spot Dwight Frye in one brief scene. What makes the film worth sitting through is the actual story itself. The assassination and the following events are a fascinating case and for the most part Lang shows this quite well. His direction is top-notch from the very beginning and I thought he did a remarkable job as the tension starts to build on all the characters involved. The final twenty-minutes feature some very tense moments and they're also quite claustrophobic as the noose starts to get more and more tight. Another major plus is that the film never slows down as the longer running time actually goes by pretty fast without feeling overlong. I think some of the stuff could have been cut out including the entire bit with Lee and her relationship with her fiancé (Dennis O'Keefe) who thinks she's having an affair. I would have liked this to have been cut out with perhaps more attention spent to the actual assassination. With that said, even though one would wish for a masterpiece, we at least get an entertaining film that manages to keep us in suspense as everything begins to come out. This is certainly far from a great movie but there's enough here to make it worth viewing. "},{"Title":"Maybe you have heard about the wolves below.","Date":"26 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" When I was a kid I watched a documentary program with my father about Reinhardt Heydrich. I can't remember the name of the show now, but it was one of the top series of the time, each week taking an event from history and examining it in depth. The horror of Heydrich's brutality has remained with me for close to fifty years now, and I've never forgotten his name, even though when I first watched that show I had never heard of him.Which is why it would have been more compelling to tell the true story in Hangmen Also Die. But if you go in without knowing the historical account, the film serves well as a fictional work that still manages to portray the Nazis as a brutal regime bent on crushing any and all resistance. The tenacity of the Czech underground is also conveyed via the solidarity of it's members to remain true to the ideals of freedom and liberty. Particularly moving was the speech Professor Novotny (Walter Brennan) asked his daughter Nasha (Anna Lee) to memorize to pass on to her younger brother.The story keeps one's interest with some rather amazing twists and turns, chief among them Nasha's initial attempt to tell what she knows (or thinks she knows) at Gestapo headquarters. Once Nasha realizes that a larger issue is at stake than the fate of her own family, she becomes a willing fighter for the cause. The second half of the story takes on a Mission Impossible type of subterfuge designed to pin the assassination of Heydrich on an unwitting traitor and Gestapo informer (Gene Lockhart as Emil Czaka). It's not revealed how the underground managed to put the plan together, but all the right witnesses came forward as necessary to implicate Czaka as he slowly unravels.I think it's important to keep the memory of brutal regimes like Hitler's Nazis alive as a warning to future generations. Here it's presented on a number of levels with the random executions of hundreds of innocent victims to the entirely thuggish individual beating of the old florist lady. Even in the face of such overwhelming persecution, it's encouraging to be reminded that those who believe in freedom and liberty will always find a way to triumph. "}{"Title":"resistance","Date":"16 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" After Reinhard Heydrich is assassinated by the Czech resistance, the Gestapo goes all out to find his killer. Brian Donlevy gets top billing as the main star and Heydrich's killer, but the actors who portray the Gestapo officers, the Nazi matrons, and especially the one who portrays Heydrich, whom we see only in the opening scene of the movie, really give the film a sense of realism, not that Donlevy is wasted. The first scene with him in it is great, with James Wong Howe's camera right on his face as he's trying to find a room after the killing. This is as much a film about the Gestapo as it is about the resistance, thanks (perhaps) to Fritz Lang, who abandoned Germany after Hitler took power. In fact, Fritz Lang succeeds in bringing out the nuances of the resistance through Donlevy's part, the idea that one man (the killer) could (or should) surrender to the Gestapo in order to save hundreds of others from execution. And these are not faceless characters, but an actual family led by a professor played by Walter Brennan, with his daughter, the increasingly seductive Anna Lee, learning to see how this resistance works. The movie is spread a little thin at times, but develops a highly engrossing subplot involving Gene Lockhart as a wealthy Czech and Gestapo informer and his crumbling relationship with the Germans. "},{"Title":"During the operation he was in charge of the suction pump operatics as usual!","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Somehwhat fictionalized account of the assassination of the Nazi installed Reichsprotector of Bohemia/Moravia SS Obergruppen-Fuhrer Reinhard Heydrick, Hans Henrich Von Twardowski, who was known affecfinotly by his subjects, the Czech people, as the notorious Hangman Heydrich.Even though he's the major subject of the film we only get to see the Hangman once at the very beginning of the movie and what an impression he makes in the few minutes of screen time he has in it! Swaggering around like an obnoxious buffoon Heydrich comes across as someone you wouldn't trust in getting you a container of coffee and buttered roll for breakfast much less running a country- Czechoslovakia-of some 10 million people. It's not that long after being introduced to this shrieking lunatic that he's reported to have been shot by Czech patriots while driving through the streets of Prague in his Mercedes. Trying to flee the scene of the shooting is Heydrich's assassin Czech freedom fighter Dr. Franticek Svoboda, which incidentally means freedom in Czech, played by Irish/American actor Brain Donlevey who then makes his way into the nearby Novotny residence to avoid capture. Using the alias of architect Kanel Vanek Dr. Svoboda stays with the Novotny's until the curfew, imposed by the Nazis after the Heydrich assassination, is lifted.We also get to see defiant Pargue Taxi driver Banya, Lionel Stander, who helped Svoboda make his successful getaway getting arrested and later tortured by the Gestapo only to escape by jumping through a shut window in Gestapo headquarters never to be seen or heard from again in the film! It's as if the Gestapo felt it wasn't worth looking for him or else the slippery as an eel Banya somehow made it back to England, where the real life assassins of the Hangman came from, and freedom! The rest of the movie has the Nazis out on a rampage arresting jailing and executing Czech's, innocent of the Hangman's assassination, by the hundreds until his killer, Dr. Svoboda, gives himself up to them!Pretty accurate account of the Heydrich assassination and its aftermath that tries to be even handed in just how non active most Czech's were in fighting the hated Germans who were occupying their country. We get to see the Czech's slowly start to revolt against the Germans only after they started to indiscriminately arrest torture and execute hundreds of their fellow countrymen for a crime that they, those arrested , didn't commit The assassination of Hangman Reinhard Heydrich! In fact the person who did it-Dr. Svoboda-seem to be totally immune from arrest and tortured by the Gestapo even though they had far more on him then anyone else in their custody!It was the person who helped Dr. Svoboda hide from the Nazis Nasha Novotny, Ann Lee, who was more then willing to turn him over to the Gestapo in that he by being hidden by them put her entire families, headed by her dad Prof. Steve Novotny (Walter Brennan),lives in jeopardy. It's later that Nasha sees the light after almost being lynched by her fellow Czechs, when she tried to go to Gestapo headquarters to report Dr. Svoboda, and actively joins the fight for her country's freedom against the hated Nazis.***SPOILERS*** There's also an interesting side story in the film that has really nothing to do with the dear departed Hangman Heydrich that involves Czech traitor Emil Czaka, Gene Lockhart. Czaka had been the Gestapo's inside man in the Czech resistance movement providing them with all the information they needed in who its members are. It was both Dr. Sovboda and Nasha together with her fiancée Jon Horak, Dennis O'Keefe, and dozens of fellow Czech patriots who set the traitorous Czaka up in being the man who whacked Hangman Heydrich by manufacturing an air-tight case against him! To finally convince the Gestapo that in fact Czaka did it, assassinate the Hangman, the only witness who could have saved his rotten neck Gestapo Inspector Alois Gruber, Alexander Granach, not only ended up getting killed, suffocated to death by both Dr. Sovboda & Jan Horak, but his murder was linked to the very man he could have proved innocent of being Heydrch assassin Emil Czaka! "},{"Title":"Masters of War","Date":"29 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" In 1940s German-occupied Czechoslovakia, Nazi-resisting doctor Brian Donlevy (as Franticek Svoboda) assassinates The Hangman, one of his country's most barbaric occupiers. Mr. Donlevy escapes, with help from pretty passerby Anna Lee (as Nasha Novotny). As it turns out, Ms. Lee's father, Walter Brennan (as Stephen Novotny), is sympathetic with the underground resistance. Lee and Mr. Brennan help Donlevy assume a new identity (Karel Vanek). Then, the Nazis decide to round up over 400 Czech civilians, and randomly murder them, until Donlevy surrenders or is captured.The story is far too laborious, and proceeds with roughshod realism - but, when considered in context, the film is more successful than not. Director Fritz Lang and photographer James Wong Howe are a winning combination. The New York Film Critics voted Hangmen Also Die! #4, and placed Mr. Lang as the #3 director, for the year 1943. It's sweet to see Lee (later Lila on General Hospital) in an important leading lady role, and many of the minor characters are memorable. With a featured role, William Billy Roy (as Beda Novotny) seems slighted, in the credits.****** Hangmen Also Die! (3/23/43) Fritz Lang ~ Brian Donlevy, Anna Lee, Gene Lockhart "},{"Title":"Great Fritz Lang Production","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" This was a very interesting film from 1943 during WW II which was a propaganda film in order to show the American people how horrible the Nazi occupation of the Czeck Nation and many other countries under the rule of the Germans. This film featured great actors like Brian Donlevy, Walter Brennan, Dennis O'Keefe and Gene Lockhart. There was a top Gestapo Officer assassination and Brian Donlevy was the man that the Nazi's were hunting for. However, the Czeck Underground was very powerful and protected him in every way possible, even will the loss of many lives who were executed by the Gestapo. The real traitor in this film is Gene Lockhart who was a beer merchant who was very rich and was willing to sell out his country to the Nazi's. At one point in the film I thought even Dennis O'Keefe was a spy as this picture went around and around in circles and was entirely too long. The title of this film sounds like a Western Film and has nothing to do with this picture at all. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable film due to excellent cast.","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" The assination of Reinhard Haydrich is similar to Custer's last stand in that so many versions have been written and filmed. We probably haven't seen the last of them, or given the real story.The plot at times reaches for credibility. For example, the character of Gestapo Inpector Gruber is played brilliantly by Alexander Granach. For once, WWII anti-nazi movies gave us a real Nazi who was smart and does solve the case, but not in time to save his life. In real life, I doubt whether a real Gestapo Inspector would ever go anywhere without the comfort of a few armed men. The writers would have us believe that so many ordinary people could stick to the same concocted story without making an error, or taking a bribe to test the credibility of their plot to cast the informer as the assassin.Gene Lockhart proves he can act as he plays the informer. He plays the role two ways- a devious and ambitious man willing to sell out his friends, and as a pathetic victim of his own doing.Brian Dunnleavy plays the assassin who struggles with himself knowing that his act has caused the shooting of hostages. He wants to give himself up, but is convinced that it would be a futile gesture. Anna Lee plays the daughter of one of the Hostages, and she originally goes to the Gestapo to trade her knowledge of the assassin for her Father's life. On the way, the ordinary citizens try to stop her, and her conversion to helping the Czech cause begins to overide her attempt to save her father's life.This film was one of many that were made during the War. Without major stars, it could never have won the acclaim that Casablanca won. Whereas Casablanca is filled with stereotypes, this film doesn't show every Nazi as a idiot. Inspector Gruber is a worthy opponent of the underground. As a cop, he was pretty good, at the same time he was playing the typical Nazi rotten human being.Considering that that the Nazi's were in power from 1932 to 1945, and the Soviet Occupation of Czechoslavakia was three times longer, one has to wonder why there haven't been three times as many films portraying them as the unwanted dictators of their country. "},{"Title":"Fascinating but overly melodramatic tale of Nazi terror...","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Resistance by Czech citizens during World War II against their Nazi occupiers forms the basis for HANGMEN ALSO DIE!, based loosely on the real-life assassination of Reinhard Heydrich, Nazi governor of Prague. Unfortunately, despite gripping moments, the story is given standard Hollywood World War II treatment by director Fritz Lang.And, in fact, it might have all seemed less melodramatic and sometimes incredible if the director had allowed his cast to avoid the pitfalls of too much overacting. This charge cannot be leveled against BRIAN DONLEVY who seems to be sleepwalking through his role as the actual assassin (Dr. Svoboda), but ANNA LEE, GENE LOCKHART, JONATHAN HALE and others are guilty of wide-eyed, over-the-top histrionics, while WALTER BRENNAN as a Czech professor is simply miscast. DENNIS O'KEEFE is capable enough as Lee's fiancé.Lockhart, especially, in a pivotal role as the Nazi informant who is the subject of an intricate frameup toward the climax of the story, is given to excessive bits of ham that seem magnified at times.But the gripping story is mostly fascinating to watch as it unfolds a tale of Nazi terror in an attempt to find Heydrich's assassin. Despite the overly melodramatic treatment, it holds interest throughout a lengthy running time.Summing up Probably had stronger appeal for '43 audiences, which explains the propaganda tone of the Lang/Brecht screenplay which is a fictionalized version of a real WWII event. "},{"Title":"war needs lie","Date":"24 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" It's very simple everyone wants to win the war so you utilize lots of tricks,lies and other things. First I write as a comment something very different but I changed my mind after I read one of the comments here. The end of the real assassins was really tragic, but Hollywood can't show that. No of course not. They need dreamers who think war is really heroic. The machine of war is hungry and needs young flesh.I haven't seen not a single motion picture that illustrate what happens to those Japanese who were burnt alive in Hiroshima and Nagasaki, what about you? Of course not. Army wouldn't allow it and lots of politician find it dangerous; if people think that war is awful how would they go to war and and got themselves killed? The truth is those assassins were killed and they were afraid but what we see on screen are not human beings but extraordinary superman. They didn't have any fear at all. But I saw war and it's from my experience that people don't act like that. They only want to stay alive. There is no happy ending in the war. I agree with Long on the motto at the End. Not The End.But what about ordinary people why they like these films, it is a simple fact. They are not what they are seeing on the screen and they want to be it. If you show them the real themselves, they wouldn't sit and your film will be a financial disaster.This film is like this for me a dwarf have a painter to paint him as an Elf.It's pathetic.But if I hate the storyline why I rated 7/10. That's simple. Cinema is not just a form of art it's a business too and also it's a instrument. From these point of view it's a langian film and brechtian script and it's worth watching. "},{"Title":"Outrageous Comical Stereotypes but Fascinating Artful Propaganda","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Director Fritz Lang at His Most Unbridled, Self-Conscious, and Political. His Quick Exit from Hitler's Germany and its Repressive Regime Must Have Been of Considerable Effect on the Stylish Expressionist.Here His Trademark Shadows, Brought to Life by Cinematographer James Wong Howe are Powerful Surreal Images that Linger in the Mind. But the Most Surreal is the Overblown and Quite Comical Cartoon Characters of Nazi Leader Nutcases.It Seems that Lang Just Couldn't Restrain Himself as He Painted these Buffoons So Wildly and Broadly that Surely Their Own Quirks of Knuckle Cracking and Outrageous Behavior were Added for Effect but Come Off as Ridiculous.However, if Viewed as a Highly Stylized and Grandiose Representation, This and the Films Other Mesmerizing Elements Can Have an Appeal. Rooting for the Noble Victims of the Nazi's Torturing Brutality is so In Your Face that One has to Wonder Why Lang Chose to be Overly Melodramatic and Bizarre at Times. Wasn't the Behavior of These Nazis Evident Enough for Audiences to Hiss Without Making Them Gesture Wildly and Overreact to the Point of Distraction. Seems Not So in the Mind of the Filmmakers and the Sledgehammer to the Head is What Lang Thought was Necessary for Anyone At the Time Who Wasn't Paying Attention to File in Lock Step and Get On Board for the War Against Fascism. Anyone Who was Not With the Sentiments in the Movie by 1943 was Unlikely to be Pushed Into Submission by This Type of Pictorial Preaching. But the Film is a Fascinating Study of the Art of Propaganda and the Talent of the Group Effort is a Nod for Collectivism, Just Like the Solidarity of the Czech People. "},{"Title":"Long and Dreary","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" This fictionalized account of the assassination of the Nazi leader of Czechoslovakia is long and dreary. Lang's most creative period started with The Woman in the Window in 1944 and included a number of fine films over the next decade. This once precedes that inspired period and is one of his lesser efforts, not helped by bad acting. Donlevy was an adequate actor for playing heavies, but here he is too stiff and charmless to be playing the lead. Lee, who would go on to become a regular in John Ford films, overacts terribly. Brennan does well, playing Lee's father. O'Keefe is also OK, and would have been a better choice for the Donlevy role. "},{"Title":"Bowdlerised and cartooned strain of history","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" The main problem of this movie is that its subject was the murder of Reinhardt Heydrich, and that the treatment was nowhere near strong enough. The only time we see Heydrich he is presented as a petty, chubby, swaggering fool. In actual fact he was an unchained Satan, a key ideologue and architect of Holocaust. He was a handsome man, and a very capable one, having flown nearly 100 missions in a Messerschmitt fighter, and an excellent fencer, swimmer, and violinist. His bloodthirstiness was unrivalled, clearly outstripping Heinrich Himmler. He was the organiser and chair of the Wannsee conference where the plans for the extermination of European Jewry were finalised.At the start of this movie I wondered whether the action was taking place in some obscure American suburb of Prague, such was the reliance on American idiom and drawl. Brian Donlevy as the assassin, usually a great noir player, is acting below himself so much so that one can't help be confused by him. The Gestapo inspector Alois Gruber is a total cardboard cutout.The movie consists almost entirely of the efforts of the Germans to uncover the assassin of Heydrich. The efforts of the Germans are so toned down that I stared in disbelief. The truth is that the Gestapo's main technique for forcing women to talk was group rape. Miss Novotny suffers not even so much as a Chinese burn. The reprisals are also sanitised, in reality the Germans as well as murdering or imprisoning over 10,000 hostages, killed every male over the age of 16 in the two villages of Lidice and Le&#158;áky, burned the villages down and levelled the ruins.We must never forget the sheer vitriol of Nazism, to its credit the film did at least pay some lip service towards their efforts to Germanize the world. We must remember that their object was multi-genocidal, also the obliteration of all non-Germanic cultures, the obliteration of democracy, the obliteration of the family, the obliteration of the individual. They were not sausage-eating bullies, they were lucid death-worshipping fascists. "}{"Title":"Fritz Lang makes good propaganda","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  Fritz Lang was such a great director that he was able to take this hackneyed subject matter and make a very good film. Many films have been made about Nazi occupied homelands, France, Holland,Norway,Sweden,Hungary now Czechlosovakia. They all end up with the film telling us that the land will be free and all freedom loving citizens will defeat the Nazis etc. Lang lays on the propoganda thick at some points but otherwise it's a very good filmThe Nazis are depicted as mostly inhuman savages, especially Heydrich who really reminds me of the Emporer in The Empire Strikes Back.  Notice that films about the Nazis filmed during the war are much less realistic than post-war. Surprising that the standard stock company of Hollywood Actors, particularly Gene Lockhart play characters that I have never seen in American films "},{"Title":"Perhaps the Greatest Anti-Nazi Film Made During World War II","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" During the Nazi occupation of Czechoslovakia, surgeon Dr. Franticek Svoboda (Brian Donlevy), a Czech patriot, assassinates the brutal Hangman of Europe, Reichsprotektor Reinhard Heydrich (Hans Heinrich von Twardowski), and is wounded in the process. In his attempt to escape, he is helped by history professor Stephen Novotny (Walter Brennan), who is himself under suspicion by the Nazis, and his daughter Mascha (Anna Lee).I am sad that Dwight Frye has such a small (uncredited) role, and I am sad that this film was banned by the McCarthy era politicians. That just shows how crazy they were. Why would they ban a film that stands up against Hitler and contains an awesome punch through a window? The film portrays Nazis in the stereotype that we expect of them today. Yet, this was still 1943... so this film deserves credit for influencing how we view the Nazi regime, and also for being based on a true story in the middle of a war rather than after the fact. (Had the outcome of the war gone differently, this film would have been quite the problem.) "},{"Title":"Somewhat over-the-top melodrama of nazi occupation","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  The story of the man who killed the Nazi executioner (Donlevy, fine as always) and the nationwide hunt by the Nazis to find and punish him, which leads to the taking of hostages (and the melodrama that must ensue). Brennan plays a local professor who helps Donlevy hide but becomes one of the hostages in the Nazi's death game.Some good suspense, mostly predictable story.  Good direction and photography. "},{"Title":"reinhard heydrich? not really.","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" I really wanted to like this movie. I, and most people, despise Reinhard Heydrich. Trouble is, that this Heydrich looks nothing like him, acts nothing like him. Walter Brennan as a Czech music professor still sounding like Amos McCoy from the Real McCoys. This movie is not the real Mccoy,though. Jersey accents. Sets look so artificial. Acting is timid or overacted. Brian DonLevy is his usual solid self, but Smetana ,who wrote Ma Vlast (My Fatherland), an intensely patriotic Czech piece, would have been highly unlikely to be heard on the radio, the theatre...everywhere. Maybe Sirius Radio in the phony tanks, too? I do admire this as it was given to the American public honoring the great partisans that eliminated one of the most evil men of all time, closely after the actual event in 1943. So,by today's standards, it is entertaining for the wrong reasons. But I can see by 1943 standards, and its timely release, it provided a morale boost to Americans who may still not be sure of what they were fighting for. It was enjoyable to both my wife and myself as B type entertainment,since we know the actual history well. Perhaps it is unfair to judge films historic so close to the event, and so unknown (the events), that it suffers from accuracy errors, and no one really expects to know how Heydrich acted. Fortunately,this person was removed, as many felt he was the eventual successor to Hitler. You'll like it anyway. "},{"Title":"Brecht and Howe are the real stars here.","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  Brecht and Howe are the real stars in this film.  The story, while slow at first, builds in intensity, and is riviting after the first half.  Brecht shows a world that is horrifying and scary.  Howe's cinematography is stunningly beautiful, and gives the settings a mysterious and creepy look. 8/10 only because the first half is a little slow.  Otherwise, a must see. "},{"Title":"Fritz Lang At His Worst","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" This 1943 film, inspired by the real life assassination of Reinhard Heydrich, the Nazi ruler of Czechoslovika, is disappointing, namely for the waste of talent. The fact that the film bears no relationship to the historical facts, is excusable; this is after all, a World War II propaganda film; few films of that period accurately portrayed the events of the time. No, the worst thing about the film was Fritz Lang's heavy handed direction. Lang was the most German of the German film directors, who migrated to Hollywood during the nineteen twenties and thirties. Here, Lang reverts to the old high style German touch of strange angles, and 1920's post-war Weimar expressionism, to gloss over a Hollywood pot-boiler. It doesn't work. The film is totally self conscious of it's own artiness. Lang did great work in some American films -- this was not one of them. "},{"Title":"Not up to Mr. Lang's usual standards","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  The main problem I had with the film is that Berthold Brecht had anything to do with it.  I can understand that, being in exile, he might be able to give the movie a special point of view that others could not.  But because of his theory that theater (and by extention film) are pretences and the audience should be reminded of that often, makes for a difficult time.  The movie could be compelling if written by someone without such strict overriding principles. Also, Lang's earlier sound movies have an interesting quality about them because, despite the sound, he still relies heavily on facial expressions and body language.  Much of HANGMEN is devoid of that expressive too. The only reason I didn't rate it as awful is because I find it very interesting that so much of the Gestapo tactics were known as early as 1942/3.  It is chilling to find it in an American film because it is harder to believe that the general German population was ignorant of what was happening around them, Mr. Goebles aside. "},{"Title":"Truth in fiction","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Because of the assassination and an incorrect investigation by the Nazi's a little town outside of Prague, where the Reichmarshall was shot, was totally destroyed and wiped off the map. All males over the age of 15 were killed by firing squad. All women went to labor camps and the children of Lidice who were thought be able to be Germanized were sent into adoption against their wills. As I watch the movie Hangmen Also Die, I haven't seen the conclusion and don't know if it the village's destruction is mentioned. Since I have a great grandmother who came from that village long before the war I wanted to have it mentioned here. I have visited the site of the village, restored after the war and a memorial built there. The Nazi's own records show the horror of their acts. "}]