[{"Title":"Well, I'll Be A Monkey's Uncle!","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Typical Hope and Crosby nonsense. More of a big budget home movie than anything else, but funny and enjoyable anyhow.By the Time Morocco was created, the Road Pictures had been embraced and enjoyed and the formula was set in stone An exotic locale, Dorothy Lamour, a couple of songs and go easy on the script because Bob and Bing are gonna jab-lib their way through it regardless. The result here is a slick and entertaining yarn about absolutely nothing. Don't let the current climate of Islam/Arab/Terrorism mindset disturb you about the on screen antics because this was filmed in a different era and has nothing to do with the goings on in our world today.Bing gets a chance to croon the very lovely Moonlight Becomes You, which to this day is still one of the most touching love songs ever written; Bob gets to do his screen persona schtick and it is hilarious; Dorothy has a forgettable song and a funny reprise of Moonlight Becomes You, sung in the desert accompanied by the boys and it is extremely funny. Anthony Quinn (who was a Road Picture Regular) returns in a typical villain role in which he does his best.A couple of notes. Early in the picture Bob and Bing get involved with a camel who licks them. At the end of this routine as they prepare to ride away on the beast it spits at Bob. This was NOT in the script. The camel ad-libbed and the reactions of both Hope and Crosby are genuine. The director liked the take so much he used it in the final cut. Secondly, it took forever for the boys to sing the theme song, The Road to Morocco. It seems that every time they got to the lyric  . . . like Webster's Dictionary we're Morocco bound. . .  they'd break up over that lyric and would have to re-shoot the song.It's a breezy, light-weight, fun evening with Der Bingle and Old Slope Nose. Make yourself a bowl of popcorn, grab a large soda and laugh away for 82 minutes. It'll do you good! "},{"Title":"Don't Take It Seriously","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The Road to Morocco is the best of Crosby/Hope road movies, in my humble opinion. Yes, the plot is paper thin, but the comedy and self-deprecating humor is there. Much of the comedy is slapstick, but this is a movie that's not afraid to say It's just a movie, don't take it seriously. In the first song, Crosby and Hope allude to it being just another road movie. Naturally they'll meet Dorothy Lamour, and they have nothing to fear, because Paramount will protect them. This is not a movie to have a serious, philosophical discussion about. This is a movie to pop into the VCR on a Saturday night and forget about your worries. "},{"Title":"One of the best I've seen in a while","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Talking camels that manifest falsehood in moments of battle. Best friend rivalry over a beautiful princess in another distant time, in another exotic setting. Unconvincing sets of desert and sea make viewing a bit of an eyesore for those wary of its artificial conception. However, the interiors are done with just the right touch incapable for MGM to create with over doing the sets entirely without a hint of Ziegfeld. Nor is anyone overdressed inappropriately. Even better, Morocco has a hilarious and brilliant script directed by a Paramount director that obviously has an important asset essential for the trademark mix of these films, a sense of humour. Some of the most memorable scenes from any of the Road films occur in Road to Morocco. And they certainly couldn't belong anywhere else. Perhaps today the third film of the series is unjustly best remembered for some of the hit songs it spawned, Moonlight Becomes You and the title song. However, other songs featured in the score should not be forgotten, despite the loveliness and catchiness of the other two. However, this film has something brilliant going for it that is sometimes missing in other screwball or highly comic films of the era. There is no Cary Grant, and no Carole Lombard. Yet all the actors manage successfully with zany screwball antics typically capable of the above at the highest of standards. The best thing the film has is Bing, Bob and Dottie and the teaming of the trio should not be forgotten as possibly one of the best in comedies.  What this film must have done to wartime morale is amazing in a solemn era difficult to forget post Depression era. Yet today it remains as fresh as ever and anything else featuring Crosby, Hope and Lamour should not be passed over. It was certainly an unexpected gem of a surprise, and probably one of the few movies where the same jokes can get away with working twice.Whatever its flaws, Morocco is one of my twenty favourite films of the 1930s, 1940s and 1950s, and the fact it's got a short time is even a greater bonus. Yet once the all too rare movie magic of the film sets in, you never want the road to end.  Rating 10/10  "},{"Title":"Gentle comedy in the old fashioned style","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  When the ocean liner carrying Jeff and Orville is sunk, they find themselves washed up and on the way to Morocco.  In pay for food Jeff sells Orville to a man only to find that Orville has been sold on to Princess Shalmar and is now to marry her.  However the princess is only marrying Orville as her first wed is cursed to die within a week &#150; leaving her free to marry Mullay Kassim.Like an old pair of shoes, the road to movies may not be fantastic but they're comfortable and safe.  This is actually one of the better road movies, the plot, though silly, is quite focused and doesn't go off on flights of fancy like some others.  The focus of the plot allows a safe environment for Hope and Crosby to do their double act within.  The love interest is OK but really it slows the film down a bit.Crosby is good as ever and gets to do his songs on a regular basis, but really the star is Hope.  His Orville is cowardly, treacherous and selfish &#150; but he manages to be sympathetic and funny.  This is all down to Hope's wit, timing and deliver &#150; he is a genuine showman.  Stars in the shape of Lamour and Quinn are diverting &#150; but this is a Crosby/Hope vehicle all the way.One of the better Road movies this is funny in an old fashioned way. "},{"Title":"very funny","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Bob Hope is a very underappreciated performer. Of course, he was better as a comedian than as a movie actor, but that's just because he resigned himself to making lightweight comedies like this one. This comedy is very funny; yes, it's pretty lightweight, but what did you expect?I like all the Road to pictures, but this is the best that I've seen. Of course, you won't get any great plots or intricate character development with them, but they are highly entertaining. Likewise, Road to Morocco is a very funny movie, if not a bit uneven. See this movie for some good laughs.P.S. This movie is definitely harmless, despite the comment written by someone who seems to think it's homophobic. I'm wondering if he watched the same movie that I did. "},{"Title":"The Sharpie And The Schnook.","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" On the third stop in the Road series of pictures we find Bing Crosby and Bob Hope playing their usual sharpie and schnook. Crosby's schemes have a little more bite to them in this film, he sells Hope into slavery. Ah, but the catch is Dorothy Lamour bought him to be her husband and is Bing put out about that. No worry there however, he sings a patented Crosby love ballad and Dottie the princess is his.Musically, Road pictures seem to break down into the usual choice of songs for the film. That ballad Crosby sang to woo Princess Dottie is Moonlight Becomes You, probably the biggest song hit ever to come from a Road picture. There's a song for Dottie, in this case entitled Constantly, performed in the sultry Lamour manner. You have a philosophical number Ain't Got A Dime To My Name for Bing which is his own genre. And finally the title tune which is one for Hope and Crosby to perform with their usual ad-libbing and banter.When Decca released an album of 78s for the Road to Morocco, Bing recorded all the numbers solo including the duet with Hope in the title tune. When they later did Road to Utopia, Crosby and Hope recorded Put It There Pal and then the flip side of that 78 included a duet version of Road to Morocco. Since it was a duet in the movie, the duet version of Road to Morocco became the only one after that. Bing's solo version of Road to Morocco disappeared into the Decca vaults, never to be heard again. It's one of his rarest items now, so if you have it, it's worth something providing it's in good condition.One thing about writing reviews for Road pictures is that there is no plot worth mentioning, just a frame to hang a lot of gags on. No worry of spoilers here. In this journey we have hotfoots, whoopee cushions, talking camels, mirages, dribble glasses and Bob and Bing kissing each other. Is that enough nonsense?One gag wasn't planned. At the beginning when Crosby and Hope are washed ashore on the Moroccan desert they find a camel. Without any warning the camel spits in Hope's eye. Director David Butler thought it so hilarious, he left it in the film. "},{"Title":"Zany fun, pure old-fashioned escapism with a string of gags for good measure...","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is a typical ROAD movie with the boys chasing Lamour as the audience waits to see who Dotty will wind up with. The script is pure escapist, light-hearted stuff and everyone seems to enjoy the tongue in cheek style of all the gags.Bing is his usual affable self, tossing off a few songs in the Crosby manner--the best of which is Moonlight Becomes You. Dorothy Lamour is at her peak of lush beauty as the princess and manages to keep a straight face while the boys cut capers. Bob Hope shines in a part totally suited to his comic skills with one-liners and double takes that keep the high spirits flowing.If you're a fan of ROAD movies, you'll definitely enjoy this one--although my own personal favorite is still ROAD TO UTOPIA. "},{"Title":"Goofy Stuff, But Rather Enjoyable","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" With Bob Hope, Bing Crosby, and Dorothy Lamour all in good form, plus an interesting if wacky story, Road to Morocco is rather enjoyable despite the goofy nature of a lot of the material. It has a good variety of settings and comic material that help it keep going, and for all that much if it is silly, it is always good-natured and sometimes imaginative.The desert setting and characters work all right as long as you don't take them too seriously or view it as any kind of commentary. The gently comic view of the characters and their habits is the source of some good gags, and the contrast between the locals and the two main characters is also used relatively well. There are several self-referential jokes (perhaps a couple too many) to make sure nothing is taken too seriously.Besides Hope and Crosby, Lamour seems to relish her chance to play a princess, and Anthony Quinn is a suitably menacing adversary. Overall, it has to rank among the better of the stars' collaborations, not memorable so much for the material as for the chance to see the performers together. "},{"Title":"A 'Road Show 'Favorite","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Another enjoyable 'Road Show! One of my Favorites. Crosby and Hope are at their best in this one. Watch for the scene where Hope mimics a starving beggar in the street, its especially entertaining. No matter what Hope tries in the 'Road Shows' he is always foiled, with Crosby always the cool, smooth operator. Anthony Quinn does a superb performance as the domineering Sheik in this light hearted comedy, playing funny scenes as a straight man. Dorothy Lamour as the 'damsel in distress' is as Lovely as ever. Hope and Crosby are a delightful team, their playful banter and comedic timing are on the money with this one. This is a 'Must See' comedy! "},{"Title":"The best Road picture maybe spoiler?","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  There are many reasons why this is the best Road picture.It blatantly rips off both The Sheik and 1001 Arabian Nights. Also,not only is this one of the best scripts, much of the dialogue between Bob and Bing is completely ad-lib. During the shooting of this movie,they tended to play hookie at their favorite golf course.... go figure. Scenes you shouldn't missthe camel spits in Bob's eye... that was real, and so was Bing's reaction..the scene when a herd of horses (camels?) nearly runs them both over. That was real too. They didn't exactly have the whole safety thing down back then.Anyway, if you like Bob Hope, you will probably like this. I give it nine out of ten stars for being a lasting comedy for anyone with a brain.  "}{"Title":"Laugh-worthy nonsense.","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Hope and Crosby Road pictures were very popular in the 1940s and The Road to Morocco, the third in the series, shows them at about their best. Well, maybe Zanzibar was at the top, with Utopia not far behind. The climax in this one depends a little too much on minor gimmicks like dribbling glasses, exploding cigarettes, and whoopee cushions. A weakness easily overlooked.The plot takes them to a fairy tale Morocco, more Arabian Nights and Hollywood than French colony. The men wear white suits and fez caps or turbans. The women wear diaphanous veils and tiaras. Dorothy Lamour turns up as a princess who, her fortune tellers say, must marry a man she cares nothing about because he is fated to die a violent death within the week, freeing Lamour to marry the powerful sheik Anthony Quinn. That man she cares nothing about and chooses to marry is Bob Hope. Crosby muscles in on Hope, not knowing what the sooth sayers sayeth.It's all nonsensical and none of it is taken seriously by the actors, the writers, or the viewers. Even when Crosby is serenading Lamour with a pretty little ballad, Moonlight Becomes You, he tries to pick a rose to bring her and pricks his finger instead. Some of the sight gags are pretty amusing -- Crosby and Hope imitating mechanical men, when a fly lands on Hope's nose. It's not the only joke involving Hope's notorious nose, and there's a reference to the size of Crosby's ears as well. I don't want to reveal too many of the amusing incidents, but I always laugh when a girl tries to wake up Hope. He shrugs her off, rolls over in bed, and mumbles, Okay, Ma, I'll get a job tomorrow. And Crosby's line Junior, how can you do this to me? Why we went to school together. We were in the same class for years -- until I got promoted.The script has no hesitation in breaking the fourth wall or slinging anachronisms, self references, or in-jokes around. When Hope asks how they got out of the tight spot we last saw them in, Crosby looks at the camera suspiciously, then leans over and whispers his reply into Hope's ear in order to keep it a secret from us. Some of the gags may be lost on younger, less sophisticated viewers. Aunt Lucy shows up as a ghost, giving advice and scolding the two men from time to time. Crosby makes some comment about Aunt Lucy's being dead but you can't keep her down. Not Aunt Lucy, Hope agrees, She's a Republican. (Kids This movie was made midway through the unprecedented, and now illegal, third term of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, a Democrat.) I've always enjoyed the relationship between Hope and Crosby in these movies. Both are greedy, libidinous cowards, ready to double cross one another at the first glimpse of a dollar bill or a woman's ankle. (In this one, Crosby sells Hope into slavery to pay for a restaurant meal.) But neither is superior to the other in any way, unlike other popular comedy teams such as Abbott and Costello or Martin and Lewis. These guys are both equally stupid and despicable.Lots of fun. "},{"Title":"The Fez Is Familiar","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Whenever I'm discussing films with friends, family, colleagues, acquaintances etc and the 'Road' franchise is mentioned it is always Morocco that seems to be emblematic of the series. Chronologically it was the third out of seven but the first one acknowledged by the Front Office to BE part of a franchise. Singapore was intended as a one-off and Zanzibar was a last-minute reworking of a project designed for other talents but by 1942 the Paramount movers and shakers had conceded that Hope, Crosby and Lamour plus wacky situations and three or four songs equalled big Box Office. Having experimented with featuring Hope and Crosby as performers in 'Zanzibar' the studio discarded it this time around in favour of having them stow away on a liner that was subsequently sunk and being cast adrift on a makeshift raft. They did, however, retain the idea of Crosby consistently exploiting Hope so that this time around he actually sells him into slavery which serves to kickstart what little plot there is. As always patrons came to see the gags, both verbal and sight, the 'in' jokes, put-downs and ultimately the songs by Johnny Burke and Jimmy Van Heusen which were always very good to excellent. Morocco contains arguably the most durable of them all in Moonlight Becomes You but also yields a ballad for Lamour, Constantly, the upbeat Crosby solo Ho Hum and the great title song performed as a duet. Ho hum? Yes and no but on balance more ho than hum. "},{"Title":"Very funny film","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Easily the best Hope and Crosby film, Road to Morocco provides more laughs than most films I have seen. Most of the comedy in this film comes, naturally, from Bob Hope's superb comic delivery and amazing sense of humor. Bing Crosby also proves to be more than just a great singer. He can be a great actor and comedian as well. The material may be too over-the-top for some, such as Hope, Crosby, and Dorothy Lamour all singing synchronized to each others' voices. The film is just full of humor and does not greatly lack any fun or hilarious moments. In just about every scene there is something very funny to laugh at, from Crosby's dream seeing Hope dressed as his aunt to the talking camel, it's all just hysterical. Few comedies ever made, especially those from more recent years, can measure up to the greatness and hilarious nature of Road to Morocco. Perhaps not absolutely perfect, as far as film-making goes, but very enjoyable and very, very funny.***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Movie great fun, terrific music.","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A pleasure to see three old pros in action and to throw in the menacing Anthony Quinn as a foil to the boys is perfect.  I love the music in every Road picture and this one is well above par for the course.  What a joy to sit down to watch after a long, hard days' work. "},{"Title":"I'm thrilled at the sight!","Date":"25 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Another of my all time favourite films, I must have seen it more than umpteen times over the decades. The 3rd of the 7 Road movies, and imho the best with a lovely romantic musical comedy adventure atmosphere with witty dialogue that by now I know by heart, good songs, and a fine production all round. What a classic! Story has 2 drifting Americans Crosby & Hope at loose ends in a strange country (buster) who get ravelled up with matrimonial astrological mishaps and Lamour, together with some Arab intrigues, but muddle through it all joyously and zanily. On the way we also meet spitting and talking camels, a noisy ghost, nodding statues, a monkeys uncle, drive-in waitresses hurling burgers out into the desert, and a myriad of slapstick characters. Favourite bits (from so many) Crosby selling Hope to a life of slavery &#x96; they took any old junk; Hope's imperiousness to all when elevated to temporary royalty &#x96; especially to the raffiest of riffs; Crosby crooning Moonlight Becomes You to Lamour; love-mad Quinn looking for the sons of cockroaches stealing his bride; the celebratory scenes in the tribal tent.Did any of that make sense to you? It's a film you really have to see to appreciate; comments about it cannot do it adequate justice. Maybe not sidesplitting humour and with nothing really offensive - although I'm sure some serious people would point at racial stereotyping and fun poked at the shop keeper with the speech impediment - but still a lovely little film, made with the sole aim of making money by making ordinary people happy.This type of film made me very happy when little, young and mature, sadly (or thankfully) people grow up faster harder and more demanding these days. But otoh I still live in hope that younger generations including my daughter will be able to sometimes remember there are always simpler nicer things they could be watching when they're being bombarded by the routine cynical filth passing as normal cinema in todays wonderful world. "},{"Title":"Hope and Crosby's on screen chemistry makes it fun to watch.","Date":"4 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" You can't go into a viewing of any Hope and Crosby picture expecting a strong story or plot,nor should you expect the acting to be great.Bob Hope's true strength was stand up comedy,not acting,and I think he knew that.That's why we only saw him in roles where he could be pretty much rely on his stand up skills.Bing Crosby,on the other hand,had a knack for acting even though he was primarily a singer.In fact,his knack won him an Oscar two years after he did this film,so you know he took it seriously.Since Hope's acting skills were not strong,I thing that Bing saw these films they did together as a chance to relax and have a little fun,and to take a break from the seriousness of the acting profession.Despite their contrasting talents,there is no denying the great chemistry that existed between the pair,which makes Road to Morocco fun to watch.Also,if I may add,Dorothy Lamour and Dona Drake are also fun to watch,but for a different reason.I suppose that's just the typical male in me talking. ;-) "},{"Title":"The Road Film that beats 'em all","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" In this third outing in the series, Hope and Crosby, now firmly established in the eyes of the world as a fully fledged comedy team, find themselves shipwrecked on a deserted shore, acquire a 'spitting' camel and ride it all the way to Morocco where on arrival Hope is sold into slavery by Crosby for the price of a meal. What a pal!However Crosby realises he has sold himself a little short when he discovers Hope is actually been sold to the sultry and delicious Princess Shalmar played as always by Road To.. regular Dorothy Lamour and she intends to marry him.Throw in a jealous, throat-slitting sheik played by Anthony Quinn, a few talking animals, a magic ring with three wishes, mirages, tribal wars and a bevvy of songs and it all adds up to the most outrageous Road adventure yet.The humour in this movie was very anarchic for its day, with Hope for the first time breaking down the fourth wall and talking direct to the audience for a few of his one liners. In fact with the possible exception of Ole Olsen and Chic Johnson's 'Helzapoppin' the previous year, the comedy barriers had rarely been pushed out so far.Also the songs are in a higher league with 'Moonlight Becomes You' providing Bing with one of the biggest hits of his career, and Dorothy Lamour brings us 'Constantly', a beautiful romantic ballad, the words of which must have seemed so poignant for those women with loved ones overseas fighting the war.Check out this film, Not only is it arguably the best in the series but as a stand alone film in its own right, they seldom come better than this. "},{"Title":"No holds barred spoof of every desert adventure movie ever made","Date":"19 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Talk about being politically incorrect, this movie is bound to offend a lot of people today, with its portrayals of villainous Arabs, but try to realize this 1942 movie was a parody of every Arabian adventure cliché since the silent era. Any movie that has a pair of camels discussing the foolishness of humans, with the female camel speaking in a Katherine Hepburn accent, is obviously not taking itself too seriously.Crosby comes off as more of a bad hat than usual, since he actually sells Bob Hope into slavery temporarily, but it isn't long before the boys are fighting over the affections of a lovely Princess, and things are back to normal.I saw this film for the first time in the late Seventies at college, and a group of Arab exchange students from Kuwait were highly amused at the chase scene through the harem, with Anthony Quinn apparently speaking genuine Arabic to his henchmen, interspersed with English dialog. They took it in good humor, recognizing the unreal, deliberately absurd nature of the story, especially in a picture that was thirty odd years old at the time.Personally, I think there are funnier movies in the Road series, but Road to Morocco is pretty amusing if you appreciate the unique Hope and Crosby style of casual ad lib humor; not to mention the stunning beauty and comedic gifts of Dorothy Lamour, "},{"Title":"Sheikh rattle and roll..","Date":"26 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Extremely funny third Road movie starring Hope, Crosby and Lamour, possibly the best in the series. In what is almost literally a laugh-a-minute, the two stars riff off each other to the manner born, their timing impeccable and seeming ad-libs spontaneous and hilarious.The classic scenes are more and near between. My favourites include the nodding-heads scene when the boys are hiding from Anthony Quinn's gaze, Hope's hilarious exposition scene, (for the folk who only came in halfway through the movie) and his Oscar grabbing scene at end. There are loads of snappy one-liners too, the stars not too proud to send themselves up - Crosby makes a crack about Hope's nose while Hope spoofs Crosby's crooning. Dorothy Lamour looks suitably exotic and has no problem yet again convincing the viewer of her ability to bewitch her usual three men, Hope Crosby and Anthony Quinn, all as usual. While Bob, unsurprisingly loses Dorothy once again to Bing he surprisingly this time gets a girl of his own by the finish.The songs are fine too (Ho-Hum, Constantly, Moonlight Becomes You and the jokey title song) and are much better woven into the flow of the film than on previous journeys.All in all, one of the funniest comedies from Hollywood's Golden Age, it quite rightly cemented the reputation of the Road franchise and kept the threesome on their travels for a road or two yet. "},{"Title":"Those ad-libbing crazies are at it again","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" It's amazing to me that Dorothy Lamour could keep a straight face during the shenanigans of Bing Crosby and Bob Hope while filming. Apparently she had a great time with them, which is no surprise.The boys wind up in Morocco in this film, and as usual, Bing's character can't wait to throw poor Bob under the bus - or, in this case, caravan. This time, Bing gets money to pay a restaurant bill by selling Bob into slavery. It turns out Bob is to be the groom of the glamorous Lamour. He's having a blast, though he writes to Bing that he's being tortured daily. As usual, Dorothy falls for Bing.People might think I'm crazy, but I just love the '40s Bob Hope. He was adorable and very funny. Crosby gets to sing the beautiful Moonlight Becomes You, an added bonus.The stories are always the same, set in different locales, and they're always funny. Just two guys ad-libbing and goofing around. Hope plays his own aunt, an apparition. Enjoy. "}{"Title":"How can a desert dream like you go for a drip like this?","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Even if you haven't seen the film but know the principals, you can figure out who's saying my summary line, who it's about, and who the speaker is saying it to. If you can't, you've never seen a Road show.The picture isn't much more than a showcase for Crosby and Hope to fire off their one-liners and get in a few decidedly successful song numbers, but it's the type of film I always enjoy watching for sheer entertainment value. The gags are fast and furious, and there's one I had to do a quick double take on in the latter part of the picture. When Bing sprinkles some ground up tobacco leaves onto a display an Arab is selling, Hope quips - Hey, whattya doin', makin' reefers? Man, if I had this on DVD, I'd still be replaying that scene.As for Lamour, this might be the best she's looked in a film I've seen her in to date. The exotic locale and Arab princess garb help, but she really did look gorgeous here. No wonder the boys always fought or sang over her. Moonlight Becomes Her indeed.My vote for one line that should have been in the flick but wasn't - I've never seen a picture with so many talking camels before! "},{"Title":"Harem Scarem Paradise","Date":"13 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" ROAD TO MOROCCO (Paramount, 1942), directed by David Butler, the third installment of the seven journeys made by the famous trio of Bing Crosby, Bob Hope and Dorothy Lamour, finds them in their wildest adventure of them all. Capitalizing on the current trend of Arabian Nights fantasies as Alexander Korda's THE THIEF OF BAGDAD (United Artists, 1940), featuring Sabu, and ARABIAN NIGHTS (Universal, 1942) that paved the way for a series of similar adventures teaming Maria Montez and Jon Hall, ROAD TO MOROCCO makes every attempt in spoofing every one of them, especially itself, and getting away with it in the process.The story gets right down to basics with the explosion of an ocean freighter which finds all passengers safely accounted for with the exception of two unidentified stowaways, Jeffrey Peters (Bing Crosby) and Orville Turkey Jackson (Bob Hope), seen floating together in the Mediterranean on a raft. They end up on shore where the carefree bachelors ride a camel that takes them to the city of Morocco. Unable to pay for their large meal they've eaten at a restaurant, Jeff meets up with a Arabian (Dan Seymour) who offers him six hundred kolaks. Using that to pay off the meal, Orville wonders what Jeff did to acquire so much money. He soon discovers that he's been sold as he's suddenly being taken away by two strong armed men. Later that night, Jeff is awaken from his sleep by the ghost of Orville's Aunt Lucy (Bob Hope in drag) who orders him to get Orville back. Soon thereafter, Jeff searches about and locates his pal in the palace of Shalmar being tortured by a handful of beautiful maidens and in the arms of Princess Shalmar (Dorothy Lamour), royalty in an Arab kingdom. As Jeff attempts to break into Orville's territory by wooing the princess, he eventually learns as to why Orville was selected to become Shalmar's proposed husband. Complications ensue by the arrival Mullay Kasim (Anthony Quinn), a cruel desert chief out to claim Shalmar as his own, and having quite a time doing it.Other members of the harem consists of Dona Drake (Mirirmah); Vladimir Sokoloff (Hyder Khan, the astrologer who looks into the stars for Shalmar's future); George Givot (Ned Jolla); and Yvonne DeCarlo, uncredited as one of the handmaidens. Anthony Quinn, who co-starred in the initial film, ROAD TO SINGAPORE (1940), returns once more adding to some hilarity as the villainous sheik who falls victim to Crosby and Hope's antics. In tradition to the Road series with its selection of comedy routines, song interludes are worked well into the script, composed by Johnny Burke and Jimmy Van Heusen, including The Road to Morocco (sung by Bing Crosby and Bob Hope); Ain't Got a Dime to My Name (Ho Hum) (sung by Bing Crosby); Constantly (sung by Dorothy Lamour); Moonlight Becomes You (sung by Bing Crosby and Dorothy Lamour); and Moonlight Becomes You (reprised). Hope and Crosby clown around as they each sing the title song, throwing some in-jokes in the process, one of them being, I lay you eight to five that we'll meet Dorothy Lamour, while Crosby and Lamour take part in what's to become the film's best song, Moonlight Becomes You, later to be spoofed by the three principal players singing in each other's voices in the soundtrack. If that isn't silly enough, this bona-fide Road comedy also consists of talking camels (This is the screwiest picture I've ever been in says one, while the other talking like Katharine Hepburn); the traditional Hope and Crosby paddy cake routine; as well as Hope's attempt in an Academy Award nomination with his hysterical No food, no water outbursts. With a handful from outrageous to awfully silly and outdated routines thrown in this escapist comedy adventure, ROAD TO MOROCCO, which improves over its predecessor of ROAD TO ZANZIBAR (1941), earned two Academy Award nominations, for Best Screenplay and Best Sound Recording, but none for Bob as hoped. Aside from this being the best known and most revived in the series, ROAD TO MOROCCO proved so popular that it's been listed as one of the top 100 best comedies by the American Film Institute. Distributed to home video in the 1990s through MCA Home Entertainment, and later DVD, Cable television revivals were plentiful when ROAD TO MOROCCO was presented on American Movie Classics (1992-2000), and finally on Turner Classic Movies (2004-present). Next adventure, ROAD TO UTOPIA (1945), which is, in many ways, even better and funnier than ROAD TO MOROCCO. Watch it and see why. (*** camels) "},{"Title":"Gags Galore","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The third Road film has Hope and Crosby lost at sea and winding up in Morocco as prospective grooms for princess Lamour, unaware that she's to be widowed a week after the wedding. Although the script lacks a narrative flow that would sustain the comedy, the gags come at a rapid pace, including asides to the audience. There's even a talking camel worried about his film career, commenting this is the screwiest picture I was ever in. Of course there are musical interludes, including the funny title song. Hope and Crosby seem to be having a lot of fun, with the former doing double duty as the late Aunt Lucy, who speaks to the boys from the beyond. "},{"Title":"A must see film...","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** A must see film is Road to morocco, Bing and Bob do a great job. The script is so funny you will be talking about this movie for ever. Not only is the music great the acting is so much fun. The entire family will love this movie.  I give it 5 stars. Spoiler (this movie is about Two friends and there adventure in morocco Bing sells Bob to a man. Next a princess buys bob, and she is going to marry him. Then Bing comes to find his friend and he is living with the princess. Bing and the princess fall in love with each other, but she is still going to marry bob. One because according to the stars (from her wise man) her first husband will die a violent death. Bob then finds out about this from a girl which loves him.  So Bing is happy, but she won't marry him.  Then the wise man say's there's been a mistake There were fire flies in his telescope and the princess first husband will not die! This is great news for the couple except. An Arabian sheik wants to marry the princess, and he will kill any one that tries to stop him. So he kidnaps her and jails Bing and Bob. Luckily Bing and Bob out smart the jail keeper and save the princess and get away.  "},{"Title":"A Pair of Jokers","Date":"29 April 2016","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Two carefree castaways on a desert shore find an Arabian Nights city, where they compete for the luscious Princess Shalmar.Bosley Crowther liked it Let us be thankful that Paramount is still blessed with Bing Crosby and Bob Hope, and that it has set its cameras to tailing these two irrepressible wags on another fantastic excursion, Road to Morocco, which came to the Paramount yesterday. For the screen, under present circumstances, can hold no more diverting lure than the prospect of Hope and Crosby ambling, as they have done before, through an utterly slaphappy picture, picking up Dorothy Lamour along the way and tossing acid wisecracks at each other without a thought for reason or sense...The short of it is that Road to Morocco is a daffy, laugh-drafting film. And you'll certainly agree with the camel which, at one point, offers the gratuitous remark, This is the screwiest picture I was ever in. The camel remark is pretty funny, and the movie as a whole is quite a treat. I can't say I'm a big Bob Hope fan, but I love Bing Crosby, and together they make quite a pair. This isn't laugh-out-loud funny but it has a very vaudeville-ish sense to it, where the routines are so hackneyed and cliché, but you can't help but appreciate them. "},{"Title":"Road to Morocco-This is the screwiest picture I was ever in!","Date":"22 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" In this-the third Road movie starring Bing Crosby, Bob Hope, and Dorothy Lamour-the series reaches its peak what with one camel spitting in Hope's eye, a few more talking with animated mouths, and an all-out chase involving various noises and explosions! Lots of great lines and scenes involving Hope and Crosby and get this-not only does Crosby still end up with Ms. Lamour but Hope also ends up with another pretty woman played by Dona Drake! Great use of inside jokes as well as voices coming out of the wrong mouths when the three leads sing Moonlight Becomes You! In summary, Road to Morocco is perhaps the most fun of the Road movies yet! Oh, and Anthony Quinn makes his second of appearances in the series, his first being Road to Singapore. Next up, Road to Utopia. "},{"Title":"How Things Have Turned Serious - Get on the Road","Date":"25 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hollywood once depicted Arabs as a bunch of nomadic, tent-dwelling cut throats or greasily cunning conmen out to rip off tourists in bazaars. On TV in the 1970's, they became respected oil sheiks who walked out of negotiations with the western world with confident smiles born of their new-found power and wealth. Perhaps they had just watched The Road to Morocco and were musing upon how the wheel of fortune had turned in their favour. The depiction of the women of the Middle East has also made a U-turn. They were once exotic bellydancing nyphs, now a set of black mailboxes. Arab leaders like Mullay Kasim as played by Anthony Quinn looked a bit dangerous but were easily outwitted by Bing and Bob. Mullay confronts the pair with Do you dare oppose the will of Mullay Kasim? to which Bing's character repliesOppose it! I'll have you writing one. Today's Arab leaders have at worst been transformed into evil fanatics to be feared and hated and at best to be shifty and potentially treacherous.The Road to Morocco is fun and makes fun of all stereotypes and customs - east and west. Bing selling Bob into slavery could be seen as a comment on the rapaciousness of capitalism or just another bit of outrageous fun. The best thing about watching it is that like Bing and Bob, we are all just along for the ride. Their Road characters are comic existentialists of the highest order - they appear from nowhere, live in the moment and fade out in a finale that underscores the fact that it has all just been a film. I know that the world has serious problems but it doesn't do us any harm to remember that like Bob and Bing, we need to get as much as we can out of our adventure while we can. It's also good to be able to share it with a friend. Thanks go to my dad who went through The Great Depression and fought in WW2 and who introduced me to the Road movies. "},{"Title":"Mixed bag","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Saw this one 4 or 5 years back and it was much funnier on that first viewing.  Still, it's good harmless fun in the 40's style and features two classic tunes.  Hope and Crosby wash ashore and kick off on the road to Morocco in a fairly entertaining first 20 minutes or so.  Then things sag in the middle and pick up again toward the end.  Paramount never was after winning awards with their road pictures but one wishes Hope and Crosby would have been given a more polished - and longer - script in which to do their thing.  For all their screwy humor the series just comes across as a hastily produced mishmash of ideas and skits. Strictly meat and potatoes comedy.  The potential was there to do so much more but Paramount at the time was just above a B Movie studio.  As far as the performers Crosby is easily the most professional.  More often than not Hope over-mugs and struggles to find the right timing.  So many of his pictures without Crosby were abject failures.  As much as I respect Bob Hope he was a far better radio/stage personality than he was a movie comedian.  His USO performances during the war must have been something quite special. Anthony Quinn, Dorothy Lamour, and Dona Drake are just along for the camel ride so don't expect any scene stealing from them. Road to Morocco isn't the greatest movie you'll ever see but it will provide some worthwhile moments and a few chuckles. "},{"Title":"Easily the best film in the series","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" If you are looking for a comedy set in the Sahara region, then look no further. With the possible exception of Laurel and Hardy's BEAU HUNKS (a nice short), I can't think of a single desert comedy as good as ROAD TO MOROCCO. It's easily better than Abbott and Costello's LOST IN A HAREM and THE FOREIGN LEGION as well as Laurel and Hardy's amazingly poor FLYING DEUCES.The best thing about this Road picture is that although it is filled with music (something they just HAD to do in the 1940s), the songs are amazingly good. Unlike some of the comedies of the era, I wasn't tempted to fast-forward through the songs! With Road to Morocco and the lovely Moonlight Becomes You, I was actually happy when the songs began! Wow--that's a first! The film is very typical of the series with Bing and Bob doing their usual nonsense. However, if it's possible, Bing abuses Bob even more than the last films, as he sells him into slavery!! And, thinking he's been rescued by Dorothy Lamour, Bob has actually been chosen to marry her because he's a patsy--a prophecy has been made that indicates that her first husband will die within the week!! Poor Bob Hope! As for the humor, it's a bit more fast-paced and fun than ever before and this, combined with the music, make this clearly the best of the films in the series. A lot of silly fun from start to finish, I particularly liked the various jokes where the actors stepped out of character to make fun of themselves or the film. Heck, even the camels got into the spirit of this self-mockery!!The only serious problem with the film was the painfully unfunny and gross mental retardation skit--where Bob pretends to be retarded in order to get free food! Not only is this an insult to the mentally challenged but also to Islam. Zakat (charitable giving) is one of the pillars of Islam and here it is given a less than noble send-off. Now I am NOT a particularly politically correct guy (and often, this mindset annoys me because it can be anti-free speech), but here I do think the film was pretty tacky--but not so much that it seriously damages the film overall. I accept it as part of history and the way people were back then--like it or not. If it will seriously offend you skip the film entirely, speed past this portion or just grow thicker skin. By the way, the camels in the film were all Bactrian camels--native to the far Eastern portion of Asia--particularly Mongolia. You won't find such a camel within thousands of miles of Morocco except in zoos! Nope, the single-humped variety is native to the region only. "},{"Title":"Fun Movie, evil guys.","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie, one of the earliest to break the third wall, I think. But as I mull the story about a bit, Hope and Crosby play two evil men. On more than one occasion, each is willing to send the other to his death to save himself. In the end, they create a war to get the girls for themselves. Oh well, maybe movie values haven't gone down hill completely.  "}{"Title":"Dated but delightful absurdity","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Dated but delightful absurdity; about a quarter of the jokes are incomprehensible today to anybody under 60.  Some of the rest may be offensive, at least to anybody who really thinks that this is supposed to represent Arab culture and civilization.  For anybody who is willing to take the whole thing as a spoof on Hollywood cliches about sheiks and haggling in the marketplace, and glad to see Bing and Bob ad-libbing through a minimal absurdist script, it's pure pleasure.  There are some very odd parallels to Casablanca. "},{"Title":"Road to Morocco","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The boys find themselves in the clutches of evil Anthony Quinn as Bob is sold into slavery by Bing. This is one of the best of the Road to pictures that features the wonderful tune Moonlight Becomes You, sung, of course, by crooner Crosby.  "},{"Title":"It's not funny, but has a lot of music.","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I'll give it a two because it has a lot of music, otherwise it would be a one.I saw this movie for the first time tonight and it's the first Road picture I've seen. I was expecting waaaaay better. Robert Osborn says this is the best of the Road movies. If that's true I needn't bother to see the others. The best thing about this movie is that it has a lot of songs in the first half, but that's balanced out by only one production number with dancing in the entire movie.I didn't like the movie. Neither Hope nor Crosby came across all that well, their characters weren't very charming, the movie was not funny at all, most of the dialog was just lame filler, there wasn't much action, there wasn't much spectacle.The movie wasn't what I expected. I was expecting more Road, but there isn't much. They quickly make it to the palace and then most of the movie takes place there, until the end. I was also expecting a lot more of the famous road style of breaking the fourth wall, wherein the characters talk directly to the audience or comment on the plot. There was only about 4 instances of that. One of those is an example of the non-funny humor of this script(Hope recaps the plot up to now to Crosby) Crosby I know all that! Hope Yeah but the people that came in half-way through the picture don't. Crosby You mean they missed my song?Those are two weak punchlines, but at least they are actually jokes. Much of the rest of the script doesn't even have any jokes. An example is Crosby Remind me to throw you a piece of cheese in the morning. (Indirectly calling Hope a rat).That's not funny at all, it barely even qualifies as a joke, but that's the kind of non-joke dialog that carries most of the movie. Many of the scenes don't even come that close to a joke, just using generic uninteresting dialog likeCrosby Hey, whadda ya' take me for? You think that you can just throw me to the dogs? Hope Well why not, you did it to me didn't you? Crosby Yeah but that's because I was lookin' out for us. You're not lookin' out for nobody. Hope Oh yeah? Well then why did I pay the check?(the above is just from my memory. It's not exact but it illustrates to you what I mean).And so on....just generic dialog with no jokes at all.My grade A waste of time. "},{"Title":"Post Modernism In The 1940s !!!","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  What shocked me about THE ROAD TO MOROCCO is the self referential post modernism , ie the characters know they`re in a film . Bob and Bing sing a song about meeting Dorothy Lamour while later Bing turns to Bob and says  Hey if we were tied up how did we get out of the sacks ?  to which Bob replies  If I told you they`d < The audience > know too  and later on a camel ( And I`m not making this up ) turns to the camera and says  This is the loopiest movie I ever did see  . I didn`t actually know that people in the 1940s went in for a post modernist approach and had always believed it was a 1960s thing . One other thing that shook me was the portrayal of Arabs which I doubt would be allowed in these PC times , it`s a very strange experience seeing a comedy at the expense of stereotypical Arabs  It`s a pity no one is allowed to poke fun at ethnic groups nowadays because I would have liked to have seen Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson in THE ROAD TO KABUL where our two heroes get involved in a Talebunnie wedding . What`s a Talebunnie Theo ? A Talebunnie is a member of the regime that used to rule Afghanistan untill a couple of years ago when an American led coalition intervened in the country and the Talebunnies hopped away like frightened rabbits Boing Boing Boing Don`t bomb us Mister coalition airforce . We were only obeying the will of Allah Boing Boing Boing   "},{"Title":"Will & Grace for The Greatest Generation","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  When people tell you that movies were better in the old days, sit them down with this one. I once had the chance to ask Mr. Hope about the road pictures and he was gracious enough to respond by babbling about the salad days for about 10 minutes.If you're offended by gay jokes, then this one will astound you. If I didn't know any better, this film seems like an out-and-out weird lampoon of homosexuality.  "}]