[{"Title":"Spirited, if minor...","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Family","Review":" Animators on assignment from Walt Disney tour South America (along with Donald Duck!) to soak up new cartoon ideas. This long-unseen Disney item is full of color and music, but is obviously a holding-pattern release for the company. I watched the film on video, coupled with the quite-entertaining additional 20-minute documentary which regales even more of the non-animated adventures. Never too popular with the kids, probably because a major cartoon segment involving Pedro the Airplane isn't very funny and lacks the local flavor. Otherwise, some visually dazzling bits but not as good as the similar The Three Caballeros, released in the US in 1945. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Historical Disney - not much else unless you're a devotee","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Family","Review":" This more than any other film shows the plight of the Disney studio in the years following Snow White and Pinocchio.WWII had broken out, cutting off Disney's European market. In addition, striking cartoonists and their formation of a guild/union meant that the massive about of labor needed to create a Snow White or a Pinocchio now amounted to a substantially higher production cost then either of those two films (which had not been cheap to begin with).Thus, Disney was trying to explore new ways to both package his product for another market, as well as develop new product.They released this movie and capitalized on the then-popular South American craze. Now, however, it looks dated.You can still it watch it though and see the genesis for several of Disney's later films The Three Caballeros and the whole How-To Goofy series are the most obvious. "},{"Title":"Buy it if you're a Disney collector. Other than that...","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Family","Review":"  When I first heard that Disney was going to release a number of films from the early years which had been almost forgotten, I was very intrigued. Would there be another Sleeping Beauty or Fantasia hiding out there?Sadly, Saludos Amigos falls very short of Disney classic status. It is basically forgettable.There are a few smile-inducing moments, but overall the piece really does feel like a keep the Sudamericanos on our side against the Nazis period piece from the WW2 era. It's strange to watch a movie made in 1943 with live action sequences of South America looking so peaceful and unaffected by the world's events. Sure, the region was less involved in WW2 than many other regions... but, it is still strange to watch.Anyway, I'd sum it up thusly 1. Worth buying if you are a Disney collector and 2. Worthy of note simply to see live shots of Buenos Aires, Lago Titicaca, and Rio de Janeiro, filmed almost 60 years ago.Other than that, you can skip this one. "},{"Title":"Cool flick!","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Family","Review":"  Like it's sequel, Three Caballeros, Saludos Amigos was made to improve the relations between North and South America and to expose Northerners to Latin American culture.  Great music and great fun, though the Latin American culture is a bit sugar-coated.  A great family film though the concepts of inter-continental neighborship will go right over the kid's heads. "},{"Title":"sweet nostalgia","Date":"29 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Family","Review":" I think the reviews of the other posters has been pretty accurate. It is very nice in the era of pixar to see the lush animation of Disney. The special feature South of the Border is fascinating. I hope these Disney travelogues are preserved and digitally enhanced because it would be a great shame to lose them. The picture quality is poor but it is better than not having any recollection at all. The narration is pure Disney and its all about the research that went into the main feature. Of course its testimony to history that seen through the eyes of middle upper class Americans its not really as accurate as Walt thought it was. Some of the facts are not facts at all. They call one creature a rabbit in the documentary but its certainly not a rabbit. It is a capybara. In the cartoon they even have an ostrich in South America!! Still despite the flaws the documentary is a charming bonus with some nostalgic images. Saludos is a pretty good cartoon although I thought the little aeroplane story was quaint it is anthromorphism gone crazy. Everyone's favourite duck with a speech impediment is fun. I never understood a word Donald said but loved his attitude. Goofy steals the movie. It took me years to realise Goofy was a dog! Its a pleasant Disney movie while not being a great one. "},{"Title":"A duck, a llama, a guacho Goofy, a parrot, an airplane and plenty of Samba spirit.","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Family","Review":" While I may have commented on a number of occasions that Disney documentaries were well-intentioned but highly flawed pieces of work I should also say that they are still well worth seeing when placed in a historical context. Many of the earlier outings from The House Of Mouse managed to show people parts of the world and natural spectacles that they otherwise would have remained completely unaware of. In this respect, the older movies still hold a certain cultural value. Sadly, I still hold the opinion that most of the stuff they put out nowadays in that field (e.g. African Cats) is a waste of time and nothing more than sanitised stories indoctrinating youngsters into the Disney worldview.But let's get to Saludos Amigos, something that I found surprisingly enjoyable. It runs for about 40 minutes and is really just a few cartoons linked by footage of Disney animators visiting Latin America. We get to see some local colour and lovely scenery and we also get cartoons with the following plot lines 1) Donald Duck visits Lake Titicaca, meets some local folk and gets in a right mess with a stubborn llama.2) Pedro, a small airplane, sets off on his first perilous journey to pick up mail and bring it home.3) Goofy is transported from his cowboy life to show what it is like to be a gaucho.4) Watercolor Of Brazil mixes wonderful music with great visuals as an animator paints a number of lovely, Latin American scenes and then lets Jose Carioca (a cool parrot) introduce Donald Duck to the fun and exuberance of the Samba.As usual with Disney features of this kind, a number of people took charge of the different sequences and stories. Thankfully, they all do a very good job. The weak spot may be Pedro but it's still bearable enough in a film with such a short runtime and the other cartoons and snippets of footage from the areas visited more than makes up for that one poor segment.I certainly wouldn't call it an essential viewing for Disney fans but it's very enjoyable, especially if you like Goofy and Donald Duck, and I'd recommend picking it up if you ever stumble across it at a bargain price. "},{"Title":"Dull shorts strung together and then dumped into the local theaters.","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Family","Review":" Saludos Amigos is a very short full-length film that actually consists of several short films created as a result of Walt Disney's good will tour of South America just before the US entered WWII. This tour is discussed at length in the documentary Walt & el Groupo and Saludos Amigos is a special feature included on this disk--though it was originally released in theaters in 1942.I know some will be shocked when they read this, but the fact is that the two feature films created as a result of this trip were pretty poor--mostly because they came off more like travelogues than the typical Disney film. IN addition, they simply are not fun and kids will hate them. Of the two, Saludos Amigos is the best--but it still is sub-par Disney. It consists of several shorts all released together instead of separately. Apparently Disney realized that the shorts had very limited marketability, so he had them bundled together and released. Imagine how sad people must have felt when they saw this dull stuff!The first short involves Donald Duck in Peru. While it has a few moments, it comes off as a dull travel film and not much more. Then, the film switches to an odd and not particularly entertaining film about a tiny plane called Pedro. This really seemed to have little to do with Chile. Then, footage of Walt and his employees visiting the Argentine gauchos is shown--followed by a short featuring Goofy as one of these cowboys. It's a lot like the typical Goofy educational film and shows the differences between the American and Argentinian versions. This is probably the best short of the four in the film but once again, it's far from their best work. Finally, the film jumps to Rio where there is a lot of samba music and lots of footage of Carnival and the short Watercolor of Brazil. The music is the same title music to the Terry Gilliam film Brazil--a film about as different from this Disney film as you could imagine. This short features Donald Duck and a new character, Joe Carioca--a talking parrot. Mostly you just see them dancing about to samba music and they don't have a lot of personality...or fun.Overall, a pretty dull lot but made a bit better if you see the accompanying documentary. I certainly wouldn't recommend you rush out to see this. "},{"Title":"José Carioca Is The Star","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Family","Review":" I vaguely remember this cartoon from my childhood. Personally, I don't even find it a particularly interesting piece of Disney fiction and magic. The movie is divided in four segments across the South America, I can only remember three of them though one in Lake Titicaca where tourist Donald Duck fumbles with a stubborn llama; a rather dull segment about an airplane on a perilous journey across the Andes...This definitely is not the stuff Disney is famous for! However, the last segment, lovely titled 'Aquarelas do Brazil' makes the whole show worthwhile. It follows nothing less than the birth of the amazing José Carioca, a Brazilian parrot who'd go on to become one of the most famous Disney characters in South America! I fondly remember reading his adventures in comics as a child. The cartoon doesn't yet show Carioca with his characteristic traits, namely a mixture of tramp/conman figure who's always broke but always succeeds through luck and wit.In 'Saludos Amigos' he's still in his infancy although one already sees his love for fun and folly. Priceless is watching him teach Donald Duck how to do the Samba and both hitting all the nightclubs in Rio de Janeiro bringing to life the exuberant life of the '40's Brazil! Also beautiful is the song 'Aquarela do Brazil,' which Terry Gilliam would later use in his masterpiece, 'Brazil,' which I've recently seen and made me reminisce about this long-forgotten piece of my childhood. "},{"Title":"Barely Feature Length","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Family","Review":"  This is the fore runner of the many of the Disney TV shows of the 50's, 60's and 70's, mixing live action travel footage with cartoons that tie into the subject.It is also the first of the multi-short film that Disney would release as feature through the 1940's and early 1950's, but its one of the better ones since the pieces are all about on the same level. This, to me, is a better film than the Three Caballeros which followed it and which more people know about than this.There are really only only four shorts, Donald a tourist, Goofy as a gaucho, Pedro the mail plane, and a piece set to the song Brazil that introduces Joe Carioca.The real problem with this film is it just stops. Brazil ends and so does the movie. I know they say leave them wanting more but this is ridiculous.This is a renter. The DVD box says its 75 minutes, but only if you include the short documentary, which is almost as long as the movie itself. If you and your kids like it, then buy it, but its too little to be throwing 20 bucks away on. "},{"Title":"Great feature about South America! I love Saludos Amigos!","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Family","Review":" This feature was made to improve relations with South America. It features a few animated shorts with live action breaking the scenes up. The live action is designed to teach about South American culture.I am someone who really likes this feature (even though it is short). I love the scene with Jose Caricoa (sp?) where Donald can't pronounce his name. Joe-say.... I would watch this at my old job at a video store every chance I got! I would recommend it to everyone, but since some people are not impressed with this feature I would suggest renting it first.Overall very good!!! "}{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"1 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Family","Review":" I have been a huge Disney fan for as long as I can remember, and I enjoyed Saludos Amigos. I did think it could have been longer(just a bit), one or two parts could have been better paced and Pedro the Aeroplane in my opinion isn't that funny and takes me out of the setting. That said, the animation is very lush with gorgeous colours and colourful settings and backgrounds. Plus all the characters are drawn very well. The title song is also memorable and the score is marvellous with some catchy rhythms. There are several entertaining sequences, Goofy comes very close to stealing the movie, and there is a hilarious meeting with a pesky llama. Donald himself is great with a wonderful cantankerous attitude, but as he teaches him to samba Jose Carioca steals the show as he is funny and delightfully chirpy. Overall, entertaining if not among the best of Disney. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Fun, but overlong, even at 40 minutes","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Family","Review":" Saludos Amigos, is a short (but, at the same time, long) Disney film featuring four animated shorts set in South America. Surprisingly, I found myself LAUGHING throughout the film (I'm a Looney Tunes guy, not a Mickey Mouse guy. What gives?!). The Donald and Goofy segments in particular provide good insight into the customs of these Spanish-speaking people. The cartoon about the plane had good animation, yet it was a little too cutesy for me. By the last segment, however, I had grown tired of this film. Donald and Joe Carioca (who both appeared in The Three Caballeros, one of my childhood favorites) appear in a dull and tacked-on short that can't seem to decide if it's supposed to be a pretty cartoon about the scenery of Brazil or a comedic cartoon full of Donald-style gags. Then, without warning, the film abruptly ends, leaving me even more disappointed. To wrap it up, this film is a nice time-waster, but see it for the first and third cartoons, and the live-action segments. "},{"Title":"Unremarkable mixture of animation/live action - routine Disney.","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Family","Review":"  This 43 minute feature has lain in the Disney vaults for almost sixty years. Although one or two of the cartoon segments within have appeared on the Disney television shows, the work itself entered a state of oblivion, not undeserved.   It is a live-action travelogue to South America, inserted into which are four cartoons  Goofy as a gaucho, Donald as a tourist, Pedro (a mail carrying junior plane) and Donald with Joe Carioca dancing the samba. Accompanying it is a 30 minute 16 mm travelogue of the tour (in reverse order), utilizing more local detail.   This work inexplicably garnered three Oscar noms Sound, Scoring and Song - all undeserved.   Probably it was honored due to its goodwill efforts in acknowledging our South American neighbors continued opposition to Naziism - so can be counted as propaganda. The Academy chose to nominate the forgettable title song, appearing only under the credits, and not the hit parade song (Tico, Tico) from the film - dumb Academy.   This is harmless for kids but a piece of boring fluff for adults - certainly not worth buying, but maybe a rental or two for the young set may be in order.  Newly released on video 5/00.  "},{"Title":"Saludos Amigos","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Short, Family","Review":" I'm not sure whether to call Saludos Amigos a film, a short, an educational piece or an experiment. It is, at the very least, an interesting endeavor. The snippets of information given in the segments are interesting, and it's nice to get a bit of culture. The aged, sepia tone video footage of the Central American areas visited (and South American) gives it a rustic feel, which makes me want to visit. Yes, this Disney cartoon made me wonder what it is like to live in Brazil, Argentina and so forth. That's impressive enough on its own.Saludos Amigos isn't as such a whole story, but four segments. In all honesty, they don't seem like much to make up a movie, and while the first three are cute and well animated, they seem more like the Disney shorts for television. The style doesn't seem cinematically distinct, like the Golden or Dark Age of Disney. It's lovely to look at and masterfully done; the movements and comedic timing are sublime, and the backgrounds are gorgeous. It just seems a tad less special than Disney's other works.That is, until the last segment. Set in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, it is called Aquarela do Brasil (Watercolour of Brasil). It's beautiful, artistic and inspired. The music is wonderful, and it showcases the animator's talent and imagination. It seems like the whole movie was interesting tidbits, leading up to a really cool piece of animation. The flamingos, waterfall and toucan-bananas were really cool! Not only that, but now I know where that green parrot originated from. José Carioca, needs to be brought back. He's suave, has a sexy accent, and smokes cigars. I demand more José! Also, seeing Donald getting drunk and nabbing some booty is rather hilarious.The segments include Donald and Goofy in all sorts of situations; Donald rides a grumpy llama at Lake Titicata, Goofy takes on the persona of an Argentinian gaucho. There's a sweet little short involving a plane named Pedro, who must deliver mail in Santiago. There is a few funny moments, such as when Donald and his llama get stuck on a bridge, or when he breaks the fourth wall in the fourth segment by using ink from José's outline to draw a silly stick figure. The educational aspects were pleasant, you can tell the animators had fun. It was neat to see Uncle Walt! Overall, Saludos Amigos is a passable little feature. It sports some decent and amazing animation, and introduces a cool character. It was genuinely interesting. I'm not sure if the information is outdated, but it show cultures of days gone by, and that is worth a lot. It's nothing amazing, but it's cute, you can see the effort put into it. It deserves to be checked out at least once. "},{"Title":"Looks more like a documentary.","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Short, Family","Review":" This is Walt Disney's sixth full length animated feature film. If you're looking for an animated movie based on a fairy tale or a conventional Disney story about talking animals, you will not find it here. This film is one of six package films (string of short stories bundled in one movie) which contains four features based on the culture of South America. Apparently, Disney started making package films due to the cut in number of Disney staff members because of World War II.This film looks more like a documentary than a classic Disney movie or cartoon short. It consists of both animation, which wasn't bad for its time, and live action scenes that includes Walt Disney and animators touring South American countries to learn about their cultures. Each live action scene serves as a lead-on to the animated short stories, which unfortunately aren't very captivating due to the lack of character personality, fun, comedy and charm. While unique, the film is not an attention grabber and children certainly wouldn't be able to sit through it. With the exception of Donald Duck and Goofy, much of the cartoon characters are forgettable.Again, it is a unique Disney film entry, but falls short of entertainment. It won't hurt to skip over this one. If you're looking to watch a Disney package film with a little more excitement, I would go with Fun and Fancy Free and The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad.Grade D "},{"Title":"War times were tough, even for animation studios","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Short, Family","Review":" Saludos Amigos is basically Disney's desperate wartime attempt to find new markets and to make some quick cash, because understandably European markets had something else on their minds at the time. And it shows. Saludos Amigos is straight pandering to South American public and at least it earns some points for honesty and for at least trying to be entertaining.Nevertheless, it's pretty clear that this was made in some rush and with an extremely limited budget. All of the segments are brief, kind of rough and don't contain much of a story. All are also little more than tourist ads for various South American locations, which isn't as much of a problem as you would think, given that this was done by Disney, after all.The first and the third segment, featuring Donal Duck and Goofy, respectively, are the two better ones in my opinion. Both heavily resemble the various Disney shorts made before this and in a good way. They're quick with jokes, the two characters are as entertaining as they've always been and as a whole I have nothing major against them.The second segment, featuring Pedro, the littlest airplane, is the granddaddy of Pixar's whole Car franchise, and that's not a compliment. While the segment contains some of the nicest animation sequences in the whole film, and the various images are both threatening and cute, varying as the scenes demand, the main character is annoying, the story predictable and as a whole it's just painfully childish.The last segment, featuring José Carioca, is not my favourite, but it's a fun little story about one crazed parrot introducing Donald to samba and various other Brazilian traditions. From what I've understood, José is still a popular character in South America, and I can see why. He has a lot of personality, funny hijinks with his whole ladies love samba gigolo routine and he works very well with Donald. The whole segment is painfully advertising, but at least we got a good character out of it.Saludos Amigos is important part of Disney's legacy, because it was one of the films that allowed them to tide over the war years. It's not a very good film compared to Disney's usual fare, but I like that I've seen it. "},{"Title":"What a Mix of Politics, Private Industry, Animation and Live Action","Date":"4 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Short, Family","Review":" ALTHOUGH THE EFFECT of this animation/live action hybrid was less spectacular than Disney's other efforts, such as SNOW WHITE, FANTASIA, BAMBI and DUMBO; it certainly was a success. Both at the Box Office and in critical praise, SALUDOS ANIGOS was adjudged a winner; both domestically and in the overseas marketplaces.SUCCESS IN THE third area of its reasons for existence were even more overwhelmingly effective than had been anticipated by anyone. The behind the scenes genesis of the film was an alliance between Disney and the United States Department of State. Presents us with a most perfect example of collaboration between the Private Sector and the Public in the form of the U.S. Federal Government, Roosevelt Administration.UNLIKE MOST SUCH experimentations, this one worked and paid big dividends for both parties.IN MMAKING SHORT work of a long story, the State Department underwrote a good will tour by Walt and a group of his artists, musicians and writers. The tour was of South America with stops in Brazil, Argentina, Bolivia, Peru, Chile and some others. The purpose was two fold. One being as a sort of bulwark against the growing fascination with Fascism on the Conytinent; with the other's being an extended junket by the Disney Company in discovering the customs, manner of dress, language, literature and music of the many countries and regions of South America. Both ends were highly successful.THE SCENARIO FOLLOWS the real life tour of the Disney crew and uses the tour by airplane as the link between four animated segments. The first finds American tourist, Donald Duck, replete with faithful camera, visiting the Bolivia-Peru border at Lake Titicaca. The second finds a story very much like LITTLE TOOT (the tugboat); but has at its center a family of anthropomorphic airplanes whose job is to fly the mail over the Andes Mountains. The third examines how the Argentine Gaucho is the South American equivalent of the Cowboy of the Old West. Segment four brings Donald Duck to Rio de Janero in Brazil; where he meets and interacts with Portuguese speaking Parrot, Jose Carioca.ONE FURTHER OBSERVATION which we found was regarding the format that they used in framing the individual story segments. As a central dramatic device, Disney chose that of the touring artisans being moved about the continent from one country to another their charter airliner; much in the same manner that the real tour did. THE FICTIONAL MOVIE flight reminded us of our 4th grade geography book. In it one character Peter Martin was privy to his father's trans-global flight in which the two (along with us 9 year olds) visited all of the continents save for Antarctica.THE GREAT STORY of behind the scenes story of SALUDOS AMIGOS and its sequel, THE THREE CABALEROS, is told in the 2008 documentary film, WALT & EL GRUPO. "},{"Title":"Live action/animation Disney film detailing a goodwill trip to South America","Date":"24 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Short, Family","Review":" This is the sixth animated feature done by the Walt Disney animation studio. There will be spoilers aheadPrior to US entry into World War II, the US Department of State got Disney to go on a goodwill tour of South America due to the popularity of Disney's characters in Latin America.Material gathered there was used to make this film, which proved to be sufficiently popular that Disney made a second film (The Three Caballeros) in the same vein.At just over 41 minutes in length, this is just barely of feature length. Composed of live action footage and animation, it covers visits to the four countries of Peru, Chile, Argentina and Brazil. Each section of the film describes what the Disney artists found in each country as inspiration, followed by short animated sequences based on the visits. Brief live action/animated transitions of flights are used to lead into the sections.The first animated segment, Lake Titicaca, shows Donald Duck visiting Peru as a tourist and interacting with a boy and his llama. It's typical Donald Duck and is rather funny. The highlight is Donald and the llama crossing a suspension bridge.The second segment, Pedro, concerns a little plane named Pedro and his flight to carry the mail over the mountains in Chile. It's a fairly standard short of the small hero faces adversity and wins through variety and is the weakest segment, mostly because the other three are more entertaining. It's still fairly solid.The third segment is Argentina and its gauchos. The live action footage of gauchos leads into a Goofy short, El Gaucho Goofy and it follows the pattern of other Goofy shorts. The best part here is the slow motion footage of Goofy in action at the tail end of the short.The fourth and by far the best animated segment is Aquarela do Brasil (Watercolor of Brazil) which is the most lushly beautiful animation of the film. Donald makes his return in this and it also introduces Jose Carioca. The animation starts out as a series of watercolor drawings which become animated and things morph from one thing to another. The animation is fantastic and the music is marvelous. Donald meets Jose, who is awed at meeting Pato Donald and takes Donald out to see the sights and to dance the samba. Thje segment is too short and leaves me wanting more.This is available on DVD and is well worth watching. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Dark days, bright cartoons","Date":"12 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Short, Family","Review":" The Disney movie Saludos Amigos, which runs for little under 45 minutes, came out in 1942 when World War II was in full force and a certain movie called Casablanca hit theaters as well. Basically, this Disney work is a collection of four cartoons, each under 10 minutes. Between these cartoons, we find out some information about life in South America at that point. I did not like the introduction about cartoonists traveling down south, but the other sequences between the cartoons very informative and certainly worth a watch already for the contemporary historical documents they are.The four cartoons were all created by different directors and also work as stand-alone films. The first is about Donald experiencing South American in his usual slapstick fashion. We see his struggles with a llama and with dizzy heights. The second is about little mail plane who suddenly gets called to action after his parents suffer from high oil pressure. I found the ending a bit too melodramatic, but everything else about this short film is very good, possibly my favorite from the quartet. The third is another how-to short film featuring Goofy about how Argentinians/Gauchos live. I like especially the sports-related Goofy shorts, but this one did not do too much for me. Finally, Donald is back and meets a Brazilian bird. A fruitful collaboration as these two caballeros join two years later for The Three Caballeros with another bird not seen yet in this short film. Also, I would like to emphasize one scene, where a bee gets swallowed by a carnivorous plant, then transforms into Donald and spits out the bee again. This example that the bee is not just gone shows how family-friendly these cartoons were and really neglected the presence of death completely unlike animated films these days.Saludos Amigos scored three Oscar-nominations in the music/sound categories, which is fairly uncommon for a short film looking at today's standards. It did not win an Oscar, but its success was probably one of the main reasons for the sequel. Worth a watch for cartoon enthusiasts or people interested in the history of South America. Lots of Latin music included here as well. "},{"Title":"How about a real look at Latin America?","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Short, Family","Review":" Saludos Amigos is an ultra-stereotyped look at Latin America, which Disney followed with The Three Caballeros two years later. Basically, it depicts hispanophone and lusophone America as suave men and sexy women, all of whom spend eternity partying. That's right, no look at the legacies of colonialism (namely the terrible inequality). Cool parrot José Carioca (which is the demonym for Rio de Janeiro) of course returned in The Three Caballeros.Basically, this movie is what Disney THOUGHT that it meant to build good relations with Latin America. A better way to do so would be to read Eduardo Galeano's Open Veins of Latin America (a Spanish-language copy of which Hugo Chávez gave to Barack Obama at a Summit of the Americas in 2009). "}{"Title":"Now, we see a bit of live action - plus animated sweetness!","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Family","Review":" iHola! Que tal? (sorry, I can't do an upside-down ? on my keyboard) iMuy bien, gracias!Yeah, I'm doing very well, indeed!Why the Spanish? Because today, we are looking at the other 1942 Disney animated movie, Saludos Amigos! This is one of many 1940s Disney short cartoon compilations released into theaters. So, we see a few short cartoons that take us south of the border and in between these shorts, we see a travel agent telling us about the many places of Latin America and such.Come to think of it, I actually remember seeing the last part of this on the Disney Channel back nine years ago from this month of writing this (yes, you DCOM fans, we forefathers had old stuff on this network back in the days of yore), and though I didn't get to see this movie in whole, I still thought that this was good, among many other Mickey and Friends movies.Saludos Amigos - iSi! Diez estrellas (10 stars). "}]