[{"Title":"Horror may be muted...but the music is glorious...","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":"  Before writing a film article on Claude Rains for CLASSIC IMAGES (December 2000), I took another look at 'Phantom' to appraise his performance. He's one of those rare actors who can make you feel sympathy when he plays the ill-treated violinist so that you understand why he turns into 'The Phantom'. His performance is just one asset of this handsome technicolor adaptation of the famous story. Why carp about the changes made for this version? It stands on its own as an entertaining melodrama studded with operatic sequences that give it added dimension. Nelson Eddy has never been in better voice and Susanna Foster is certainly up to the demands of her singing role. The comic aspects of the story are a bit overdone and the only weakness of the film is giving Eddy and Edgar Barrier silly routines as they compete for the hand of Foster. Aside from that, this can still be enjoyed as a horror story set against the Paris Opera background. The sets are rich and detailed. Understandably, the film won Academy Awards for color cinematography and color art direction. Edward Ward's haunting score was also nominated and contributes greatly to the overall enjoyment of the film. The horror is muted in this version--but the rich musical highlights are a compensation. Absorbing entertainment. "},{"Title":"The Phantom With Opera!","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":"  The splendor of Technicolor and the lavish opera sequences distinguish this version of the famous story.  While this version bears little resemblance to the original, it does feature a first-rate performance by Claude Rains, in the title role.  It certainly employs the best production values of any filmed version, and provides for high entertainment. Recommended. "},{"Title":"A film best appreciated by music lovers, if not by horror fans and purists&#133;","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" First of all, let me state that I am a lover of classical music. I am not a fan of horror films. This particular version of the classic horror tale is very different in plot and in tone from its original literary source material&#151;as well as the previous silent film version starring Lon Chaney in the title role. But nevertheless, the 1943 film succeeds beautifully as a romantic melodrama rather than as a horror film. For those who love classical music and performing arts, you're in luck with this one. Those looking for terror and chills, as well as a more faithful version of the literary work, look elsewhere.Permit me to express my adoration for this film from the beginning. I was only three years old when I first saw this film, and I was still crazy about the Andrew Lloyd Webber stage musical I saw during that time (it was my first time seeing it, and since then I have seen it thrice on the professional stage, most recently two years ago at the age of 17). I immediately fell in love with this grand old Technicolor film the first time I saw it.But I will be brief in presenting the following elements. The story here is vastly different from the original Gaston Leroux work, yet it works wonderfully well due to its originality and freshness. The Phantom is presented here as a tragic antihero rather than the melodramatic living skeleton Lon Chaney gave us in the 1925 silent version. We have splendid acting from all the performers in this film, most notably Claude Rains in the title role. We are given a sympathetic, tragic view of a lonely composer/violinist who fails to achieve his most admirable goal, despite Rains' limited performance time in the film. This particular role is what earned Rains the status of one of my all-time favorite actors since he impressed me at such an early age. However, it is Nelson Eddy and Susanna Foster who are the real stars of the film, expressing their rich and unique vocal talents within the film's glorious opera sequences, which are the among the film's many highlights. And the Oscar-winning production values and Technicolor cinematography are rich and opulent, fully expressing the wonders of a 19th Century Paris and its magnificent Opera House interiors. The humor between the rivaling Nelson Eddy and Edgar Barrier is pretty good, too.And the music! Under composer Edward Ward's Oscar-nominated score and creativity the opera sequences are magnificently staged, yet here I will solely express my love for one thing Edward Ward's Lullaby of the Bells. Lullaby of the Bells is the Phantom's musical leitmotif throughout the film, and its effectiveness is expressed within the world of the film, arranged for violin, solo piano, piano and vocal (sung beautifully by Susanna Foster and Nelson Eddy), and, most impressively, for piano and orchestra. How wonderful to know that Rains himself learned how to play this lovely song on piano and on the violin, even though he never played a musical instrument before at the time! Unfortunately, like Rains' tragic misunderstanding with his admirable goal, the song is barely available on CD and sheet music for the song is almost nonexistent. The only CD that contains a modern symphonic rerecording of the song is Piano in Hollywood The Classic Movie Concertos. However, that particular recording is unimpressive and weak compared to the lush and dramatic power of the original as heard in the film's unforgettable finale, yet it does have its moments here and there on the CD. Nevertheless, since I am always impressed with the universality and effectiveness of the song, it remains my all-time favorite song unto this day.I simply can't praise this film highly enough, so please watch it and judge it for yourself. But as I said before, this particular version will best appeal to those who love classical music and the performing arts, including great acting and drama. For those of you who expect a Gothic horror tale of a masked living skeleton who creates torture chambers within the Paris Opera House catacombs, an Angel of Music who hides behind a young soprano's dressing room mirror, and a Phantom who laughs melodramatically, then this film is not for you. "},{"Title":"The Mad Scourge of the Paris Opera","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" When Universal decided to remake Lon Chaney's classic silent version of the opera, sound opened up a rather obvious vista for the film. We can make it as much about opera as the phantom haunting the Paris Opera. A task rendered considerably easier by the presence of Nelson Eddy and Susanne Foster. Unlike his screen partner at MGM, Jeanette MacDonald, Nelson Eddy came from the opera to the cinema. He always viewed himself as a singer first, films were something he did to get publicity for his concert tours. But Eddy always loved the grand opera, it could easily been his career path. Consequently The Phantom of the Opera and the arias he sings here always had a special place in his affections. We see a lot of the real Nelson here.Another one of his interests was sculpture. The bust of Susanna Foster that Claude Rains stole from Eddy's dressing room is something that Nelson Eddy actually did. Sculpting was a hobby of his and as you can see he was quite good at it. Might have made a living doing that as well.Susanna Foster who had a lovely soprano voice gave up her career soon after this most acclaimed of her films. A pity too, it was a real loss to the screen.This Phantom of the Opera has a bit of comedy in it as well. Baritone Nelson Eddy and Inspector of the Surete Edgar Barrier have an uneasy rivalry going for the affections of Foster. The scenes involving this are nicely staged by director Arthur Lubin, more known for doing Abbott and Costello comedies.This may have been Edgar Barrier's best film role. He was a more than competent player, his career probably suffering because he was a bit too much like Warren William who was himself a poor man's John Barrymore. Barrier played equally well as villains or as a good guy as he is here. Another fine role for him even though he only has one scene is in Cyrano de Bergerac where he plays the very sly and all knowing and discerning Cardinal Richelieu.Of course Phantom of the Opera is really made by the performance of Claude Rains as the mild mannered, inoffensive Eric Claudin, a violinist in the Paris Opera who is crushing out big time on Susanna Foster. We see him first being told after 20 years he's being given the sack by the company. What they describe sounds an awful lot like Carpel Tunnel Syndrome that he's developed which is affecting his playing the violin. Bad news for Susanna Foster also because he's been her secret benefactor in paying for voice lessons.There isn't any middle aged man who doesn't identify with Rains. Tossed out of his job, the rent due, crushing out big time on a young girl, a lot of us have been there. Then when he thinks an unscrupulous music publisher is stealing a concerto he's written, he loses it completely and kills him. And when acid is thrown in his face disfiguring him, it's a short journey to madness. Rains really makes us feel for Claudin. In that sense the film is not a horror picture in that we're dealing with monsters or unworldly creatures that Universal so specialized in. The man who becomes the Phantom is all too real, too human, and if we're pushed right, could be any one of us.Can you do better than opera arias by Nelson Eddy and a classic performance by Claude Rains? I think not. "},{"Title":"A CLASSIC IN ITS OWN RIGHT (AND GORGEOUS, TOO!)","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":"  It's perfectly true that this version isn't Lon Chaney and is watered-down Leroux, but it still has excellent performances and - this was during WW II remember - extraordinarily beautiful production values which resulted in Oscars for Color Cinematography and Art/Set Decoration. I've loved this film since I was a kid, even though back then I had to endure black-and-white telecasts because the local CBS affiliate was unable to obtain a color print that was up to their standards - years later I was lucky enough to see it - twice! in a theatre - as gorgeous as the color is on the DVD, it was even more breathtaking on the big screen. The extra features (the documentary Phantom Unmasked, which includes a rare interview with the elusive Susannah Foster, and the audio commentary) have only increased my pleasure in watching this film over and over again.  "},{"Title":"Quite a good version!","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" This 1943 version is a remake of the 1925 version from the same studio (Universal). Probably the most vivid and effective use of Technicolor I have seen. Lush photography, great crane shots and an impressive Paris Opera House! The operatic scenes are very well done--and they are important to the story line. Very entertaining, especially since there is no graphic violence or gore--except the Phantom's face. Nelson Eddy is in top voice. One of Hollywood's most versatile actors, Claude Rains is remarkable in the lead role. Just the year before he was the memorable Prefect of Police in Casablanca. This production is mounted first class in every way.The DVD release is a fantastic transfer from an original old Technicolor master. "},{"Title":"Not really a horror movie, more a romantic melodrama. Lavishly produced and Claude Rains is excellent.","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":"  Anybody approaching 'Phantom Of The Opera' as a horror movie will probably be disappointed, but if you look upon it as a romantic melodrama it's pretty entertaining. The sets (mostly recycled from the twenties version) are lavish, the music is strong and the performances are good, especially the wonderful Claude Rains ('The Invisible Man', 'Casablanca', 'Notorious') who is excellent (as always). The rest of the cast includes songbirds Nelson Eddy and Susanna Foster, the late Hume Cronyn in a bit part, and a nice cameo from Fritz Leiber (the father of the famous science fiction and fantasy writer Fritz Leiber, Jr) as Franz Liszt. 'Phantom Of The Opera' is far from my favourite Universal horror movie but I still enjoyed it and it's worth watching, though I think in many ways the Hammer remake in the 1960s starring Herbert Lom is a better movie. "},{"Title":"The Phantom Goes Musical","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Gaston Leroux's penny-dreadful novel was hardly the stuff of great literature, but it did manage to tap into the public consciousness with its gas-light-Gothic tale of a beautiful singer menaced by a horrific yet seductive serial killer lurking in the forgotten basement labyrinths of the Paris Opera. Lon Chaney's silent classic kept the basic elements of the novel intact--and proved one of the great box office hits of its day, a fact that prompted Universal Studios to contemplate a remake throughout most of the 1930s.Although several proposals were considered (including one intended to feature Deanna Durbin, who despised the idea and derailed the project with a flat refusal), it wasn't until 1943 that a remake reached the screen. And when it did, it was an eye-popping Technicolor extravaganza, all talking, all singing, and dancing. The Phantom had gone musical.In many respects this version of PHANTOM anticipates the popular Andrew Lloyd Webber stage musical, for whereas the Chaney version presented the Phantom as a truly sinister entity, this adaptation presents the character as one more sinned against than sinning--an idea that would color almost every later adaptation, and Webber's most particularly so. But it also shifts the focus of the story away from the title character, who is here really more of a supporting character than anything else. The focus is on Paris Opera star Christine Dae, played by Susanna Foster. In this version Christine is not only adored by the Phantom; she is also romantically pursued by two suitors who put aside their differences to protect her.Directed by Universal workhorse Arthur Lubin, this version is truly eye-popping as only a 1940s Technicolor spectacular could be the color is intensely brilliant, and Lubin makes the most of it by focusing most of his camera-time on the stage of the Paris Opera itself and splashing one operatic performance after another throughout the film. But in terms of actual story interest, the film is only so-so. Susanna Foster had a great singing voice, but she did not have a memorable screen presence, and while the supporting cast (which includes Nelson Eddy, Edgar Barrier, Leo Carrillo, and Jane Farrar) is solid enough they lack excitement. And the pace of the film often seems a bit slow, sometimes to the point of clunkiness.The saving grace of the film--in addition to the aforementioned photography, which won an Oscar--is Claude Rains. A great artist, Rains did not make the mistake of copying Chaney, and although the script robs the Phantom of his most fearsome aspects, Rains fills the role with subtle menace that is wonderful to behold, completely transcending the film's slow pace, the lackluster script, and sanitized for your protection tone so typical of Universal Studios in the 1940s. Unless you're a die-hard Phantom fan you're likely to be unimpressed.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Horror(?)In Color!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":"  I'm not sure if I'd call this a horror movie(it's certainly a drama).It is the result of good acting,filming,and glorious color!!!!!!!I've never seen a Universal horror movie in color other than this!The story isn't a real adaption of Gaston Leroux's novel.It has several changes made that make it different from the book.It's a must-see for movie lovers.Horror or otherwise. "},{"Title":"Too much Opera, too little Phantom","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":"  A lot was obviously put into the operatic scenes, which were probably spectacular back in 1943. However, more effort could have been put into displaying the motives and madness of the phantom. The light hearted comedy attempts of the two courters of Christine Dubois seems out of place and takes the final edge of any suspense in the film. "}{"Title":"Beautiful...One of the greatest stories ever told.","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" It doesn't happen very often, but I was touched by this film. It's not the first adaptation of the story that I've seen, but it sure is one of the best. In fact, only the silent version starring Lon Chaney beat this version. That version is of course an absolute masterpiece, but I easily dare to say this is one too. It doesn't strictly follow the original storyline as you know it but that alright. You're just staring at it with your mouth wide open (at least, I was...) Claude Rains is just perfect in his role as the phantom. Because of his flawless performance, you feel what he feels and you have get the idea you would take the same actions as he does in this movie. Rains plays Eric Claudin. A rather anonymous violin player in the famous opera of Paris. In all the years he worked there, he grew a strong passion and love for the young and talented singer Christine Dubois. He even wrote a concert for her. But, he's getting older and he gets fired. His only hope now to keep seeing Christine, is to sell his concert and let her sing the main voice. When he gets the idea a production company stole his music, he snaps and attacks a man. During the struggle, Claude gets mutilated horrible by burning acid. From then on he lives in the opera building does everything to make Christine a star...even if that means other people have to die in a brutal way. I can't praise this film enough. It's just perfect in my opinion. The acting, the story, the shock-effects and above all ...the wonderful music. I must admit, if you're not a big fan of opera music, this film will certainly be annoying to you. But hey, you can expect classical music in a version of Phantom of the Opera right ? If you can appreciate a bit of opera singing, this film will have another great extra value to you. I say SEE IT. My humble opinion on Phantom of the opera = 10/10 . A must see !!! "},{"Title":"It isn't what it is.","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Aside from a starring vehicle for Claude Rains, there's not much to be found here. Especially obnoxious is the soundtrack, which unbelievably includes a section wherein Tchaikovsky's 4th symphony actually has lyrics written for it and is performed as an opera. That's Hollywood. Oh,and there's an actor who plays Liszt in this film, who apparently is on hand as an advocate for the misunderstood Eric Claudin (The Phantom). The whole thing is pretty silly, and about the best thing that can be said for it is that this effort makes all the more clear why the 1925 version with Lon Chaney Sr. is such an important film. Universal might have been trying to revive the horror film at this point in its history, but this work is a prime example of why the horror genre very often descends into bad slapstick. "},{"Title":"So sad ...","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" So many&#150;time and time again&#150;have typecast this movie as a horror film. It's not. This movie was meant to be a thriller, opera, comedy, and love story. To those who complained about this movie featuring too much singing; it's called the Phantom of the OPERA. Of course it's going to have OPERA in it, genius. If you don't enjoy singing, don't see this version, nor the most recent 2004/2005 version. Actually, I think the opera in the silent film is worse. I know you're saying but it's silent! Well, I have news for you; the movie features 5 minute&#150;sometimes more&#150;long scenes of people singing on stage ... but you can't hear them. ... why would I want to watch the 1925 version then? It stole 90 minutes of my life, and I want them back. Well, enough negativity. Susanna Foster delivers a power-packed performance, hitting a wondrous F above high C. This movie nominated Edward Ward for best scoring for a musical picture, and rightfully so. Lullaby of the Bells has been my favorite song for over 9 years of my life now, and I firmly believe this song is the greatest composition I have ever heard. I don't care much for Nelson Eddy, but his powerful baritone even won me over to the dark side of opera. I loved this movie, and I can almost guarantee you will too. Though, I must admit, I've been watching it since I was 4 and that's probably why I enjoy it so much; it's an acquired taste. "},{"Title":"You first, Anatole, because your name begins with an A.","Date":"31 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Universal's Technicolor remake of their 1925 silent classic, still the definitive version of the Phantom story. The color is nice and I certainly appreciate the production values but it's largely wasted on a plodding melodrama with too many opera numbers. Despite being part of Universal's horror stable, it really isn't a horror film. Claude Rains may play the title character but he takes a backseat (and third billing) to Nelson Eddy and Susanna Foster as two parts of an insufferably banal love triangle. The other part belongs to Edgar Barrier. Both Eddy and Barrier are considerably older than Foster, which doesn't help matters. For his part, Rains is good though miscast and not in the film nearly enough. Nelson Eddy, with risibly darkened hair and a pencil mustache, is flavorless and boring. Susanna Foster sings nicely (if you're into that sort of music) but gives a performance so forgettably bland you will likely have a hard time remembering what she looked like after the movie is over.In addition to being dull and lacking any real horror traits, the movie has a number of other flaws. Lame comic relief, for one thing. It's also plagued by plot gremlins and some ridiculous moments that fall into the category of unintentional comedy. Look no further than the scene where Rains' Phantom uses a small hacksaw to cut through a very thick chain holding up a chandelier in one big scene. It resembles something out of a cartoon and is impossible to take seriously. The big scene where the Phantom's mask is removed is marred by an underwhelming makeup job on Rains. Gone is the horrible visage of Lon Chaney's Phantom. Now we have a man with a disfiguring scar but hardly something monstrous. In an early draft of the script, Rains was to have been revealed to be Foster's father but they changed that. However, the original idea hangs over the film and gives it a weird vibe (Somehow I always felt drawn to him). The explanation we're given in the end for why Rains cared so much for Foster is that they were from the same town! This is one of my least favorite Universal horror films. I have watched most of the others repeatedly, some dozens of times. But this is one I have only seen a few times. I went into watching this today hoping my opinion would be changed after not having seen it for probably close to a decade. But my opinion is the same now as then. The movie is watchable, particularly for Universal completists, but there is no real horror and way too much romance, humor, and music. A little more Phantom and a little less opera, please. The sets, some of which were holdovers from the 1925 film, were reused for The Climax with Boris Karloff the following year. That movie was to have been a sequel to this but was reworked as a separate but similar film. "},{"Title":"Couldn't scare a 2 year old, but still has its charms","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" (55%) A more light-hearted horror from universal featuring large amounts of dubbed-in opera performances and some romantic comedy, although I've learnt that some of the actors were in fact more than able singers. I doubt this was ever considered to be that scary, and these days it's very tame owing mainly I'm guessing to the fact that most people living through the second world war wanted to get away from fictional horror because so much real horror was going on around the world. The advancement in screen acting means that the performances are better suited and the set design featured is pretty great. Worth a watch today more to enjoy it's classic status than to witness an actual truly scary movie. "},{"Title":"Rains is great (what you see of him), but they should have stuck to the original story!","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Being a great fan of Gaston Leroux's original novel, the 1925 silent version of The Phantom of the Opera with Lon Chaney is one of my favorite films. The only thing missing is the sound. So when I got the chance, I viewed this 1943 adaptation with Claude Rains, expecting it to be fairly good, with a star like him in the lead. Instead, I found it confusing and disappointing. I hate when screenwriters feel the need to justify their existence by rewriting a story that is already fine as it is. The film bears little resemblance to the book, with insipid subplots and overly-long scenes of invented operas taking up the bulk of the story (apparently, the film makers couldn't secure rights to well-known operas, which explains the absence of the vitally important excerpts from Faust). Because of this, the film becomes a showcase for sound and Technicolor, not the magnificent Gothic Horror/Mystery story that Leroux imagined. It isn't mysterious or romantic, just a mixed bag of silly characters and a meandering plot that is much too predictable.The one redeeming quality of this film is Claude Rains as the titular character. The few brief moments he is on screen, he gives a beautiful portrayal of a tragic genius driven to murder for the woman he loves--the only problem is, you don't see him enough! Rains is an excellent actor, but isn't given the chance to become a really great Phantom due to his lack of screen time and the significant changes made to the plot. You see his character before he becomes the Phantom, which robs the viewer of feeling any tension of wondering who this cloaked figure is, something that was almost overwhelming in the silent version; and after that, he becomes almost a secondary character to Susanna Foster as Christine and her two (two!) adversarial suitors, whose incessant squabbling add nothing to the plot. He is given a few scenes of passion, but they are mostly toward the end, and due to the fact that in this story, he becomes disfigured by an accident and not born with his deformity, his aching for love and acceptance is far less compelling.Do yourself a favor, and go out and watch the Lon Chaney version instead. It stays much closer to the original story and is highly watchable, despite its age. This film, not so much. "},{"Title":"More musical than horror...","Date":"20 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Poor old Enrique Claudin doesn't have much luck &#x96; and what he does have is all bad. An adept but unremarkable violinist with the Paris Opera House, he secretly worships Christine Dubois, the young understudy to the snooty leading songstress, and even goes so far as to anonymously spend all his money on singing lessons for her even though she is barely conscious of his existence. Enrique loses his job when he starts losing the feeling in his fingers. Then he mistakenly believes the musical manuscript he has been working on has been stolen by no less a light than Franz Liszt (Lord only knows how he wandered into this). Gripped by a violent rage, Enrique throttles the bad-tempered music publisher who prevents him from retrieving his manuscript and ends up with a face full of acid courtesy of the publisher's panicky secretary. Evading capture by the police, Enrique hides in the sewers beneath the Opera House and, like a tomato that's rolled under the cooker, grows dark and warped in the darkness.Gaston Laroux's Phantom of the Opera is one of those stories that filmmakers feel compelled to retell every couple of years, so there's not a great deal to set this apart from all those other versions. Universal's use of colour is uncharacteristically sumptuous, and given that this tale falls nominally into the horror category for which they were famed, it stands by comparison to their other output of the time as something of a prestige production. There's not really much horror to speak of &#x96; although, by modern standards, none of the 40s horror films are likely to scare anyone over the age of five, so it's not out of the ordinary there. In fact it would arguably be more accurate to describe it as a musical given the amount of time that's given over to opera numbers that do little other than pause the action.Claude Rains gives a typically polished performance as the tormented Claudin, although the failure of the script to get under his character's (scorched) skin once he assumes the identity of the Phantom leaves the actor with little to work with once he dons the mask and descends into B-movie madness. Nobody else in the cast really stands out. Susanna Foster makes a rather unmemorable ingénue (who shows worrying indications of following the same path as the prima donna she replaces given the way some of their lines are nearly identical), and leaves you wondering why poor old Claudin got so hot and bothered over her in the first place. Nelson Eddy and Edgar Barrier provide some light relief as the troupe's baritone and the investigating police officer, both of whom also fall under Miss Foster's mysterious spell.Phantom of the Opera provides a good example of 40s Hollywood expertise (although it looks more like an MGM film than a Universal), and is entertaining enough even though it rarely provides anything that's likely to stick in the mind. Arthur Lubin at least attempts moments of artistry &#x96; for example by having the camera repeatedly passing sources of light &#x96; candelabras, chandeliers, etc &#x96; to suggest the fatal fascination Claudin's object of unrequited love holds for him. "},{"Title":"Cannot compare to 1925's Lon Chaney masterpiece.","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":"  This version is simply weak compared to the excellence of the earlier, silent 1925 film.  This 1943 treatment does not have any elements of horror, which is a necessary part of a Phantom... story.  Chaney's self-applied make-up was ghastly and ahead of it's time.  The make-up of Claude Rains in the unveiling scene in 1943 is the most feeble attempt to shock that I've witnessed.The actual story struggles to find screen time, being usurped by lengthy opera sequences.  This is not to say that they are not well done and beautifully crafted, but they should not be the main focus of the film.The addition of the humorous scenario between the rival suitors is entirely bland and actually gets annoying, as it too sees too much screen time.   "},{"Title":"A Good Remake of the 1925 Classic","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" 'Phantom of the Opera (1943)' is a remake of Universal's classic 'Phantom of the Opera (1925)' starring Lon Chaney, Sr. Obviously this 1943 version is a more favorable talkie instead of a silent movie and is filmed in Technicolor instead of Black and White.Claude Rains is Erique Claudin, The Phantom that stalks the opera house and falls in-love with Christine DuBois (Foster). Erique was a normal but handsome looking violinist who lost his musical touch, murdered a music publisher and had acid thrown in his face. He now lives under the opera house and will do anything to help Christine DuBois' career as an opera soprano - anything!! While this film is not quite as terrifying as the 1925 film, it is scary and has a bit more realistic approach concerning The Phantom. I like Rains' performance as Erique.8/10 "},{"Title":"Rains of the Opera.","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" The Phantom of the Opera (1943) Dir Arthur Lubin / Cast Claude Rains, Susanna Foster, Nelson Eddy, Edgar Barrier, Jane Farrar Originally made as a silent film in 1925, and here it makes its debut with sound. Title suggests disruption of peace. Claude Rains stars as a struggling composer whose music is stolen and he suffers a fatal facial injury while attempting to retrieve it. He terrorizes the opera and favours a young female singer be given a better deal. Effective plot with detailed writing that indicates that doing wrong to express right will ultimately fail. Skillful directing by Arthur Lubin with great production design. Rains is excellent as a musician released from his job only to discover deceit. He is menacing as the phantom while pushing the talent of a woman who can do what he cannot anymore. Despite his madness it will only lead to damnation. Susanna Foster plays the woman who he is smitten with. There are those hoping to separate her from her talent but the phantom will have none of it. Her final scene is a great push for independence. There are two suitors out for her hand. Nelson Eddy has her best interest in mind while Edgar Barrier is out for control. Jane Farrar plays a diva out to remain the focal point of attention because she is obviously insecure. In the end she will win leaving one applauding and the other disappointed. It regards anger and how it can destroy when not controlled. Score 9 / 10 "}{"Title":"The Phantom's sad, terrifying tale is overwhelmed by a comic operetta","Date":"8 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Though far from perfect, I love this movie. Claude Rains is a brilliant actor and his embodiment of the Phantom is my favorite--or rather, his embodiment of the man who becomes the Phantom. If the writers and the director had cooperated, Claude Rains could have been the greatest Phantom ever filmed. The problem is that this version of the Phantom did the best job of telling the Phantom's back-story and making him a sympathetic character, but did the worst job of making the Phantom terrifying.The Phantom is a serial killer, after all. He is thoroughly insane, immensely clever, utterly ruthless, and knows the environment of the Paris Opera better then almost anyone else--he could be anywhere. In this film, the writers and the director never successfully make us feel that sense of dread, the sense of horror at the Phantom's crimes. This aspect of the story is tossed off in an almost token fashion. In fact, the slight gestures meant to halfheartedly convey this--like the many shadows of the phantom doing his Snidely Whiplash imitation--are unintentionally funny. The Gothic horror story is pushed quite firmly to the background.In the foreground, we have a lush, colorful, lightly comic operetta about a beautiful young singer and the two rivals for her affection. While entertaining enough, it quite overwhelms the Phantom's sad, terrifying tale. "},{"Title":"Like Watching an Opera within a Movie","Date":"2 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Erique Claudine (Claude Rains) is a violinist for the Paris opera who has fallen in love with a young soprano understudy named Christine Dubois (Susanna Foster). Unfortunately, he finds himself unable to tell her of his love so he uses all of his money to finance singing lessons for her. This continues for 3 years during which time he begins to have problems playing the violin and loses his job after 20 years with the opera. His one remedy is to publish a concerto he had been working on for 2 years. However, following a misunderstanding at the publishing house he kills the publisher and has acid thrown on his face in the process. Now hunted by the police, he secretly escapes into the opera house which has thousands of rooms and hidden passages all over the place. But even after all of this he still harbors an insane love for Christine and is determined to have her assume the leading role by any means at his disposal. As luck would have it though there are two other people who also love Christine. The first is the leading baritone, Anatole Garron (Nelson Eddy) and the other is a police detective named Raoul D'Aubert (Edgar Barrier). Although both are rivals for her affection they share a desire to apprehend this mysterious phantom and protect Christine at all cost. Anyway, without divulging any more of the story I will just say that this movie wasn't exactly what I expected in that the horror was superseded by the musical numbers and the extravagant sets and costumes. That being the case it was almost like watching an opera within a movie. Now, I certainly didn't mind watching this film because it was plain to see that a lot of time and effort went into this production and it was quite enjoyable. But I would have preferred to see a bit more Phantom and a little less opera just the same. In any case, I found this movie to be above average and I recommend it to those who might enjoy something of this nature. "},{"Title":"Colorizing fear...and giving it a new focus","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Before I even begin to discuss the quality of Arthur Lubin's Phantom of the Opera, I offer a question that must be pondered. For the past week, I have been reviewing films straight out of the recently-released Universal box set containing eight films billed as monster movies between the years 1931 - 1954. So, to my surprise, following Bride of Frankenstein, is the 1943 color-film adaptation of the popular French opera Phantom of the Opera. Reading its segment in the included booklet, it talks extensively about the 1925 adaptation of the film, starring Lon Chaney Jr., that made people faint from fright and require theaters at the time to have smelling salts handy for female members of the audience who may pass out from shock (specifically during the reveal of the Phantom's disfigured face).So, after reading its brief writeup, which talks more about the 1925 adaptation than the 1943 adaptation, I need to wonder, why was this version the one featured in a box set housing monster films? It's debatable to even call the Phantom character a monster, but more an unfortunate soul who serves as a protagonist and an antagonist of the story. Not only does the box set include the film that is in color, focuses more on the atmosphere and the luxurious qualities of the opera music itself and the set design, it includes the version that is more about putting together a successful opera than actually focusing on the Phantom character itself. Assuming Universal did not own the rights to the original 1925 film, basic research tells me they distributed and still own the rights to the film. I beg for an explanation on Universal's part.Make no mistake; Lubin's Phantom of the Opera is a good film, strong musically, heavy on the set design, and professionally directed by Lubin, and beautifully colored thanks to the profound work of Technicolor. Questions just overcome its quality when I ask why Universal considered this a monster movie and felt it worthier to put the color-remake of the 1925 horror film, which focused on everything but the horror elements.Because the story of Phantom of the Opera is widely known, reiterating its storyline seems like a worthless act of repetition. This adaptation, if anything, should be recognized for its amazing grandeur and its luscious set design. The film makes bold use of Technicolor, which, at the time, made everything appear as if it was colored in with a crayon. Here, the color is boastful indeed, but doesn't hurt your eyes with its brightness. Seeing all the little micro-details in the backgrounds of shots make one question how this would've looked if it was in black and white. A lot more simplistic, most likely.The one downside about Phantom of the Opera from 1943 is that its focus isn't so much on Claude Rains' memorable performance as The Phantom, but on the opera the Paris Opera House is putting on instead. This makes for kind of a miscalculation for many reasons. One, the set the film is featured on is blatantly dedicated to the monster characters of the time, so including this one (already a weird choice) that focuses more on surrounding events rather than the titular monster is a bit misleading. And second, it makes the film a bit less interesting, seeing as the elusive Phantom character is what holds the story together.Phantom of the Opera is indeed a mixed bag. Heavy on the set decor and flawless in the aesthetic department, it unfortunately suffers from a questionable focus and is occasionally burdened by a bit of listlessness between events. However, it is rightfully a classic and succeeds collectively on its own merits...as a piece of drama, not horror.Starring Claude Rains, Nelson Eddy, and Susanna Foster. Directed by Arthur Lubin. "},{"Title":"One of the most beautiful looking films of the 40s with wonderful music and Rains, but lacking in other areas","Date":"22 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" This 1943 film of Phantom of the Opera has much to like, but also has a lot wrong. Far from a bad film but underwhelming as well considering the talent involved, for fans of opera and visually beautiful films this is for you, for horror fans and purists not so much. Before getting on the many things good about Phantom of the Opera there are things that did let things down. The pacing is plodding too often, not helped by direction that was very skillful but lacking urgency. The comedy scenes vary in effectiveness- too much of it was not very funny really- and would feel much more at home in an Abbott and Costello film, the type of humour did feel out of place here for a story that is essentially a horror drama based on a disfigured man and opera.Nelson Eddy was a wonderful singer, with handsome looks and a nice personal charm but his acting is wooden here, even more so than his performance in Naughty Marietta. And the horror is under-utilised and significantly diluted. The scariest it gets is the phantom's entrance, the death scenes are somewhat silly, with a lack of tense atmosphere and build-ups, and the phantom's face reveal is not shocking enough, even Foster didn't look that shocked.For all the film's problems though, you can't still dismiss it entirely. The lavish production values are just gorgeous to look at and in producing them there is nothing overblown or over-produced about them. It's beautifully shot and filmed as well. The music is sublime too,- then again you are talking to a massive classical music and opera enthusiast who'd if she wanted to would spend hours talking about music, operas and performers she loves- the opera scenes are crucial to the story and are sung, produced and choreographed with so much brio and attention to detail. There are even orchestral pieces like Tchaikovsky's Symphony no.4 adapted into song, that was interesting to hear.Suzanne Foster is beguiling in every single way, and Nelson Eddy gives some of his best ever singing here.(and this is coming from someone who is a big fan of his voice, quite possibly the most beautiful baritone voice on film with Howard Keel too a very close contender). Phantom's entrance and the chandelier scene are very effective, the dialogue is serviceable at the least and some of the romance is sweet. Phantom's back-story was interesting and moving, though it is very understandable why there'd be those who prefer him more ambiguous. Aside from the production values, the best aspect is the subtly menacing yet movingly sympathetic performance of Claude Rains, a really wonderful performance from a screen icon that deserved a better film.Overall, a film of pluses and minuses where either point of view(love or hate, also like, don't care for and mixed feelings) is understandable. 6/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"An extremely loose adaptation that still manages to be fun","Date":"20 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" This version of POTO is far from the thriller or horror genre. While it includes elements of both every now and then, it's more of a romantic comedy with musical numbers sprinkled about. The luscious Technicolor used is as far from the Gothic mood of the story, but damn, I cannot deny it's just gorgeous. The cinematography is the principal reason to watch this version. Plus fans of the silent version with Lon Chaney might be interested to see what the Phantom Stage looks like in color.Claude Rains brings great pathos and his velvety voice to the role of the phantom. More memorable for this movie-goer is Susannah Foster as Christine. She was absolutely perfect in the role not only does she physically resemble the character of the book but she manages to be both a classic ingénue and a fiery career woman all at once. Plus she could actually sing! A shame she wasn't cast in a more book accurate adaptation. The part of Christine's bland lover Raoul is split into two characters played by Nelson Eddy and Edgar Barrier; both are the least entertaining part of the movie. One wishes more screen time had been given to Rains. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous film","Date":"7 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Just finished watching Bluray's beautifully restored version of this film and just LOOKING at this film is breathtaking at times; it deservedly won Oscars for art direction and cinematography. I suppose my only gripes about the film are the same ones echoed throughout here too much forced comedy with Nelson Eddy and Edgar Barrier, and with a picture focused mainly on opera and less on real melodramatics, it probably would have benefited with more moments like The Phantom speaking to Christine in her dressing room and more interplay involving Rains (who is splendid in his scenes; a fine example of this is the sequence where he leads Christine to his subterranean haunts Rains effectively conveys madness without ever resorting to grandstanding or high theatrics; in his subdued way, he makes us feel even sorrier for him realizing he is in that condition towards the film's conclusion).The Phantom Unmasked make-up may not be up to giving us a jolt similar to the Chaney moment in the 1925 version, BUT the make-up is VERY believable and realistic in keeping with a man burned with acid (also, is this the first make-up job by the great Jack Pierce in COLOR? I know there are color home movies from the 1939 Son of Frankenstein showing his work however). I think anything TOO horrifying would have turned this film on it's head and is just enough (the documentary available with this particular disc points out that the final make up was upon Rains' approval--he did not wish to be typed a horror actor (this film was not long after he appeared in The Wolf Man)hence, the modest make up as it appears on screen.Susanna Foster certainly has a beautiful voice! But boy, is she a cipher in the film when not singing. I think the characters fret too much about her, as if she was incapable of doing anything by herself--it gets annoying after a while! My biggest question about this movie is, as this was most obviously one of Universal's extremely rare Class A and Above production for that time and lots of money obviously spent (Rains was not cheap, even billed third, I'm sure he made the most money of the cast), why did they choose a director more associated with Abbott & Costello movies to direct? I mean to say, he did a nice job of it, but-- I'm not sure, but I have a feeling the use of symphonic music turned into opera was to make it more appealing to a broader audience (well that and just about all of the music in this film was in the public domain of course!) This film has a lot to be recommended for an amazing use of color, brilliant cinematography, sumptuous sets, fine music, and of course Claude Rains creating the first truly tragic Phantom in that character's reincarnation throughout the years. "},{"Title":"Don't Mess With a Composer and His Work","Date":"21 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" What's so impressive about this version of Phantom is how sympathetic his character is depicted. One can understand the circumstances in which he snapped when feeling his original violin concerto was being stolen. No better actor than Claude Rains could have been chosen to so brilliantly portray this dejected artist.The entire look of the production is absolutely sumptuous, thanks to some of the finest artistic staff that Universal Pictures had to offer. There were well deserved Oscars awarded for Art Direction and Color Cinematography (the latter beating out that of of Ray Rannahan in For Whom the Bell Tolls.) Unfortunately, the decision to add comic relief fell rather flat in this version, as did the frequent and extended operatic sequences (based on Tchaikovsky and Chopin themes). More horror and less singing would have been better here. Even though two fine singers were cast, their contributions would have made a better impression with curtailed vocalizations.In the end, one remembers the sheer beauty of this production which includes some of the most striking color cinematography and art direction of the forties--and beyond. "},{"Title":"Phantom of the Opera (1943)","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Universal's color production of Phantom of the Opera is a wonderful spectacle to behold. Rains makes for a brilliant pre-Phantom, but only his shadow is present for the remainder. His slip into madness is also quite sudden. It would have been nice for the main plot to take place 10 years after the scarring. It's typical Hollywood cinema of the 40's, catering to the widest market. It helps that each of Christine's suiters is given enough time to develop, and none of them are unlikable. We even get a hilariously misjudged comedic scene where two men keep saying the exact same thing AND get stuck in a doorway. The musical productions are also very detailed, with the sets being impressive in both scale and design. "},{"Title":"Why bother?","Date":"16 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Why did Universal bother with this remake, when their silent version of this story, with Lon Chaney, was so good, and this version such a clunker? Much is changed here from the novel and the 1925 silent movie, even some of the names. The Phantom is now disfigured with acid, rather than being born disfigured. (That distances the story from its two models, Hugo's Hunchback of Notre Dame, a part that Chaney also played, and Rostand's Cyrano de Bergerac.) Some like the music. It's pretty, I guess, but I don't much care for orchestral music turned into opera. (I did enjoy the excerpts from Martha at the very beginning of the movie, and Nelson Eddy does a fine job with them, even if it is strange to hear the work in French rather than the original German. But then, why is the opera derived from the Tchaikovsky Fourth Symphony sung in Russian and not French?) The actress chosen to play Christine du Bois (Ch Daae in the original story) has no personality, which kills the scenes she's in.There was talent in this movie. Claude Raines was a fine actor, and Nelson Eddy a fine singer. The script sabotages them both, though, and one is left to ask Why did they bother? "},{"Title":"Well it's one of the most beautiful Universal Horror movies out there&#x85;","Date":"11 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Phantom of the Opera is directed by Arthur Lubin and features a collective of writers adapting from Gaston Leroux's novel. It stars Nelson Eddy, Claude Rains, Edgar Barrier, Susanna Foster, Leo Carrillo and Jane Farrar. Music is by Edward Ward and cinematography by W. Howard Greene.The Leroux source material has been adapted a number of times. This version sees Universal update their own 1925 silent version that starred Lon Chaney, and give it a Technicolor make over whilst practically making it a musical picture. Even making it a light comedy in parts! It is undeniably a gorgeous picture, both visually and aurally, for the sets and operatic tunes alone this could never be called a dull movie. But we want horror, it's an horrific tale of murder, disfigurement, disloyalty and unbridled passions, we don't want to be watching a Phantom of the Opera movie where at any moment you expect the cast to start singing ding dong the witch is dead. Cast are mostly fine as regards the tone of the piece, though Rains barely gets his teeth into the role of the Phantom and comes off more like Zorro or the Lone Ranger. While Lubin and his crew give the whole production a professional polish. But horror? No, never, and that's a shame given it's from the torch bearers for classic horror of the 30s and 40s. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Phantom menace","Date":"4 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" I found this version of the familiar melodrama a real oddity in fact it could almost have been called the opera of the phantom rather than the reverse as there's an awful lot of light operetta to wade through here, a musical style foreign to my tastes. Oddly too for what on paper seems a dark and mysterious tale, it's shot in bright Technicolour in what seems like perpetual daylight. There's also some unwelcome and very obviously forced humour between the two rivals for Margerita's hand, Nelson Eddy and Edgar Barrier as her adoring male lead and investigative policeman respectively who could have played each other's parts, t seemed to me and some more unintentional comedy as Claude Rains, now masked and caped, kills his victims it seems without touching them and making his mysterious entrances and exits so ludicrously you strain to hear pantomime effects music in the background. The acting is okay, Rains is solid enough without ever convincing you he's a tortured soul driven to madness and murder while Susanna Foster is pleasant as the ingénue with two strings to her bow. As a spectacle, it's pleasant on the eye and a fitting reminder of the production values of Golden Age Hollywood at its peak but found I could never take what I was watching seriously and in the end the so-called dramatic finish fell a long way short of reclaiming the ground lost earlier by some mis-guided direction, in my view. "},{"Title":"You won't need to hide your eyes, but you might want to cover your ears.","Date":"17 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Universal Studios pulled out all the stops for their 1943 version of Gaston Leroux's oft-told tale, offering viewers an excellent cast, spectacular sets and lavish musical set-pieces, all filmed in glorious Technicolor; but although the film is an undeniably sumptuous audio-visual treat for opera fans, Phantom '43 is a failure as a horror movie.With Claude Rains' crazed, acid-scarred violinist Erique Claudin playing second fiddle (pun intended) to opera stars Anatole and Christine (Nelson Eddy and Susanna Foster), and suave policeman Raoul (Edgar Barrier), atmosphere, tension and scares are in short supply. Caped killer Claudin's fleeting appearances are sandwiched between prolonged bouts of painful operatic warbling (that'll have non-opera fans reaching for the volume control) and weak comedic scenes centred on the love triangle between the beautiful Christine and her dashing suitors (that will have many horror fans jabbing at the fast-forward button).Towards the end of the film, we get a couple of reasonably well executed non-operatic scenes&#x97;the phantom pursued on the ropes and walkways above the stage; a chandelier crashing onto the audience; the descent into the catacombs beneath the opera house&#x97;but by the time Claudin's mask was removed to reveal some less than impressive pizza-face prosthetics down one side of his head, I couldn't wait for the final curtain to fall on this particular production. "},{"Title":"Near-masterpiece","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" I am a huge fan of everything related to the Phantom of the Opera, my favorite film being a tie between the 1925 Chaney film and Phantom of the Paradise. However, this film is always special to me because it was the one that introduced me to the story when I was little, and whenever I think of Phantom, no matter how much I love Lon Chaney's performance, Claude Rains is always how I picture this usually overlooked, Gothic horror character. His performance here is top notch, he is both charming and eerily creepy. Too bad he doesn't get as much screen time as he should've had. Looking back at this film, which I used to consider the best movie of all time when I was 8, is not all that great as I remembered it, but it did have lots of potential. The major down point for the film is the overused and misplaced romantic comedy moments between Susanna Foster's character and her two suitors, that occur during the long periods of time between a terrific, genuinely beautiful and haunting horror scene. The could've been great if the focus was on the actual Phantom and his obsessed relationship with Christine, than the horrible threesome thing randomly thrown into the mix. The over-the-top acting (with the expection of Rains) doesn't help either on making the scenes mentioned enjoyable, and the fact that it also makes the film seem pretty campy by today's standards. The ending is also unforgivable it should've ended with the close-up of the mask and the violin - it would've been a perfect ending, but, unfortunately, it doesn't happen. However, the film has some great stuff in it too as mentioned before, all the scenes with the Phantom and Christine are great, the movie is highly atmospheric, and though the film isn't really faithful to the original novel - the story works well and I liked the changes they made, the suspense is nice, also the visuals are just jaw-dropping, the film is one of the most gorgeous Technicolor horror films I've ever seen. The music is also beautiful, and the fact that the actors do sing make it even better. The film is not really boring, and although it's flaws become more visible in repeated viewings, it never fails to be entertaining. Overall, it may not be the perfect film as I thought it was, but it's definitely very nice, and is probably the most underrated Universal Monster film. "},{"Title":"A grandiose and lavish version of this classic story","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Arthur Lubin's 1943 version of Gaston LeRoux's classic story is very different than Rupert Julian's 1925 adaptation. There are the obvious differences in the use of sound vs. silence and color vs. black and white. The lavish use of color and musical numbers give this film a grander and more luxurious feel than the earlier, darker movie.And the differences in techniques and technology also reflect the differences in the atmosphere. Julian's version was very much a horror story placed in the setting of the Paris Opera House, while Lubin's version is much more of a drama. One might say that Julian emphasizes the Phantom part of the title and Lubin the Opera.The acting is great, Susanna Foster (who sadly died just days before I write this comment-may she rest in peace) is beautiful and charming, Claude Raines performs well as a tragic villain, and the film has a rich and extravagant feel to it that makes it very entertaining.I like both of these early versions of The Phantom of the Opera-each for different reasons. For horror, check out the 1925 film, but for a wonderful musical drama, this is the movie to see. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"23 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" I saw this film when I was a child when my sister (who happened to be a lifelong fan of Nelson Eddy) took me on the train into Boston to the Keith Orpheum Theater for a morning showing. So I sat beside my big sister while she was in heaven watching Nelson Eddy. I never thought that much of him as an opera singer but the opera they were doing was impressive for me, even at that age and I knew it was not a real opera but one made up by the studio using Tchaikovsky's symphonic music. I liked the acrobats in the opera scene and when Nelson used his whip to capture the leading soprano. I already knew Russian language so I understood the words they were singing and that Nelson pronounced them correctly. Then of course there was the marvelous Claude Rains. Not until years later when I got older did I really appreciate his wonderful acting ability. I also wondered how they could reproduce the Paris Opera house. I knew of course it was a studio set but was it a permanent theater on the lot at Universal or just the inside with dressed up extras as audience? These were the questions from a child's mind and I went home dreaming about it; not so much the story but the technical aspects of it all - like, how could the phantom carry a grand piano all the way down to those caverns far below the opera house. I have seen the film several times since then and I must say it holds up extremely well. Gorgeous Technicolor and atmosphere throughout. I've heard that the theater still exists on the Universal lot and was used in some other films. I wonder if it still is there, or was it burned down in the fire of 2007 that swept through and destroyed so much of the Universal lot. Maybe someone knows. "},{"Title":"Brilliant when it's on, decent when it's not","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" The Phantom of the Opera wasn't as bad as it could've been, but still feels overrated.**SPOILERS**During an opera performance, upstart Christine Dubois, (Susanna Foster) manages to show-up it's traditions for her friend, Raoul D'Aubert, (Edgar Barrier) a policeman. Her friend, violinist Erique Claudin, (Claude Rains) is dismissed from service due to an injury and ultimately retires from the opera. Attempting to find work, he goes around Paris trying to get a job, and after meeting with a potential employer, an accident forces him on the run into the sewers below. As news of the disappearance rocks the opera world, the police figure that he did it and begin a search through Paris for him. Determined not to let it affect her, she manages to get a spot in the next production through shaky means and shines in the role. After an unexpected series of accidents, they determine to continue the opera, it manages to attract the person performing the accidents, a strange masked figure that stops at nothing to make sure that she's the star of the opera one way or another.The Good News This one wasn't that bad when it counted on it. The best feature is the design of the opera house for the film. It's a giant place, with a huge central platform and stage, a really dizzying set of ropes and ladders above the stage, and is set within an elaborate exterior design when viewed from outside. It leaves a favorable lasting impression. The catacombs in the sewers are also quite beautifully done, looking like a real twisting and interconnected design that looks quite good. There's also a really humorous running gag with the opera director using a hand-sign to indicate a presence in the house. It's funny when it first happens, gradually gets funnier all the more its on and then becomes a hilarious happening when it appears. It's something that really works for the film. This also starts to get pretty interesting in it's last half-hour, when it starts to really play into the revenge aspect. Starting with the opening, which features one of it's only true suspense scenes as the Phantom approaches an unsuspecting victim from behind and takes him out. There's plenty of great moments in the revenge set-piece, including the highlight chandelier-smashing and the police chase through the opera. This continues on into the ending, where it really ends with a great bang. These are it's great points.The Bad News There isn't a whole lot wrong with this one. One of the biggest is it's apparent disregard for featuring horror elements. This one decides that it will focus more on the romantic angle of the story rather than upping the horror aspects. The constant interludes, the focus on the show being produced or the beginning of the film, which simply details this long quest through various different companies searching for a form of employment for a family member. These are in no way scary and just makes it seem like it's a long, slow intro that doesn't really do much. This takes such a long time to get started because it's such a while to feature any of the horror elements is a big problem. There's so much backstage opera drama featured in here, with all the back-stabbing and appointments going on, that there's very few moments in here that actually manage to evoke any sense of fear. The moments featuring the opera are almost impossible to get through, as they're so far from a horror aspect that at times it doesn't really feel like a horror film. This here is the main source of problems, as it doesn't really feel like a horror film most of the time with all the opera standings.The Final Verdict While it's at times hard to see as a horror film, when it gets going it's at least bearable. This is really for people who can look at those kinds of films with admiration and enjoy them or those looking for something different from a horror film, while those who hate opera might enjoy another adaptation a lot better.Today's Rating-PG Violence "},{"Title":"Who Will Ever Forget Susanna Foster?","Date":"28 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Blessed with the finest of players/singers, sets, costumes, color photography and special effects &#151; not to mention a wonderfully entertaining music score which includes Edward Ward's haunting Lullaby of the Bells and a few generous excerpts from Martha &#151; it is no surprise that this one is still the most popular of the classic screen versions. It's stylishly directed too, with Lubin and his photographers taking full advantage of the magnificent sets. We are given much to marvel and wonder at. In fact our eyes are dazzled to such an extent that they largely divert our thoughts from the somewhat odd balance of the script which veers from horror to romantic farce somewhat disconcertingly at times. Fortunately, Lubin's commendably fast pace also allows us little opportunity to ponder both these changes of mood as well as a few unexplained and/or unmotivated jumps in the story line. Deft film editing likewise contributes to the overall suspension of belief and the building of mounting suspense and excitement, particularly by agile cross-cutting in the celebrated sawing-through-the-chandelier sequence. "},{"Title":"A sad, menacing, sympathetic performance by Claude Raines, plus nice screaming by Susanna Foster","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" The 1943 version of Phantom of the Opera has always had, for me, an endearing quality of good-hearted wholesomeness, even with face-destroying acid, deranged obsession, and love so strong it corrupts. On the other hand, the obvious wholesomeness -- Nelson Eddy's game attempt at light romantic comedy and Susanna Foster's peaches-and-cream singing and acting -- are quickly cloying. However, for the sheer comforting pleasure of this great old story of a murderous, misunderstood madman at the Paris Opera, I prefer this version, as weak as it sometimes is, to the grand guignol of Lon Chaney's silent movie or the florid pomposity of Lloyd-Webber's turgid musical. Why? Because it is satisfying fun without uber- drama or much meaning. Does anyone not know the story? Probably not, so we'll pass that by. What other pleasures does this movie hold besides a great romantic and melodramatic story and the most threatening chandelier in Paris? There's that lush Technicolor look that shows off with rich color the sets, the costumes and the complexions of the actors. Claude Raines as Enrique Claudin gives a touchingly mad performance as a humble violinist who wrote a great concerto and who fell hopelessly in love with Christine Dubois (Susanna Foster), a beautiful young soprano for whom he beggared himself secretly paying for her vocal lessons. Eddy, as Anatole Garron, the star baritone at the Opera, and Edgar Barrier as Raoul D'Aubert, a senior officer with the Surete, are amusing as the Mutt and Jeff competitors for Susanna Foster's favors. The ornate and gilded stage set of the interior of the Opera gives movie quality a new meaning. And the dark, dank, damp catacombs beneath the Opera, reached by slimy stone steps and lit only by guttering candles in hand-held lanterns, are just part of the shivers in store for those foolish enough to follow the Phantom to his lair. There is also the deep, black lake of despair and the music, drifting down from another world. Or, as Claudin describes it to Christine, You'll love it here when you get used to the dark. And you'll love the dark, too. It's friendly and peaceful. It brings rest and relief from pain. It's right under the Opera. The music comes down and the darkness distills it, cleanses it of the suffering that made it. Then it's all beauty. And life here is like a resurrection. Raines was such a fine actor he could make Claudin a tragically sympathetic character. I'm sure Christine would have been persuaded if she'd only stopped screaming. "},{"Title":"A good film, but if you're like me and you're not an opera fan, it won't help, that's for sure","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" I recently rented this 1943 adaptation of The Phantom of the Opera, starring Claude Rains (knew of him from the 1933 film, The Invisible Man), over a year after seeing the 1925 silent version starring Lon Chaney, Sr. After being impressed with that version, I was interested in seeing this talkie version which came eighteen years later. Well, after watching this one, I can't say I'm as impressed as I was with the silent version, but that's probably not entirely because of the quality of the film. It's probably more because of my tastes.Erique Claudin has been working as a violinist at the Paris Opera House for the past twenty years, but due to recent pain in the fingers of his left hand, he hasn't been able to play as well lately as he used to. Because of this, he loses his job, and doesn't have a lot of money. He has been paying for the music lessons of an upcoming operatic soprano named Christine Dubois, and now it appears he no longer can unless he finds another way to make money. So, he attempts to have a concerto he has written published, but when he is convinced it has been stolen, he becomes hostile and strangles the music publisher to death! The publisher's assistant then throws acid in Claudin's face, and with the police after the former Opera House violinist, he goes down into the sewers! Now disfigured from the acid, he wears a mask and terrorizes the Opera House, doing violent things to try and make sure Christine is successful in her career! I could imagine many people watching this movie expecting a lot of horror, but being disappointed. This version of The Phantom of the Opera definitely does have some horror, but it also has a lot of opera, and if you're not an opera fan, then there are bound to be quite a few scenes you wouldn't like, which was the case for me. I definitely found some suspense in this 1943 film (mostly towards the end), and also found the humorous scenes with two men in love with Christine mildly amusing, but found the opera scenes were too long and got in the way of the story. Don't get me wrong, I'm sure those scenes are very entertaining for opera fans, but since The Phantom of the Opera is known as a horror story, it can be misleading. For this particular version of the story, being an opera fan probably helps more than being a horror fan. "},{"Title":"Phantom of the Opera","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Ideal casting using Claude Rains, even though he's billed third in smaller letters which sickened me(this just soured my taste..he's f'n Claude Rains and portraying the character of title for heaven's sake and gets billed under Nelson Eddy and Susanna Foster!), as Erique Claudin, the facially scarred violinist, retired from his position at the Paris opera house and indicted for murder when the man he sent a concerto manuscript to intended to rob him of what he spent years putting together. He's enamored with baritone singer Christine(Susanna Foster)desiring that she make it to the star female leading position, killing any actress who gets in the path of his goal. The film is much more opera and backstage melodrama as Christine is being courted by two men, the male lead of the opera house Anatole(Nelson Eddy, getting his name headlined with large letters)and Inspector Raoul D'Aubert(Edgar Barrier)..this love triangle, and the opera plays, take center stage as the Phantom(..and, unfortunately, Claude Rains)take a back seat. There's plenty to feast your eyes on as Universal sure put financial backing behind this production, quite lavish and the sets are massive-scaled, with elaborate costumes and stage productions. The leads sing their hearts out and this is placed before the horrors our Phantom causes those who will try and stand in the way of Christine being star..such as the female lead before her, who threatens to expose the opera company when the Phantom poisoned her drink, or especially the young lead who replaces Christine in the film's final stage opera as the Phantom saws the chain holding the chandelier that drops on top of her. The camera-work during the opening of the opera sequences(always highlighting the chandelier)is sweepingly fluid. I thought the Phantom's mask was cool as well. Not a lot of horror in this particular production from Universal, but enough I guess thanks to the Phantom, often presented as a shadow on the wall when he's near scurrying away when others might find him. "}{"Title":"The Greatest 40s film I have ever seen!","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" It is rare that horror films can be considered objectively great movies but this can.The story has a great deal of potential. In 19th century Paris, lives Erique Claudan, a violinist who works at the Paris Opera. Though a veteran of 20 years, he is fired because his hands have developed a condition which interferes with the quality of his playing. However, he is interested in helping the career of Christine Duboise, a young, rising star in the Opera. But he himself needs the money to pay for her lessons, and attempts to have an entire book of music he has written published. When his publisher refuses to give it back to him, Claudan accuses him of stealing his life's work and murders him, in the process horrifying a young woman who throws a pan of acid at his face, disfiguring it. Claudan hides in the sewers, steals a mask to cover his face, and starts terrorizing the Opera into allowing Christine to sing, going as far as to murder the Opera's biggest star, and cutting the chandelier down to crash into the stage. All the while, the Paris chief of police and one of the Opera's biggest male stars, bot of whom are trying to win the affections of Christine, try various plans to catch Claudan after one of them confronted him high up in the place from which the Opera's effects are operated. Claudan However has plans to capture Christine and take her to his hideout under the Opera house, will Claudan be caught?This movie is absolutely outstanding. The Technicolor is beautiful, and the cinematography is well done. Phantom of the Opera should have won the following Academy Awards.Best Picture Best Actor Best supporting actress Best art direction Best cinematography Best costume design Best adapted screenplay Best original song Best original score Best makeup.The sets and costumes are fabulous in taking you back to the era. The Opera sequences are very impressive and well done with powerful music. Claude Rains performance as Claudan is perfect, he is tragic, sad, and menacing all st once. This is certainly one the the best movies of all time and it's a shame that it's so obscure.So if you want to see a truly great film from another era of film-making, choose this one! "},{"Title":"Claude Rains takes his turn as the Phantom","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Claude Rains is The Phantom of the Opera, a 1943 film also starring Nelson Eddy and Susanna Foster. This version is really a variation on the Leroux, but is enjoyable in its own right. It is filmed in color, and some of the singing is magnificent.In this version, Rains is Claudin, a violinist with the opera company who has been informed that he is being discharged due to a problem with his hand. He has very little money - most of it goes toward voice lessons for his protégée, Christine Dubois (Foster), though she does not know the identity of her benefactor. He decides to sell his composition, and a publisher takes it - but steals it and puts his own name on it. Claudin has acid thrown in his face when he goes to the publishing company. In severe pain, he runs into the sewers of France and takes up residence so that he can coach his protégée. Eventually he prepares her to take over as the opera's leading lady.There is a insinuation in this film that Claudin may be Christine's father - all we know is that the two come from the same French village. Christine's love interest, Raoul, is still Raoul but the head of the police is added as a suitor.As for the music, it's somewhat unique. Film composer Edward Ward wrote one pieces for the film, Lullaby of the Bells. For the other operatic music, he adapted Tchaikovsky's 4th Symphony and Chopin's Nocturn in Eb. Hearing them sung is interesting, to put it mildly. There is also, finally, a scene from a real opera, Marta.As usual, the opera business is treated a throwaway, with no attention paid to the fact that the diva is in an entirely different vocal category and Christine could in no way substitute for her. Foster had a pretty coloratura voice except for some shrill high notes. At the end of the Chopin piece, the camera moves in for a full close-up of Foster, wearing different makeup, shrieking out a high note - probably an Eb above C - using her whistle register.Nelson Eddy possessed one of the great baritone voices. He was always a much better singer than actor, never very relaxed before the camera. But when he opens his mouth to sing, he's glorious. Foster makes a pretty and sweet Christine. Rains brings great pathos and warmth to the role of the Phantom. He's wonderful and very touching.A very entertaining film, beautiful to look at, with some light moments and lovely music, making this a really good take on The Phantom of the Opera. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary film!","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Of the Phantom of the Opera films this is my second favorite. The 1925 silent version being first. But this one presents the Phantom in a much more sympathetic light and it is very hard to see him as the total monster or villain that he is supposed to be. Nelson Eddie was added for a big name lead in the film, a Technicolor masterpiece. But it is Claude Rains in perhaps his finest performance of his career that makes this feature stand out. The music, and in particular the Phantom's composition based on a country folk melody steal the heart. Although the movie can have only one conclusion, it almost breaks your heart to see that conclusion. A great unrequited love story, as tragic as it is beautiful. "},{"Title":"Beautiful But Ultimately Disappointing","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Phantom Of The Opera (1943) Starring Claude Rains, Susanna Foster, Nelson Eddy, Edgar Barrier, Fritz Leiber, Leo Carrillo, Jane Farrar, J. Edward Bromberg, Frank Puglia, Fritz Feld, Steven Geray, Hume Cronyn, Barbara Everest, Nicki Andre, Elvira Curci, Gladys Blake, Hans Herbert, Rosina Galli, Walter O. Stahl, Paul Marion, Renee Carson, Cyril Delevanti, William Desmond, Ernest Golm, Anthony Marlowe, Belle Mitchell, James Mitchell, Tudor Williams....Director Arthur Lubin, Screenplay John and Hans Jacoby, Samuel Hoffenstein, Eric Taylor.From 1943, this Phantom of the Opera starring Claude Rains and singer and actor Nelson Eddy was a new and revamped version of the classic silent film with Lon Cheney. Sad to say that Technicolor, modern sound (at the time) and celebrated actors did nothing to make this film surpass the legendary Lon Cheney version, which remains at the top of the list as the greatest and definitive version. But this film has its moments and is beautifully done so even if it's considerably weak next to other versions, it's a jewel nonetheless and one that Phantom fans will enjoy. Claude Rains (best known as The Invisible Man) portrays the eponymous Phantom and for the first time audiences were treated to a different account of his past. He was Eric Claudin, a struggling and impoverished violinist for the Paris Opera in the 1870's who invested his money and energy into transforming a chorus girl, Christine Dubois (Susanna Foster) into a star soprano. When a copy of his piano concerto is stolen from him, acid is thrown over his face, scarring and disfiguring his face. He is forced to live as recluse beneath the opera house. He relishes in his newly found identity as the opera house Phantom, frightening everyone through tricks and causing incidents which are unexplained. From his subterranean lakeside layer he oversees the progress of Christine's career, replacing the company diva (Jane Farrar). When things begin to turn ugly- the death of the company star, the crashing chandelier, etc- the police, headed by Inspector Raoul Daubert (Edgar Barrier) set up a trap for the Phantom/murderer. This Phantom, however, meets a tragic end, remaining true to the original novel by Gaston Leroux (though his manner of death has been altered). Throughout what ought to be a dramatic, Gothic romance, the film is layered with almost Abbot and Costello style comedy, courtesy of Raoul and theatrical baritone singer Anatole Garron (Nelson Eddy). Quite frankly, the popular singer Nelson Eddy, who did several opera-themed movies at the time, was featured due to his star power. With Nelson Eddy in the cast, the audiences of '43 were sure to see this film. But he is nothing more than a suitor to Christine, much like Raol, and comic relief. It is the comedic elements in the film that kill the film. Phantom ought to be darker, more mysterious and haunting as well as romantic. Christine does not choose Raol as her romantic interest, as she does in the novel. Rejecting both Raol and Anatole, she chooses a stage career as an opera diva. Again, this killed the film. But even with these fatal flaws, the film is gorgeous, thanks to the brilliant cinematography by Hal Mohr and W. Howard Greene as well as art direction by Alexander Golitzen and John B. Goodman and not to mention the sets by Russell A. Gausman and Ira Webb. The costumes by Vera West, are, sadly, very unauthentic to the time period and look very 1940's. The Paris Opera set was the same one used in the Lon Cheney version from 1925, only this time audiences saw it in color and redecorated with an impressive chandelier and other touches. The film is therefore both great and disappointing. If you're a fan of Nelson Eddy and Claude Rains, and moreover, a Phantom of the Opera lover this film is for you. But in the end it's surpassed by the Lon Cheney version and subsequent versions like the Hammer horror film from the early 60's and the Andrew Lloyd Webber musical from both the 1980's and 2004 and the 1992 TV series with Charles Dance. "},{"Title":"Rains is superb in this beautiful but unfaithful version of The Phantom","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Arthur Lubin PHANTOM OF THE OPERA (1943) After 18 years of Lon Chaney's original film Universal Pictures finally managed to create a long planned re-make of this classic tale. From very early on it was decided that audience should be able to watch the film without knowing already what happens. So it was decided that the only things common with this and 1925 film would be falling of the chandelier and the unmasking scenes. Which is pity, as Chaney's film is so faithful to Gaston Leroux's novel this film therefore is not. Plot received big changes and names were changed. There for credits say adapted from the novel not based on the novel.In this version a young upcoming soprano of Paris Opera, Christine Dubois (Susanna Foster), is being courted by two men a baritone of opera Anatole Garron (Nelson Eddy) and police inspector Raoul D'Aubert (Edgar Barrier). Christine doesn't know it but also violinist of the orchestra, Erique Claudin (Claude Rains), has lost his heart to her. Claudin is too shy to confront Christine so instead he spends all of his moneys for Christine to have singing lessons. Christine herself doesn't know the identity of her benefactor. When Claudin is fired from the orchestra he decides to publish his life work, a concerto, in order to continue paying Christine's lessons. A tragic mistake happens Claudin believes his work has been robbed and, in a moment of madness, kills the publisher. A panicked secretary throws acid to Claudin's face and he escapes the law to the sewers. Soon, a mysterious Phantom causes trouble in the opera, aiming to help Christine in her career. Anatole and Raoul must put their dislikes to each others away, in order to stop Claudin before more murders occur.Later versions of POTO, like 1962 and 1983, have copied this film, yet not so successfully. Even when I dislike the idea that there are two hero characters I enjoyed this movie. Technically this movie is outstanding; containing beautiful sets (same they used in 1925 version), bright colors, orchestra music etc. Story sadly is not so perfect with useless comical scenes between Raoul and Anatole and overlong opera scenes, not to mention how little Phantom actually appears here. He is threatened to become a minor character. Thank goodness Claude Rains saves the day. Rains was one of the finest character actors of his time. He played roles like charming Capt. Renault in CASABLANCA and Nazi criminal Sebastian in Alfred Hitchcock's NOTORIOUS. Here Rains makes the right decision of not repeating Lon Chaney but making his own performance. Rains is superb his Phantom is menacing but also sympathetic, you end up feeling sorry for him. This kind of dual Phantom is hard to play and from all the later actors in the role only Gerard Butler managed to do same as Rains, though their Phantoms are very different. The best scenes of this movie are the ones were Rains appears, no matter is he with or without a mask or merely as a shadow on the wall.Last word Not so faithful film to Leroux, but beautiful to watch and Claude Rains delivers a superb performance. "},{"Title":"The version I grew up with.","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Phantom of the Opera is not a remake of the 1925 version or based off the book. The story goes a different route. In this version, an aging musician is fired from his job as the Opera House violinist and goes to a publisher to have his concerto published. When he catches the publisher trying to steal it, he attacks him, so the publisher's assistant throws acid in the musicians face. He ends up living under the Paris Opera House and demanding that back up singer Christine Dubois be given larger roles. As he begins to murder people and destroy the Opera House, two of Christine's suitors set out to stop the phantom once and for all. This isn't the best version of the story, but it's the version I grew up with, so it is one of my favourite versions of the story.The new version of the story is very good with an interesting new origin for the phantom. This is the first version I saw, so the birth defect origin from the book and original film were a little weird to me. I always thought this version was vastly entertaining, but as I grew older, I started noticing the problems. The movie is too short, or not enough happens. The pacing is all wrong for a horror film. The opera scenes go on for way too long and they take up 70% of the movie. 25% is phantom stuff, and 5% is the subplot with the two suitors vying for Christine. The Phantom isn't as deranged as he could be. I really enjoyed the famous chandelier scene however, because it took the supernatural/magical aspect away from the phantom and made him more like a man, by showing him use a hacksaw to cut the chain. Another problem I had was the relationship between the phantom and Christine. It was too disjointed, and not as intimate as the other versions.The acting is very good. Claude Rains is great as the shy musician who transforms into a bold maniac. Susanna Foster is good as Christine as well.Overall, the story and great acting make this movie very entertaining, but the excessive music kills it. However, this is the version I best know, so I give it a higher rating than some people.7/10 "},{"Title":"Definitely worth a watch - though not for the reasons you think! *Spoilers*","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" This film is an old-fashioned drama starring Claude Rains and Suzanne Foster. When the story begins, we find that Erique Claudin, a violinist at the Paris Opera (Rains), has been secretly infatuated with Christine Dubois, a young chorus girl (Foster). Because of the money he spends on her, he has no money left when he is laid off from his job. He goes slightly insane and murders a man at a publishing company. Luckily, though, there is a pan of acid handy, so the other publishers throw it at him and he flees, disfigured and mentally unbalanced, to the sewers below the opera house. He goes on an obsessive crusade to bring Christine to the forefront of Parisian opera, stealing masks and pigs feet, drugging people, murdering others, sawing chandeliers, and kidnapping Christine along the way. However, the local police inspector, Raoul (Edgar Barrier) and the operatic baritone, Anatole (Nelson Eddy) also happened to infatuated with Christine. They chase after Claudin (now known as the Phantom of the Opera), and destroy his sewer kingdom with a well-aimed bullet to the ceiling.As you can see from the synopsis above, this movie is unbelievably ridiculous but in its own way, very entertaining and charming. There is a certain appeal to a movie where you get to see the entire basement of the Paris Opera House implode due to one rogue bullet, or where the evil and sinister 'phantom' steals not only a mask for his evil schemes, but also makes away with a few jars of pigs' feet. Perhaps the funniest parts of this film are when it tries to take itself seriously. When the curators and managers of the Opera are notified that one of their former violinists had murdered people and is hiding out in their building, they discuss it earnestly. This is what one expects people to do when talking about a murderer. Then the stage manager comes up with the bright idea that there may be a ghost in the opera house. Brilliant conclusion, I'm sure. The others are skeptical, so he tries to show them the seriousness of the situation but miming a long nose and beard on his face. Now one of his friends exclaims angrily about all the troubles they've been having, then immediately sits down and strikes an ominous chord on a nearby piano. If this meeting is typical of what musician do when faced with a problem, it's a miracle the Opera House got built at all. Another weakness is the dialect of the characters. Though living in Paris, France, none of the characters ever converse in French. Only a handful speak English with French accents, while the rest are all English or American. It is also particularly amusing that half of them can't pronounce Monsieur correctly.Overall, I really liked this film. This is not because it was particularly clever, or exciting, or even well acted. This is because it was extremely entertaining, even if I was laughing mostly because of the absurdity of it all. I think everyone in the world should see this movie, especially if they are feeling down about themselves. All the plot holes will make you feel infinitely superior to Christine, Anatole, Phantom and crew. "},{"Title":"Visually Stunning If Nothing Else","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Universal finally was able to make a bona fide remake of its 1925 hit in 1943; this time it had magnificent Technicolor, glorious music, and a bigger budget. This film is good but not great like its predecessor. The 1925 version has a lot going for it with Lon Chaney Sr. and his magnificent make-up. Claude Rains portrays the tormented musician out to protect and project the fortunes of unknown talent Christine. Rains gives, for him, a very, very restrained performance. Perhaps a bit too restrained. He never fully convinces me of his madness or genius. He does; however, do a very serviceable job in a complex role. Unfortunately, he was the one who made as a condition for his taking the role the use of very subtle make-up. This make-up - done by master make-up artist Jack Pierce - is so subtle that it makes the unmasking scene almost anti-climatic. That scene should have been a highlight of the film as well as the masque at the ball which has been excised from this version. Still, this film does deliver in other ways. All the performers are talented with Foster having a stunning voice as the ingénue and Nelson Eddy being Nelson Eddy. Director Arthur Rubin uses a bit too much music but does give his characters room to grow. The same opera house set used in the 1925 film is used again but to much better degree when consideration to Technicolor is weighed. Lubin also is able to add some humour with Christine's two suitors, baritone Eddy and policeman Edgar Barrier's Raoul. In fact, for me, the scenes where Barrier, a much overlooked actor(does a credible job playing Zaroff in a remake of The Most Dangerous Game in Game of Death((1945)), and Eddy are the film's best. Both men seem to have enjoyed these scenes as well as their acting would indicate. Shouldn't the horror and love of the Phantom be the centerpiece? Maybe. The film also hosts a slew of good solid character actors such as Hume Cronin and Fritz Feld doing a particularly good job in a small role. "},{"Title":"Sooner or later, probably all opera pertains to this.","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" I have to admit that this is the only movie version of Gaston Leroux's classic novel that I've seen. The plot of course has abused musician Erique Claudin (Claude Rains) getting acid thrown on his face and thereafter haunting the Paris Opera House, and in the process helping beautiful starlet Christine DuBois (Susanna Foster) get famous.Having not seen any other versions (nor read the novel), I can't compare it with anything else. But I can say that this version was quite well done. Maybe the cast doesn't do any profound interpretations of the characters, and maybe there aren't any filmic elements, but the movie is certainly worth seeing. Although above all, I recommend Brian DePalma's Phantom of the Paradise. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the silent one of 1925 but pretty nice","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":"  This adaptation of Phantom of the Opera is certainly not as good as the phenomenal 1925 silent version starring legendary Lon Chaney. It was impressive, fascinating and yes, even scary in some weird way. However, this isn't a bad film either. Personally I hate opera so the scenes with singing were pretty much the most frightening moments of this horror film. Claude Rains is perhaps the most touching phantom movie world has ever seen. His performance alone makes this a film worth checking out. I also loved the humorous elements (this time intentional) Phantom of the opera had. The fact that they actually ended this movie with a comical relief was an amusing detail. I wish I could catch the one they filmed in 1962 starring Herbert Lom as the phantom. This was good too but it seemed even better. "}{"Title":"Classic Claude Rains and nice visuals, but it doesn't work","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie at the beautiful Louisville Palace as part of their summer 2001 Classic Movie Series.  This was my only exposure to any version of Phantom of the Opera, so I can't compare it to others, but I must say the story here seems weak and unrealistic.  However, there is some stunning cinematography and set design here, and it is always a treat to see the great Claude Rains in action.  **1/2 "},{"Title":"Second only to the silent version","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":"  The first (and a newer) Phantom film I saw was years ago, and it scared me to death. In particular, the times when music turns to blood and the Phantom sews on new skin made for an absolutely dreadful Phantom of the Opera. However, this film is much better. Claude Rains gave what is easily one of the best performances of his career as an initially shy and suspicious violinist who becomes truly insane. Not every actor can do that convincingly. There is plenty of character development here, and the Phantom is thus more believable than in the 1925 version.The scenes are few but long. Here, Erique, a violinist at the Paris Opera, gets fired and becomes insane after believing one of his compositions was stolen. From there, there is much comic relief in the form of the two Raouls (Nelson Eddy and Edgar Barrier) vying for Christine. These scenes are funny, but they clearly try to detract from Claude Rains, and is clearly the film's most serious flaw. In between these are the opera sequences, which allow Nelson Eddy his only moments of glory.  All in all, the comic relief sequences should have been reworked if nothing else.Susanna Foster shines all the way through. She is in fact a better Christine than Mary Philbin (1925) and more interesting because she is independent and self-assured. Edgar Barrier is not bad either.The horror scenes are few and far between. The acid throwing, the lurking menace of Claude Rains interspursed through the film, the unmasking, and Rains' voice are the most horrific elements of the film. Why didn't they have more of Claude Rains and less opera sequences? The film's length (approximately 90 min.) could have been considerably less.All in all, not as bad as the newer versions, but look at this film mostly for Claude Rains, the most memorable Phantom. "},{"Title":"So what if it doesn't follow the book?","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" So what if it doesn't follow the book? It is very entertaining and well-made. There is too much singing, and that kind of hurts the story. Although he doesn't get much screen time, Claude Rains (as the title character) gives a strong sympathetic performance. Unfortunately, his Phantom make-up is about as scary as the Phantom's in Joel Schumacher's version. This movie may not hold up to the version with Lon Chaney, but it is still very good. The very last scene is really pretty stupid; it's there simply for comic relief. (The end of the scene right before it would have been a good and powerful place to end the movie.) Other than the excessive singing and that last scene, this movie is very well done. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" A really great film to watch and better yet to hear. Folks who admit to hating opera shouldn't even rate this film. Those expecting great horror will also be disappointed. Those who enjoy music, acting,beautiful scenery and costumes,and a clever story line will come away quite pleased. Nelson and Susanna were nothing short of terrific ! Susanna went on to make 10 more films ,most of them poor except for her singing, which in my opinion ranks her as the best of all the female film singers bar none. Claude made an excellent Phantom even though the role didn't call for the Phantom to necessarily be the primary character in this version of the story. If you liked this film buy or rent a copy ofTHE Climax featuring Boris Karlof , Susanna Foster and Turhan Bey . Great sets,music, costumes . Same opera house as in Phantom. "},{"Title":"The best of Phantoms!","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" This is the best of the screen versions of Phantom of the Opera by Gaston Leruox.Claude Rains' performance is a landmark as is that of the whole cast.I don't know how to describe it....take the Lon Chaney film for instance.It was an expressionist Gothic horror film,a good horror film it must be said,but quite a few notches down from what I was expecting,Lon Chaney likes the delictae touch,the lightness that Claude Rains.And indeed Lon Chaney's Phanotm is built an absolutle repulsive cold blooded murderer but we get a sympathetic portrayal by Rains that is un-rivaled.This is the best Phantom of the Opera and one of the greatest films ever! "},{"Title":"FANTASTIC!!!","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":"  I Love this movie, it is one of the bests phantom of the opera films. The performance is great, thee music is beautiful and the set ofParis is perfect to the movie. When I watch it this movie I said I, WANT TO BUY IT!!!!  Well, is not the best of the phantom of the opera movies, but is oneof the bests, and I recommend to any Phantom of the Opera fan, orclassic musical films, like My Fair Lady, Marry Poppins, AnAmerican in Paris, The Wizard of Oz or Gigi fans. "},{"Title":"good version","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":"  I purchased this version on tape a few years ago.  I like it.  i have never seen the Lloyd-Weber version.  THis has some good music.  Especially the opening when an area from Martha is sung.  Martha by Frederick Von Flotow(a contemporary of Wagner and Verdi) is the greatest comic opera of all time.  It is a shame that it is not popular.This is not like the other versions the plot is diferent.  I like this version. "},{"Title":"it is a good show.","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":"  Eddy is a good vocal singer.He delivers voice to any opera he is in. Foster plays a nice girl who has to choose and yet has two lovers along with the phantom.Rains plays phantom role with medium performance. Meanwhile, the show has lovely music. "},{"Title":"Superb entertainment in all areas!","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" I have seen the original and all the remakes. Some very good and some so so. This one, to me, is the most real and Claude Raines as the Phantom captures all the emotions of a pitiable disturbed man.The singing by Suzanna Foster and Nelson Eddy is true opera. Don't forget Edgar Barrier as the Surete officer competing with Eddy for Suzanna's hand.Casting is brilliant with all the finest character actors such as Leo Carillo, Frank Puglia, Steven Geray, Miles Mander and Leonid Kinsky. Colour, direction and camera work par excelence!I deem this film superb entertainment. "},{"Title":"Grand production, and quite extravagant.","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":"  1943's Phantom Of The Opera is usually criticized for straying too much from the original story, and for having too much focus on the opera. I feel the liberties of straying from the original story do not hurt this production, and even enhance this telling of the classic in many ways (the acid thrown onto Claudin's face explaining how the man became disfigured, his escape into the sewer, etc.) The heart of the story remains true to the classic story, and the first filming A phantom (Claude Rains) stalks the Paris Opera House, and is attempting to get an opera starlet (Susanna Foster) into the spotlight. He murders and creates destruction to get his way. The phantom loves the starlet, and eventually kidnaps her; taking her to his underground lair beneath the opera house. In this filming there is a love triangle between the starlet (Foster), the opera's leading male singer (Nelson Eddy), and a detective (Edgar Barrier.) This love triangle leads to several attempts at humor, but the humor often falls flat. This is a film about a phantom creating chaos in an opera house, and the amount of screentime opera in this filming seems appropriate. This film goes more into the opera life than the original film version, and viewers not familiar with opera (such as myself) may find themselves enjoying the operas and what goes on behind the scenes. The opera scenes are well staged, well sung and well acted. The rest of the film is also well acted, and Claude Rains turns in an excellent performance as the man who becomes the phantom. Susanna Foster shines when she is on the opera's stage, and sparkles when she is offstage. Nelson Eddy and Edgar Barrier both play their roles very well. The sets and props are extravagant, and the era in which the film is set is shown accurately. This is certainly a grand production, and shot masterfully in Technicolor. "}{"Title":"Rains' Phantom...","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":"  Rains carries this first talkie version of the Leroux story. The element of horror is made a bit cartoony, but Rains entertains enough to keep you for the entire thing.  "},{"Title":"Missing Footage----","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Sat. 14-2230 PDT IMDb---- I have recently played the 1943 version of Phantom of the Opera. The video resolution, color and sound quality is superb and one of the best DVD copies available of any film. My only criticism is missing footage of the scene, where the chandelier crashes. The singer is on a sustained high note, is looking toward the chandelier, sees it wavering from its' support, which Claude Rains has cut through and then immediately and abruptly breaks into a scream. I remember seeing the original showing, years ago, where she slowly transcends from her high note into the scream mode. This present version is the same I witnessed on the old AMC channel showing of about 10 years ago. Their source must have been film, as a definite splice was apparent during this scene. Someone, somewhere has snipped out some footage of that scene. Perhaps an original copy of Phantom with this scene intact does not exist, but it surely would be worth while to investigate and thereby see the restored chanelier scene. Thanks ----Rudy Z........ "},{"Title":"This movie is excellent","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" The Phantom of the Opera far exceeded my expectations. It is not only beautiful to the ears, but oh so beautiful to the eyes. The story was very well done and needless to say Andrew Lloyd Webber's music is excellent. This movie is far better than the Broadway play, although I love Michael Crawford. It is a very powerful and moving movie. It is hard to believe that Emmy Rossum is only eighteen years old. She has such a beautiful voice and is perfect. Gerald Butler is fabulous as the Phantom, very compelling. The scenery is unbelievable, which makes the movie even more beautiful than the story alone. I can't wait until this movie comes out on DVD, it is and will be a classic. Definitely a must see for all. "},{"Title":"why can't they stick to the original plot?","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":"  I absolutely love the Phantom of the Opera book by Gaston Leroux. I fell in love with everything about it especially the plot line. After reading it my interest turned to the movies based on the book. First I saw the silent Phantom of the Opera with Lon Chaney, which is a great movie and does very well following the book. Then I saw the Broadway play at a local theater, it also did alright with following the book. Then I saw this one, the 1943 one. I was disappointed. It's not a badly made movie and the acting in it's great (big Claude Rains fan), but what happened to the original story? I understand that they wanted to mix it up a little, but I went into the movie thinking about the book and I was greatly disappointed. If, unlike me, you don't mind that movies are different from the books, then I would recommend this movie. If you're like me and you've read the book and it matters to you, it's probably not the best movie for you to see.  "},{"Title":"Phantom of the Opera (1943) ***","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" I'm enjoying this version more and more each time I see it. My only real problem are the Opera scenes, which are rough for a non-fan like myself to squirm through if he is to give this film its proper chance (I don't believe in forwarding through scenes in films). Claude Rains is very good in his role in that he's able to make us feel sympathetic toward his Phantom, yet still manages to be hauntingly effective in his misdeeds. I like the idea that we get to see a lot of him before his disfiguring accident this time around (something lacking in the Chaney version). This new origin for the character works extremely well, too. As a frustrated composer done wrong and becoming scarred in the bargain, it provides strong motivation for why the Phantom is haunting - of all things - an Opera House. The makeup of the Phantom is on the stingy side, but I love the look of the mask he wears to hide the deformity. I also love the Technicolor, especially on the Universal DVD. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Opera replaces the suspense, unfortunately","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Erik Claudin is released from his position as a violinist from the Paris Opera Company after twenty years and is broke from paying for singing lessons for Christine Dubois, a chorus girl/soprano with the opera. In order to further finance her lessons, Claudin takes a concerto he has spent years writing to a music publisher, but he believes it is stolen by the publisher and strangles him, but not before his secretary throws a dish of etching acid in his face. Claudin now creeps along the passageways and cellars of the opera house, stealing the pass key as well as food and a mask for his disfigured face. In order to make Christine the lead soprano of the opera house, Claudin/The Phantom drugs Mme. Biancarolli's drink and Christine takes her role to wide acclaim. Mme. Biancarolli blames the company baritone, Anatole Garron, for drugging her so that Christine (who Anatole is vying for her affections) can become the star of the opera. After Mme. Biancarolli demands that Christine be sent back to the chorus, the Phantom strangles her as well causing the opera to be shut down. Police inspector Raoul D'Aubert (Anatole's rival for Christine's heart) has the opera open again with a new soprano to draw out the Phantom, but he has a few tricks of his own hoping to lure Christine down in the opera house cellars. This film is sure a letdown considering it is one of the few Technicolor production from Universal in the 40's looking like a glamorized B picture. The film is not a adaptation of the Leroux novel, nor a remake of the 1925 Chaney version since it uses few of the characters or situations faithfully from either version. Lubin's direction seems like the actors were called to the set to read lines and the actors show little if any emotion, especially hurting Rains' performance since he is great as Claudin, but as the Phantom he's weak (and every time he is seen in silhouette, it is so out of place it looks ridiculous). Eddy, Foster, and Barrier meanwhile look uninspired throughout the film. The set and art decoration does look nice as well as the score which is pleasant to the ear. The film only starts to pick up in the last 15 minutes, but the ending is rushed and unsatisfying. Universal should have worked harder on this one. Rating, 4. "},{"Title":"It's no Phantom, but it is an opera!","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Even though I have never read the book, I have always been fascinated by the story and the characters of The Phantom of the Opera. I've seen the 2004 adaptation (which is a fairly decent film in my opinion) and I tried to watch the 1925 version with Lon Chaney but found it to be a bit boring even for my tastes. Now, when it comes to this film...I feel as though the 1943 Phantom of the Opera falls swiftly in between the two extremes. It is neither a true musical, (the only musical parts being the actual performances on the opera stage) nor is it a horror film like it's silent predecessor. Rather, it is a melodrama centering around a gorgeous, talented young Opera singer(Susanna Foster), her two suitors and a meek, lonely violinist who becomes our mysterious, brooding Phantom. (Claude Rains.)What makes his performance in particularly interesting, is that unlike Chaney, or even Butler's version of the masked opera ghost....Claude Rains gives us a Phantom that is all too human. Perhaps this is meant to symbolize that anyone can become a phantom if they are pushed to their limits, as opposed to some mysterious monster who we cannot relate to whatsoever. In this adaptation, the phantom is not born with his deformity. Rather, it is an unfortunate consequence of his own actions and wrongdoings. Which a very interesting alteration of the plot.It's obvious that Rains' performance as a man-turned-monster is the highlight of the film. But it has more saving graces than one can imagine. The vocal talents of Susanna Foster and Nelson Eddy are marvelous to say the least. And the spectacles of the Opera performances themselves are very pleasing to the eyes and ears. There are several charming comedic moments between Christine and her two suitors who are constantly competing for her love. The cinematography is also quite brilliant. Establishing shots effectively show the Opera house's splendor from all of the best angles and are used very effectively. However, by far one of the best things of this film is it's soundtrack. It's beautiful, tragic and sad all at once. Particularly the Lullaby of the Bells, which is a reoccurring theme.Overall, this film exceeded my expectations. It's certainly no horror masterpiece like the Lon Chaney version. Nor is it a noble blockbuster as the 2004 adaptation. But it is still a solid depiction in it's own right. Possibly the most tragic of them all. Anyone who is a fan of musicals should give it a chance. It holds up much better than most would have you believe. "},{"Title":"Stick to the original....","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" This is a reasonably pleasant remake of Phantom of the Opera, but that is all. It's not exactly a remake, but more of a re-working of the story, as it bears less semblance to Gaston Laroux's novel than the original film--especially since all the back story they give about how the phantom came to be has NOTHING whatsoever to do with the original story. It's interesting but pays little respect to the source material.The movie is filmed in lovely 1940s Technicolor--not the most realistic, but bright and enchanting nonetheless. But color is NOT the biggest difference between this and the old Lon Chaney film. This new version has a huge emphasis on singing--with lots and lots and lots of music that will enchant opera fans and bore everyone else to death. I really hated the glossy production numbers--they were sumptuous BUT also got in the way of the story. For much of the film, the Phantom seemed ancillary at best--and was more a chance for the studio to show off Nelson Eddy and his co-star.As for the horror, it's so muted and uninteresting that I can scarcely call this a horror film! And, most disappointingly, when the big unmasking scene occurs, you see that the Phantom's face looks pretty nice--so why is the big idiot hiding it under a mask?! I saw nothing of the scary Lon Chaney in this silly Phantom!! I am a devout classic horror fan and really could have cared less about the film--and I felt frustrated that the film just wasn't scary or suspenseful--and that the Phantom really wasn't terribly important to the producers! To me, this film is like a cake from the average grocery store these days--it looks nice but tastes fake! By the way, although the original is by far the best, the early 1960s version by Hammer Films is greatly superior to this 1943 version. It ain't great, but IS still a horror film. Instead, the 1943 version seems too much like a glossier Jeanette MacDonald-Nelson Eddy film with another woman sitting in for Jeanette!! "},{"Title":"Underrated Universal","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Phantom of the Opera (1943) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Brilliant looking and underrated version of Gaston Leroux's novel was a different type of Universal horror film as it had a budget, for starters, which wasn't the norm for their monster pictures of this era. Claude Rains plays the poor violinist who gets acid thrown into his face after killing the man who stole his life's work. He then goes underground only coming out to help the career of a singer (Susanna Foster) who he has fallen in love with. It seems this film often gets attacked for being more MGM/Musical than Universal/Horror but I feel that's quite unfair to the movie as it's quite original in some ways and it at least tried to be different than the 1925 version with Lon Chaney. By going the music route there were a lot of great things on display here and that includes the music, which is all very well handled and performed. Another major plus is that we get the film in Technicolor and this here really makes the film look tremendous. The Oscar-winning Art Direction and Cinematography are both wonderful and really bring a great atmosphere to the film. The performances are all extremely good with Rains turning in another memorable performance. He does a great job at making us feel pity for his poor character and he also keeps us from hating him too much even when he turns evil during the second half of the film. Foster comes off extremely well too as does Nelson Eddy and Edgar Barrier. The two of them also work quite well together for some of the comedy sequences. The look, sound and performances make this a must see but the one problem I did have with the film was the ending but I won't spoil it. I do think they messed up big time on the mask removal sequence, which doesn't work at all here. Outside of that, this is a highly entertaining little film that doesn't contain too much horror but it shouldn't be attacked just because of that. "},{"Title":"If it weren't for Claude Rains, this would be a travesty","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":"  Claude Rains always adds gravitas to any role in any film. What an actor! The production itself is adequate if not impressive. The powerful familiar Phantom plot is much diluted by the addition of the silly rivalry subplot between the baritone and the officer. Of the acting in other lead roles, one is reminded of the comment of one of Nelson Eddy's directors when Eddy entered on a horse, the director was able to get a better performance from the horse. Moreover his makeup only accentuates  the passage of years. Susanna Foster is little better, mostly looking pretty but not sure of what she was doing in a star role. "}{"Title":"Was this REALLY the Phantom?","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":"  Okay, where in the book did it have the Phantom burned by acid and was a retired violin player obsessed with Christine Daae?  Can they actually call this the Phantom of the Opera?  I was expecting to see the wonderful story I had read but I was severely disappointed. "},{"Title":"Too much opera, not enough Phantom","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":"  The first talking version of the Phantom of the Opera (played by Claude Rains here) in love with beautiful opera singer Christine (Susanna Foster). The film looks just stunning--it deservedly won an Oscar for its incredible color cinematography. Everything looks perfect and Foster is just so incredibly beautiful in closeup. So it looks good but this film has big problems.For one thing there's too much opera--WAY too much! All the operas look good and the singing is good--but I personally hate operas and I was bored silly. Phantom is supposed to be a horror film--NOT an opera film. The Phantom himself doesn't show up until 30 minutes in! And they give the Phantom an origin--it's not bad but not needed...it was scarier knowing nothing about him. There's LOTS of lame comedy of suitors Anatole (Nelson Eddy) and Raoul (Edgar Barrier) vying for Christine's affections. And Rains scarred face at the end isn't remotely scary--can't hold a candle to Chaney's 1925 version. And Eddy's acting was abominable--he was hired just for his singing.It does have some good things The Phantom's first appearance DID make me jump; the chandelier dropping was very well done; Rains gives an excellent (and very sympathetic) performance in the lead and Foster is pretty good too---and what a voice! Nice score too.But it's not a horror film--it plays like an opera drama with horrific touches. Still it should be seen just for the stunning color cinematography alone. For that I give it a 7.  "},{"Title":"Not the best version of this classic tale","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" The Phantom of the Opera is one of the greatest horror stories ever written. No wait, scratch that understatement; it's one of the greatest stories ever written, period. The Gothic setting of the story mixed with the tragedy of it's lead and the heartbreak of his lust for the young opera singer combine to make a very interesting and unique tale indeed, but when it comes to cinema; it's never had a truly satisfying adaptation. Sure, the 1925 Lon Chaney version is excellent; but it's dated. When you consider that it was made nearly 80 years ago, though, that is to be expected. This version isn't a truly satisfying version either; it's not bad, but considering how amazing it's source story is; it's certainly not great. The main problem with this film is that it's perspective is wrong. There's far too much emphasis on the music side of the story, and the much more interesting element of the tragedy of the phantom's fate and his resulting obsession with the opera singer are left by the wayside, almost a co-star in their own film.I'm really sorry, but I have an acute dislike for opera music. Quite frankly; it's awful. Operatic vocals can be good if given the right music to go with (e.g. Nightwish), but on their own or with classical music, they're more painful than pulling your toenails out with pliers (not that I've ever pulled my toenails out with pliers, of course, but I'm imagining it is). Of course, in Phantom of the Opera, you have to expect SOME opera, but at the end of the day; this is a horror film, and as it has more opera music than horror; it's safe to say that it's got it's perspective wrong. The film also seems keen to have moments of comedy in it, which works sometimes; but more often than not feels like an awkward addition to the film. Another disappointment is the ending; gone is the lavish and expansive ending that we were treated to in the 1925 version, and we have to make do with a very small, unsatisfying climax. Which pretty much sums up the film's relationship with its title character, actually. On the good side, this film has some nice elements; the sets are grand and lavish, and overall very refreshing and a treat for the eyes. The film also looks very nice on the whole, especially when you consider that it's over sixty years old. The direction is assured, if not overly brilliant and the performances range from good enough, to very good; with the excellent Claude Rains being at the business end of that statement. Ten years prior to this film, Rains carried a movie with his voice alone in The Invisible Man, but here we get the voice and the screen presence of a man who is undoubtedly one of the finest actors to ever grace the screen.If you're a fan of Phantom of the Opera, then this adaptation may well be to your liking. If your not, but want to see a film version of it, then I recommend starting with Lon Chaney's version. It's better. "},{"Title":"Not like the book","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":"  The moviemakers most have looked at the book and said wow thats good but I`m going too make my own stupid story!They just used the names from the story thats all they left.Boy see the 1925 film or read the book this is not the movie for people who have read the book. "},{"Title":"Love quadrangle in the 40's","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Music","Review":" Classic tale, told with a dated look, likable but also empty.What's more amazing is the life story of Susanna Foster (Christine Dubois), loved by three ardent men and adored by hundreds in this fiction, and living a downhill life in real life. It's interesting for opera buffs like myself to see a bit of the backstage of the renowned Paris Opera, the jealousies, miseries and intrigues. The best phrase, by far, is the one put into the mouth of Liszt So many crimes have been committed in the name of music, we may well make one to prevent one (but better said). There's also a joke that's actually fun by the music director, at least the audience agreed with me when we saw it.The characters are made in cardboard, as fake as the scenery. Vereheres is a case in point. Specially what Neil Doyle from U.S.A. points out in IMDb silly routines as they compete for the hand of Foster. As Gary F. Taylor GFT (Biloxi, MS USA) writes in Amazon The Phantom had gone musical. (&#133;) But in terms of actual story interest, the film is only so-so. It has a sanitized tone, surely explained by it being made during the war. I also agree to his pace is slow, sometimes to the point of clunkiness.The only acting I liked was the one of Claude Rains. Find his complete quote in IMDb Often we'd secretly like to do the very things we discipline ourselves against... He's got very beautiful (albeit mad) lines while he's taking Christine to the Opera's catacombs. But they get muddled into the whole pastiche&#133; Music is very good, specially if you've heard the operas before. I liked the scene with Oneguin a lot, found it fun and refreshing. As many reviewers write, there's no horror, just a musical. And the phantom is NEVER seductive, unless you can call a destructive mad wreck of a human being so.Funnily enough, the main characters have chic French surnames (Dubois, D'Aubert), which leads me to confirm that at least some Americans think French equals chic. Whereas the baddies are Italian Signor Ferretti, and the mischievous Biancarolli. Italian means mafia for Hollywood? The stereotype is long lived&#133;The jokes are tart, the heroines wear too much makeup, and the villain never really convinces as a menace. The ending is fine, truly!After watching this, I don't feel sorry for having missed the 2004 remake by Schumacher, nor paying a dime and spent valuable time in London to watch the L. Weber musical. Well, Joel has made some the worse films ever, ie Bad company&#133; And Lloyd Webber&#133; Woody Allen says it all in a subtle second of his masterful Match Point.I guess it's good to watch films like this or the superior King Kong (1933) with the helpful aide of an art house critic, who can enlighten the uninitiated -like me- to things like the Gothic element underlying the rococo exterior. Or the romantic idea of beauty leading to suffering. While it doesn't achieve cult status, it's a nice addenda to any Phantom completist, as another reviewer puts it.Overall, much less than anticipated. Beauty and the beast but without the emotion that the old Kong can yield. "}]