[{"Title":"Swinging On a Star","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"49 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A fairly old-fashioned film even when first released, Going My Way is probably a tough sell these days compared to other 'feel good' movies of its time. It's a little too long, a little too sweet, a little too casual, and has more than a little too much music. Then again, it also has Bing Crosby; and a Crosby picture without music is like a fish-tank without fish.Bing plays a young, progressive priest assigned to the parish of an aging, stubborn, much older priest (Barry Fitzgerald) who desperately needs help in dealing with his church and congregation, and is too proud to ask for it. At first the old priest distrusts the younger one and regards him as too 'modern' in his outlook. In time the two men come to get along famously, but with a few bumps in the road along the way. The movie is a comedy and a sermon, a musical and a drama. It is at times painfully and at other times hilariously realistic. When it sticks to its central story it's just fine. But it zooms off in dozen different directions and at times seems to lose its way. In the end everything comes together neatly, but it takes an awful long time for the movie to get there.Going My Way is literally the opposite of film noir. It is bright and sunny, and aggressively optimistic in tone. Yet it is set in the slums of New York in a parish surrounded by poverty and crime. Director Leo McCarey does not minimize the negative aspects of the parish community; if anything he emphasizes them,--in order to offer a cure, or rather cures faith, hope and charity. The movie's sensibility can be summed up in the face and demeanor of its star, Bing Crosby, who manages to be smart, open, breezy, charming, sly and decent all at the same time. One can't help but be reminded, after seeing this film, that life's problems, heavy and complex as they are, can be addressed in other ways and in other vocabularies than those of social scientists and existential philosophers, and that simplifying matters, cutting them down to their essentials is perhaps as important as verbalizing them. Most people do not read the great books or discuss the great ideas, and for most of us complexity is a burden, simplicity a virtue. Without resorting to any theory or idea, Going My Way makes this point quite nicely, and offers some pleasant songs in the bargain. "},{"Title":"A movie that really sneaks up on you","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"33 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  It's an easily underrated movie, particularly because it flatly refuses to do most of the things that people expect movies to do today; there's a defiant unwillingness to slip into easy melodrama (though I often like melodrama), or to spend too much time on comedy, etc. The movie won't pigeonhole itself, and I think this leads to its secret - at heart, it really intends to be about what it's like to be a priest. You CAN'T pigeonhole yourself in that role, because you can't possibly know what's coming up, or really keep perfect track of all the different threads of a community at the same time. You have to take things as they come, and this movie really does that all the way through.And there's also a sense of the wistfulness that comes from giving up that plot-driven style of living - in the scenes where Crosby visits his old girlfriend, there's a tangible awareness on both sides that they don't really know what happened to the plot of their relationship - they just took things as they came, and it really turned out OK for both of them. Most of the movie's separate narrative threads are left off, and returned to, almost at random - and the main focus on the relationships between the characters is what ends up shining through as intended.A lot of the film is spent on scenes that seem kind of inconsequential at the time (like most of everyday life), but they invariably lead to a payoff later in the film. There's a shot of Gene Lockhart watching his son leave - a silent shot that just holds on a medium shot of the father, watching his expression for about 10 seconds - that I found absolutely sublime in its effectiveness. To me, that single shot justifies the half dozen scenes that led to it. Ultimately, the movie is almost happy to laugh at the audience for being so eager to expect more of a story. As one character aptly says,Schmaltz is in this year; the people behind this movie KNOW that a lot of people will want to dismiss it, but won't let them off the hook so easily. It's looks deceptively simple to make a film this easygoing and yet moving. (Capra tried it later in his career, sometimes with Crosby, and yet he couldn't pull it off.)The Oscar win is OK, though I think Double Indemnity should have won, and I also like The Miracle of Morgan's Creek a lot more as well (THE SPOTS!!!); but Going My Way belonged in the top 5 that year, along with Laura and I'm-not-sure-what-else. (Gaslight, maybe?) And I'll note that I do like the sequel, The Bells of St. Mary's (actually written first), a little better, too.But as I wrote in the summary, this one really sneaks up on you; the last scenes prove much more moving than you expect, and the ending of the film - while initially seeming abrupt - leaves you suddenly saying, Of course - it's perfect. Just moving on.......9 of 10P.S. Is it really set in New York? That's never said, and there's so much talk of St. Louis that I think that more accurate a guess. The Metropolitan Opera House is mentioned, but that's a generic-sounding name. Honestly, I think they went to great effort to make it as unrooted in a single locale as possible. "},{"Title":"Bing Goes His Own Way","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"28 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  	In `Going My Way,' director Leo McCarey taps into one of the basic tenets of human nature, that being the fact that even the most selfless individual has wants and needs that often go unrecognized or unexpressed.  It's a matter of understanding the human condition, being sensitive to what drives our fellow man and responding to it.  A young woman of eighteen leaves home because of a conflict with her parents, yet has nowhere to go; a man with a touch of `Scrooge' in him, who runs a Savings & Loan has trouble setting his priorities; a gang of street-wise kids need some direction; an elderly priest after forty-five years has allowed his parish to slip into financial straits.  All circumstances that are affecting in their innate humanity, and it's into this that McCarey taps directly with his story, and it's the reason for the success of his film.  Simply put, it has heart-- and it makes it timeless.	Father Fitzgibbon (Barry Fitzgerald) has been at St. Dominic's in New York since it was built, but the financially strapped parish is in arrears on the mortgage payment, and Mr. Ted Haines Sr. (Gene Lockhart), of the S&L that holds the note, would like nothing better than to be able to foreclose on the church, because then he could raze the building and turn it into a parking lot.  Meanwhile, the Bishop has sent a young priest, Father Chuck O'Malley (Bing Crosby) to St. Dominic's to look into the situation, and very quickly the good Father finds that he has his hands more than full.	Sent to take charge without `taking charge,' in deference to Father Fitzgibbon's tenure, Father O'Malley has his work cut out just trying to save the church; but that's not all he has to contend with.  Found alone on the street by a local policeman, a girl named Carol James (Jean Heather) is brought to St. Dominic's, and Father O'Malley realizes that without some help, she's headed for nothing but trouble.  He also encounters a lad named Tony Scaponi (Stanley Clements), the leader of the gang that has been terrorizing the neighborhood, and turning that situation around becomes a priority on Father O'Malley's `to-do' list.  Then there is Mr. Haines Sr. to deal with.  But most especially in need of all (though he doesn't realize it himself) is Father Fitzgibbon, and this, too, Father O'Malley recognizes.  Now it's just a matter of addressing all of these needs at once; and as Father O'Malley finds out, it's no easy task.	There's something of the Angel, Dudley (played by Cary Grant in `The Bishop's Wife'), in Father O'Malley, as he is not only sensitive to the needs of those he encounters, but knows how to resolve their conflicts in a way that suits the best interests of all concerned.  His solutions may be those of a perfect, pie-in-the-sky world and not necessarily a reflection of reality, but it works because it captures the spirit of what this movie is all about  caring and lending a helping hand to those who need it.  The solutions may be unrealistic and overly simplified, but the feelings and emotions of the characters are very real, and McCarey's ability to capture that essence of humanity is what earned this film the Oscar for Best Movie of 1944 (McCarey received Oscars, as well, for Best Director and Original Story).	As Father O'Malley, Bing Crosby gives one of his best performances, which earned him an Oscar for Best Actor.  But as good as he is in this part, the award is something of a surprise; the Father O'Malley Crosby presents has the patience of a Saint and insight to match, and his mild mannered approach to the character makes his portrayal the kind that are usually overlooked and under-appreciated because of the apparent facility of the delivery.  And Crosby does make it look easy-- which also makes it very real, striking a chord as perfect as the solutions to the problems he solves along the way.  It's interesting to note that when Crosby recreated the role a year later in `The Bells of St. Mary's,' though he slipped back into the character readily enough, it didn't seem to have that same depth or impact as in this one, but more of a `been there, done that' feel.  Then again, this story and the characters with which he is surrounded here are much richer and have much more definition than those of the sequel, and this film is much more emotionally involving.	Barry Fitzgerald received the Oscar for Best Supporting Actor for his portrayal of Father Fitzgibbon, and well deserved it was.  Father O'Malley may be the anchor of this film, but Father Fitzgibbon is it's soul.  And the final scene-- unexpected and extremely moving-- leaves no doubt about it.  That scene, in fact, so powerful in it's simplicity, veritably sums up the sentiment of the entire movie.  It's a triumph for Fitzgerald, as well as McCarey, but the one who really comes out the winner is the viewer.	The supporting cast includes Frank McHugh (Father Timothy), William Frawley (Max), James Brown (Ted Haines, Jr.), Rise Stevens (Genevieve Linden), Eily Malyon (Mrs. Carmody), Carl `Alfalfa' Switzer (Herman) and Adeline De Walt Reynolds (Mrs. Molly Fitzgibbon).  A heart-felt and uplifting discourse on the brighter side of the human condition, `Going My Way' reflects the good there is to be found in humanity if we but take the time to seek it out.  An entertaining, feel-good film, this is what the magic of the movies is all about.  I rate this one 9/10.       "},{"Title":"A warm and delightfully funny must-see!","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Bing Crosby plays a young priest with progressive methods who is assigned to a dwindling parish. He finds himself faced with many wonderful characters, especially the grumpy old Irish master of the church (Barry Fitzgerald) who doesn't see eye to eye with the new guy. The interplay between Crosby and Fitzgerald is delightfully funny.This best picture winner of 1944 at the Oscars is one of the all-time greatest movies. Crosby was as warm and benevolent an actor as he was a singer as his performance in Going My Way proves.The film shows eventually that it is necessary in life to learn to accept everyone around you, regardless of faults and flaws of character, and to help your fellow people find their strengths and develop them in order to serve humanity. But, believe me, this film is anything but pedantic; issues such as these do not drive the film but arise from situations (often light-hearted) that arise naturally in the story.An example of this is that there were some juvenille delinquents that the Crosby character rounded up, not to pass judgement or scorn but to organise them into doing something constructive that made them enjoy life and give up theft as a means of dealing with boredom - he turned them into a choir. Sounds a bit like Sister Act? I'm sure Going My Way had some influence on this more recent effort, but it is much superior in many ways. It reminded me also of Michael Landon's Highway to Heaven series (without the supernatural components).If you are looking for an old classic with lots of spirit and warmth (such as around Christmas time) for your whole family to gather around and watch by the fire, I recommend Going My Way. It is a must-see. (10 out of 10). "},{"Title":"A Simple, Pleasant Movie Made More Memorable By Barry Fitzgerald","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This kind of picture would normally just be a pleasant, upbeat movie worthwhile for casual viewing, but Going My Way is made more memorable by Barry Fitzgerald, who co-stars with Bing Crosby. There's nothing wrong with Crosby, since he is his usual self, low-key and amiable, and he has a few chances to sing as well. But Fitzgerald and his character are what adds the depth to an otherwise fairly simple story.Crosby is rather well-cast as a young priest, since his benevolent persona seems to fit rather well in the role. As his older, more inflexible colleague, Fitzgerald delivers one of his many fine supporting performances, and in this case he has much more room than usual to develop his character as the movie proceeds. He makes the rather crabby old priest both interesting and endearing, and the character provides a valuable balance to Crosby's straightforward, well-meaning character.The story is worthwhile, and though it is simple, the interplay between the two priests makes the rest of it work much better than it would have on its own. The somewhat episodic plot generally works well, and it provides many good moments, in addition to having some worthwhile thoughts to communicate. "},{"Title":"Bing and Barry","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Leo McCarey's sentimental 1944 film, Going My Way is a positive film that dealt with the problems of the inner city back when the term hadn't been coined. St. Dominic's Church is an oasis in the middle of the area that has seen better days. We realize how deeply in trouble the parish is from the start as Mr. Haines is trying to give Father Fitzgibbon an idea of how much he owes the bank and the fact the church will disappear soon.When Father Chuck O'Malley arrives at St. Dominic to try to save it from its uncertain future, Father Fitzgibbon doesn't have a clue the younger man is going to be over him in all matters of importance. Yet, Father O'Malley never steps over the older priest's shoes to make his rank felt.This film was shot after the more successful, and better made The Bells of St. Mary's, but it was released earlier than the other film, probably to capitalize on Bing Crosby's popularity. The film, in fact, is a showcase for Mr. Crosby, who was a likable actor and singer. He has good opportunities in the movie.As good as Mr. Crosby was in the film, Barry Fitzgerald steals the movie with his Father Fitzgibbon. Mr. Fitzgerald's crusty priest was one of the best creations of his long career. Frank McHugh, another excellent character actor of the era is seen as Father O'Dowd. Gene Lockhart also has a small role as the money man, Mr. Haines. Rise Stevens, the soprano is seen and heard in the film singing in her inimitable style.The film is a classic that should be seen during the holidays, as it brings cheer and hope to everyone lucky enough to catch a screening of it during Christmas. "},{"Title":"A Ray of Sunshine for a World In Pain","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" If you are looking for something thoughtful, dramatic, or even controversial, go somewhere else. But if it's a light-hearted comedy you're after, then pull up a chair and check out Going My Way.Bing Crosby stars as Father Charles Chuck O'Malley, a newly-ordained priest assigned to take over St. Dominic's, a New York City church with a mortgage currently run by veteran priest Father Fitzgibbon (Barry Fitzgerald). Both Crosby and Fitzgerald give good performances in this movie, as attested by the fact they each won an Oscar (and Barry Fitzgerald was nominated TWICE, for Actor and Supporting Actor, a move that necessitated a rule change at the Academy). If you ask me, between the two of them, I would go with Barry Fitzgerald. His portrayal of the crusty, yet kind-hearted Father Fitzgibbon was a role he was born to do, and it shows.This movie also features the talents of soprano Risë Stevens, who plays Jenny Linden, an old friend of Father O'Malley's, in town performing at the Metropolitan Opera House as Carmen. Though her acting is somewhat wooden (it was only her second role), she shines all three times she sings. Which leads me to the title of the movie itself.Going My Way is not a story about the Catholic Church, nor is it about old friends reuniting, or even about two young lovers (James Brown and Jean Heather). It's about a song. That's right. A song, written by Father O'Malley, and upon which its success determines the very future of St. Dominic's. Like I said, this is light comedy; nothing too serious is happening here.At the time of this movie's release in 1944, World War II was at its crescendo. The newsreels and the papers were full of reports of the war. Some war veterans had made their way back home after getting wounded in battle. Major offenses like Operation Overlord (D-Day) had succeeded, but at tremendous cost. At a time when the world was at its grimmest, this was the perfect escape. The only reference to the war in the entire movie occurs when landlord Ted Haines Sr. (Gene Lockhart) discovers his son, Ted Jr. (Brown) quit his job and eloped with a young singer named Carol James (Heather). Just when he thinks his son has lost all sense of reality, he turns around and sees Ted Jr. in an Army Air Corps uniform. Only then, Ted Sr. realizes his son hasn't gone mad; he is off to join the war.If you are a fan of the Road movies Bing Crosby did with Bob Hope, you most likely remember the occasional aside in which either Bing boasts about his Oscar, or Bob grumbles about it. Well, this is the film that gave Bing his Oscar. And he was nominated again the next year for playing the same character in the the sequel The Bells of St. Mary's. Obviously, he must've been doing something right! Going My Way was a little ray of sunshine cast upon a pained world and, even now, it will still put a smile on your face. "},{"Title":"But what I really want to know is......","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Going My Way---9/10.Sometimes I can be such a sucker for sap and this film nabbed me hook, line and sinker.I think the reason this films works so well, despite its sappy shortcomings, stems from the interplay between its two stars, Bing Crosby and Barry Fitzgerald. Crosby plays Father Chuck O'Malley, the new easy going, yet radical and modern thinking replacement to Barry Fitzgerald's sweet and financially floundering Father Fitzgibbon. Being a radical and modern thinker for the time of the film's original release means that Father O'Malley can often be seen wearing a baseball jersey and sweat pants around the Church while Father Fitzgibbon is relegated to wearing the traditional frocks more becoming of an older and more respectable priest.At first Father Fitzgibbon is taken aback by Father O'Malley's radical ideas for the church, but his fears are soon assuaged once he hears the results from O'Malley's new rag-tag boys choir, made up from the local neighborhood delinquents. Father O'Malley becomes more than a figurehead, he becomes a real Father to these kids; he takes them off the streets and into baseball games and gives them a positive outlet through singing to become a positive part of their community.What Father Fitzgibbon doesn't know is that Father O'Malley was sent to his church as his replacement. Once Father Fitzgibbon discovers this bit of information, he runs away from the parish. Father Fitzgibbon doesn't get too far before Father O'Malley has him back in the church with the understanding that he will never get rid of Father Fitzgibbon. In fact, O'Malley not only has to look after the neighborhood kids, but also the aging Father Fitzgibbon. O'Malley decides to teach Fitzgibbon the game of golf (perhaps Bing was scouting for his own pro am at Pebble Beach?) as a way of keeping track of him and giving him a sense of purpose.Although the movie will have its moments of 'Gods Will' (the fire that burns down the church) and of 'redeemable sacrifice' (Fitzgibbon's reunion with his mother), the movie really is a centerpiece for Bing Crosby. The movie seems to get by on emotion and good vibes as well as some very fine performances.Even though the movie is quaint and good-natured, don't be surprised too much when you hear a couple of double entendres uttered by O'Malley while settling down to eat a turkey dinner that was acquired by Fitzgibbon only after the neighborhood kids stole it. O'Malley smirks aloud to the unaware Fitzgibbon that there's nothing quite like eating some 'hot turkey'. O'Malley then remarks that after the boys lost their turkey to Fitzgibbon that the boys must have 'given you the bird'. These remarks have the fingerprints of its director, Leo McCarey.Yeah, sometimes I can be such a sucker that I'll believe just about anything. This movie won me over, and I feel good about that.9/10. Clark Richards "},{"Title":"When Priests Were The Good Guys","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"22 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" It's always been strange for a movie buff like me to see how things change over the decades. In the 1940s and 1950s, Catholic priests were the good guys and likable actors like Pat O'Brien, Spencer Tracy and even Bing Crosby made them even more attractive. Since the '60s, Hollywood went in the opposite direction and made them villains more than anything else.Frankly, I never found a nun who looked like Ingrid Bergman or Audrey Hepburn, or a priest who could sing like Bing Crosby, but, what the hell, er heck....better to see a positive cleric image than a negative, I believe.The first hour of this movie was very good and the film might have wound up a favorite of mine but the second half petered out quickly and never regained steam, except for a nice ending. The films bogs down with a romance that has nothing to do with the story. The music also lost its appeal to me when Crosby's fine voice was finished for the film, replaced by the operatic high notes of Rise Stevens.Overall, the film has a number of nice, touching moments and Crosby is very likable but the story goes on too long and is not one I would watch a second time. "},{"Title":"One of the best loved of all Oscar movies","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" One of the best loved of all Oscar winners, Leo McCarey's deeply sentimental film makes no great claims to seriousness nor is it particularly cinematic, (the studio sets are clearly studio sets), but it's well-written and has a deeply likable performance from Bing Crosby as Father Chuck O'Malley, (the Academy liked him enough to give him the Best Actor Oscar and to nominate him the following year for playing the same role). He's the young priest sent to St. Dominic's, a parish down on its luck, to whip it back into shape and to replace the curmudgeonly old priest responsible for its present state. The older priest is the leprechaun-like Barry Fitzgerald and he plays the part shamelessly. The Academy gave him an Oscar, too, and it marked the only time when an actor, (Fitzgerald), was nominated for Best Actor and Best Supporting Actor for playing the same role in the same film in the same year. (The rules were subsequently changed so it wouldn't happen again). The Mickey Rooney role of the street-wise older kid who makes good is played here by Stanley Clements. If the film has a fault it's that it gave us one of the most annoying of all Oscar-winning songs in 'Swingin on a Star'. "}{"Title":"Going A Wonderful Way","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Poignant and deeply moving best describe this Oscar winning film of 1944.Progressive Priest, Father O'Malley, is sent to a run-down parish to improve things. There he meets the conservative priest, played in a memorable performance, by Barry Fitzgerald. The two will come into conflict.O'Malley will deal with an abundance of church problems. He helps deprived children. His rendition of the songs Going My Way and Swinging on a Star is memorable. The latter won the best song of the year award.As the loving fathers, both Crosby and Fitzgerald won Oscars in the best acting and supporting acting categories. Interestingly, Fitzgerald had been nominated for best actor as well.The ending will not allow for a dry eye in the house. That is guaranteed.There is poverty all around but love conquers that. O'Malley quietly leaving the parish for his next assignment is memorable as well. "},{"Title":"With Sunday morning in your heart","Date":"24 December 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Father O'Malley (Bing Crosby) has been assigned to take charge of struggling church, Saint Dominic's. He's taking over for kindly old Father Flitzgibbon (Barry Fitzgerald), but doesn't want the elder priest to know it just yet. O'Malley's fresh approach and youthful appeal help get the troubled neighborhood kids involved in the choir and solve the church's financial troubles.Charming, sentimental tale that won a total of seven Oscars, including two for writer-director Leo McCarey. Bing Crosby and Barry Fitzgerald took home statues, as well. They're both perfect in this. Bing sings a few songs, including Swinging on a Star and Too-Ra-Loo-Ra-Loo-Ral. Good support from Risë Stevens, Stanley Clements, Frank McHugh, Jean Heather, Eily Malyon, and Gene Lockhart. Carl 'Alfalfa' Switzer also has an amusing role.Cynics and anti-religious types will surely hate it and mock it. Their loss. This is a delightful, sincere classic with heart and humor. The story is simple but effectively told. It's the kind of movie that puts a big smile on my face and leaves me with the warm fuzzies. Love that ending! It's followed by a wonderful sequel, The Bells of St. Mary's, as well as many big and small screen imitators over the years. Open your hearts and minds and give it a shot. Leave the pessimism at the door, though. "},{"Title":"Simple, wonderful and best of all, timeless...","Date":"28 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Going My Way is just great, no doubt about it. By now, if you're reading my review, you already know the players and the plot. I'm not sure if reviews are posted with the most recent first. However, I wanted to add my review because of just how powerful this movie is, even today. As a young girl, I grew up on these types of movies. I watched them and appreciate them, however, not as much as I do today, now that I am a mother of two little girls. I wanted to show them great films, for them to earn an appreciation of 'a feel-good movie' and I started with 'The Song of Bernadette'. My follow up was 'Going My Way' and they loved it -- so did my husband who had never seen it growing up. We're 70s kids, by the way, and 'Going My Way' has timeless relevance. Quite the heady responsibility Fr. O'Malley has of turning things around at St. Dominic's! However, with prayer, faith and determination, it is all possible. Fr. Fitzgibbons is so set in his ways that he's not receptive to Fr. O'Malley (who unfortunately gets off to a bad start). In time, though, their friendship deepens and never once does Fr. O'Malley force his new role on the aging Pastor. The scene where, after visiting the bishop to initially have Fr. O'Malley removed, Fr. Fitzgibbons sits in a chair and tells of how, without needing so many words, he now understands the real reason that Fr. O'Malley was sent is very moving. There's a lot of music in this film (perfectly fine when you have Bing Crosby in it!) and a bit of opera from 'the Met' -- definitely got my kids asking about the particular opera they featured. I hope you will show these types of movies to your children, as I have now begun to. All the pieces come together and you can feel the segue to a 'sequel' in the last ten or fifteen minutes of the film. It personifies what putting the needs of others before your own truly means, and how God works in those ways will cause you to experience a wide range of emotions. Overall, this is a terrific film and tonight, we will watch the 'sequel', The Bells of St. Mary's. "},{"Title":"A heartwarming movie without being over-sappy.","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A very enjoyable film starring Bing Crosby as a progressive Irish Catholic priest who comes to St. Dominick's, a church that is struggling. Initially, he's not very welcome by most, including old Father Fitzgibbon...but with his charm and the song in his heart, he manages to slowly grow on the folks as he finds subtle ways to solve everyone's problems. This is a heartwarming movie without being over-sappy.*** (Out of 4) "},{"Title":"Writer-Director Leo McCarey's Masterpiece","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Like Capra-corn there is a certain style to Going My Way and The Bell's of St. Mary's. Similar in themes a vibrant, young, priest is dispatched as a troubleshooter, to help a failing parish with new ideas and ways. Here he encounters an aging priest, in the other film, the head schoolmaster (nun). Such films would not make the box office today. The same character, Father O'Malley (Bing Crosby) appears in both films as the heavenly priest with a bit of blarney and playful optimism that is unknown of today except is certain Disney and Hallmark Channel movies. Both a Christmas and St. Patrick's Day favorite, it pays homage to what has today become a tired and tarnished icon the wholesome Catholic priest. Of the two films, this one works better due to the more lively characters in the film Feisty old Father Fitzgibbon, some of the Bowery Boys complete with Brooklyn accents, the Michell Boys Choir, that I'll get by girl whose part was no doubt rewritten to meet the 30's code standards. Also, several lively tunes, including two multi-million selling records Silent Night and Swingin' on a Star.(According to legend, all Crobsy's royalties from the hymn were donated to charities.) More fun than it sounds like, although a bit long in spots. I agree with another IMDB critic that this is one of my favorite movies of all time. Thank you TCM for still showing black and white movies! "},{"Title":"Let's Pretend Was Never Better!","Date":"21 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" It may be silly, sentimental hokum, but as Christmas movies go, it just doesn't get any better than Going My Way. Bing Crosby is the world's perfect priest, paragon of virtue Father Charles O'Malley, Barry Fitzgerald its most lovable and the story that drives this film makes you wish it was all true. It isn't of course. It's fantasy of the most fantastic kind, a feel-good, warm/fuzzies movie that is and always will be a Christmas tradition with me, like hearing Gene Autry sing Rudolph The Red-Nosed Reindeer or Judy Garland warble Have Yourself A Merry Little Christmas. Set towards the end of the second world war, Going My Way opens at St. Dominic's Roman Catholic church, a vulnerable bricks and mortar edifice teetering on the verge of bankruptcy, threatened with foreclose by the Knickerbocker Loan and Trust Company as headed by Ted Haines Senior (Gene Lockhart.) To try to save the parish the bishop assigns Fr. O'Malley to take over the running of St. Dominic's without first telling forty-five year incumbent Fr. Fitzgibbon (Barry Fitzgerald.) Conservative, persnickety, and extremely set in his ways, Fr. Fitzgibbon does not initially take very kindly to the more modern, hep younger man and his 'progressive' approach. But somehow O'Malley manages to bring the old man on board without once trespassing on his dignity or defiling his self esteem. With just enough music and plot twists to keep everything briskly flowing, Going My Way is that rare film that never lags during its two hour and seven minute running time. The perfect Christmas confection, it is never preachy, thus making its core message that much more powerful. Yes, it may be a schmaltzy old relic from a bygone era, but its incandescent glow is as warm and comforting today as it undoubtedly was when first released in 1944. The perfect 'let's pretend' movie, the multi Oscar winning Going My Way (best picture, director, actor and supporting actor among others) is the perfect antidote to our twenty-first century seasonal madness of rampant consumerism fuelled by unbridled greed. Definitely not to be missed!!! "},{"Title":"Rise Stevens, Bing Crosby's opera star girlfriend in the film, will be 100 this year!","Date":"23 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Didn't read very much about Rise Stevens' role in the above reviews. It's because she's in it that my husband (who loves opera) is willing to watch _Going My Way_ with me tonight. She sings Habanera, from the opera _Carmen_ while Bing's character stands in the wings, wanting to say hello to his old girlfriend (they had gotten out of touch, then he became a priest) .-- What got us thinking about _Carmen_--and Rise Stevnes-- was listening to the Met broadcast of it today (Sat. Feb. 23). Rise Stevens did the role at the Met in 1952, and her Habanera was played during the intermission for radio listeners (PBS). I really loved her in _Going My Way_ (she sings a lot of other things, too). Rise Stevens will celebrate her 100th birthday this year, we were told on PBS! --My mother didn't take us to see Bing Crosby movies back in the day--too sentimental for her (she was a New Yorker mag. reader). She took us to a lot of other movies, though, which were very good. Anyway, it's a treat to see some of the ones I missed as a child. "},{"Title":"A little more feeling in the words","Date":"10 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The most popular and highly acclaimed movies of the war years, the Best Picture Academy Award winners in particular, demonstrate the changing public mood as the Second World War ground on. The '42 and '43 winners, Mrs Miniver and Casablanca respectively, both dealt first hand with the war albeit in very different ways. By 1944 however, with the conflict now becoming an accepted part of life alongside with the loss and suffering that went with it, what people wanted most was escapism. And this is exactly what Going My Way offers.Adapted by Franks Butler and Cavett from a story by its director Leo McCarey, Going My Way is a sweet and gentle outpouring of peace and kindness. It is religious, yes, but it focuses on a priest's role as a man of the community more than as a man of god, and this gives it broader appeal. And more than just a story it is, while not an actual musical certainly a very musical picture, giving us dialogues which look at the role of music in our lives and the nature of emotion in music. It also happens to be an incredibly well-written screenplay. The aforementioned focus on music is by no means a dry analysis; it flows organically from story and character. And the characters are brilliantly defined. Each has their flaws, enough to make them believable &#x96; such as Risë Stevens and Fortunio Bonanova arguing over the following of the baton &#x96; but trivial enough that we can still warm to them.Going My Way comes from the middle of Bing Crosby's impressively long and even career as a leading man. Crosby's performance is, like everything in this picture, subtle and laidback. On the surface it is just another typical Crosby crooner act, but it's much more than that. What really makes it stand out is that we are totally able to accept serial male love-interest Crosby as a Catholic priest. He tones down the cheekiness of his persona without altering his familiar friendliness too much, and conveys his inner thoughts through the simplest of expressions. Also very good is Barry Fitzgerald, who creates and inhabits the character of Father Fitzgibbons, bringing a consistent personality to everything from the creak in his voice to the way he hunches his shoulders as he walks.Director Leo McCarey is a real master of simplicity. He rarely moves his camera or changes its angle, but still manages to keep everything that we need to see going on in the frame. Of especial note here is his use of depth in a fixed-camera shot. Sometimes this can be comical (McCarey started off in slapstick) and revealing of character, such as the early scene where Crosby is cheerful on the phone behind a disgruntled Fitzgerald, but it can be used to all sorts of other effects. The scene where Crosby plays the title song for Jean Heather and James E. Brown finishes with Crosby slipping out across the back of the shot while the two young lovers still lean, entranced, on the piano in the foreground. It's a wonderfully discrete and touching moment.This is in all ways a finely crafted slice of non-sickly sentiment, which in its day surely must have been an effective distraction from the drudge of war. But what is in a way most poignant about it is that while it does not directly mention the war itself, it somehow cannot escape from a few of the realities of life at the time. Towards the end James E. Brown shows up in a uniform and proudly states he's been accepted by the air force and will be leaving soon. No-one actually says war, but you know that's where he's going. And then, it's at this point you realise that the only males to be seen in this vision of New York are either boys, old men or priests. It's a fact that gives the heart-warming cosiness of the story that little extra sense of urgency, and the resonance of that still makes this a deeply affecting picture years after the context for which it was made. "},{"Title":"Don't let the sentimentality put you off","Date":"28 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Yes, this is often a very sentimental film, one that can make even embarrassed grown men get teary-eyed. (The scene where Ted and his new bride smile after what was evidently another night of honeymoon bliss while Ted's father berates him for being irresponsible, only to discover that his irresponsible son has joined the Army Airforce - remember, we were in World War II at the time, so joining the military meant being sent to war - is one such scene.) But if you can look past that - or sometimes at that with an objective eye - you can see what makes this a very good movie, one that was indeed worthy of Oscar consideration. (No, it's not *Citizen Kane*, but most movies aren't.) There are lots of moments done with a very quiet simplicity that makes them particularly powerful.Take, for example, the last scene of the movie, when Risë Stevens brings the elderly priest's mother in to see him. (She has just arrived from Ireland.) Nothing is said by either of them. It's just acting with the face and the body. No orchestral swells, nothing like that. And yet, it's deeply moving.Other movies could have turned If you like to swing on a star into some sort of elaborate production number. Here it's done very simply, but is all that much more effective as a result.This is not the sort of movie that will be studied in a film class. There's nothing particularly innovative about it. But its simple restraint is sometimes very moving. And there is much to be said for that. "},{"Title":"An Entertaining Look at Bing Crosby","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Youthful Father Chuck O'Malley led a colorful life of sports, song, and romance before joining the Roman Catholic clergy, but his level gaze and twinkling eyes make it clear that he knows he made the right choice. After joining a parish, O'Malley's worldly knowledge helps him connect with a gang of kids looking for direction and handle the business details of the church-building fund, winning over his aging, conventional superior, Father Fitzgibbon.So, this is a role Bing Crosby had a few times... and it seems odd, a man who liked to golf with gangsters playing a Catholic priest. But maybe that makes sense, especially for the kind of priest he plays. He sees the value in helping the downtrodden and lesser members of society. That is a true hero.This also happens to be a very musical film, again not surprising given Bing's history. But in it we also mix street kids singing, an opera and even a classic Irish song. "}{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Another great movie from Bing Crosby. Here a worldly man who has chosen to become a Catholic priest comes to a church that is failing and tries to turn it around. The resident, older priest played very capably by the great Barry Fitzgerald, is at first very reluctant to embrace the newer ideas that the younger priest brings up. He does come around when the church is under threat of closure. They eventually save the church with the help of some street kids that Bing turns into an excellent church choir. I also like when Bing takes the young aspiring women under his wing so she does not end up on the mean streets. Overall this is an extremely well done and acted movie. "},{"Title":"Inner city makeover doesn't come easy.","Date":"20 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" One reviewer has said Going My Way was filmed after the better Bells of St. Mary..which had the wonderful Ingrid Bergman playing opposite Father O'Malley..In fact although this was written after Bells it was actually Going My Way that was filmed first by Paramount while Bells was filmed a year later by RKO..That being said,who can ever forget this film once you've seen it? The inner city was never more realistically portrayed by any studio. The charm of Bing Crosby as the young priest did deserve the Oscar and Barry Fitzgerald's performance as the along-in-years priest is mesmerizing.This movie is heart-warming and brilliantly staged. There are so many supporting cast members that are spot on, they are everywhere from the streets to the the Metropolitan Opera. A true classic. Watch and enjoy this gem. "},{"Title":"Veteran Producer/Director Knows His O'Malley","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is the perfect script from Leo Mc Carey who also produces and directs this film for Paramount. It fits Bing Crosby like a glove and the Mc Carey paces this effort perfectly. The film is more than just Crosby. McCarey who used to try and keep the Marx Brother under control at Paramount among others. This movie proves the match was made in heaven.The humor reflects some of the best qualities of Leo. There are elements of slap stick which start with Crosby breaking a window and getting doused by a dpw truck. The intricate interplay between Crosby and the cast is a pleasure to behold.Granted, it is a little dated now, but the interplay, the acting, and story are timeless. Father O'Malley is assigned to try and bail out a parish in trouble in NY City. He uses his wit, wisdom and talent to get things fixed. This is a feel good movie which deserved and won a lot of academy awards when it was released.The popularity of the film lasted many years after it's release. While time has faded that, the film has a charm which still glows when you see it. "},{"Title":"Endearing over time","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Truly a film that deserves its stars and the respect of all those who feel love and appreciation for the sentiment of the holiday season. This is a film that endears itself to those in the audience who value the charm of films of the era, and one of the absolute shining stars of the screen. Yes, it may be a bit long, and yes, some of the characters are superfluous, but Barry Fitzgerald was one of THE finest character actors ever to appear on the screen, and I defy the biggest Grinch/Scrooge to not tear up and feel moved by the moment when he sees his mother in his parish, come all the way across the Pond from Ireland. Their respective shuffles toward one another and the love on their faces is more than worth accepting any weaknesses of this film. Oh, and Bing Crosby's voice was clearly in its very finest form, and the songs could not have punctuated the story more perfectly. "},{"Title":"Easy-going but long","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" St. Dominic's Church is in financial trouble under the guidance of Father Fitzgibbon (Barry Fitzgerald) and so Father O'Malley (Bing Crosby) is sent by the bishop to turn things around. The two holy men work side by side but have a different approach to life - O'Malley's youthful outlook is not shared by Fitzgibbon. Fitzgibbon goes to the bishop to complain but ends up finding out the truth as to why O'Malley has been appointed. We follow the story of how fortune changes for St. Dominic's.Bing is good as he breezes through the film in his likable manner but the star of the film is Barry Fitzgerald. He is excellent as a restrained grumpy old man who doesn't care for Three Blind Mice. I think that the songs could have been better and the film definitely did not need an opera singer Genevieve (Rise Stevens) to sing a couple of songs in that fake way that only opera singers can by deliberately pronouncing every word so that it sounds wrong. For example amen becomes aauurrmmiiin - that kind of nonsense. The film goes on for too long, so, of course, it won an Oscar but there are better films that were made in 1944.......I could name about 30. However, it is a feelgood story that hooks you in from the beginning. "},{"Title":"Bing Crosby delights in this pleasant and uplifting movie.","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Bing Crosby, the most popular man in film and music in the mid 1940s, stars in this story about two very different priests trying to accomplish the same goal. Crosby is charming in his usual soft-spoken, melodic tone as Father O'Malley that makes him so likable as well as being able to belt out the notes when necessary. The great character actor Barry Fitzgerald is wonderful as the older and much more cynical Father Fitzgibbons who has seen more than his share of pain and suffering in the world and is starting to lose his true outlook on life. These two actors give very fine performances and carry the otherwise simplistic story through the entire movie. There are other nice touches such as the subplot of Fitzgibbons wishing to see his mother in Ireland and O'Malley organizing a boys choir in order to make money for the church. The moral of the story is simple as well. No matter what obstacles come against you, you can always overcome if you believe and have faith. Certainly we've heard this before, but it's nice to be reminded sometimes. "},{"Title":"the less famous prequel to The Bells of St. Mary's","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" this is the prequel(and less famous cousin)to The Bells of St.Mary's.it's basically about a priest named Father O'Malley who is assigned to a new Parish which is struggling financially,in hopes to turn its fortunes around.of course,there's more to that to the story,but i won't give it away here.Bing Crosby plays O'Malley,who is filled with the eternal hope and optimism of youth,and has a way with people.and he also sings.Crosby's voice is smooth as silk to begin with,and once he sings,it's pretty hard not to be affected.some of the songs tend to be bit long and a bit maudlin,and things move slowly at times.overall,though this a pleasant 125 minute diversion.and i found it very touching.i even teared up a couple times.for me,Going my Way is a 6/10 "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies of all time","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I am a second generation Italian American who grew up catholic but as i got older i had a few moral issues with the church but i would be not be telling you the truth if i said anything other then if father O'Malley was at my church I would be there every Sunday no disrespect to the church but a lot of priests could learn a great deal from father O'Malley the movie was truly heart warming and The Bells Of ST Marys was just as heart warmimg as a kid I watched this every X-MAS and I would cry like a little girl at the end boy was I in love with Ingrid Bergman but i am sure i was not the only one if you have kids do them a favor and make sire they see these over the holidays I bet the will treasure those memories when they grow up as i do (please excuse my spelling) and enjoy the moviesRon  "},{"Title":"Crosby's dated best","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This was the big one for Bing Crosby. He and Barry Fitzgerald won their Oscars for Best Actor and Best Supporting Actor respectively. He was given a great director, good productions values and a pluperfect supporting cast and last but not least one of his biggest hit songs in Swinging on a Star.The story itself is dated by the times we live in now. The Roman Catholic Church has come under some heavy attack to say the least over a range of issues and the priest sex abuse scandal. Some of the attitudes expressed in the film would never go over today.In 1944 Francis J. Spellman was the Archbishop of the New York Diocese (he would not get to be Cardinal until after World War II). He had a degree of power that Thomas Becket would have wished for. The scene in which the Irish cop turns Jean Heather over to the local parish, presumably after finding out she WAS a Catholic,is bizarre but actually true in that time. It's a historical fact that when a priest was caught breaking a law, no paper work was ever done. The errant clergyman was turned over to the Archdiocese to mete out punishment which usually meant exile. Crosby and Fitzgerald as priests take a great deal on themselves in getting involved with the lives of the parishioners. It would never do today. A sort of dark version of Going My Way was done in the 1980s in Heaven Help Us. And that was even before the sex abuse scandals became widely known. But this film is exactly how the Catholic Church sees itself and likes itself to be portrayed. This film brought Bing Crosby to the pinnacle of his career. It brought him an Oscar, critical acclaim as an actor, and number one at the box office where he stayed for five years. Going My Way was the highest grossing film Paramount had put out up to that point and stayed there until Cecil B. DeMille did his second version of the Ten Commandments. But it was a double edged sword for Bing. Before this movie he was popular, but now he became Saint Crosby, THE Catholic entertainer in the world. It was an image no one could really live up to, so those hatchet job biographies that were written after his death brought an icon down. Hopefully with a multi volume biography of Bing half out now, some critical balance will be restored and he can be appreciated for the entertainer he was.One other thing, it was a running joke at the time that when Crosby wore a St. Louis Browns sweatshirt in the movie with such a religious background he brought the Browns luck and their only American League pennant during the team's existence.Going My Way is an interesting, but dated piece of film making and a must for all us Crosby aficionados. "},{"Title":"Bing's penultimate role","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Every time I revisit this delightful and heartwarming masterpiece, it seems to move me even more. Perhaps because it triggers so many memories of growing up in the church and of family members and priests and nuns who have passed on. It was also one of my mother's favorite films and I think of her whenever I see it again.The cast is just wonderful and the interplay between Crosby and Fitzgerald is a joy. McHugh is also great and the golf and checkers scenes are terrific bits of comedy and highlight this marvelous supporting actor's qualities. There's no doubt though, that this is a Crosby vehicle all the way and whether he's singing Too-Ra-Loo-Ra-Loo-Ral or spreading Fr. O'Malley's Christian good cheer, he is simply fantastic. It also has some great songs and music as well as one of the most emotional and moving final scenes in the history of film. This terrific picture will always have a special place in my heart and it is no wonder that it is a favorite of so many others as well. "}{"Title":"Toothless to a fault.","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" When Leo McCarey won the Best Director award for The Awful Truth in 1937, he said they gave it to him for the wrong film, referring to the heart-wrenching Make Way For Tomorrow of the same year. I don't know what better film he made in 1944, but it must have been very good to earn Going My Way 7 Oscars. This is far from his best work, but admittedly there's little wrong with it, it's just inoffensive and harmless to a fault. It's damn near void of meaningful conflict outside of its opening and closing 10 minutes. It tries to start an argument about the old vs. the new and independence vs. guidance but neither idea is fully fleshed out besides briefly in a titular song. Instead it opts for toothless pleasantness, ideal to cater to soft hearts during the end of World War II. In that case, I guess it would have been decent company in a volatile world.But today, it's just far-fetched that a bunch of ragtag boys would suddenly reform into a church choir without much disagreement. That's more or less the bulk of the film so to have it so undeveloped leaves it unsatisfying. The film hinges on Bing Crosby's warmth and familiar songs and I can see how it can be intoxicating, but it can't exist on that plane alone. Barry Fitzgerald gets a lot of credit for the film's enduring success - and he's famous for being the only actor nominated twice for the same performance at the Oscars - but his mannerisms were more irritating than heartwarming. The film is handsomely shot for its time at least, but it didn't win an award for that department somehow. It's a shame it hasn't had the staying power of other Best Pictures that resonate like All Quiet on the Western Front and Casablanca, but it was the Academy's early days.6/10 "},{"Title":"Happy, moral escape","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I have seen worse Academy Award films (see Cimmaron) although all of them have a certain quality despite often dated values.I anticipated this movie about a young priest restoring new life to an old priest's parish to show the young priest almost as a Christ-like figure.He does transform a gang of young ruffians into a choir (one that would rather sing than play baseball, which this former choir member found hard to believe). The young priest also rehabilitates the aging priest, making him more vital and more in tune with his congregation.The most perplexing story line is the young runaway woman. The young priest responds to this crisis by giving her a singing lesson. The old priest tells her to go home and get married. Despite an elaborate blind-robin implying that the girl has begun living in sin with a young man, it is eventually revealed that the woman has found a successful singing career, met and married the young man honorably and sinlessly, and the young man is a gallant pilot who by the end of the movie is honorably discharged after being accidentally hit by a jeep. At first viewing, it is hard to see where the young priest has had any effect on the girl's life (other than satisfying a few of her immediate needs with $10.) Perhaps the singing lesson gave her just the edge she needed to become a successful singer.Perhaps, as with many Bing Crosby movies, one shouldn't think too much&#x97;everything ties up nicely and morally, and the movie did well what most movies of the period were designed to do, provide a happy, moral escape from the unhappy, amoral world of war going on all around. "},{"Title":"Bing Sings","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" A priest tries to save a church from bankruptcy. While it now hardly seems worthy of the Best Picture Oscar, it's fairly well made under the direction of veteran McCarey. The narrative is episodic and there are too many musical interludes, no doubt to showcase the singing talents of Crosby, who is very good as the easy-going Father O'Malley. Fitzgerald had a tendency to ham it up but here he is surprisingly controlled in a performance that won him an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor, although he lost the Best Actor race to Crosby. His Irish accent is so thick that one has to strain to understand. It was followed by the sequel The Bells of St. Mary's, which is actually better. "},{"Title":"Too-Ra-Loo-Ra-Loo-Ra to you, too!","Date":"13 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie is set in 1944. It is both a snapshot of life as it actually was in 1944, and of life as movie producers thought audiences wanted it to be at that time. GOING MY WAY accomplished both tasks well enough to win the Oscar for Best Picture of its year, beating out DOUBLE INDEMNITY (which portrayed a seedy milieu audiences and Oscar voters presumably did NOT wish to accept as the reality of the day). The young men who start out as juvenile delinquent turkey thieves bear no resemblance to the hard boiled even-younger juvies who would grow up to be James Cagney and his fellow gangsters in William A. Wellman's 1931 film, THE PUBLIC ENEMY, which was NOT even nominated for Best Picture. Nor do GOING MY WAY's delinquents-turned-choir boys jive with the Jets and the Sharks gangs in 1961's WEST SIDE STORY, the musical which won the Best Picture Oscar for Robert Wise, despite its climactic blood-bath. Filmmakers and movie goers alike apparently believed there was enough violence in the real world in 1944, so when one of the lead characters of GMW is wounded in the war, it happens off-screen. The only death in GMW is suffered by the stolen gobbler (also off-screen). In the 1970s, Hollywood's version of the relationship between Father Chuck O'Malley (Bing Crosby) and Genevieve Linden (Rise Stevens) would likely be morphed into something akin to that between the leads of the musical CABARET (a remarkably perverse and sad pairing for a story set within a decade of GMW's era, nominated for Best Picture in 1972). In THE EXORCIST (nominated for Best Picture in 1973), priests try (unsuccessfully) to coax devils out of a school-girl. In GOING MY WAY, a priest successfully coaxes four-part harmony out of troubled school-boys. Just as hundreds of Hollywood agents supposedly rejected copies of the CASABLANCA script mailed out by a prankster under a different title a decade ago, the script for GOING MY WAY would be similarly rejected if mailed out by pranksters today. After all, Bing Crosby and Barry Fitzgerald are long gone, WWII has been followed by countless lesser wars, and organized religion is a shadow of its former self. However, those facts do nothing to diminish the greatness of GOING MY WAY, which will always be a classic, as will CASABLANCA. When people of today rate movies produced before they were born, to some extent they must view them for the time capsules they are. GOING MY WAY is a rich source of anthropological data that will be appreciated for decades to come. "},{"Title":"This Grand-daddy of the 'Prequel' and at the same time both a Model for and Mirror of the Real World; while still holding up well today!","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" AS the story goes, the folks over at RKO Radio Pictures wanted to make an arrangement with the 'Suits' at Paramount Pictures to 'borrow' their veteran Director, Mr. Leo McCarey to disperse some of his Cinematic Magic for them. The project which was of such importance, so as to command such an extraordinary burst of enthusiasm and unusual demand, was THE BELLS OF ST. MARY'S (Rainbow Productions/RKO Radio Pictures, 1845); which the honchos at that Studio wished him to direct.SURPRISINGLY the Paramount 'Suits' said Yes; but there was one condition other than the usual monetary consideration$; that being they wanted to do a story using the Father O'Malley character that would have occurred before the ST. MARY'S Story. In both films the role of the kindly, young Priest and New York Archdiocesan trouble-shooter would be Mr. Bing Crosby.SO IT was decided. RKO would get what they wanted and Paramount would do the story of Father O'Malley's soft sell style of preaching the Gospel of the Lord, while at the same time quietly putting an ailing Parish back on its feet; all without giving himself and his covert mission up to the kindly, but aging Founder-Pastor Father Fitzgibbon (Barry Fitzgerald). The Film Form of the Prequel had been started.THE PROTAGONIST of both of the movies is perhaps the finest characterization that Mr. Crosby has done on the screen. In his Father Charles Chuck O'Malley, he combines the qualities of outstanding singing voice and both a fondness and penchant for playing Baseball; certainly making for an unbeatable and All American combination. WELL FOLKS, that about all that's really to it; as strange as it may seem. It so simple on one hand, yet brilliantly conceived and unveiled right before our eyes. That's where all the fun lies.INASMUCH AS the original story for the RKO ST. MARY'S Project was written by Mr. McCarey (Himself), it was lonely fitting that Leo would make the story for the earlier picture, now titled GOING MY WAY (Paramount, 1944). And so he did; and what a great job he did; for one can really see how Director McCarey knew each and every character, inside and out. Whether a character was big and important to the story, or played a minor part in the story, McCarey made them work and believable.THE INCLUSION of a fine group of Actors in the outstanding Cast played no small part in the success of either movie and the GOING MY WAY crew certainly got things off on solid footing. We were treated to a Cinematic Fest with the line-up including Bing Crosby (Father O'Malley), Barry Fitzgerald (Father Fitzgibbon), Frank McHugh (comic relief as Father Timothy O'Dowd), James Brown, Gene Lockhart, Jean Heather, Porter Hall, Fortunio Bonanova, Ely Maylon and Rise Stevens.THE uncredited players on the under side of the ensemble of players included both Carl 'Alfalfa' Switzer (formerly of the Hal Roach OUR GANG Series) and future BOWERY BOYS leader and substitute for a retired Leo Gorcey, Stanley Clements.ALL OF this sure must have added up to some picture, for GOING MY WAY staged a near sweep of the Oscars that year; taking Best Actor (Bing), Best Supporting Actor (Mr. Fitzgerald), Best Director (McCarey) and Best Picture.THE FILM type of this nature, along with so much of those done by the other Studios (especially Warner Brothers and MGM) served as both a guide and a mirror to large number of Urban Working Poor during this period in our Nation's History. It was then that the great flow of immigrants came to the shores of the United States from highly Catholic countries. First came the Irish and the Germans; being followed in turn by peoples from Eastern and Southern Europe. These groups were chiefly made up of Polish and Italian immigrants and were also highly comprised of Catholics.ALL of these folks mainly settled in the Big Cities and sought employment in the manufacturing centers. There were such great numbers of these people that the Bishops of the Cities found their Dioceses growing to super-size and being designated as Archdioceses. The great populations of faithful led the Archbishops of these great cities to designate an orderly and geographically drawn border for what were in effect Political Subdivisions of their respective Diocese. These were the Parishes with their Churches and Nun manned Grade Schools.IN RELATION to these times, the images that reflected the reality of the Catholic Clergymen of the era rang true. They were that of a time when the Pastor and Assistant Priests were universally the best educated people in the neighborhoods; as such they were a combination of Spiritual Director, Job Counselor and Teacher.THIS WAS still generally true in the Post World War II years for in the 1950's and '60's when this writer experienced education in St. Theodore Grade School. It was here that some of the text books still bore a distinct brand left by those Depression Era and World War II Time films. In our primary school, we had Readers from grades 1 to 4 that were published as the Faith & Freedom Series for Catholic Schools. Titles were stuff such as These Are Our Friends, This Is Our Town, etc.IN THOSE there would invariably be illustrations depicting the fictional local Parish Priests. And these color drawings always bore a certain unmistakable resemblance to three well known men; those being Pat O'Brien, Spencer Tracy and Bing Crosby.WE GUESS that this is a clear case of Life imitating Art which was already imitating Art which had imitated Life. Or something like that, ain't that right, Schultz? POODLE SCHNITZ!! "},{"Title":"GOING MY WAY (Leo McCarey, 1944) ***","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" That American audiences during wartime needed (and indeed embraced) uplifting movies has perhaps never been clearer than in the way the feel-good movie of 1944 incredibly went on to scoop 7 Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Direction and Best Actor (Bing Crosby)! Otherwise, there would be no plausible explanation for such phenomenal success because the film, while certainly charming, is not particularly outstanding; Leo McCarey (who won 3 personal Oscars as writer-producer-director)'s handling is plain and unfussy; and Crosby is his usual easy-going self! For the record, some of the films GOING MY WAY competed against were Billy Wilder's DOUBLE INDEMINTY, Otto Preminger's LAURA and Henry King's Wilson (which I should finally be catching up with in a few days' time). To complicate matters further, while the film is generally classified as a sentimental comedy, the Hollywood Foreign Press Association selected it as the Best Motion Picture &#150; Drama of the year and, given the inclusion of several songs throughout, it seemed to me that it should qualify most as a Musical (under the generic nature of my current viewing habits)! Furthermore, another curious reason why this film is perhaps remembered today is because it marked the only time in Oscar history that the same actor (Barry Fitzgerald) received 2 separate nominations for the same role in the same film in the same year, for Best Actor and Best Supporting Actor, eventually emerging the winner in the latter category &#150; thus defeating Clifton Webb's iconic characterization of Waldo Lydecker in the above-mentioned LAURA! Anyway, although it might seem that I am being too harsh on the film, one cannot ignore its undeniable entertainment value which admirably triumphs over a simplistic story of cloying sentimentality and comfortable predictability a streetwise priest (Crosby) comes to a broken-down New York parish to take over from the cantankerous incumbent (Fitzgerald), whom the latter mistakes for his assistant and with whom he, ever so lightly, clashes over his passion for singing &#150; and penning &#150; pop songs and playing golf! The whole 'reluctant choirboys' subplot is a virtual retread of ANGELS WITH DIRTY FACES (1938) &#150; complete with a troublesome Italian punk leading the pack &#150; but the film also adds the following caricatures or familiar situations an ostensibly greedy banker, always on the verge of foreclosing, but with the proverbial heart of gold (Gene Lockhart), the romance between his young son and a runaway teenage singer, Crosby rekindling his childhood friendship with an operatic star (Rise' Stevens) and a 'rival' priest (Frank McHugh), rebuilding the burned-down church from funds collected by the touring choirboys, etc. Perhaps inevitably, the film was followed by 2 sequels McCarey's immediate and almost-equally successful THE BELLS OF ST. MARY'S (1945; I should be watching Bing butting heads with Sister Ingrid Bergman in the coming days as well) and Frank Tashlin's inferior SAY ONE FOR ME (1959). "},{"Title":"Who wouldn't like this movie needs a good antidepressant drug","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Going My Way is a tremendously-funny movie, not just a bunch of sappy, feel-good scenes thrown together, regardless of what the detractors complain about. Most of the hilarious scenes are between Bing and Barry, with the younger priest seeing the youthful, optimistic side of Christian life and the older priest observing the results of pain and suffering he's witnessed; sounds odd, but that's the way it is. Youth rejuvenates cynicism and hopelessness as Father O'Malley (Bing) helps bring Father Fitzgibbon (Barry Fitzgerald) out of his depression. It's a theme that still runs through good movies to this day. One of the best scenes is when fussy old businessman Ted Haines Sr (Gene Lockhardt) finds out his son Ted Jr. (James Brown) has quit his lucrative job and married a girl the family hasn't even met yet. Old Ted concludes his son is turning into an irresponsible playboy who plans to maybe live off his wife's income. Then Ted Jr. appears in his Army Air Corp uniform, stunning the old man into silence and respect This event in the movie is one of my favorites because Ted Jr. is headed off to Europe during some of the darkest days of WWII when Air Corp crews were averaging a 50% death rate, even though no explanation of the likelihood of Jr.'s death is offered in the script. However, in 1944, the danger Jr. faced was known to every American who had either a radio or a son in the service. Still, Going My Way is light-hearted even in the face of war, poverty in the neighborhood and a lack of funds to keep Bing & Barry's parish-church going. "},{"Title":"Amazing Performances","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Amazing performances from Bing Crosby and Barry Fitzgerald help elevate this memorable drama. Bing is Father Chuck O'Malley, an enthusiastic priest attempting to breathe new life into a neighborhood parish. His top priorities are to form a boys' choir out of a Little Rascals-type band of young lads while trying to warm up to the crusty set-in-his-ways Father Fitzgibbon, played by Fitzgerald.They say some of the best stories are the simple ones, and Going My Way certainly proves it. It's not flashy or intricately-plotted, but it's a great character study loaded with charm. Director Leo McCarey overdid things slightly with the musical numbers, but there are otherwise few faults. The highlight is the choir's memorable rendition of the catchy Swinging on a Star. "},{"Title":"Great Work","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I love this classic Bing Crosby Film!!! I think it is a great film that any old movie buff ought to see. It contains a lot of music for it not to be considered a musical though...oddly enough. I enjoy tremendously the wonderful accumulation of the cast and talents.What I consider to be odd though, is the fact that Tony, the leader of the 'gang' tries to be 'religious' but still will beat a guy up. Oddly enough, Bing Crosby's character, Father O'malley (i think) either doesn't care, or doesn't wish to bring it up with Tony.random thought....why is the poster in color but the film's still in black and white? "},{"Title":"Beautiful, well acted, enchanting, and unforgettable","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Going My Way is one of those films that makes you ask the, now, almost cliché, question, Why don't they make 'em like that anymore? The storyline, the casting, the music, the character development, and the climactic ending all create what can only be described as an enchanting movie. Watch it with you kids. This is one of Bing's best. The Christ-figure in the story, Father O'Malley, helps us to see that we are all the old, cratchety Father Fitzgibbon, longing for someone. In the end, it is not St. Dominic's church that is fixed, it is the heart of the troubled youth, the faithless congregation, and maybe even a cynical viewer.Keep the tissue close at hand. "}{"Title":"sorry, but trite and boring, though Crosby and Fitzgerald very good","Date":"27 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I don't usually bother to write movie reviews, but I feel compelled to here. I was shocked that a best-picture Oscar winner could be as trite and boring as this one.In defense of myself, let me first say (1) I am no grouch. The same day I saw Going My Way (GMW), I happened to to re-see the wonderful Captains Courageous and cried throughout. I like Bing Crosby and found The Bells of St Mary (the one starring Crosby and Ingrid Bergman) to be immensely enjoyable, a zillion times better than GMW. I loved, and highly recommend, Leo McCarey's (the director of GMW) An Affair to Remember (starring Cary Grant).(2) There were a few moments to like about GMW the whole idea of a priest rescuing a neighborhood and church; the whole idea of Crosby being appointed to supersede/ease out Fitzgerald without the later realizing it; Crosby and Fitzgerald's acting and chemistry; the young man joining the war effort; and the reunion scene with the mother at the end (one of the most powerful/tearful scenes I have ever seen).Other than those few scenes, there were no powerful, clever moments. Most of the music did nothing for me. A lot of what went on seemed scattered, unrelated, trite and too brief, too unconvincing. As one reviewer said, it was as though Crosby quickly waved a magic wand to get results, like easily/suddenly converting a street gang into a choir. On one hand, the film reminded me of those silly B-films of the period where they say, hey, why not have a dance to raise money to.... On the other hand, there were hardly any moral/social/priestly problems that we see Crosby seriously/laboriously grappling with -- it is mostly singing, playing golf, eating and mingling with the upper crust (the moral of the movie seems to be turn things over to a guy with good connections). He solves the runaway girl's problem with a $10 bill, for example. I don't know what he did for the elderly women tenant neighbors. Sorry, but I wanted to like it. I was all geared up to see a best-picture Oscar winner. And this film beat out Double Indemnity and Laura in a host of categories. Wow! To me it is merely a pleasant Crosby/Fitzgerald showcase. "},{"Title":"sorry, I take the MST3K approach","Date":"30 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" If you've read my reviews of musicals then you'll know that I usually watch them so that I can heckle them like on Mystery Science Theater 3000. Going My Way was no exception. Most of my jeers are unrepeatable here. Among the repeatable jeers were - (while the opening credits were rolling and I saw that one of the cast members was named James Brown) Wow! I feel good... - (when the golf ball lands in the hole) Hey, there's a gopher down there! Someone send Carl Spackler after the varmints!Part of the thing is that I have a low opinion of Bing Crosby. I understand that Crosby was very strict with his family to the point of cruelty. I don't think that you're going to find many people born after World War II who consider him one of the greatest entertainers ever. I like to think that Crosby did double-flips in his grave when his son starred in Friday the 13th.Long story short, I have nothing positive to say about Going My Way. It looks especially inane now that we know about the numerous instances in which priests molested children. The cool focuses on the Catholic clergy in popular culture are The Flying Nun and Sister Act. Hell, Sally Field and Whoopi Goldberg could've bitch-slapped Bing Crosby without even trying.Just avoid the movie and stick with something fun. I recommend Army of Darkness and Machete. "},{"Title":"OK, but not great","Date":"1 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Mildly interesting storyline that isn't overly engaging. The movie just seems to amble along, with no particular place to go. Furthermore, it often seems like it is merely a vehicle for Bing Crosby's singing and music (despite not being a musical).This said, it is hard to dislike. It has a charm and sweetness which carries it along, and, to a degree, makes up for the lack of direction.Decent performances all round, but no stand-outs. Yes, Bing Crosby and Barry Fitzgerald both won Oscars, but both their characters seem too one- dimensionally nice and uncomplicated to garner Oscars. Interestingly, Fitzgerald was nominated for Best Leading Actor and Best Supporting Actor, the only time this has happened, and the only time it will ever happen. The rules re acting nominations were changed due to this event. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Score From Crosby, But Average Otherwise","Date":"19 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" A fun loving film with Bing Crosby. Some wonderful musical numbers, but really not much of a meaningful, memorable story; performances are nothing extraordinary. Crosby won an Academy Award for his performance as Father O'Malley, the new priest in town from East Saint Louis, replacing Father Fitzgibbon, a much more old-fashioned traditionalist. O'Malley helps a group of troubling teens as well as a young runaway girl with his novel approaches. he convinces the young boys to take part in the church choir, and eventually with their hep and some of his friends, he raises funds to save the local church. At the end of the film, O'Malley, like a mysterious angel sent by God for a singular purpose, prepares to leave on another assignment from the bishop. He makes sure all the other characters are taken care of, loose ends tied, and off he goes. This little religious part of the world in New York City, however, has been touched by an angel. A wonderful soundtrack, of course, due to Crosby, but nothing else is extraordinary. "},{"Title":"I am a mule ..... but I liked the film .....","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" GOING MY WAY is not the kind of film I would normally watch. I just picked it up randomly from my DVD store. The film is a feel good gem elevated to a different level by BARRY FITZGERALD's wonderful performance as a sarcastic and sharp tongued priest who fears his time at the church he has headed for decades is over. The arrival of a progressive priest CHUCK O MALLEY (BING CROSBY) at his church triggers a series of mildly amusing clashes between the two men even though they respect each other. FITZGERALD sort of carries the movie on his shoulders.The film has no real plot. Its mostly about (the somewhat opulent) life in the church though apparently the church is always short of cash. I thought the film would be about the clash between the church and the capitalists but that part of the movie goes nowhere and in the end the capitalists are shown as people with good intentions (even though they have a mortgage on the church?). In between, O MALLEY helps homeless girls and the local teenage thugs all of whom have a musical side to them and are eager to sing his schmaltzy songs.I don't really understand the context of this film. Was the influence of the church declining in 1940s America and was this film supposed to show that priests weren't such bad people after all? I wonder if its propaganda (YOU THROW LIKE AN ATHIEST!). Even if it is, the film is good fun, mostly due to the witty dialog and interactions between FITZGERALD, CROSBY and MCHUGH.I wonder if some subversive filmmaker tried to remake this film. anyway, the film is an oddity for me (I haven't watched too many films from this era) mostly because it tries to show the catholic church in good light. most of the American films i have seen feature negative portrayals of religion.My only problem with the film is BING CROSBY - he came across as someone who is a nasty piece of work in real life trying hard to play a priest with a good heart. However, he did sing some good songs in the movie.I am mostly a mule, but nice tunes anyway.(7/10) "},{"Title":"Going About Doing Good.","Date":"25 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Up ahead lies Bluebird Hill, advises this warm, amusing, sentimental, corny story of a young priest introducing fresh ideas into a moribund parish.As the trouble-shooting innovator, Father O'Malley, Bing Crosby is his usual relaxed, confident, sympathetic Republican self. He's the same character as in the Road pictures with Bob Hope, only he sticks more closely to the script here. There is also support from opera diva Rise Stevens, Frank McHugh, and some others. But the cake is taken by Barry Fitzgerald as the curmudgeonly but lovable old Father Fitzgibbon, whom the bishop is thinking of sending out to pasture. If there is a single memorable priest in cinematic history, it's Fitzgerald, no matter how hoary the stereotype. And don't worry. Crosby resuscitates him and leaves to shoot trouble elsewhere.This is, of course, a rosier picture of life in an urban Catholic parish than is likely ever to have existed, but then things were different then. It was 1944, the war was on, everyone was supposed to be pulling together and being generous with both hands. After the war, when the chaplains returned home, the churches and synagogues were filled with robust ex soldiers who were Poles, Russians, Irishmen, and Italians. Places of worship flourished. Today, by Gar, these ornery young folks is stayin away from mainstream churches by the drove. Why, today, it's a scientifically established fact that the most prominent religion in Los Angeles County involves the worship of alfalfa sprouts and spirulina. Some Godhead! Bing gets to sing a couple of his usual vaguely cheerful songs, telling us that the stars are up ahead, right next to bluebird hill, and if you don't go to school you may grow up to be a mule. Rise Stevens sings an aria from Carmen, which, one imagines, had the audience gasping, Oh, what a lovely voice before falling asleep. There are multiple boys' choirs that Bing teaches voice control.There are low-key moments of humor. Some of the rowdier neighborhood boys have stolen a bunch of turkeys from a peddler just before Thanksgiving. Barry and Bing are seated at the Thanksgiving dinner table, with Fitzgerald ogling a rare meal of several courses featuring a tom turkey. As they dig in, Bing casually informs Fitzgerald of the theft. Fitzgerald asks, And did the poor man get his turkeys back? All but one, answers Bing, and Fitzgerald drops his drumstick.Alright, it's bathetic. Life was never like this. It's a fairy tale. There is no God, the churches are filled with perverts, and the congregations are full of racists and hypocrites. But there won't be a dry eye in the house when Fitzgerald is giving a speech about how good an influence Father O'Malley has been for the parish and -- and then he gets his Christmas present.I wish they'd had a more attentive dialog coach. The boys use the second person plural that was common in the New York metropolitan dialect of the time, ordinarily spelled youse. (Stephen Crane used it aptly in Maggie A Girl of the Streets.) But they mispronounce it. They pronounce it the way it's spelled -- you with a z on the end. I don't like to be picky, but it was pronounced yez. "},{"Title":"It Sometimes Loses Its Focus, But Features Good Performances And A Very Nice Story","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" First of all, to watch this movie and get anything out of it, one has to set aside the jadedness of 2012, and go back to the perhaps more innocent times of 1944. Yes, World War II was raging, but society was different, and this movie was a product of that society. It's a simple, rather hopeful movie, filled with basically decent characters who perhaps have to have their hearts and souls stirred to connect with that decency. It's up to Father O'Malley (Bing Crosby) to find that innate decency in all of them and to bring it out.Essentially the movie revolves around the sometimes tense relationship between O'Malley and Father Fitzgibbon (Barry Fitzgerald.) Fitzgibbon has been the parish priest of St. Dominic's for 45 years, and now things aren't going well. The church is in financial trouble and is in danger of defaulting on its mortgage. The bishop sends O'Malley in to take charge - but without upsetting Fitzgibbon by telling him that O'Malley is in charge - a rather delicate balancing act. Along the way, O'Malley deals with the church busybody, a gang of street boys, a wayward young woman and the holder of the mortgage, and he reconnects with some old friends along the way.There was maybe a little bit too much going on. I realize that in all of these interactions the theme of O'Malley helping the various characters turn their lives around and develop heart and soul is present - perhaps, though, we didn't need so many story lines to keep hammering the theme away at us. Yes, I know I argued that we have to let go of jadedness, but this does seem somewhat unbelievable. For example, I doubt that - even in 1944 (except in Hollywood) - it would have been so easy to turn a boys' street gang into a church choir! Having said that, it's a nice movie to watch.It's most famous I suppose for its 10 Oscar nominations (and 7 wins - including Best Picture.) I honestly don't see it as being that good. In fact, I enjoyed it less than its sort of sequel in 1947 - The Bells of St. Mary's, in which Bing Crosby reprised the role of Father O'Malley. That movie, I thought, was more focused; this one seemed to wander a bit much. It's also noteworthy for 2 of its nominations in particular - Barry Fitzgerald was nominated for both Best Actor (which Crosby won) and Best Supporting Actor (which Fitzgerald took)! That had never happened before and it can never happen again, because the Academy changed the rules afterward to prevent an actor from being nominated for two awards for the same role, so it's a noteworthy bit of background to the movie.I thought the movie was surprisingly (and I'm sure unintentionally) honest in having music producer Max Dolan (played by William Frawley) reject O'Malley's song Going My Way. As the title song of the movie, I really didn't think it was that good either! The tug at your heartstrings moment at the very end of the movie (which I won't give away) worked surprisingly well. It was emotional - and I didn't see it coming. I like being taken by surprise, so a point for that! If I thought that the movie itself was a bit overrated, I thought that Crosby and Fitzgerald were both quite good in their respective roles. It's a little bit too long (probably because it does seem to lose its essential focus by trying to follow too many of O'Malley's relationships) but it's a pleasant, enjoyable film. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Wonderful old sentimental schmaltz...","Date":"2 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Going My Way is a wonderful old film--just the sort of thing that Hollywood did best during this golden era. The acting, writing and especially the direction are terrific. However, I won't whitewash the film--it is pure unabashed schmaltz! Now I happen to enjoy schmaltz, so I heartily recommend it to all but the most cynical viewers.Apparently, the film was seen as a bit of a masterpiece back in the 1940s, as it inexplicably received seven Oscars--including Best Director, Best Picture and Best Actor! In retrospect, this is hard to believe as the film is very good---just not seven Oscars good! And, when you think that it best out films like Double Indemnity and Meet Me in St. Louis (which, amazingly, received not a single Oscar), you are left assuming that the film probably played better back in 1944 than today. Most people today would like it but be baffled at its receiving all these awards. I know I sure am! As for the plot, I won't go into great detail--there are some wonderful reviews already for this film that do a fine job of this. A young priest (Bing Crosby) is sent to a new parish. Unfortunately, the old fashioned priest who has been serving there for decades (Barry Fitzgerald) is a bit puzzled by Crosby's unorthodox and rather modern methods. How all this is resolved is something for you to see for yourself.It was fortunate that I have recently seen a Mexican film, The Little Priest because the film is pretty much a slight reworking of Going My Way. While leading man Catinflas' ways of doing things are even more radical than Crosby's, the plot is pretty much the same but without all the singing and a little less sentimentality. I recommend you try both of them--they'd make a nice double-feature. "},{"Title":"Swinging on a great film.","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Bing Crosby wasn't just a singer. He was a very good actor too. This film is wonderful without violence, without drama... All is perfect in the village and in the church of Saint Dominic.....; I think that this world needs a lot of people like the father O'Malley.I ask a question Why is it impossible to see this film in Spain on TV? It's incredible but Bing Crosby are more censured in my country that the last film of Pasolini!!!!!!!!.To sum up,It's a magic and genial film for all of types of people... "},{"Title":"Changed me mind","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  My 1990 diary records that I disliked this film. How things change! Today I liked it thoroughly, its slow pace, nice songs, and stunning black and white cinematography. I've never been a Crosby fan, but he is thoroughly likable as a priest. Nothing he does seems to require any effort from him. Relaxation seems to be his philosophy of life. A most intriguing man, rather inscrutable.  "}{"Title":"Going My Way","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Touching film that still gets me choked up. It's in that last scene when Barry Fitzgerald's mother surprises him. It's a wonderful moment. Fitzgerald and Crosby won much deserved Oscars representing two different eras of priests looking to hold their little parish together. Oscars were also given for Best Picture and director McCarey, who in the next year, brought a sequel to the screen. The Bells of St. Mary's, along with this gem, make for a night of tears, humor and heart.  "},{"Title":"Another Memorable Experience From the 1940s.","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Outstanding Best Picture winner of 1944 that also won Oscars for director Leo McCarey and actors Bing Crosby and Barry Fitzgerald. Crosby is the new priest sent to take over for the old and crusty Fitzgerald, but he keeps that news a secret from the elderly priest. The church is about to be closed and money is scarce. The two friends/enemies must work together to make sure that does not happen. Throughout there are triumphs and tragedies. Crosby takes some boys off the streets and turn them into an outstanding choir. A young and very beautiful Jean Heather leaves a lasting impression as she falls in love with James Brown, the son of the man (Gene Lockhart) who is trying to close the church. Look for former television stars William Frawley and Carl Alfalfa Switzer. 4.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"No, I'm not","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  It's the sort of picture where you have to understand the mentality of the movie-going audience of the time.  It was a sensation at the 1944 box office (#1 for the year, and the follow-up The Bell's of St. Mary's was #1 the next year); part of this had to do with the fact that it took America's mind off the on-going war effort and cheered them up quite a bit, and part of it had to do with its star, Bing Crosby.Oscars were handed out for its hit song, Crosby, Barry Fitzgerald, the director, and the movie itself.  The Motion Picture Academy, in a display of childish enthusiasm, gave Fitzgerald a crack at the leading Oscar and the supporting one, too.Seen today, outside of the WWII context, the movie is a pleasant non-event. At its best, it contains a scene from Carmen that for a brief flash takes the film into the stratosphere, much in the same way Vertigo was featured in 12 Monkeys, and a clip from The Third Man was interlaced with a brief passage of Leaving Las Vegas.  Bing Crosby is the ultimate in old-school crooning, and Barry Fitzgerald is to crotchety old Irishmen what Walter Brennan was to crotchety old mid-westerners.  At the film's worst, Going My Way is hopelessly naive and dated--at one point an exchange plays out as if it were a sitcom waiting for the laugh track (without the laugh track). It gives you a feeling that you're hanging out with the characters, and that at any moment they'll turn to you and say hey, pal, thanks for renting the video.  You're O.K. with us.  Whether or not ferociously polite priests and aw-shucks street gangs will be invited to your next soiree will likely make or break the film for you.In fact it's not a film at all.  Not in the sense that 8 1/2 is a film, or Star Wars, The Godfather, or even Wayne's World.  It's an exercise in good natured good nature, and if that's what you butter your bread with, have at it.  For those looking for dimension, wit, conflict, or any of those other extraneous story-telling devices, you might find yourself left out in the cold. "},{"Title":"O'Malley And The Dodgers","Date":"7 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Despite its unashamed propaganda on behalf of the Roman Catholic religion Going My Way is hard to resist. It wasn't really such a departure for Crosby as people made out, basically he was just playing his usual role but with a dog collar and given his usual role comprised a blend of light-hearted charm and pleasant baritone there's not a lot to disappoint - provided, of course, you go for the Crosby persona in the first place. It's possible to see Father Chuck O'Malley as a trouble shooter in church clothing who straightens out everything from the gang of street kids to the teenage runaway and for good measure puts a broken-down church on its feet before moving on to the next assignment. For a Crosby entry the score is on the thin side but apart from the title song there is one great ballad by Jimmy Van Heusen and Johnny Burke entitled The Day After Forever which tended to get neglected in the fuss made of Swinging On A Star. Barry Fitzgerald has a lock on the whimsical Irish priest full of blarney and hoke and it's still watchable today. "},{"Title":"For Those Who Cry at Hallmark Commercials","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Slow, ponderous, almost completely lacking in dramatic significance and cavity-inducing in its sweetness. If it's not as intensely boring as its sequel, The Bells of St. Mary's, released a year later, that's only because this one came first and so at least has the advantage of being new. The acting is fine, such as it is. Bing Crosby was born to play roles like this one, so needless to say he does it well. Barry Fitzgerald is also effective as a curmudgeonly priest past his prime, and he and Crosby have some good scenes together. But they can't overcome the pure desultoriness of the whole affair.No doubt this film was just what a war-weary country needed, which is clear from its box office success in 1944 and the heap of Academy Awards bestowed upon it. But in 2005 it seems hopelessly dated and just plain uninteresting.Grade C- "},{"Title":"Snugly  whimsical star-vehicle for smug Bing Crosby...","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Best Picture Oscar winner doesn't really hold up today, seeming less like an old-fashioned piece of feel-good uplift than basically what it always has been a straight-on promotional vehicle for the talents of its singing star, Bing Crosby. Crosby plays laid-back priest Father Chuck O'Malley, coming to a troubled parish and inspiring nearly everyone there except cranky superior Barry Fitzgerald. Seems Barry is a bit wary of this hip new Man of the Cloth--and for good reason he breaks a window playing baseball, he prefers golf over prayer, and he befriends a group of wayward boys and teaches them to sing! Dopey nonsense actually won Crosby and Fitzgerald acting Oscars; Leo McCarey was also awarded for his direction. Heck, even the song (Swinging on a Star) got a statue! Must've been a slow year at the Academy. Followed by a much-better sequel, The Bells of St. Mary's, in 1945. ** from **** "},{"Title":"THIS was the Best Picture of 1944?  How sad.","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I feel I should preface my comments by saying that I do love a lot of old movies, even the sappy feel-good ones.  Capra, for instance, was one of the greatest directors of the time, IMO.  This, however, is no Capra film, even though it is painfully obvious that it would like to be.Poorly written (the main plot is so flimsy it has to be shamelessly padded with all manner of marginally relevant, sentimental fluff), poorly acted (the first time we see the banker's son, his acting is so stilted I want to cry), and extremely heavy-handed on a moralistic level, it is pretty obvious that the only reason this film won the Oscar is because Bing Crosby was at the height of his fame, causing some kind of bandwagon effect among Academy members that year.Truly, apart from Crosby and Barry Fitzgerald, Carl Alfalfa Switzer was the only talent in the show that acted in a halfway professional manner. And I won't even go into my issues with the writing, except to say that it is clear to me that Mr. Butler and Mr. Cavett had obviously never heard of Edgar Allen Poe's notion of unity of effect.  There are just so many minor plot points that are introduced and never resolved, or maybe half-heartedly wrapped up with a comment made in passing near the end.It's just crazy that an organization can choose to honor a film like Casablanca, and then bestow the same award on THIS mess the very next year. "},{"Title":"love","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The most astute among us, and if the truth be admitted, the most brave and intellectually discerning, have observed that we dwell in an insensate realm; a cosmos generated by random quantum happenstance. Yet, suppose that those who have accorded us infinite and unqualified love, have proclaimed things to be otherwise than above -stated.That we exist in a world of benevolence and Uncle Remus beneficence, and fond grace.Why would we not choose the latter alternative if all means naught and is  bereft of any meaningful consequence. Crosby and Fitzgerald did well in Going My Way. "}]