[{"Title":"Karloff at his very best","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"43 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Val Lewton's THE BODY SNATCHER is one of the most literate films in the horror genre. Based on a short Robert Louis Stevenson shudder tale, it is the story of a young medical student, Fettes, in 1820s Scotland. Fettes is a promising doctoral candidate who has taken on an apprenticeship of sorts with a Dr. MacFarlane, a prestigious physician who runs a medical college. Todd MacFarlane is a very talented medical scholar of the academic sort, whose own past is tainted by an earlier acquaintance with the grave robbers Burke and Hare, who provided human specimens to his mentor, a Dr. John Knox.Haunted by his past, MacFarlane is tormented and blackmailed by a jack of all trades, a cab-man and grave robber John Gray. Gray, a working class man from the most impoverished sections of the urban poor, takes great delight in this power, and lords it over MacFarlane's household, which includes the doctor's wife- also privy to MacFarlane's secret- who poses as MacFarlane's housekeeper, in an awkward attempt to hide the roots of MacFarlane's own social climb. MacFarlane is also in need of Gray's continued services, which Gray attends to with a sardonic relish. The younger medical student Fettes is pulled into the secrets of the household, which in the end, devour MacFarlane and his efforts to survive in the class structure of Scotland.With THE BODYSNATCHER, Boris Karloff displayed his true depths as a performer, and outside of his original performance as the Frankenstein's monster and perhaps Columbia's THE BLACK ROOM (1935), there are few other films in his immense resume that really display what he was capable of as an actor. In THE BODYSNATCHER, he is at the top of his form. He is supported by actors Henry Daniell, Russell Wade and Edith Atwater, and the movie also marks his final appearance with Bela Lugosi. All of Val Lewton's technique is brought to bear in this work to offer the audience effective atmosphere, and tight pacing under the direction of Robert Wise. All in all, it is a remarkable work, an impeccable contribution to the genre that calls itself horror. "},{"Title":"One Of Karloff's Best!","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"42 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  One could easily argue, as I surely will attempt to do so, that this film, The Body Snatcher, based on the classic story by Robert Louis Stevenson and produced by the wonderfully creative and inventive producer Val Lewton, is the home of Boris Karloff's best performance.  Some will argue that his portrayal of Frankenstein's creature was his greatest role, and I would not argue with that.  But his role as Cabman Gray is his best performance as an actor.  It gives us a chance to see the real Boris and his entire acting range.  He plays with  relish a character wicked as can be , yet full of contradictions.  This villainous rogue that steals bodies from graves and then creates bodies through murder is given an amiable side.  He is the most interesting character in the story.  He is the core of the story, and it is all due to Karloff's wonderful and witty portrayal.  The story is excellent as our the other actors in the film, most notably Henry Daniell as the doctor abused and tormented by Karloff and past secrets.  Although this was the last film to have both Karloff and Lugosi, it is a lopsided affair as Lugosi is given very little screen time and an even smaller role as a blackmailing servant.  The best scene with both of them is the murder scene of Lugosi's character, and it is one last glimpse of the two great boogeymen sharing the screen once more together.  Outstanding film, competent direction, and excellent acting make this film one of the better horror films of the 40s and one of Karloff's finest moments on the screen period. "},{"Title":"Craftsmanship at its best.","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"45 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERS.You don't really want to miss this one unless you've been weaned on Arnold Schwarzenegger action movies or Nightmare on Elm Street, Part Twenty, the PreSequal. There is horror galore but served up with frisson.One can't help admiring Val Lewton and his crew at RKO, working on tiny budgets, but producing miniature gems. It's like painting a masterpiece on the head of a pin. Robert Wise was his director here but the credit goes mainly to producer Lewton, the Russian master of Who Torok. Lewton was insistent on authenticity. The songs we hear are contemporary Scottish folk songs and the wardrobe as close to the real thing as they could get. And Lewton saw to it that reality was evoked by small items from the prop department and small incidents on screen. At night, for instance, in order to see something in a dark basement, the doctor calls out for someone to bring a candle. In a less thoughtful movie the deserted basement would have a couple of lanterns already lighted, or the set would be brightly lighted with no visible lanterns at all. A small thing, as I say.But it's not just historical accuracy that makes Lewton's RKO pictures so appealing. His plots are rooted in time. And his scripts are -- how can one put this without sounding snotty? -- literate. (Oh, how we cozzened them!) I don't know how closely the dialogue sticks to Stevenson's original story but it works very well, partly because the actors are so competent. Stealing the dialogue isn't necessarily a bad thing when the words are good to begin with. John Huston lifted most of his dialogue for The Maltese Falcon directly from Hammett's novel. And Shakespeare ripped off whole sections of Plutarch's Lives for Julius Caesar. Henry Daniell, like Robert Douglas, later became stereotyped as heavies in Errol Flynn swashbucklers, but Danielle has a far more complex role here -- proud of his medical skills but driven insane by that pride. The accents are mostly American, alas, but the performers at least LOOK right.Then there is the plot. I know it sounds odd in a producer of horror movies but Lewton was a man of good taste. Driven to find a dead body to sell to Daniell, Karloff decides to murder a sweet-faced young blind girl who is a street singer. A modern movie would give us a bathtub full of blood. Here's what Lewton does. The little girl walks alone down a deserted cobblestone street at night, singing a melancholy tune as she goes. The camera is held on her as she walks under a bridge and disappears in the darkness on the other side. Without any cuts, Karloff's horse and coach enter the frame, plodding slowly along in the girl's wake. The coach disappears into the same darkness under the bridge. We hear the girl's carol cut off at the end of a note with a slight squeak. End of shot. It's a far more moving moment than a dozen multiple on screen slashings and throat cuttings and we haven't seen any of it.The ending, however, is fairly explicit. Daniell, now mad, gallops furiously through the rainy night along muddy roads, the recently resurrected dead body bouncing along in the seat beside him. Instead of the dead woman he has just disinterred, the body is now that of Karloff, revealed only when lightning blindingly illuminates the crazily rocking coach. The Body Snatcher doesn't have the easy shocks of some of Lewton's other works, like The Curse of the Cat People, no buses as Lewton called them.But there is a sense of evil throughout, or let's call it corruption, and it grows as the film moves quietly along. In its own way it's the equal of anything Lewton did before or after. Outstanding. "},{"Title":"Mr. Stevenson's Corpus","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"47 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Robert Louis Stevenson has had a rough going in modern literary tastes. When he died in 1894, he was rightly regarded as one of the finest writers and stylists of his day - for grown-up readers! However, the enmity of a one time friend , W.E.Henley, diminished his reputation. Henley said that Stevenson was too superficial, and was basically a writer of pot-boilers. This view was somewhat softened into a boy's writer of adventure stories (TREASURE ISLAND and KIDNAPPED were the titles that usually were pushed as boy's novels). Actually Stevenson was far from a writer for youths. TREASURE ISLAND has the perplexing, exasperating figure of Long John Silver as it's anti-hero, chum and protector of Jim Hawkins, but mutineer, pirate leader, and murderer. KIDNAPPED does the same with Aleck Breck Stewart, whose weaknesses (such as gambling and drinking) ruin a political mission. He was hardly a simple adventure novelist, anymore than the real Jules Verne was simply a French chap with an outlandish imagination regarding scientific progress.The movies have done well by Stevenson. TREASURE ISLAND and KIDNAPPED have been made several times, as was THE MASTER OF BALLENTRAE. His novella DR. JECKYLL AND MR. HYDE was made more frequently than any other title of his. In 1931, it earned it's star (Fredric March) the Best Actor Oscar. Even some of the lesser known works have gotten into film THE WRONG BOX (one of two novels written with Stevenson's stepson Lloyd Osbourne) became a marvelously funny comedy about a scramble over a legacy. THE EBB TIDE was a film with Ray Milland, Lloyd Nolan, Oscar Homolka, and Barry Fitzgerald, and a good television version was made with Robby Coltrane in it. The tales of Prince Florizel of Bohemia from THE NEW ARABIAN NIGHTS became TROUBLE FOR TWO with Robert Montgomery, Rosalind Russell, Frank Morgan, and Reginald Owen. Finally there is this nice gem, THE BODY SNATCHER. It is based on one of Stevenson's best short stories, a moody, psychological drama about the evil that is committed supposedly in the way of greater good. In most of these films the scripts start out with the novel or short story, but branch out into their own scenarios. Gray, the murderous but sympathetic cab man in the film is (in the story) a drunk who MacFarland actually hates. When he kills Gray for his corpse (for medical study) MacFarland is actually settling a score. The conclusion of the story is similar to the film, except that Gray's mysterious resurrection to confront the frightened MacFarland does not lead to his death, but to his total demoralization. He flees into his own oblivion at the conclusion.Stevenson was very into history including crime and the vagaries of the law.It has been noted in the other posts that this story owes much to the crimes of the West Port murderers of 1827-28, William Burke and William Hare (in the film Gray sings a tune about them to the drunken (and doomed) blackmailer Joseph). But this is not unusual for Stevenson. The final blow to Alan Breck Stewart's mission in KIDNAPPED is the hue and cry against him as a suspect in the Appin Murder of 1752, which led to the judicial murder of James of the Glen Stewart. The latter story is told in the sequel novel CATRIONA. DR.JECKYLL AND MR.HYDE is based on the story of Deacon Brodie, a wealthy cabinet maker and town councilor of Edinburgh in the 1770s and 1780s, who was a burglar at night, and who was eventually hanged on a a scaffold he had built for the city. Even in his best novel (the unfinished WEIR OF HERMISTON)the title character of Hanging Judge Weir is based on that legendary jurist Lord Braxfield, a man of strong prejudices and harsh statements.THE BODY SNATCHER was not the first historical movie by Val Lewton's production unit. But THE BODY SNATCHER was the first of three films (all first rate) starring Boris Karloff (the others being ISLE OF THE DEAD and BEDLAM). THE BODY SNATCHER manages to set the period of the 1830s pretty well, although an early distance shot is from some routine film stock and (if you look carefully) shows a car in the distance near a flock of sheep outside of Edinburgh Castle.The acting is actually quite good, in particular Karloff's Gray and Daniell's astonishing MacFarland. Henry Daniell was one of the best screen villains of his period, in films like CAMILLE (as Baron De Varville) and THE SEA HAWKE (as Wolfingham). He also could do comic villains (Garbitsch in Chaplin's THE GREAT DICTATOR). But this is a rare occasion where he actually shared a full screenplay with a fellow actor. Daniell's MacFarland is in a battle to the death with Karloff's Gray, one that his mistress knows will destroy both. Both have flaws (Daniell's intellectual arrogance; Karloff's willingness to kill anyone who is expendable). But both are human too. Daniell is aware that his operation on the little girl is flawless but nothing improves her ability to walk. All he can do is harshly order the little girl to walk (and she doesn't). Gray sneers at him in their famous scene in the tavern, where Daniell explains his confusion at the failure of a successful operation and hits on the actual missing aspect - Gray knows that the basic cause of life is not something that MacFarland can fix, but the basis of life itself (God or nature itself - something beyond a puny mortal like the doctor). But Gray, for his cynicism and murderous ability, does wish the wee one could walk. Oddly enough, hearing his horse move causes the poor girl to walk finally.It is a fine movie, and gave both Karloff and Daniell a shining moment on the screen. "},{"Title":"A Classy Old 'Horror' Film","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As of this writing, I have seen four of the nine Val Lewton DVD Horror Collection films and this one was, by far, the best.Henry Daniell, Boris Karloff, Edith Atwater,Russell Wade, Sharyn Moffet and Bela Lugosi all acted well. I had forgotten that Karloff was a decent actor, not just some Frankenstein monster who couldn't deliver a line. He had a creepy voice, too, which lent itself nicely to horror films. I just found him fascinating here.In addition, this movie had a well-known director, Robert Wise, and the story was adaption of a Robert Louis Steevenson. So, you see, this film had good bloodlines, pun intended. This was not some schlocky Ed Wood B-film. This movie is a high class affair.I found it more of a crime story than anything else as a doctor (Daniell), trying to further his knowledge and needing human specimens (dead) to continue his research, has his graveyard supply cut off to him and then has to have his helper (Karloff) kill people to provide him the bodies. Meanwhile, a young and more moral student of the doctor, gets wind of what's happening and doesn't share his mentor's view that the ends justify the means.At any rate, this a keeper. Like the other Lewton films I've seen, it's well- photographed, too. I can only hope a few of the five I haven't seen yet are this good. "},{"Title":"Sinisterly marvellous!","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A sinister coach driver John Gray (Boris Karloff) supplies corpses for Dr. Wolfe MacFarlane (Henry Daniell) and his assistant Donald Fettes (Russel Wade), but things start going pair shape when Dr. Wolfe finds out more about where these corpses are coming from, as supplies are running short and he tries to get rid of Gray, who doesn't share his buddy's (or Toddy's) thoughts. Another thing on their minds is that a mother of a young girl with a bad vertebra that's getting worse asks Dr. Wolfe for his help, but he refuses at first. But with the constant bugging from assistant Fettes, he finally goes ahead with the operation.The more I watch this film, the better it seems to get! Val Lewton's The Body Snatcher, which is set in the year 1831, Edinburgh - is an excellently well-handled thriller that holds SUCH great performances from the likes of Boris Karloff, Henry Daniell, Russel Wade, Edith Atwater and Bela Lugosi. What shines and drives the film other than its performances - is the intelligent screenplay and hypnotic atmosphere and setting that reeks of death and coldness. The foggy, empty and dark streets of Edinburgh during the night have an approaching sense of menace, especially when Karloff is on screen. An impressive Boris Karloff as John Gray the Cabman evokes such tension and depth. He always makes his presence distinguishable, with the scenes he's in being the most interesting. His appearance and body language has some unsettling effect - in a captivating way. His performance in my opinion is up there with the likes of The Mummy and Bride Of Frankenstein. I read a lot positive remarks towards Karloff's performance, but IMHO Henry Daniell was equally as good. He's great as the troubled Dr. Wolfe, who is haunted by Gray. You could say he was the backbone of the film. When these two shared the screen, is when the fireworks certainly occurred. Russel Wade is quite sympathetic in his role, as the reluctant assistant who gets drawn into Dr. Wolfe's mess. Edith Atwater delivers a sound performance and there's basically a neat cameo role by Bela Lugosi.I wasn't bored, but for some people it might be a tad too slow and real talkative, as what this film thrives on, is its vivid literature, well-rounded characters and potently gripping confrontations, especially between Wolfe and Gray. The story has its moments of psychological suspense that steadily develops into a thrilling and powerful finale (that has the usual thunderstorm evident). The way the final lines of dialogue were set up in that sequence is truly unnerving. Also throw in elements of greed, guilt and pride and how it gets the better of people. So there is a moral to all of this. Sudden shocks and jolts fill the film, but definitely not cheap ones. Mostly the deaths are implied, though there is great use of sound in those situations eg. The sound of a horse trotting. It's very effective! It isn't stylish or spirited directing by Robert Wise, but to cap it off, he achieves a downright inventive and believable movie piece.My only small complaint is that it could've been a much darker film, but it's the lightness of the sub-plot about the crippled girl that slightly spoilt it. Was it trying for an innocent point of view?Nonetheless, it's still my favourite Lewton/Karloff film, to date.Never get rid of me! "},{"Title":"Karloff & Daniell Haunt Old Edinburgh","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" THE BODY SNATCHER who supplies fresh corpses for an Edinburgh doctor in 1831 soon adds blackmail & murder to his iniquitous deeds.This was one of a short series of horror films in which Boris Karloff starred for producer Val Lewton, the others being ISLE OF THE DEAD (1945) & BEDLAM (1946). Lewton had the knack of producing films full of atmosphere & menace on a very low budget and THE BODY SNATCHER is no exception, getting most of its chills from the wonderful acting and the literate, intelligent script - although the climax is genuinely terrifying.Karloff is chillingly perfection in the role of the sly coachman who augments his salary with a little grave robbing. A gentle man who is kind to crippled children, yet can murder without a second thought, Karloff paints the cunning portrait of a very human monster. Every step of the way, however, he is equaled by Henry Daniell, a wonderful British character actor who never received due recognition for his skills. Playing a brilliant anatomist who feels he must continue to use Karloff's gruesome deliveries for the light they shine on solving medical problems, Daniell delivers an elegant portrayal of a deeply conflicted man who is pulled ever nearer the center of the vortex.In a relatively small role - his last with Karloff - Bela Lugosi is memorable as a greedy servant who tries blackmail at the worst possible time. Russell Wade as a medical student and Rita Corday as a young patient's widowed mother help move the plot along, but wisely no romantic subplot is allowed to develop. Edith Atwater does very well as Daniell's housekeeper, a woman with many secrets.Movie mavens will recognize elderly Mary Gordon, unbilled as the pathetic mother at Greyfriars graveyard.************************At one time, the bodies of executed prisoners supplied the medical schools of Britain with all the corpses they could use for the purposes of dissecting & lecturing. But judicial reform nearly dried up the flow of bodies from that source, while the proliferation of new schools and anatomy theatres made the shortage acute. The medieval laws still on the books made the legal acquirement of bodies almost impossible. The ghastly vocation of body snatching thus arose to fill this void.Body Snatchers - also referred to as grave robbers, resurrectionists, or Sack 'Em Up Boys - would haunt cemeteries by night, looking for the recently deceased to disinter. Often the caretakers in the graveyards would be in financial league with these hooligans, as well as the doctors at the medical schools. Prices paid for the bodies could be quite exorbitant, considering the risks that were taken. Leaving dogs or spring-loaded guns at the graveside were just some of the elaborate precautions taken by the friends of the deceased, who often kept vigil by the graves until enough time had passed to make the corpse no longer desirable. Eventually, it became quite difficult to count on the graveyards to furnish enough fodder for the grisly trade.'The ruffian dogs, the hellish pair, The villain Burke, the meager Hare... Nor did they handle ax or knife To take away their victim's life... No sooner done than in the chest They crammed their lately welcome guest...'Arriving in Edinburgh in 1827, William Burke met fellow Irishman William Hare, who was keeper of a low lodging house. Scurrilous rascals both, when an old pensioner died there in November of that year, Burke & Hare sold the body to a surgeon for 7£, 10 shillings. Delighted with this easy money, the nefarious pair soon took to hastening the deaths of their 'subjects.' At least 15 hapless victims were lured into the lodging house and smothered (so as to leave no sign of violence on their flesh), the bodies then sold to respected surgeon Robert Knox. On Halloween in 1828, suspicious neighbors summoned police and enough evidence was found to immediately arrest Burke & Hare. At the trial, Hare turned King's evidence and admitted to the murders. He was released and promptly disappeared. In his confession, Burke completely exonerated Knox of any knowledge of the killings, but the doctor was hounded by the press & public and quickly relocated to London, where he carried on a successful career. Burke was hanged on January 28, 1829. His corpse was eviscerated and his skeleton is still on display in Edinburgh.A year after the events in the movie, the Anatomy Act of 1832 made it legal for the bodies of those dying friendless in poorhouses and hospitals to be given to local medical facilities for study and dissection.*********************************The film incorporates the story of Greyfriars Bobby (called Robby in the movie) but makes a muddle of the facts. In reality, Bobby was a Skye terrier that refused to leave the graveside of his master, an elderly, indigent shepherd, in the graveyard at Greyfriars Church in Edinburgh. Bobby stayed faithfully at his post for years and became a tremendous sentimental favorite of the city folk, before dying of old age. Today a statue near the church commemorates his memory. "},{"Title":"Never Get Rid Of Me!","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A later Val Lewton film, from his costume picture period, The Body Snatcher, from a Robert Louis Stevenson story, directed by Robert Wise, is a fine if somewhat moralistic and sentimental horror tale. It lacks the alogical, almost surreal qualities of Lewton's earlier movies, where much is left unexplained, even inexplicable, and a great deal happens off-screen; and even then one can't be sure of what really occurred, as events are often related anecdotally, or merely suggested. In his first few horror exercises Lewton cared as much for gentility as fright, often basing his stories on legends and superstitions, as much of their power came from the vagueness of reality, and the capacity our imaginations have for creating and even shaping our experiences.By the time The Body Snatcher came around Lewton was moving somewhat closer to mainstream horror. Legends still matter, and the feeling of the dead hand of the past on the present as a Lewton theme is very much alive. In this film it is the notorious case of the grave-robbing Burke and Hare of 19th century Edinburgh, and their effect on a distinguished physician who has continued to do business with one of their former confederates. As the decent-minded but less than morally fastidious doctor, Henry Daniell is outstanding, and surprisingly sympathetic; and he has here perhaps his longest and most sustained role in a movie. He certainly has more screen time than in any other picture I've seen him in. Top-billed Boris Karloff gives Dr. Daniell more than a run for his money as the grave robbing, yet intelligent, observant and not altogether evil cab-man Gray. Karloff's performance is physical as much as anything else, as he uses his body here more eloquently than in any other part outside the Frankenstein series. He knows how and where to stand in relation to others, managing, as always, to look taller than he really is. With his big hat, scarf and long coat, he seems to have walked out of a Dickens novel. Karloff's performance reminds me of how much acting has as much to do with body language as anything else; and that there is a degree of posing,--not fakery--but standing still and letting a character project from the way an actor holds himself as from speech or facial expression. The movie itself falls just a bit short of being great by it less than brilliant script and the enforced sentimentality of the subplot about a crippled girl. I agree that this was a good idea, and could have made the film all the more powerful, but the scenes around her are stilted, and the actress who plays the girl is none too convincing. It was a good try, though, and almost works, especially in her last scene, but the writing and staging were a little off. I can't help but respect Lewton and Wise's intentions, but they overreached themselves, and I feel bad about it. The climax in the carriage with the corpse, however, and the ghostly repetition of never get rid of me! is still impressive, and saves the film in the end. "},{"Title":"What can you say about Boris Karloff?","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What can you say about Boris Karloff? He attacks this role with evil zest. I have not seen a lot of his work, but I was extremely impressed with his portrayal of Cabman Gray, the medical school's grave robber. (among other things) The modern horror genre simply focuses on gore, and doesn't allow characters like Gray, or actors like Karloff flourish, and that's too bad.  "},{"Title":"Great atmospheric chiller!","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Val Lewton has produced some of the most important horror classics of all time. His collaborations with the great Jacques Tourneur are the most noteworthy in his filmography, but some of the others are of note also. Like this one for example. The Body Snatcher is a psychological horror film, a study of guilt, and an expose on how people sometimes have to do bad things in order to do good, even though those bad deeds may well consume them. This is shown through the story of Wolfe MacFarlane, a doctor and teacher of medicine that employs cabbie John Gray to steal corpses from the local cemetery so that he can use them to show his students how to operate on a patient. However, this arrangement has put the cabbie/gravedigger in a position of power over the upper class doctor, and that is something that John Gray intends to capitalise on...Boris Karloff stars as the grave digging John Gray, and does an absolutely excellent job with it. Karloff has to prove nothing to nobody after his portrayal of Frankenstein's monster, but his embodiment of exactly what you would expect a grave robbing, amoral lower class man to be like is right on cue. Fellow legend Bela Lugosi makes a welcome, if brief appearance also and the other lead role is taken by Henry Daniell. I haven't seen this man before...well, I didn't think I had - he's actually been in many well-respected classics including The Philadelphia Story and The Great Dictator. He does a great job as the lead; his performance bodes well with the film, and just like Karloff he's very believable in his role. The real star of the show, however, is the lush black and white cinematography which capture's the movie's many beautiful settings. Val Lewton has become famous for capturing this sort of atmosphere, and The Body Snatcher is one of the films that does it best.The use of 'less is more' is right on cue in this film, and there is one sequence in particular involving Boris Karloff, a dark alley and a street singer that will be of particular note to film fans. In short; The Body Snatcher is a great horror film, and one that anyone who considers themselves a fan of great horror will not want to miss! "}{"Title":"Dark and Gloomy","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In 1831, in Edinburgh, the prominent doctor and professor Dr. Wolfe 'Toddy' MacFarlane (Henry Daniell) buys corpses for his studies and classes of anatomy from the notorious cabman John Gray (Boris Karloff), who is also a body snatcher. When his talented student Donald Fettes (Russell Wade) tells that he will quit medical school since his family cannot afford to support him, MacFarlane hires him as his assistant to permit Fettes to proceed his studies. Fettes meets a little girl that cannot walk anymore due to a coach accident, and he tries to convince Dr. MacFarlane to operate her but the doctor is reluctant. Soon Fettes discovers that Dr. MacFarlane has a secret from his past and Gray blackmails him. When Fettes learns how Gray obtains the corpses for Dr. MacFarlane, he has an inner conflict and does not want to continue as Dr. MacFarlane's protégée. But isn't it too late?The Body Snatcher is a dark and gloomy horror tale with a creepy story about ethic in medicine, or how far a doctor should go in his researches. Boris Karloff has a magnificent performance, maybe the best I have ever seen of this actor. The direction of Robert Wise is sharp and the cinematography in black and white is impressive. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) O Túmulo Vazio (The Empty Grave) "},{"Title":"A Study in Spookiness.","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Boris Karloff and Henry Daniell. Henry Daniell usually plays a stuffy villain as this time his stuffiness is shifted toward being a gifted physician named Dr. Wolfe 'Toddy' MacFarlane who desperately needs cadavers for the training of his students. That's where John Gray - Boris Karloff - comes in. Stevenson's story is a comment on the times. Daniell and Karloff are constantly at each other in very believable situations both verbally and physically. Karloff's character seems to be devoid of feelings while Daniell's is increasingly being painted into a corner. John Gray constantly annoys Dr. MacFarlane by calling him Toddy ALL the time in that incredibly sinister Karloff lisp that has a slightly insincere smile to him. Karloff is a master of evil and Daniell plays off of him to perfection. Karloff also calls Dr. Donald Fettes by his last name which gets on the doctor's nerves as well.Pay particular attention to the final X-Files style psychological ending that makes modern slash and gore films look like drivel.This film noir horror flick is every bit as good as the best movie versions of The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyl and Mr. Hyde by Stevenson. "},{"Title":"The presence of Karloff","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have rarely seen a film in which one actor dominates the scenery so much. Boris Karloff as Cabman Gray, who delivers dead bodies to a doctor for illegal dissecting purposes, is a delight to see and, above all, to hear.The first encounter with the doctors new assistant (&#x84;My fee is as usual 10 pounds), the accidental meeting with the doctor and the assistant at the inn (he stabs a knife into a piece of bread and says to the youngster &#x84;Toddy'd like to do that all over my body), the wonderful dialogue with Joseph (one of the doctor's employees; played by Bela Lugosi), who tries to blackmail him (&#x84;Well, Joseph, you shall have money. Why should you not?) are just three examples.The eerie atmosphere of the film (a trademark of all Lewton thrillers) is much heightened by Karloff's sinister appearance. Definitely an extraordinary performance in an outstanding film. "},{"Title":"Still chilling after all these years","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw this film on a late-night horror program in my pre-teens. Back then it scared the living daylights out of me and started a life-long love of the work of Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi.  I'm pleased to say so many years on, it still has the power to grab me.Admittedly, its dated in some ways.  The obviously American actors trying to get their tongues around the Scottish-style dialogue is pretty laughable at times but the gothic atmosphere of RL Stevenson's book is captured admirably.  The love-interest between Donald Fettes (Russell Wade) & Mrs Marsh (Rita Corday) seems like something that should've been developed properly or cut - it goes nowhere.  The character of Meg Camden (Edith Atwater) is beautiful played but never given a chance to really fly. Likewise with Bela Lugosi's Joseph, but his big scene with Karloff is just great.In this low-budget film, Val Lewton & Robert Wise still manage to pull out all the stops, using superb lighting (esp of Karloff's cadaverous face), echoing sound (Cabman Grey's horse clip-clopping on the cobblestones) and the wonderful scene where the cat sitting on the mantlepiece witnesses Toddy MacFarlane (the wonderfully imperious Henry Daniell) grappling with Karloff's Cabman Grey.  All we see are macarbe shadows dancing on the wall. As with many great movies of the period & genre, its the implication of violence that makes us sit up and take notice. (For the last word in this technique, check out the shower scene from Hitchcock's Psycho).Tame compared to contemporary horror but the final scene especially is still chilling after all these years. "},{"Title":"One of the great horror movies","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie has already been given an excellent review for IMDb. I agree that this is Boris Karloff's finest screen performance as an actor, not to take anything away from his classic Frankenstein's monster portrayal. And it is tragic that Bela Lugosi's character is almost a cameo since this was the last time Karloff and Lugosi appeared together on the screen. I also agree that Henry Daniell is one of the few actors of the period who could shine in a role opposite Karloff without Karloff running away with the show. I would, however, like to add that the relationship between Karloff and Daniell is a key to the entire movie and Val Lewton knowingly focuses on this part of Robert Louis Stevenson's nightmare tale. There are many stages of our lives that we would like to forget and we don't like living reminders haunting us about those stages. The strange relationship between the doctor and the murderer points clearly that there is a fine line between good and evil and it is very easy to cross that line when we are tempted to do so for fame, fortune, or any other vainglorious desire. The final scene in Body Snatcher is one of the scariest scenes ever captured on film. I won't give it away for those who have not seen the movie. Just get ready to have the coach ride of your life. "},{"Title":"An underrated classic, featuring an amazing show from Boris Karloff.","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  THE BODY SNATCHER (1945)THE GOOD--Quite a few classic horror films suffer from poor performances, however the acting in The Body Snatcher is of a very high standard indeed. Boris Karloff is definitely the standout. This guy rocks! He was mesmerising as the Monster in Frankenstein and simply unforgettable as Gray in The Body Snatcher. He never presents the character as pure evil (though he did freak me out on many an occasion) and Karloff is always playing on the character having some unresolved mystery to him. I simply loved the performance&#133;the voice; the body language and the silent cunning nature just made the character and performance instantly brilliant.--Every aspect of this film is mysterious, and we're kept guessing right up to the very last frame. Gray is a very shadowy character, who we're never quite sure of. The relationship between Gray and Toddy was very entertaining, and there are constant hints that there is something more to the intensity of their friendship. There are several scary and mysterious points of this film, and the payoff is immensely satisfying.--The music in this film is a great reminder of why music is so useful in films of this kind. The score contains everything - a scary and suspenseful nature, as well as a soft, emotional one, and it is consistently insisting that the audience react to whatever's happening on screen.--Though they're not as important as the major stories in the film, I did enjoy the small sub-plots. The best one was with the little girl who couldn't walk (I adored the actress). I thought the writing and performances portrayed nicely the hardships of not being able to use your legs.THE BAD--The constant blackouts became a great annoyance after a short time. Camera techniques weren't as high-tech back then, that's for sure, but did they really have to black out between every scene?RATING9/10 - Excellent classic storytelling, featuring an amazing show from the one and only Boris Karloff. More people need to see this movie!IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE I RECOMMENDCape Fear (9/10) The Fly (9/10) Frankenstein (9/10) From Hell (8/10) Sleepy Hollow (9/10) "},{"Title":"Excellent horror with Boris Karloff at his most monstrous!","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Body Snatcher is another top notch Val Lewton production and horror fans that are familiar with his work know that he delivers films with a tad extra suspense and intelligence in the storyline. Although slightly less sophisticated than the Jacques Tourneur films under Lewton's label (Cat People, I walked with a zombie, The Leopard Man), Wise's film still is a genuinely creepy and terrifically plotted tale that owes a lot of its power to a wondrously chilling performance by the almighty Boris Karloff. Our legendary charismatic cinema villain stars as an unscrupulous cab-man who doesn't leave a corpse unturned in 19th century Edinburgh. He digs up recently buried cadavers and sells them to Dr. MacFarlane, with whom he previously also collaborated in the Burke and Hare scandal. Although the premise of body snatching to experiment upon offers an easy excuse for cheap and explicit shocks, the emphasis in The Body Snatcher merely lies on atmosphere and even psychological terror. The ingenious story (by Robert Louis Stevenson) simultaneously grabs the opportunity to cover other morbid topics such as blackmail, greed and murder. When the local cemeteries run out of fresh cadavers, Karloff's character turns to murder in order to rest assured of his wage. Robert Wise recreates a wonderfully spooky 19th century Edinburgh setting, complete with poverty, street-singers and rhythmic horse track-noises. The images of Karloff on his nightly prowl for corpses are chilling and definitely among the most efficient horror sequences of the 1940's. The numerous references towards the true serial murder case of Dr. Knox and his servants Burke and Hare are a pleasure for devoted horror/history fans and if you are &#150; like me &#150; fascinated by this case, you definitely also have to check out Hammer's The Flesh and the Fiends (1959) and Freddie Francis' The Doctor and the Devils (1985). I mentioned his name quite a few times already, but I specifically want to stress that Boris Karloff's performance alone makes this film worthy! His appearance defines the sort of guy you don't want to run into in a dark alley and he really seems to enjoy the barbarities his character commits. The equally brilliant Bela Lugosi, however, is underused and his role isn't much more than an extended cameo. Highly recommended vintage horror! "},{"Title":"Robert Wise and Boris Karloff in an A-grade B-movie...terrific!","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Body Snatcher (1945)Director Robert Wise had just come off a job that would put him in infamy forever--he edited re Orson Welles's second film without his permission, then went and reshot the ending. But he was a young hire ready to do what the studios asked of him, and you might guess, somehow, that he learned from the best, en absentia, by studying Welles so thoroughly. Here, a couple years later, he is directing his third film, and his third Val Lewton film. Lewton was a B-movie producer with ambition and vision, and he pulled of a whole slew of really tight, great films on low budgets, partly by grabbing talent when it was young. And cheap.Boris Karloff was cheap, too, fourteen years after Frankenstein, and he is given a role where he can really act. And he reminds everyone he can act with the best of them. It's a great performance, as the title character. Bela Lugosi is in the credits large but has a small role, and a declining one (see Ed Wood for a dramatization of that decline). With music by Roy Webb, and B-movie steady Robert De Grasse behind the camera (he later shot Born to Kill), Wise pulls together a really first rate movie. Of course Robert Louis Stevenson's story is a terrific starting point, a kind of real version of Frankenstein, with doctors as half mad scientists cutting up corpses on the sly. "},{"Title":"Grave robbing is one thing, but murder is quite another.","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Dr. MacFarlane and John Gray share a murky past, but just what is this hold that the lurching Gray has over the eminent Doctor? Based on a Robert Louis Stevenson short story, The Body Snatcher contains tight direction from Mr Versatile, Robert Wise-all the classy Gothicism one comes to expect from producer Val Lewton-and a stunningly effective performance from Boris Karloff. The piece neatly puts itself out as a kind of sequel to the infamous story of Burke & Hare, where here our main protagonists are clouded over by a link to the dastardly duo who purloined cadavers for cash in the 1820s.What stands out with this picture is it's wonderful pacing, nothing is rushed to try and jolt fear into the viewer, it's sedate and framed in a marvellous Gothic texture by the makers. Its core story line is of course one of great distaste, but its a medical quandary in the name of research that makes for a very interesting piece indeed. We are put into a position very early on where we so want to see a young girl cured of her ills, this axis of the film is neatly surrounded by the horror unfolding. Great writing from Stevenson, Lewton & MacDonald.Boris Karloff is Gray, a large shuffling man who is the body snatcher of the title, a smirking and well spoken Gent, it really shouldn't be scary, but Karloff manages to chill the blood in every scene that he is in. Henry Daniell is MacFarlane, a very emotive performance as the character is twisted by his pursuit of medical achievement whilst having Gray's looming presence constantly hovering over him. Rounding out the cast with effect is Russell Wade as protégé in waiting, Donald Fettes, Bela Lugosi a classic horror fans dream comes real in one great sequence with Karloff as Joseph, and Edith Atwater as loyal love interest Meg Camden.However, they all play second fiddle to the makers work here. Gloomy cobbled streets come shining to the fore, Gray's hovel like abode cloaked in dark shadows with the odd flicker of fire light, and stone surrounds that come across as monolithic structures. Some great sequences as well, one particular one uses the characters shadows to tell the story under the watchful gaze of Gray's cat, and then the final reel, which is moodily excellent and perfectly puts closure on this fine piece of work.Highly recommended. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A textbook example...","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A textbook example of how to make a fright film. Near flawless filmmaking, from conception to completion; Val Lewton's finest. Robert Wise makes the most of each frame with beautiful shot composition and Boris Karloff's performance is easily his greatest (he brought pathos to his portrayal of Dr. Frankenstein's patchwork pariah, but here he shines like the underrated star he sadly truly was). All around, a remarkable film no true fright fan should miss.    "}{"Title":"An all-time wonderful terror tale.","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What makes this one of the true greats is the fact that this is not horror based upon fantastic creatures beyond belief or scientific plots to cheat death.  This is based upon terrible horrors which really may have happened.  Boris Karloff is Cabman Gray, the title character, who steals bodies from graves for doctor Henry Daniell.  The doctor really wants to do good, but with evil Karloff around, that is going to be impossible.  Karloff is the most fearsome of screen monsters he is personable, charming, and deadly.  Val Lewton created an atmosphere as chilling as Karloff's character to go along with.  The music is haunting, and some of the minor details are major plotline points (such as the blind singing beggar girl).  The ending is one of the most chilling ever in films.Sadly, Bela Lugosi is badly underused in this film, his last with Karloff.  It is hard to believe that the sad pathetic looking man was once Count Dracula, as well as other memorable horror characters.  Daniell is very good as the morally torn doctor.  They could not remake this film today without ruining the subtlety and sinister edge the film reveals.  It is a screen masterpiece that holds up 55 years later.  Robert Wise, then a novice director, brilliantly put together the film to Lewton's expectations, and this ranks among his best. "},{"Title":"Great battle between doctor-teacher and cabman-gravedigger","Date":"20 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The story of this movie is incredibly simple. We have doctor McFarlane who is more of a teacher of medical science than practicing doctor and than there cabbie Gray who is making much more money as a gravedigger for McFarlane. At one day a woman comes to see the doctor with her daughter who is suffering from a paralyzed back. The little girl can be cured by surgery but the doctor has no time and not the appropriate body parts to do so. Gray challenges the doctor to do the operation and even provides him with a fresh dead body. The conflict between the two men escalates, they cannot live with but not without each other either. When the doctor thinks he got rid of the annoying Gray and thinks he can continue his work without the cabbie he is in for a surprise and we as viewers are in for a great finale. Wonderful performances by Boris Karloff as Gray and Henry Daniell as MacFarlane. Other horror icon Bela Lugosi also has a small role. "},{"Title":"Just about the best example of this kind of movie you could hope for.","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Body Snatcher is a wonderful example of what Val Lewton (and Robert Wise) could do when allowed to make the kind of movie they wanted to make. Every aspect of the film simply works, but without calling attention to itself. And here Karloff shows why he deserved all the accolades he received over the years. His character gets 3 long monologues that would have sunk a lesser actor - pleasant and polite and even deferential at first impression, but loaded with subterranean hints of bitterness and rage that are all the more effective for the way he underplays them. The only complaint I have about the movie is that the ending seems tacked on somehow, not quite true to the chilling but entirely non- supernatural feel of the film up to this point. It's well done and well staged, but I would have been happier if the movie had just ended when the little girl in the wheelchair got back on her feet. But that's really my only complaint, and it may have been required by the adaptation of the original story. Great old time horror classic. I would gladly watch it again if I ever get the opportunity. "},{"Title":"You'll never get rid of me, Toddy.","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Body Snatcher is the seventh of producer Val Lewton's influential psychological horror films made at RKO in the 1940s. It's based upon the short story by Robert Louis Stevenson, itself based upon the Burke & Hare murders of 1828. The plot of the film is that Dr. Wolfe McFarlane (Henry Daniell) and his assistant Donald Fettes (Russell Wade) need fresh cadavers to dissect and study. So they rely on the ghoulish cabman John Gray (Boris Karloff) to obtain the corpses for them. Fettes doesn't like this unsavory side of medical study but McFarlane convinces him it is necessary in the name of science. Soon, though, McFarlane begins to regret his dealings with the sinister Gray, who has begun to murder people in order to get the bodies needed.This is a creepy and intense period thriller. The acting is excellent. Daniell and Wade are both quite good but it's Karloff who steals the show. This is generally regarded as one of Boris' finest performances and I have to agree with that. This is also the final film teaming of Karloff and Bela Lugosi. Their last scene together is powerful. The film makes great use of the Lewtonian trademarks of suggestion and shadow. Robert Wise's direction is excellent, as is the script by Lewton and Philip MacDonald. There's a great atmosphere that hangs over the film, as is the case with all of the Lewton horror films. A must-see for fans of Lewton and Karloff. "},{"Title":"Based On True Story.","Date":"21 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Robert Wise directed this Val Lewton production based on the Robert Louis Stevenson short story. Henry Daniel stars as Dr. Wolfe MacFarlane, who teaches in a medical school in Scotland in 1831. Russell Wade plays Donald Fettes, a student in his class who becomes his assistant. Fettes wants to help a young paralyzed girl walk again, and needs MacFarlane to operate, but he refuses. It turns out that he has a nefarious deal with sinister Cabman John Gray(played by Boris Karloff in one of his finest performances) to supply him with bodies for dissection, in order to properly teach his students, even though it is against the law. MacFarlane gets in deeper and deeper with Gray, until events spiral beyond their control... The best of the nine films Val Lewton made at RKO, is superbly acted and directed, with wonderful period atmosphere and solid script, leading to a haunting end. "},{"Title":"A brilliant film with Karloff in one of his finest ever performances","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A film directed by Robert Wise, starring Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi and based on a story by Robert Louis Stevenson, The Body Snatcher had all the ingredients to be great. And it was. It is very well-made, the attention to detail is authentic and very striking and it is shot in a way that really enhances the atmosphere, the use of shadows, gloomy cobbled streets and the lighting also add much. The music score is softly suspenseful with the ability to be chilling and emotional when called for. The dialogue has a fair bit of talk but is very literate and intelligent and develops its two main characters to the extent that they're much more complex than they seem to be. The supporting characters are not as interesting but are written better than other films of the same genre, whether before, during or after. The story is pitch-perfect in pace, it's very sedate but it complimented brilliantly with the atmosphere and I actually think any other type of pacing would not have worked anywhere near as effectively. People may say that there isn't much horror, while billed as a horror in some way I saw it more of a film that relied more on atmosphere and suspense than all else; this worked wonders because the scene with Karloff following the girl(I don't think I have seen that type of scene done so chillingly on film) and the ending are genuinely creepy and the atmosphere is ominous but in a restrained way. The subplot with the crippled girl didn't bother me at all, I for one found it touching and the girl was played with real sincerity. Robert Wise's imaginative direction really does help, as do the performances. Russell Wade is a little too much of a drip for my tastes but the supporting roles are played well on the believe, and Bela Lugosi still gives a sinister turn despite limited screen time. The two leads dominate though, Henry Daniell has a juicy role which he plays with intensity and sympathy but it's the magnificently evil performance of Boris Karloff that really does it for me, one of his finest ever performances easily. All in all, brilliant. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Where a doctor's zeal for medical science goes off the rails.","Date":"12 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is interesting for a couple of reasons. First, it's from a short story by Robert Louis Stevenson, one of the 19th century greats. Second, it stars the two bad guys of horror &#x96; Karloff and Lugosi &#x96; together for the second time (the other was Son of Frankenstein in 1939).And a third reason, perhaps, is the presence of Henry Daniell, as Toddy MacFarlane, who is usually in a supporting role to other bigger stars. In this effort, he's on screen most of the time, and a pleasure it was to watch him relish in the role of a doctor who's willing to bend even his Hippocratic oath to further his scientific and medical discoveries.As a foil to those efforts, there is his medical assistant, Donald (Russell Wade), a young man who is initially dazzled by the genius of his mentor &#x96; but who eventually realizes that the end never justifies the means. Which, in this plot, comes down and dirty to stealing bodies from grave yards for medical research.It's a fairly predictable plot; but it's enlivened by the gusto with which Karloff, Lugosi and Daniell perform &#x96; although, Lugosi's performance is quite low key, as befits the man servant, Joseph. Throughout, the acting is uniformly precise and consistent for each character. The Scottish setting is realistic; although the lack of Scots accents is noticeable, particularly in the main characters.The photography, editing and direction are simply excellent as one would expect from Robert Wise, famous for so many award &#x96;winning movies. This effort is worth seeing for that alone, if not for the three main players.As to viewing, I'd suggest getting a DVD of the movie instead of watching a TV broadcast as I did even in digital format, the TV imagery suffers in transmission so that many of the truly darkened scenes are just too dark to appreciate fully. And there are many dark scenes in this movie.Recommended for all except for the very young. Give this eight out of ten.February 12, 2013 "},{"Title":"Murder And Medicine","Date":"23 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Robert Louis Stevenson's Scottish Gothic tale of murder and medicine seems so right for Val Lewton to make, not to mention the cast Lewton assembled for RKO in roles that seem so right for them. Stevenson's not gone back a century for adventure as he did in Treasure Island and Kidnapped. He's stayed in his own century and in this case in his own Scottish background, locating the story in Edinburgh.Although you wouldn't think so, the film has much more resemblance to Treasure Island than you would think in its characters. The Jim Hawkins of the piece is Russell Wade, a young man whose father is a vicar who has come to study medicine with the great Doctor Henry Daniell, a brilliant surgeon.In film Henry Daniell is cold and studied arrogance whether he's playing Professor Moriarty, Baron DeVarville, or even the Creole gentleman who wants Stuart Whitman to stay and be hanged rather than violate the code duello in The Commancheros. He's certainly not a lovable rogue, but he and Wade bond as surely as Jim Hawkins and Long John Silver do because Wade like Hawkins realizes this guy for all his faults can teach me something.Back in the day teaching doctors needed cadavers for illustration and experimentation and would look the other way and not ask too many questions where they come from. This is the part of medicine that Wade gets good and squeamish over. Boris Karloff plays John Grey in the title role of The Body Snatcher. He has a hold over Daniell and Karloff is not real particular where and how he gets his corpses.Playing Daniell's servant in a supporting role and not getting as much screen time as Karloff and Daniell is Bela Lugosi. I'm not sure why he took a supporting part here, he certainly is not called on for his usual bag of ghoulish tricks. Still it's nice to see him with Karloff and Daniell in what is their picture.Val Lewton did a fabulous job in creating the mood and tone of the underside of 19th century Edinburgh. This one is a must for fans of the principal players. "},{"Title":"Grave Diggers of 1831","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" THE BODY SNATCHER (RKO Radio, 1945), directed by Robert Wise, is a high point in a series of moody thrillers produced by Val Lewton, whose cycle and original style of atmospheric horror began with CAT PEOPLE (1942). As time progressed, Lewton's movies improved in both story and production values, with THE BODY SNATCHER being the best of the lot. With Boris Karloff's name above the title, and Bela Lugosi's billed second below it, this was to be the last of their frequent teaming that originated with THE BLACK CAT (Universal, 1934). With these two legends of horror leading the cast of virtually unfamiliar performers, they are actually in supporting status to the third listed Henry Daniell. Daniell is actually actually the main focus while Karloff is at his most sinister and Lugosi having even less to do. Based on a short story by Robert Louis Stevenson, best known for his adventure stories such as Treasure Island or the horror of it all with Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, this particular film in period setting can understandably be mistaken as something based on an Edgar Allan Poe story, considering its title and theme.Set in Edinberg, Scotland, in 1831, the story involves Mrs. Marsh (Rita Corday) and her crippled daughter, Georgiana (Sharyn Moffett), arriving by carriage driven by John Gray, better known as Cabman (Boris Karloff) hence his profession. Mother and daughter come to see the renowned Doctor MacFarlane (Henry Daniell) hoping he would perform an difficult operation that could make Georgiana walk again. An anatomist who teaches at a school for young interns, what Mrs. Marsh doesn't know is that MacFarlane, who's experiencing a shortage of subjects for dissection purposes, uses Gray to rob graves by night to supply him with the bodies needed for his experiments. Also under MacFarlane's employ is Joseph (Bela Lugosi), who creeps about listening silently to what's going on, with the intentions of blackmailing for money; and Donald Fettes (Russell Wade), a young medical student who is soon elevated as MacFarlane's assistant in helping with the operation on the child. After discovering MacFarlane's method of acquiring bodies through Gray, Fettes wants out, but because he's already involved, he finds he cannot quit. When MacFarlane intends to dismiss Gray from his active grave robbing duties, especially after the murder of Joseph, whose body is placed in a laboratory vat, he soon finds that Gray has no intentions of being cast aside or having him escape his morbid past known both by him and MacFarlane's companion, Meg (Edith Atwater).Supposedly based on an actual occurrence that took place in the 1820s, THE BODY SNATCHER makes great storytelling in the Val Lewton tradition highlighted by a moody underscoring by Roy Webb. A dark and eerie tale closely resembling the popular 1940s film noir genre, or an episode from Karloff's own anthology 1960s TV series Thriller, THE BODY SNATCHER contains many haunting ingredients traditionally found in horror films, even more on an intelligent level, ranging from the fear and mystery of the dark, the hissing and frightful site of a cat as it witnesses a brutal murder, and best of all, elements of surprise. One tense scene finds a charming street singer (Donna Lee) with an angelic sounding voice singing to such tunes as Bonnie Dundee, slowly walking into the night with her singing coming to an abrupt halt in mid song. Although THE BODY SNATCHER may come as a slight disappointment for those expecting equal status performances by Karloff and Lugosi, with Lugosi assuming the role as the doctor instead of Henry Daniell, it does provide Daniell a rare opportunity in assuming the entire film, dominating whenever or wherever possible. Fierce sounding with firm face, Daniell gives the performance of his career. Granted, THE BODY SNATCHER might have marked a whole new beginning for Daniell in leading parts, but it never happened. As for Karloff's character, he a soft spoken man who shows kindness towards children and and animals, self-confident, but actually a menace as well as a brutal brutal fighter who shows no remorse in his actions when it comes to killing his victims. He equally appears to enjoy his night work placing a corpse in a sack to make his delivery and awaiting for his payment. This is Karloff in one of his most rewarding roles of his career. Lewton would recall him again in two additional thrillers while Lugosi would make this his one and only venture under Lewton. Aside from these three major actors, others in the plot consist of Donald Fettes, a kindly medical student surrounded in an atmosphere of evil, romantically linked with Mrs. Marsh, and Georgiana, wonderfully enacted by Sharyn Moffett, giving a sincere performance as the crippled child awaiting for her white knight. While children sometimes unbalance th continuity of a horror film such as this, Moffett is an exception to the rule. Formerly distributed on video cassette and on American Movie Classics, THE BODY SNATCHER is presently shown on Turner Classic Movies, especially during the Halloween season. It can also be acquired on DVD as part of the Val Lewton package along with seven of his other atmospheric thrillers. Great viewing for horror fans especially during the after midnight hours.(***) "},{"Title":"Masterpiece of Gothic horror","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Between the years of 1827 and 1828, a strange series of murders took place in Edinburgh, Scotland, terrifying the population during the almost eleven months between the first attack and the capture of the criminals. At the moment of their capture, 17 persons had been killed by William Burke and William Hare in order to be sold as corpses to the Edinburgh Medical College for dissection, with the prestigious doctor Robert Knox as the main customer. This revelation shocked the nation and made the case (now named The West Port murders) part of popular culture, and even sing-song rhymes were written about the case. Years later, famous writer Robert Louis Stevenson would become fascinated by the case, and in 1884 wrote the short story The Body Snatcher inspired by it. This short story would be the inspiration for a movie in 1945, a classic of horror starring the legendary Boris Karloff.Set in Edinburgh in 1831, The Body Snatcher is the story of Donald Fettes (Russell Wade), a young student of medicine who is not doing well financially and will be forced to leave school. To his surprise, he is accepted as an assistant to his teacher of anatomy, the famous Dr. MacFarlane (Henry Daniell), who considers Fettes a promising student and is willing to aid him to remain in school. However, not everything is sweet for Fettes, as his new job will show him the dark side of his profession when he discovers that Dr. MacFarlane must pay John Gray (Boris Karloff), a cab-man, to bring him exhumed bodies from the cemeteries for his classes. But this will only be the beginning, as after meeting the sinister cab-man Fettes will discover that Gray is more than a mere body snatcher, as he knows a horrible secret about Dr. MacFarlane that gives him power over the reputed physician.Written by producer Val Lewton (under his usual pen name Carlos Keith) and popular crime writer Philip MacDonald, The Body Snatcher is a powerful psychological drama in that subtle style that Lewton mastered during his days as head of the horror unit at RKO studios. Using Stevenson's story as a template, the writers crafted a plot that explores some of the darkest aspects of the human soul in a way that mixes the story's Gothic origins with the films noir of the time. The screenplay excels in the development of the characters, as one can't help but feel for them as we follow their descent into the dark side. It also creates one of the most extraordinary and complex characters of horror in the figure of John Gray. Finally, it's worth to point out the outstanding quality of the dialogs, which is another of the elements that add a lot of class to the film.The Body Snatcher was Robert Wise's second solo effort as a director after making Mademoiselle Fifi for Val Lewton a year before. Like in that previous work, Wise once again proves his skills to create a visually outstanding period piece under Lewton's low budgets, as he manages to create a very dark 1830s setting with great detail. As some critics have pointed out, The Body Snatcher is an effective throwback to the classic horrors of the 30s done by Universal, as Wise brings back the Gothic atmosphere of those movies and adds the subtle ambiguity of the RKO style imposed by Lewton, creating something that could be described as a gothic film noir. As he would do years later in The Haunting, Wise uses what he learned from Lewton and takes it beyond, creating stylish and horrific scenes based almost entirely on suggestion and mood than in unabashed shock.While probably he'll always be known as the Creature in James Whale's 1931 classic Frankenstein, British actor Boris Karloff wasn't exactly a one-note performer, and this movie is a clear testament of that. As John Gray, Karloff delivers what simply is the best performance of his career, transforming himself in this sinister man that can go from a sympathetic nice cab-man to the cruel and rude body snatcher that tortures Dr. MacFarlane's mind. However, Karloff is not the only one who makes a great job, as Henry Daniell is another of the highlights of the film in his performance as Dr. MacFarlane. RKO's regular Russell Wade completes the cast as young Fettes, and is very natural and believable in his role as the naive student. Edith Atwater and horror icon Bela Lugosi appear in minor roles, but both manage to steal their scenes with great talent.During his short run at RKO studios, Lewton showed a great hand at picking the crew for his movies, and this movie wasn't the exception. Not only Robert Wise makes a wonderful job at directing the film, but also cinematographer Robert De Grasse adds his talent to the creation of many of the haunting scenes of the film. Wise learned a lot from working with Orson Welles, and together with De Grasse he employs Welles' techniques to the horror genre with excellent results. While personally I consider this movie among the best horror films ever made, it's worth to point out that modern viewers may feel the movie's pace a bit too slow, as this is not a movie that uses direct shock to be scary; this is a movie that moves around the creepiness of its ominous atmosphere and specially, the unsettling nature of its characters' psychology.Morally ambiguous and of excellent craftsmanship, The Body Snatcher is probably among the best horror films ever made. Those who think that horror is nothing more than cheap entertainment will find that this film elevates the genre to the level or an art-form, and that there is more in Boris Karloff than Frankenstein's monster. Along with Cat People and I Walked with a Zombie, The Body Snatcher is another proof that while short, Lewton's run at RKO was enormously influential for the horror genre. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Health vs. Death","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Beautiful Val Lewton production (Cat People,I Walk With Zombie).Last film of tandem Bela Lugosi - Boris Karloff(they play two unruly servants). You cant miss this one if you like classic horror movies!The telling about dark side of Medicine.On the one cup of the balance we had the little child who needs help (Future,who needs to care).On the other side of cup there are stolen corpses (some of them from the grave,others from their life!) - material for improvement of the surgical mastery.Child will walked but ghost of the dead man don't give the peace for Doctor!Good soundtrack for black and white dark atmosphere! "},{"Title":"Karloff and Wise make a great film.","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm very biased here so I might as well be honest about it Boris Karloff was an actor I had great respect for and I continue to hold him in high esteem. Although he could be in bad movies, he was generally reliable for an entertaining performance. Making my way through the Val Lewton collection that has been put out on DVD, I saved the three films featuring Karloff for the end. 'Bedlam,' 'Isle of the Dead,' and 'The Body Snatcher' are all wonderful, but it is the performance of Karloff as the seedy cabman which is probably the strongest. If I may be so bold, it may even be the most entertaining performance of his career.Karloff is having a lot of fun in 'The Body Snatcher' and shamelessly chews up every scene he's in. He has a great scene with a very sick looking Bela Lugosi and it is one of the most memorable moments in a great film. His exchanges with Henry Daniell are terrific. These are scenes that exude menace and malevolence, impishness, inferiority, contempt, -- and they all come from the mocking grin of Karloff. I even find his voice work memorable at the end of the film when he is chanting a crescendo of never neveR neVER NEVER NEVER GET AWAY WITH IT! For me Boris Karloff could do nothing wrong with his performance in 'The Body Snatchers.' He elevated Henry Daniell, Bela Lugosi and everyone else involved.Robert Wise's direction is really just fantastic. He has great set pieces (how can you not be moved by the fate of the little dog in the graveyard?). He establishes tremendous tension (the girl who sings in the street at night anyone?). Most importantly? He has great payoffs with the two scenes I've mentioned above but especially the final scene about the carriage ride home. We're such a cynical and jaded audience now (ok, just me! ha!) that, yes, you will probably know what to expect in the final scene. The lead up to it though is extremely well done. Are there supernatural forces at work or just a guilty conscience? Val Lewton, Boris Karloff and Robert Wise leave it up for you to decide. Highly recommended for great performances, story and film-making. "},{"Title":"Karloff, Lugosi and Daniell Are At There Best!","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"            Skillfully produced and directed, this horror melodrama should more than satisfy those who like their screen entertainment weird and spine-chilling. Boris Karloff, as the blackmailing grave robber, gives one of the best performances of this career, while Henry Daniell is not far behind him, their ghoulish, maniacal doings keep one on the edge of his seat.  This is Karloff's first film with RKO Val Lewton unit, he and Bela Lugosi were given top billing for box-office purposes. But Henry Daniell was really the star of the film, with Karloff in the major supporting role.  Ironically, Lugosi's role was a minor(but effective) one and his last association with Karloff.  A must see film every year and especially around October 31st! "},{"Title":"Karloff and Lugosi back again","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This 1945 pairing of Karloff and Lugosi in the adaptation of the short story by Robert Lewis Stevenson is on an equal par with their earlier roles together in The Black Cat,The Raven and The Invisible RayKarloff is the horse drawn cab driver (based in Edinburgh) who has a extra curricular activity supplying the respected Dr. Macfarlane (who has to put up with Karloff's lewd sexual innuendo and coarse remarks) with very fresh corpses for his experiments , but of course he cannot see that he is the instigator in this bizarre relationship and without his need for corpses Gray (Karloff) would not be in the picture. However when he tries to stop he finds that you dont get rid of ole' Gray that quickly.Bela's role is quite small considering that they shared equal dramatic tension only 10 years previously, and if this had been the case Karloff may have taken the role as the good doctor and Lugosi as the evil blackmailer.This though is a fine film, the photography and direction is fantastic and shows how a film should be made.  "},{"Title":"A Classic of the Horror Genre","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is very high on a list of personal favorites of mine.  I must confess to being a fan of both Val Lewton and Boris Karloff.  The low-key suspense of Lewton is just fantastic.  Karloff demonstrates his true acting ability and screen presence in this film.  Seeing this film makes me only wish there were more like it.  Also, it is interesting to see just how far the career of Bela Lugosi had fallen by the mid-40s with his small part in this film.  What really makes this movie, though, is the performance of Karloff as the cab driver who is both nice to the handicapped girl and a sinister bother to the doctor.  I would strongly recommend this to any horror fan. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Boris Karloff is nothing short of excellent as a character with a stroke of evil to his personality in this film. Wise gives the film a great atmosphere too, with interesting camera angles, but what really makes this a superb film is the things that it has to say. It is sort of a satire on doing what has to be done, with questions of morality at hand, as well as separate ideas of trying to escape one's past. A horror treatment seems almost wrong for the material, as it has such a strong dramatic core. It is not a perfect film, with clichéd music use, a drawn out ending, and characters that are no better than ordinary, particularly the one that Bela Lugosi has. It seems as if he were written in just to have his name among the film's credits. Still, the film is far superior to most horror flicks around, and with devilish Boris Karloff at his best, it is almost worth watching just for that. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric chiller with an at-his-best Karloff","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Regarded by many as being the best of the Val Lewton classics, this top-notch tale not only has the producer's renowned atmospherics, but also features a winning performance from Boris Karloff in one of his very best roles as the graverobber, Gray. Everything is spot on in this classic, from the pacing to the setting, which really evokes the feeling of a nineteenth century Edinburgh. A good cast help considerably to raise the level of authenticity, leaving us with solid characters whom we care about.The classic images of Karloff digging up corpses are hard to omit from the mind after watching this film - they're that memorable. However his performance is so good because he makes Gray not a cold-hearted beast, but rather a friendly, likable sort, a personality totally at odds with his chosen profession. Indeed the first time we see Karloff he is gently helping a young child stroke a horse. Karloff is always full of jokes, and seems genuinely hurt when people are angered by him. Yet minutes later he quite happily suffocates a helpless victim with the flat of his hand without any feeling of remorse.The banter between enemies MacFarlane and Gray is priceless. Another excellent moment comes when Karloff and Lugosi finally meet up again in a film together, Lugosi sadly looking drawn and old here. Although the addicted actor was nearly seventy when this film was made, he still manages to deliver a good performance (despite the odds) as a dim-witted servant who mistakenly believes he can blackmail Karloff. Of course, Karloff seemingly agrees, and politely plies him with drinks. The dialogue in this scene is a work of sheer brilliance and had me reaching for the rewind button. Another great moment comes at the film's climax, which I won't spoil. I can't emphasise how spooky and memorable these scenes are without you watching the film yourself.The only odd note comes with a rather sickly tale of a girl who can't walk due to a tumour on her spine - this leads to a terribly sugary feel-good ending which thankfully doesn't mar what has come before. Karloff ruthlessly bashing a dog to death with a shovel, dark deeds in the graveyard, and a wonderful script make this one of the all-time best. "},{"Title":"Karloff really eats up the scenery.","Date":"4 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- The Body Snatcher, 1945. In 19th century Edinburgh Scotland, a reputable medical doctor and his prize pupil need cadavers for their student's medical studies and a local poor horse-drawn cab driver is willing to provide all of them for money by murder. The cab driver plagues them in their illegal scheme.*Special Stars- Boris Karloff, Henry Daniel, Russell Wade, Edith Atwater, Bela Lugosi. Dir- Robert Wise.*Theme- Guilty conscious can have a huge affect on the guilty.*Trivia/location/goofs- American, RKO studios. The 'exterior' scenes were filmed on sets constructed for RKO's The Hunchback of Notre Dame (1939) in their 'ranch' (Now subdivided into homes) near the Sepulveda Recreation Basin Park. Although based on a fictional short story by Robert Louis Stevenson, the author came up with the idea from actual events occurring in 19th century England and Scotland, particularly those of grave robbers Burke and Hare. This film featured the 8th and last on-screen teaming of Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi. Filming took place October 25-November 17 1944, delaying the completion of Karloff's Isle of the Dead (1945). The film incorporates the story of Greyfriars Bobby (called Robby in the movie) but makes a muddle of the facts. In reality, Bobby was a Skye terrier that refused to leave the graveside of his master, an elderly, indigent shepherd, in the graveyard at Greyfriars Church in Edinburgh. Bobby stayed faithfully at his post for years and became a tremendous sentimental favorite of the city folk, before dying of old age. Today a statue near the church commemorates this dog's memory. A year after the events in the movie, the Anatomy Act of 1832 made it legal for the bodies of those dying friendless in poorhouses and hospitals to be given to local medical facilities for study and dissection. Goofs-At the very beginning, they show a castle during the credits, then In Edinburgh In 1831- then show a closer up of the same castle and a horse and carriage, and you can clearly see two or three automobiles parked next to the castle. *Emotion- An extremely well cast, performed and rich film production with a moral theme. Karloff really eats up the scenery in many scenes with Daniel and Lugosi. The fear driven plot has many colorful characters and fun dialog. The film's good ending is something to see with the imagined switch of the corpses being carried in the doctor's coach.*Based On- Robert Louis Stevenson short story. "},{"Title":"A More Complex Horror Movie Than Expected","Date":"22 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A mid-series movie from that master of horror, Val Lewton. It's not quite front-rank, like The Seventh Victim (1943) or The Cat People (1942), but it's close. The horror, of course, is subdued, allowing the imagination to fill in the blanks, both of which amount to Lewton's brilliant trademark. Perhaps the most unsettling instance here is the lovely little street singer as she lullabies pitch-perfect down a darkened byway, only to be cut short by the maddened cabman (Karloff) who follows her. Now her heavenly aire is lost forever, even as her corporeal body is delivered to medical school for vivisection. In fact, the movie raises a knotty ethical question amidst the ghoulish goings-on. Namely, what in fact are the ethical limits on the advancement of medical science. Dr. MacFarlane (Daniell) needs cadavers to teach his classes and especially to heal the paralyzed little girl (Moffett). So he relies on grave-robber Gray (Karloff) to supply him with the freshly dead. Of course, it's clearly wrong to kill someone for cadaver purposes, as Gray does to the street singer. But is it clearly wrong to rob graves so that the living may benefit. It's an interesting question to raise, as the movie does, and one that thankfully medical science no longer must struggle with.Karloff delivers an outstanding turn as the wickedly jolly grave robber John Gray. Excellent also are Daniell and Lugosi in unusually restrained roles. In fact, Daniell's doctor amounts to an interesting character, a man who can neither accept nor reject his other half&#x97;his cadaver supplier, Gray. At the same time, the movie's ostensible hero Fettes (Wade), the young handsome medical student, can neither wholly accept nor reject the methods of his mentor MacFarlane. Thus the narrative's character development is much more complex than expected for a 70-minute, horror movie. But then that too was part of the brilliance of cult producer Val Lewton.I can't help noting that the lighting bill for this exceptionally shadowy movie could not have exceeded five bucks. There's not a ray of sunshine or high-key lighting anywhere in the narrative. But then the whole thing is being shot on an RKO sound stage for minimal bucks. Amazing, however, what can be achieved in the face of such constraints. No doubt about it, the world of Val Lewton is like that of no other moviemaker, then or now. "},{"Title":"never get rid of me","Date":"15 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" What a classic this is and what a great performance by Boris Karloff as Gray the grave robber or the body snatcher. Also what a great directing by Robert Wise also known for West Side Story (1961). excellent editing and perfect way of lighting and camera angles.Don't think to see blood or whatsoever, this is made in the forties remember. Bela Lugosi is also to see in a very small part as Joseph but it is really Boris that carries this horror story. It all starts when a woman needs help for her disabled girl. She goes to Dr. Wolfe 'Toddy' MacFarlane (Henry Daniell) for help. The doctor himself got help from a student, Donald Fettes (Russell Wade). Both need bodies to help study them how to solve the girls problem. Therefore they got help from Gray (Boris Karloff). But Gray and the doctor have a backstory. They find themselves continually harassed by their murderous supplier of illegal cadavers. From there the movie turns into a horror with a creepy final.It still works nowadays, and you just keep watching due Gray. Even as it is low on everything the final also delivers the horror in this well known short story by Robert Louis Stevenson. There's a small message in this story. A must have in all horror collections.Gore 0/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 0/5 Story 4/5 Comedy 0/5 "}{"Title":"Superbly atmospheric, well written and directed","Date":"19 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As has been said in previous reviews Karloff and Daniell are excellent in the central roles and the atmosphere generated on the low budget provides a perfect backdrop to a story of moral corruption. I think some other reviewers have missed the point of the subplot of the little girl, which is to provide the ambiguity of the death (or should that be sacrifice) of the street singer against this being the only way the little girl can have her progressive condition cured. Unfortunately the sequences with the girl and her mother do suffer as the performance of Russell Wade as Fettes is rather sentimental and anaemic, although this does have its advantages in portraying the character's moral weakness in falling in with McFarlane despite his reservations. The film works in that although Karloff's character (Gray)is undeniably evil, the other characters are all morally ambiguous and it would have been interesting to see whether Fettes would have carried on McFarlane's work as McFarlane carried on Knox's work before him. Definitely recommended. "},{"Title":"Unsettling Chiller Of Graverobbing And Retribution With Classic Karloff Performance","Date":"25 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Donald Fettes is a medical student in Edinburgh in 1831, who meets the sinister John Gray and realises that the cadavers supplied to the medical school are being stolen from fresh graves. What should he do, and what powerful influence does Gray have over the eminent Dr MacFarlane ...This beautifully creepy little morality tale, loosely based on an 1884 short story by the great Robert Louis Stevenson, is one of the best of RKO's forties horror classics, and one of Karloff's most assured and memorable performances. He is hypnotising as the seedy, ingratiating, cruel and malevolent cabman, the worst acquaintance you could possibly make, but plays it with such a light touch, smiling and mannered, that the contradiction is almost unbearable. Daniell is also terrific, in a rare role which allows him to move past his standard stock villain part, but still retains his trademark icy stare and hard-as-nails character. The scene in the bar where they debate the mechanics of anatomy versus the indefinable qualities of humanity is one of the best in the movie, and nicely sums up the theme of the advancement of science versus the sanctity and dignity of life. For extra points we also get the inimitable Mr Blasko (in the last of eight films he appeared in with Karloff) in an unusual part, and a scary fight scene between these two legends of cinema. Look out too for the always lovable Gordon (Mrs Hudson in the old Sherlock Holmes flicks) as the bereaved mother in the Greyfriars cemetery scenes. This was Wise's third film in a long and successful career, and his direction is excellent; he paints the tragedy with simple strokes and stages many great horrible moments, such as when Karloff brings Lugosi's body back to the laboratory and the camera closes in on the curtain, leaving our fevered imaginations to guess at his macabre movements. Whilst it may seem difficult now to imagine Georgian moral or religious attitudes to autopsy, it remains a fascinating theme in the modern era of cloning and stem-cell research. Whilst this is a fictional story, it makes several allusions to the infamous Burke and Hare murders - for more on them, there are several good movies, notably The Flesh And The Fiends, The Doctor And The Devils and the recent John Landis biopic. A great little chiller, and a must for Karloff and black-and-white horror fans. "},{"Title":"Val Lewton Gives You the Creeps","Date":"31 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In 1831 Edinburgh, idealistic medical student Russell Wade (as Donald Fettes) considers quitting due to lack of funds and disillusionment with the profession's deadly reality. However, he is persuaded to stay on as assistant to doctor Henry Daniell (as Wolfe Toddy MacFarlane), who has given up his practice for teaching. For important research and dissection purposes, Mr. Daniell needs fresh cadavers. Providing the dead bodies is The Body Snatcher Boris Karloff (as John Gray), a poor cab driver moonlighting as a grave robber. When Mr. Wade and Mr. Daniell become interested in the case of an irresistibly cute paraplegic girl, Mr. Karloff is put to work overtime...With great help director Robert Wise, photographer Robert De Grasse and the RKO team, producer Val Lewton's The Body Snatcher has one of his smoothest and most satisfying psychological, horror-tinged thrillers. Many of these films were promoted (and still are) as all-out horror movies, but they are mostly atmosphere. The stories were sometimes cobbled together and the budget less than monstrous, but it could all coalesce on occasion. This is one example. Karloff and Daniell are at their best; every scene between the two physically unique actors sizzles. Handyman Bela Lugosi is thrown in for good measure - he and Karloff have a classic termination scene.********* The Body Snatcher (5/25/45) Val Lewton  Robert Wise ~ Henry Daniell, Boris Karloff, Russell Wade, Bela Lugosi "},{"Title":"My favorite Karloff picture","Date":"11 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is Karloff at his very finest. He was masterful as the monster in the Frankenstein roles, but really didn't impress me in much else, until I saw this movie. He was the most evil, dastardly, conniving and disgustingly depraved villain as ever seen in pictures up until this movie was made. I'm sure the character, and Karloff's performance, both, shocked audiences. It was a dramatic role in a somewhat horror, more of a thriller, type movie. His screen presence is so profound in this movie, that you just can't take your eyes off of him. He literally steals the show. Frankly, I never knew he had it in him to do this kind of work. This was a superb performance by Karloff. Worthy of a best supporting actor nod. Of course, all of this is rudimentary - Robert Wise directed it, and many other Oscar-worthy notables. "},{"Title":"Body Snatcher still has a warm body","Date":"24 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is a surprisingly good movie. Having recently watched the Mummy (1932), I stumbled upon this forgotten gem as part of a DVD double feature to see Boris Karloff in a lesser known role. I had assumed I would be bored with a period piece film that I had never heard, and that this would be a plodding vehicle banking on Karloff's name recognition.. I could not have been more pleasantly surprised. Body Snatchers is very entertaining. I had second thoughts initially, but the pace picked up and moved briskly to a very rewarding climax. The cinematography was well done, especially in lighting Karloff's face. The use of lightning is especially effective for the payoff shots. A dark period piece set in early 1831 Scotland, Karloff plays a cab driver who supplies a medical school with cadavers. The doctor of the school is involved in the uneasy relationship with Karloff, and is blackmailed as Karloff's John Gray eschews digging for fresh corpses.Boris Karloff is the reason I took a chance with this film, and he turns in a great performance. Karloff is surprisingly adept at being able to convey some depth here. He is very kind to a young crippled girl, and seems to be able to genuinely care as he helps her interact with his horse. Karloff was able to imbue his Frankenstein with a similar humanity that was much missed when other actors took the role. Karloff was more humanized with Frankenstein, particularly in such scenes as with he blind girl and the flowers. His characterization doesn't go for that depth here, but his cab man John Gray is much more than a single dimensional embodiment of evil. I am particularly impressed by Karloff here, as Karloff's John Gray exudes a certain uneasy charisma. His manipulative leer is the embodiment of evil that lurks in mans heart. Smiling and leering through many of his lines is enjoyable to see unfold. Gray is a snake, showing both great charm and a genteel veneer, coupled with the ability to menace and bully his Dr. McFarlane. He toys with McFarlane, and is able to coerce the doctor throughout. It's especially enjoyable as he harasses McFarlane with the too familiar 'Toddy'. The doctor is being black mailed, and Karloff knows a dark secret he holds over his head, and being on a first name basis is a little much for the doctor. Karloff is known to go a bit far and often careens into a hammy self parody, but here his voice and leering evil eyes are a guilty pleasure.Body Snatcher was produced by Val Lewton who was brought to work for RKO studio in the Forties to make horror movies that would compete with Universal. He never was able to produce an iconic franchise monster, but nonetheless he was able to produce what were generally artful productions, and is hailed as one of the leading names in horror movies. With Cat People (1942), audiences were deliberately left with the uncertainty of what was happening in the minds of the characters, or was part of the reality of the film. This ambiguity was used to great effect by Darren Aronofsky in Black Swan (2010). Lewton utilized a variation of this approach in other notables efforts such as I Walked with a Zombie (1943), The Leopard Man (1943), Isle of the Dead, (1945), and Bedlam (1946). Bedlam would be Lewton's last horror film for RKO. Body Snatcher and Bedlam would be less concerned with the supernatural and more oriented in dark period piece settings. Lawton's films tend to be able to suggest terror and rely on the implied rather than the implicit. Lewton was able to progress the genre, and his style fit perfectly with RKO's financial woes and subsequent budget limitations. Here he brought Robert Lewis Stevenson's short story to the screen by providing the screenplay and employing Robert Wise.Body Snatcher is the first movie directed by Wise. Wise worked with Orson Welles as an editor on Citizen Kane and The Magnificent Ambersons before co directing Lewton's The Curse of the Cat People (1944). Wise can be called one of cinemas great directors without such a loft remark being construed as hubris. Wise directed landmark films West Side Story, and The Sound of Music. He went on to direct The Day the Earth Stood Still, and Star Trek The Motion Picture. Each of these films are considered to be landmarks, and are indicative of a master at the height of his craft. It is mind boggling to consider the unrelated styles and genres from these successes, with only a high level of acumen from Wise as the common denominator. It would be hard to imagine that another director worked so successfully in such a varied number of genres.This was a very enjoyable film. It is well acted, well directed and well produced. What more can you ask for? I fully expected this to a be a slow paced dated affair. It wasn't. Much impressed with this movie, I am looking forward to watching Val Lewton's other film here I walked with a Zombie (1943). While there are several compilations available highlighting his films, after watching Body Snatcher I will be purchasing the other bargain bin double feature which includes Isle of the Dead (1945) and Bedlam (1946), both of which pair him with Boris Karloff.Bottom Line I would give this a 78. This film is more appropriate for those with a little more attention span, although the pacing is brisk. It starts a little slow, but builds itself well, and has a very good climax. For those relying on special effects, and explicit graphics should have already be warned off by the release date, and the black and white film. Karloff is in fine form, and it is a special treat for those looking for more than his high profile roles from this icon of the Horror genre. "},{"Title":"Aye, there's often grave danger in Scotland's capital city.","Date":"16 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Robert Wise has directed many great movies, a few of them numbering among my personal favourites (The Day The Earth Stood Still remains my absolute number one sci-fi movie of all time), and The Body Snatcher is another one of the highlights of a long career full of quality pics.It's adapted from the Robert Louis Stevenson tale about nefarious deeds done in Edinburgh, all in the name of medical advancement (you understand, of course) and stars Boris Karloff as the shady figure that the title largely refers to. Bela Lugosi also has a small, but enjoyable, role and the leading figures who needs bodies for their studies but don't necessarily like finding out the details of where they come from are Henry Daniell and Russell Wade.Rather unspectacular in it's depiction of events (and the less said about it's visualisation of good old Edinboro the better), The Body Snatcher is a melodrama elevated way above average by it's wonderfully macabre moments that come wrapped around a rather soft centre and by a slimy, flesh-freezing turn from Karloff as John Gray.The script, by Philip MacDonald and Val Lewton, really only shines when we get the snappy exchanges between a stressed out Doctor MacFarlane (Danniell) and Karloff's laid-back cabman but everyone gets a chance to shine momentarily, including Edith Atwater and Rita Corday in lesser but no less vital roles.Loved by many horror fans, it's easy to see why - this has the shadowplay of the era, the dark and stormy nights and the time given to characters who may be bad people but who are also immensely entertaining to watch (whether it's while waiting to see them get their just desserts or just enjoying how dastardly they have the nerve to be).It's below The Haunting, that's for sure, but this movie remains a fun and slightly chilling horror with a particularly memorable role for one of horror's most iconic actors. "},{"Title":"Karloff shines in this gem from Val Lewton","Date":"4 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Body Snatcher is one of the most fondly remembered of Val Lewton's low-budget horror films from the early to mid forties. The legendary Boris Karloff stars as grave robber John Gray, supplier of fresh cadavers to the eminent doctor MacFarlane, played by Henry Daniell.Karloff gives a wonderful performance here. His character's gregarious manner is tinged with subtle menace and his condescension to the doctor is answered admirably by Daniell. Daniell, for his part, also gives a fine performance despite being billed below Bela Lugosi, whose role is pretty small in comparison (and not particularly notable). The rest of the cast is mostly undistinguished.The screenplay sticks fairly close to the Robert Louis Stevenson short story from which it is derived while fleshing it out to feature film length. I'd even say that the screenwriters improved upon the story in at least one respect by introducing a psychological aspect into the proceedings.On the technical front, Robert Wise was handed the directorial duties and he did a good job. Meanwhile, the cinematography and score are adequate but not especially noteworthy.All in all, The Body Snatcher is a horror flick that's a cut above most of its peers. A pair of solid performances and a compelling, intelligent script make the film better than its B-movie origins would suggest. "},{"Title":"You'll never get rid of me, Toddy","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Here's a cheery tale for a cold winter's evening. The local medical institution is running out of legally-obtained cadavers, and, well, those budding student doctors need something to dissect. Cue Mr Gray (Boris Karloff), a creepy and grotesque cab-man who moonlights as a graverobber. But when guards are posted at all the local cemeteries, the bodies nevertheless keep coming &#x96; but from where? Though the original theatrical trailer misleadingly markets this as a joint Karloff-Lugosi vehicle, 'The Body Snatcher (1945)' belongs only to Boris Karloff. The English-born actor was Hollywood's most bankable personality in the 1930s (to such an extent that he was billed simply as KARLOFF), and, even though this was made after his career peak, he is nevertheless in top form, the personification of a repulsive, monstrous evil.'The Body Snatcher' was produced under the eye of Val Lewton, the legendary head of RKO's low-budget horror unit. 'Cat People (1942)' and 'The Seventh Victim (1943)' had previously displayed Lewton's aptitude for capturing that ominous horror mood without resorting to gore or cheap scare tactics director Robert Wise had himself helmed the sequel 'The Curse of the Cat People (1944)'. As with all Lewton-produced pictures, the atmosphere is dense and insatiable. The streets of Edinburgh are dark, dingy and menacing. The main characters harbour painful memories that will leave them only in death. Dr McFarlane (Henry Daniell) is well-meaning but emotionally barren, boasting the sort of intellectual arrogance that leads one to eschew all morals in the pursuit of scientific progress. Even the young, idealistic Donald Fettes (Russell Wade) doesn't escape unscathed, a reluctant but unresisting accomplice to McFarlane's moral crimes.Robbing graves of their dead bodies is unsettling enough, but the film's finest scene arrives with the first murder. Mr Gray's carriage rumbles off into the darkness behind an pretty young street singer. Wise holds the shot for an unnaturally long time, signalling to the audience that something is untoward, before the smack of a shovel cuts short the street singer's angelic voice. The scene's frankness is so devilishly macabre that it's almost amusing. Believe it or not, the story has its basis in fact author Robert Louis Stevenson (best known for the story Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde) was inspired by two Irish labourers called Burke and Hare, who in the nineteenth-century murdered 17 people so they could sell their bodies to noted anatomist Robert Knox. Indeed, the three true-life men are actually referenced in the film, and we learn that Dr McFarlane and Mr Gray once worked under Knox during his scandalous dealings. "},{"Title":"Karloff and Lugosi for the Final Time","Date":"25 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In Edinburgh in 1831, one year before the Anatomy Act was passed that expanded the legal supply of cadavers for medical research and education in reaction to public fear and revulsion of the illegal trade in corpses, a surgeon hires a cabman named John Gray (Boris Karloff) to dig up graves to provide him with fresh corpses for dissection -- but the body provider turns to murder to get new corpses for the doctor.The frequent mentions of William Burke, William Hare, and Dr. Robert Knox, all refer to the West Port murders in 1828, a well-known series of kills where, like in this film, the doctor turned to questionable sources to get cadavers. A child's ditty immortalizes the events Burke's the butcher, Hare's the thief, Knox the boy who buys the beef! This film features Bela Lugosi and Boris Karloff together, which is always a treat, though sadly their shared screen time is brief and this will be for the last time they come together. We are blessed to have the story come to us from Val Lewton, possibly the greatest horror creator of the era. His Cat People is a masterpiece, and this film is not ranked much lower, if at all.Aside from the acting and directing, what really makes this film interesting is the series of dichotomies it presents. We have a need for cadavers on one hand (if doctors are to learn necessary skills) but this is balanced with the nastiness of grave robbing. If people do not provide their bodies for examination at death, what choice is left ought we to rob the graves of freshly deceased, or ought we to allow doctors to practice blindly, possibly leading to more death? There's a backdrop discussion of social class, with the doctor's housekeeper who is secretly his wife (because he could not be known to marry below his caste). This puts the doctor in an interesting position, hiding his love from the world. We also see when he talks with Gray that he goes to Gray's lower level rather than bringing Gray up to his. The doctor is willing to submit to insult for his needs, but is not willing to decorate his seedy friends.We see both Gray's humanity (with regards to a crippled girl) and his obvious inhumanity that comes out in his murderous spree. But, yet, as already mentioned... if the body of one person can potentially save the lives of many others, perhaps this cruel hobby is in fact a humanitarian act? One less blind girl could lead to fully meaningful lives for others. I will not make the judgment.I owe a special debt to Peter Christensen for bringing some of these issues to my attention. While not considered a classic horror film on the level of many others, it remains a well-constructed piece of film, and an improvement on the story of Robert Louis Stevenson, something we do not often see. "},{"Title":"Boris Karloff's Richest and Fullest Leading Role!","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This a great movie, but it's also Boris Karloff's richest and fullest performance in a leading role. He plays Cabman John Grey in 1830s Edinburgh, who works nights as a graverobber (and later murderer) to supply cadavers to the anatomist Dr. Wolfe 'Toddy' MacFarlane (played by Henry Daniell in his greatest leading role) who runs a medical school.For those interested in the film career of Boris Karloff, this is a must see; it's his biggest and best role as an actor, and will clear your mind and put in perspective the klunky mad doctors, lumbering stiffs and horror parts that seem to cloud his resume. In his first scene, as we see Boris helping a handicapped girl out of his coach, he displays the love and charm that the real Karloff was well known for. (Of course, his portrayal of the Frankenstein monster was full of sympathy and pathos.) Then almost immediately, we begin to get a glimpse of his evil side, the richly complex character who goes on to form the core of the film in his moral and personal conflict with Dr. MacFarlane.The amazing 'natural born story teller' Val Lewton was the producer of the great RKO horror films of the 1940s, now all collected in the Val Lewton DVD boxed set. Although listed as producer, he wrote all their final shooting scripts either credited (as 'Carlos Keith') or uncredited and was the visionary behind their creation. Here we have his carefully crafted, well written and intelligent script that allows both Karloff and Daniell to showcase the full range of their abilities, separately and in several dynamite scenes together (what chemistry!). The film begins at what turns out to be the end of Grey's and MacFarlane's mysterious friendship, careers and lives. The backstory is not told chronologically, but is revealed gradually in bits and pieces over the course of the movie.This is an outstanding film and story telling device, because it requires the viewer (reader) to become actively engaged in following and putting together the historical puzzle, as well as heightening interest in watching each scene unfold. The film is actually based on the true story of the graverobbers Burke and Hare who supplied a Dr. Knox with fresh cadavers. When they couldn't be taken from graves, the pair started killing women, to keep their income flowing. All three are mentioned several times in the film, as we discover that Grey and MacFarlane were carousing friends in youth who were involved in grave robbing, having connections with Dr. Knox, and that the doctor's housekeeper is actually his wife, who was 'introduced' to him by Grey (who may have been her pimp).Henry Daniell, famous for a life time of playing suave villains, has the lead as the 'noir' hero -- a highly principled physician / teacher who must compromise and self-justify his values to obtain cadavers to advance medical research. Part of the film has him perform an operation that saves a young child's life, after having first practiced on a freshly murdered corpse obtained by his assistant and Grey. His scenes with Grey are all fantastic, and he does an excellent job in his biggest, and probably only, leading role.What a great film. Budgeted as a 'B' picture, it's totally A quality! Directed by Oscar winner Robert Wise (who went on to his own strong career) who had already been nominated for Best Editing for his work on 'Citizen Kane' (1941). We get fantastic atmospheric and well composed photography -- we even get the 'inside the fireplace looking out' shot first used by Gregg Toland / Orson Welles; tight pacing; slow fades; and how can you forget the masterful scene where Grey kills the blind street singer (you check it out). This is top of the line film making. I'll give it an 8.Side notes Burke and Hare's story is told in the film 'The Flesh and the Fiends' (1960) which is also making the rounds as 'The Fiendish Ghouls' and 'Mania.' It stars Peter Cushing as Dr. Knox, and features Donald Pleasance. It's probably not in the same league as this fine RKO feature.Boris scores again for Val Lewton in 'Isle of the Dead' (1945) and 'Bedlam' (1946). Also noteworthy in his 40s work is 'Black Friday' (1940).For contrast, catch Henry Daniell's wonderful villainy on display in three Basil / Nigel films 'Sherlock Holmes and the Voice of Terror' (1942), 'Sherlock Holmes in Washington' (1943) and as Moriarity in 'The Woman in Green' (1945). He also appears in five episodes of TV's 'Thriller' (1960-1961).Robert Wise also directed 'The Day The Earth Stood Still' (1951), got great performances out of Robert Ryan and Harry Belafonte in 'Odds Against Tomorrow' (1959) and did 'Star Trek The Motion Picture' (1979), in addition to his multiple Oscar winning musicals. His star on the Walk of Fame is at 6338 Hollywood Boulevard.Bela Lugosi's minor role is best sadly ignored. His major works are what he should be remembered for (as Dracula and Ygor). In addition there are 'White Zombie' (1932) -- ooh! those eyes and hands! -- the serial 'The Return of Chandu' (1934) (in which he is the hero and kisses the girl at the end), 'The Black Cat' (the 1934 version only), 'The Invisible Ghost' (1941), 'The Corpse Vanishes' (1941), 'Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein' (1948) and Ed Wood's masterpiece, 'Glen or Glenda' (1953). "}{"Title":"Val Lewton and Robert Wise's The Body Snatcher provides one great final glimpse at horror icons Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi on screen","Date":"16 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After just watching one of their earliest team-ups in 1935's The Raven, I went to YouTube and saw once again Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi's last time together on screen in Val Lewton's adaptation of Robert Louis Stevenson's The Body Snatcher. Karloff is Cabman John Gray who makes money by taking corpses from graves in order to provide subjects for a medical class taught by a Dr. Wolfe Toddy MacFarlane (Henry Daniell). A Donald Fettes (Russell Wade) has been appointed his assistant. It's Fettes who persuades Toddy (as Gray-an old acquaintance-likes to call MacFarlane) to help give surgery to cure a Georgina Marsh (Sharyn Moffett)-a young girl-as a favor to her mother (Rita Corday). Guess who provides another subject?...Directed by Robert Wise who provides Lewton with yet another suitably atmospheric horror film that actually is quite scary in a scream-your-lungs kind of way when we get to the ending. In contrast to his professional role in The Raven, Lugosi is just a servant named Joseph under MacFarlane who is always a bit startled by him. When the two iconic horror men finally share the screen, the tables have been turned in more ways than one compared to their fates in The Raven. After this and one last turn as Dracula in Abbott & Costello Meet Frankenstein, Lugosi would suffer a career decline he would never recover from. So this is truly one last iconic moment between Karloff and Lugosi. One more player who deserves mention is singer Donna Lee who warbles beautifully before her fate is revealed. Just about everything is well done here, so on that note, I highly recommend The Body Snatcher. P.S. Ms. Atwater is another performer who I just found out here was a native of my birthtown of Chicago, Ill. "},{"Title":"There's no standing between a fool and his folly.","Date":"11 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I had seen this picture a number of years ago on a poor bootleg print and I don't recall it being anything special. Today I caught it on Turner Classics along with Isle of the Dead, and it's got to be one of the great unheralded horror films from the 1940's. To say that Boris Karloff's performance was brilliant is an understatement, for me this might be his best characterization ever. Now don't get me wrong, his portrayals of Frankenstein and The Mummy established his iconic status among early horror screen legends, but by their nature, were fairly one dimensional roles. In The Body Snatcher, Karloff is a genuinely menacing and evil character, exuding malice at every turn, especially when turning up the screws on his adversary MacFarlane. Even his name, Cabman Gray, conjures up an image of sheer malevolence, and when he took out Little Robbie during the film's first grave robbery, you had to know that nothing good would come of his presence here.Not that he could carry the picture alone though. Henry Daniell brought his own uncompromising presence to the story in the form of Doctor MacFarlane. As someone who sacrificed his own principles long ago, the good doctor attempts to extend his medical school's advance by drawing young student Fettes (Russell Wade) into the fold. Fettes almost falls into the trap, compromising some of his ethics along the way until he realized he was getting in too deep.It's too bad Bela Lugosi didn't have a larger role in the picture. Along with Karloff, he's one of my favorite horror actors of the era. It's somewhat ironic that his longest scene in the film was where he winds up being murdered by Cabman Gray.You know, I got a kick out of the sign designating the Hobbes House as a destination 'For Gentlemen and The Commonality'. Kind of made it easier for men like MacFarlane to imbibe right along side the local citizenry. Say, keep an eye on that scene in the bar right after it's announced that MacFarlane sold Gray's horse and buggy for a mere four pounds and the new owner is embarrassed into buying him a drink. Right after the barmaid goes to fetch him one, Fettes enters the pub to talk to the Doctor. When the barmaid returns, she has two drinks! Yet she had no indication that MacFarlane was meeting anyone, and the doctor didn't know Fettes was looking for him.Without reservation, if you're a classic horror fan, and even more so, a fan of Boris Karloff, this is a must see movie. Not only is Karloff great, but the story is intelligently written and executed, and the dialog between the principals is always clever and well constructed. Catching this one would only be doing yourself a favor. "},{"Title":"Karloff the Great","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film deserves every superlative awarded it by the other reviews, In this review I simply want to emphasize how amazing Boris Karloff is, and what a giant of a talent he must have been. The scene between him and Bela Lugosi is pure art. I first really noticed Karloff in the wonderful movie The Raven he made with Vincent Price. The thing I noticed most was his on screen personality and powerful presence. I resolved to see his other movies on the basis of that performance. What an amazing journey it's been! I was already a fan of Val Lewton having seen some of his films here on there on TV. I recently bought The Val Lewton Horror Collection, which, Oh happy Day, arrived about 2 weeks ago. As sublime as these films are, it's Boris Karloff who stands out. The scene between him and Mr Lugosi is haunting for another reason not connected to the story line. Poor Bela was very ill, it was also his last appearance together with Boris, in the movie, Boris kills him (the scene is unforgettable, a nightmare). In real life, Bela was frail, ill, and his movie career was slowly dying, Karloff's was reviving. The killing takes on another life in view of these of these facts. Essentially, there should be a public monument in every civillised city to the Great Boris Karloff and the incomparable Val Lewton. This movie, (see it before you expire) shows why. A masterpiece in poetic,aesthetic horror "},{"Title":"Karloff and Sort of Lugosi","Date":"22 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Enough has already been said about the literary background of this story, so I want to say some things about the production. First, the billing of this film was promoted as yet another Karloff-Lugosi teaming as in their much earlier outings for The Black Cat from 1934, The Raven from 1935 and The Invisible Ray from 1937, not to mention their extremely ideal pairing in Son of Frankenstein from 1939. I know that when I first saw this picture as a typical Saturday afternoon TV creature feature kid back in the 1960's, I was disappointed to find out how little actual screen time Karloff and Lugosi had together. I think that it was due to Val Lewton who wanted to make a more literal horror film than just another Universal-type monster film and so hence he didn't want to overplay Karloff and Lugosi together. But then again Lugosi is virtually wasted in this otherwise highly atmospheric and tense film based upon the actual historical events surrounding grave robbing in early 19th Century Scotland and Burke & Hare.Another part that I find lacking in this film is the fairly weak musical score. It doesn't evoke enough of the mood that is intended by all the ghoulish action. Again, I think this has to do with Mr. Lewton's avoidance of making a mirror image type film of the kind having been made at Universal just prior to this release. At Universal there was always a rousing score provided by Frank Skinner or Hans J. Salter for the likes of the Wolfman, the Mummy, the Frankenstein Monster or Dracula's Son. Nothing memorable as far as music for this picture and I think that's a shame given the story material. Fog enshrouded streets, graveyards and etc.Henry Daniel is a sinister yet sympathetic character as Dr. McFarlane in that he helps a little girl regain the use of her legs and ability to walk again but then again deals with murdered victims in order to provide specimens for his students to study from.Despite some of my negative findings, this picture is more than well worth your time viewing in that it presents a subject with great tension, mystery and fear and with a cast that you could never put together today if remaking this story. Dig it up at your local video rental! "},{"Title":"Good terror movie with with excellent dark and light atmosphere creating an eerie and creepy scenario","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This interesting story is adapted from a novel by Robert Louis Stevenson. It concerns about John Gray(Boris Karloff), he's a cabman who provides dead bodies for illegal medical research in charge of Dr. MacFarland(Henry Daniell). Gray is blackmailed by MacFarland's servant(Bela Lugosi). Meanwhile, his assistant doctor Donald(Russell Wade) tries to help a mother and her paralytic daughter, and for experiments, he asks help to John Gray in order to get cadavers.This is a fine , suspenseful and intriguing terror movie. Tension, horror, thriller appear lurking, menacing in graveyard, dark slums, home stairs and rooms . The film gets the expressionist German atmosphere , thanks to cameraman Robert De Grasse. He along with photographers Nicholas Musuruka and John Alton are the main artificers of noir cinema atmosphere. Casting is frankly outstanding. Terrific Boris Karloff as sinister graverobber, he creates authentic frightening and panic, impressive Bela Lugosi who share a last creepy scenes together and Henry Daniell does an equally compelling turn .Usual musician RKO, Roy Webb, makes an adequate musical score with habitual musical director Bakaleinikoff. Exciting screenplay by Philip McDonald and Val Lewton -under pseudonym Carlos Keith-. The motion picture is well directed by Robert Wise and magnificently produced by Val Lewton. RKO's Lewton is a great producer of horror classics, such as  Cat people, Leopard man, I walked with a Zombi,Ghost ship, among others. Rating  Better than average, well worth checking out. The tale will like to Boris Karloff fans and cinema classics buffs. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Old Horror Movie. Very Original","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw this on AMC on Halloween night, as I was giving out candy to trick-or-treaters. This is one of the most interesting horror movies I've seen, if only because it is not a by-the-numbers monster movie or gore fest. Ironicially, while The Body Snatcher takes place in a real-life setting devoid of aliens or monsters, it is far more macabre than any modern horror movie you will see, precisely because it seems like there could be psychos like the characters in this film in real life. The role of the doctor was rather stiff and bland, but the script, adapted from a Robert Louis Stevenson story I've never read, helps this film flow along like fine wine in spite of some of the stiff acting. Boris Karloff, as the ghoulish cabman who does the doctor's dirty work, and acts as a sort of a grim conscience for the amoral physician, is divine in the role. While he may be best remembered for his mumbling Frankenstein's monster or, for the kids, as the narrator of How the Grinch Stole Christmas, he proves in The Body Snatcher that he is a versatile actor who can really do well as a regular human rather than a literal monster, albeit a deliciously creepy, scary, and sinister human with a cockney accent.If you love horror movies, but tire of Freddy Krueger ripping open teenagers or the Queen Alien spewing acid on her unsuspecting space marine victims YET AGAIN, watch this gem. It's unique, yet still pretty scary. "},{"Title":"Textured loveliness...you are there","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is such a beautiful movie, on so many levels - and clocking in at 78 minutes, it proves you can tell a complete, character-rich, plot-detailed story in under, say, 2 hours, or even an hour and a half...a wonderful experience; a drenching experience, in terms of Scotland and the 18th/19th-century doctor's craft, the reality of grave robbers and Robert Louis Stevenson's fervid imagination. And I don't even care if this movie deviates from Mr. Stevenson's original story-vision (I don't know how much it does or doesn't; I've never read the original story, but I'd like to now). This is a movie based in an almost old-world craftsman's style. And besides being in black and white and starring Boris Karloff, it literally could not be made again. Nothing this magical possibly could.There are so many moments that radiate and captivate that I wouldn't know where to begin. Every last bit of casting is genius, and then some. Every camera angle is object simplicity, yet you can't help but think it took days to set the camera at just the right angle, allowing you to forget - and here's real genius for you - cameras are involved at all. You feel as if a book came to life in your midst (another example of this is Roger Corman's version of Poe's The Premature Burial, where you could almost swear you're a voyeur, that you're either dreaming the action or a miracle's taken place and the paper pages of a book are dancing before your eyes). The producer of this movie is Val Lewton, and my DVD version is paired with I Walked With a Zombie, a Jaques Tourneur-directed marvel that's eminently worth your eyeballs' happy roving. Robert Wise directed The Body Snatcher, and it's a tribute to his boundless gifts that this movie is the perfect, seamless diversion from life's present-moment troubles. What's really astounding, though, is the evocation of old Scotland, in particular Edinburgh, and having spent time in that country and city, I can only say that everything's as it should be, everything's as I remember it - although, truthfully (and obviously), I don't remember it quite like this. I wasn't there 200+ years ago. And yeah, it'd be a hard life, transitioning from now to then, but...movies like this make you want to leap through the screen, you know? They make you want to feel a harder, more brutal but richer time. See this. Just go and see this. "},{"Title":"A Cimmerian beauty,and one of Robert Wise's many masterpieces","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It is interesting to note that the 19th. century was that of an unprecedented medical progress and of the literary figure of the tenebrous physician.That century gave Frankenstein,gave Dr. Jekyll,gave one of the faces behind Jack the Ripper's mask;and gave also Wolfe 'Toddy' MacFarlane.The demented physician raised in the 19th. century.The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde appeared in 1886,Frankenstein in 1818.THE BODY-SNATCHER was published in 1895 ,one year after Robert Louis Stevenson's death.It is fair to say that the 19th. century was also that of some benefactors of the humankind like Corvisart, Bichat, Bayle, Laennec, Bretonneau, Trousseau,Bouillaud, Skoda, Addison, Cheyne, Dupuytren,Pirogov, Semmelweis, Velpeau, Larrey, then Virchow, Lister, Bernard, Marey, Rokitansky,Muller, Helmholtz, Koch, Gull,Osler, Billroth, Pean, Charcot,etc.,etc.,etc..Wise had a strong sense of the plenitude and meaning of a genre.He picked the ingredients-yes,but then also he knew how to use them.In Wise's hands,a Karloff movie like The Body Snatcher (1945) becomes a movie worthy of Karloff.The photography is exquisite,and the movie,stylized.Wise is able in portraying the two brutes,played by Karloff and Lugosi,a pair of subhuman beings.A vein of sexuality is introduced by the relation between the sinister physician and his wife,Meg Camden,a woman of real beauty (Edith Atwater).The atmosphere is thrilling, and the suspense is wonderful;for Wise,these were not conventions,but ingredients to be used with competence.In Wise's movie,the shocking scenes keep all their cruelty,all their savagery.This movie's music, on the other hand,should have been better.Karloff's role as a macabre coachman is a peak of his career,his performance amazes,that's what Karloff was able to do when he was given a good script;a powerful role,indeed.The able-bodied Karloff's abjection is gross and frightening.The grouching Lugosi is a larval being,a cretin that falls prey to his own greed and sordidness;he grunts and then gets impatient.Life is monstrous, infinite, illogical, abrupt and poignant,wrote Robert Louis Stevenson ,only to oppose it to art.Edith Atwater's name needs to be mentioned,as she is a beautiful woman.Robert Wise was an unbelievably good director;who could think that the same man did The Curse of the Cat People (1944),The Body Snatcher (1945), Born to Kill (1947), The Set-Up (1949), The Day the Earth Stood Still (1951), Somebody Up There Likes Me (1956), The Haunting (1963), The Andromeda Strain (1971), Star Trek The Motion Picture (1979) ?Wise turned the scripts into masterpieces.There is no logic in his rejection by the authorists.An author is a man who succeeds in what he does.Wise's movies are as personal as they have to,and his work was inspired and sustained by taste.He made a few movies in every genre,and each was a masterpiece.Wise was not afraid to be a director,he knew that,to be an author,you must be a director.(So many authors-wanna-be forget that they must be directors first.)But Jean Delannoy,the author of a masterpiece like MAIGRET ET L'AFFAIRE SAINT-FIACRE,and Billy Wilder,the author of a masterpiece like Sunset Blvd.,had a similar fate.The Day the Earth Stood Still (1951) is honored by Star Trek Enterprise in its episode Cogenitor. "},{"Title":"One of Lewton & Karloff's best","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my favorite films in the horror genre and one of my favorite Karloff films. While not specifically a horror film, it has moments that still send shivers up my spine. The atmosphere of the film is palpable and Val Lewton uses the black & white to superb effect. Boris Karloff is perfect as Cabman Gray and gives one of the creepiest performances of his career. It may not be Frankenstein or The Mummy but the complex character of Gray is every bit as frightening as any monster. Which brings me to the one scene in the film that never fails to make me shiver.SPOILER After inviting Joseph to his humble home to discuss Joseph's blackmail attempt, Gray burkes Joseph. While his hand is still covering Joseph's face, Gray reaches out and pets his cat. This scene sums up the complex character of Gray more succinctly than any other in the film. He can kill without conscience and, in nearly the same breath, pet his cat. "},{"Title":"Val Lewton's best","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Story An anatomy professor, Dr. Toddy (Henry Daniell), who uses Cabman John Gray (Boris Karloff), to dig bodies from the grave in order for his students to have cadavers to dissect. The Dr. also has a woman request his help to cure her daughter from being a paraplegic.This movie is directed by Robert Wise and is based on a short story by Robert Louis Stevenson.My review Val Lewton's greatest production is 1945's The Body Snatcher. This movie was extremely dark for a 1940's production when a lot of horror was very subtle due to World War II. It is a brilliant story that includes various moral dilemmas. The dilemmas include whether breaking the law is acceptable if it saves other and whether it is alright to harm a few in order to help many. The acting is first class. Boris Karloff's performance is brilliant. I can't decide if this or The Man Who Changed His Mind is his best performance. Henry Daniell does a wonderful job as Dr. Toddy. Bela Lugosi's role is small, but the battle between him and Karloff is well worth watching.The pacing of the movie is also wonderful. Robert Wise does a great job, as expected, directing this masterpiece. The murders are all done off screen but can heard. This might have been more of a Val Lewton idea though than Robert Wise because it reminds me of another Lewton production, The Leopard Man (1943).The cinematography was wonderful and the atmosphere was terrific. It was a great Gothic setting was wonderful to see. This movie had a 1930's feel to it.One thing that makes this story interesting and exciting is that none of the characters are pure in this movie. All have major flaws, and you have to decide whether the characters are good or evil. The only small weakness is that the character of Donald Fettes (Russell Wade) needed more time in the screen. His character was the most interesting as the good student who becomes tainted in the movie.My recommendation A must see for all. "}{"Title":"Jekyll and Hyde revisited","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" To judge by the commentary on the DVD. the screenwriters expanded the role of Gray, the cab man, played wonderfully by Boris Karloff, from what it had been in the original Stevenson short story. It seems that they had the ingenious idea of creating a Jekyll-Hyde relationship between the body snatcher Gray and the respectable doctor; who did, however, pay for the freshly buried corpses Gray had resurrected . They also created a kind of moral ambiguity, in which good and evil are intermixed in the two characters. For instance the evil body snatcher Gray is able to carry the little girl from his cab into the doctor's home,but she shrinks back from the doctor himself.It turns out that years before Gray had taken the blame for the doctor in an earlier case of grave robbing, and been stoned as he ran through the streets. The doctor now despises him, but is ready to employ him for his own benefit. (It is mentioned that another doctor who had been implicated in the crime was living a comfortable life in London.) Karloff, in my view, is able to create an almost sympathetic character, while Daniell exudes the screen personality that made him a renowned portrayer of villainous roles in other film. There are two places where I infer the possible intent of the writers. At one point, both doctor and cab man are seen side-by-side in a close-up. looking into a mirror. Then, toward the close, after their final confrontation when the doctor has killed the cab man, he is next seen returning to his laboratory wearing the cab man's hat and cloak. Dr.Jekyll and Mr.Hyde, Stevenson's greatest short story, is an example of the divided self motif present in 19th century literature (cf. Faust and Mephistopheles). The two characters merge in the ambiguity of good and evil, and suggest its presence in all of us. "},{"Title":"Eerie film noir","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Based on a Robert Louis Stevenson story, the film is about a doctor who relies on a shady cabman to provide him with cadavers that the doctor uses to teach medical students. Karloff is excellent as the evil cabman who would go to any extremes to obtain cadavers, even if it means manufacturing a fresh one himself. Daniell is also good as the earnest doctor and Lugosi has a small role. An eerie film noir, perhaps the best of several (The Cat People, I Walked with a Zombie, etc.) made by producer Val Lewton in the 1940s. Wise, in one of his earliest directorial efforts, creates a great atmosphere using lots of shadows and menacing figures. "},{"Title":"Side issues slow it but the core story is strong, engaging and enjoyable","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It is 1831 in Edinburgh and Dr Wolfe MacFarlane takes on his best student to assist him in his research &#150; research he carries out on dead subjects. However, to get these cadavers he has to deal with the supplier of these illegally robbed bodies &#150; Cabman John Gray; a man who MacFarlane hates despite his intimate involvement with him. But when young Fettes starts to suspect Gray of even darker crimes than grave robbing, the whole setup is threatened.Having seen one or two Lewton films I have yet to find a reason for not seeing more and so I came to this typically short and atmospheric film. The story is simple and is driven by the characters rather than any more typical horror that the title might suggest and it is the better for it. MacFarlane and Gray are the core of the tale and their relationship kept me engaging as it appeared to be full of gloating, hate and self-loathing while also being quite symbiotic in nature. The best scenes seem them together and feature some great dialogue that sticks in the mind. The side issues within the film are needed to fill out the tale but they are nowhere near as effective as this core and sadly have the effect of slowing the film while the audience waits for the main thrust to return.Karloff is excellent in the title role and he brings enough meaning to proceedings to avoid falling into slight ham. He work well with Daniell, who is just as good with a fascinating character. Lugosi is a well known face without doing a great deal but I must admit that I found Wade to be a bit wet and both he, Atwater and Corday stood in the shadows the of the lead pair.Overall a very enjoyable film that builds atmosphere while working well with the central relationship. Yet another reason why the words A Val Lewton Production mean that it is always worth a try &#150; in this case it was a leap of faith that was rewarded yet again for me. "},{"Title":"One of Karloff's finest.","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This one is truly magnificent. In it, we have the tale of a doctor in Edinburgh who must have fresh bodies dug up to be able to conduct research in anatomy. Of course, the bodies are sometimes a bit more fresh than they should be. The conflicts between progressive medical research (and the need to dig up the freshly dead) are as relevant as today's debates in other forms of similar study (but we'll not talk politics here).The cast is as good as it gets. In it, we have Karloff as Cabman Gray, Lugosi as the doctor's servant (Joseph) and Henry Daniell as the haunted Scottish doctor himself. Lugosi was relegated to supporting roles at this point (in comparison to his once peer status with Karloff), but he still commands a presence as the hapless servant who can't stand up to cabbie Gray (which ironically, was the case between the actual actors). But it is truly Karloff's show here, as he displays acting chops of evil that have rarely been equaled. Witness his instant transformation from a kindly Cabman (with a handicapped little girl) to a leering killer in just a frame after. Ironic, since the writer (Robert Louis Stevenson) penned of the duality of man in the more famous tale of Jekyll and Hyde. We relish in Karloff's every accented word as it's hard to believe that anyone could be so completely evil.I highly recommend this movie as I do everything produced by Val Lewton. The direction by Robert Wise was better than most anything he'd do later (and he was to direct many great ones). Don't miss it this Halloween. It's one of the best from the 40s (and most every other decade).Charlie. "},{"Title":"R.L. Stevenson's Grave Robbers really a Psychological Thriller","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I agree that Karloff deserved an Oscar for his role as Grey in this film. Perhaps it could be awarded to him posthumously.This was a psychological thriller more than a horror story.From the dialog's and the narrative of the relationship between Toddy MacFarlane and Cabman John Grey; I saw something even more sinister than the business transactions of medical men with grave robbers.In his time, a man of Toddy MacFarlane's class and position could have easily gotten rid of Cabman Grey. Not a problem. A No-Brainer! Instead, he chose to have him stick around. to constantly vex him and torment him. It was stated earlier in the script that a Dr. Knox turned a blind eye to Burke & Hare (earlier grave robbers who turned to murder) and who serviced his medical people with cadavers for study, go to the gallows; while he himself lived out his life as a respected English gentleman doctor, untainted by any kind of scandal.In a Freudian sense, I see MacFarlane and Grey as two closet queens in a love-hate relationship and that MacFarlane is a chronic self-deceiver who cannot come to terms with this. Cabman Grey is the dominant personality or 'alpha' male and plays MacFarlane like a tune right to the tragic finish.The 'carriage ride' at the end is very 'sexual' in its overtones; graphically, in fact. The horrifying ride with Grey's corpse, the eventual 'crash' of horse & buggy and then Fiddes, the young doctor revealing that the corpse that took the horror ride with the then insane MacFarlane, was in reality the corpse of a woman who the two doctors stole from a grave earlier.The central narrative of this R.L. Stevenson story is not the 'grave-robbing' or murders but the sick relationship between Grey and Toddy MacFarlane. This relationship affects Toddy's marriage (his wife is 'beside herself' about it and hates the very sight of Grey, his professional ethics (MacFarlane's readiness to turn a blind eye to murder and even provide Grey with alibis) and his willingness to 'proselytise' others to his twisted ethics about life and death.Viewed as a psychological thriller; this is a great story! R.L. Stevenson had examined Universal Values and this is why this story has lasted so long.In reality, Grey and MacFarlane are two sides of the same coin. "},{"Title":"The best of the Karloff-Lugosi films and also probably Val Lewton's best production","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi did several films together and the studios played this dynamic pairing up to the hilt! While I enjoyed all these movies, this film is my absolute favorite, though I have to admit that it really was Boris Karloff's movie and that Bela Lugosi is more of a bit player.This story is inspired by a story from Robert Louis Stevenson--which itself was originally inspired by a real life situation. It seems that the local medical school needed cadavers but just couldn't get enough. To alleviate this problem, they procured the services of the slimy Karloff--who got them lots of bodies--no questions asked! It is no surprise to anyone that he was actually murdering people for the medical school. The school's director, played by the ever-scummy Henry Daniell, didn't seem to have too many qualms, either! Where exactly the story goes next you'll have to see for yourself. The acting, script and direction are great and make the most for the budget. A truly creepy and scary flick.Another huge reason to watch this film is Boris Karloff. His performance is perhaps the best of his career with a malevolence that you just need to see to believe--sort of like a cat toying with a mouse before it ultimately kills it! As for Bela Lugosi, he's a must smaller character in the film--but his big scene with Karloff is a classic--something you just need to see! "},{"Title":"Horrifying","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Dr. Wolfe MacFarlane (Henry Daniell) has been paying to cabman John Gray (Boris Karloff) for fresh bodies but the cemeteries become too guarded so Gray starts murdering people.There is the plot for this incredible horror classic The Body Snatcher from 1945.The director is Robert Wise and the actors are unique.Daniell is great and from the younger actors I have to mention Russell Wade, whose performance as Donald Fettes was very good.There are two masters of the horror genre in this movie and those two are Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi.Karloff plays a very chilling character in the movie.Lugosi plays Joseph and there is one absolutely brilliant scene  where these tho legends are together.There really aren't too many actors like Karloff and Lugosi anymore.And they really don't make movies like this anymore.Horror movies were more magical at that time.Where has all the magic gone? "},{"Title":"A Fine Specimen","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is flawlessly put together; the actors have every word, gesture and nuance just exactly right. It's worth noting how many scenes are based on art classics, like Rembrandt's The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Tulp. The final night-ride seems to derive from Berlioz' The Damnation of Faust. And there is a lesson that medicine must be based on kindness and love, not just physical science.The only shortcoming is that the film lacked the intensity of Lewton's earlier work, where the stories were invented straight from his own imagination (The Body Snatcher derives from Robert Louis Stevenson). The strange figure of the cat-woman made more impact on people, although the dramaturgy is not so assured. "},{"Title":"A work of surprising complexity and sly wit","Date":"26 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Producer Val Newton's output while working in the horror unit of RKO studios produced some of the finest American B-movies made between 1942 and 1946, delivering creepy tales that not only had the ability to frighten, but also explored the darkest regions of the human psyche, backed by Gothic sets and brooding cinematography. Newton's work with Jacques Tourneur undoubtedly produced the studios best work, but even slighter films such as The Body Snatcher yearned to break out from its low-budget trappings. Reuniting horror icons Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi for the final time, The Body Snatcher is a work of surprising complexity and sly wit.Edinburgh, 1831, and surgeon Dr. MacFarlane (Henry Daniell) finds his work hampered by a lack of cadavers to experiment on and to use to teach his students. He is visited by Mrs. Marsh (Rita Corday), who hopes that MacFarlane's skills can help cure her paraplegic daughter and allow her to walk again. He refuses, citing the surgery as too dangerous. His young student Donald Fettes (Russell Wade) urges him to do it, but learns that the bodies required for experimentation are in short supply and the fresh cadavers brought into the school do not always come from the morgue, but instead are bought for a small price from the shady John Gray (Karloff).With the disturbing story of Burke and Hare lurking very much in the characters minds, The Body Snatcher focuses less on the grisly work of grave-robbing and murder, and more on the destructive relationship between MacFarlane and Gray, two old acquaintances who loathe each other but have become co-dependent. MacFarlane longs to be rid of the old brute, but Gray's sadistic hold over his respected colleague means that he won't give up that easily, and soon Gray's midnight antics digging up the dead turns to murder as the city catches wind of his heinous deeds. This may be Karloff's finest performance, adding a smirk and a wicked sense of humour to his evildoer, with Daniell more than holding his own as the conflicted doctor.Directed by Robert Wise, whose career covered almost everything from low-budget horror (The Curse of the Cat People (1944)), to hugely successful musicals (West Side Story (1961) and The Sound of Music (1965)), to sci-fi of varying quality (The Day the Earth Stood Still (1951) and Star Trek The Motion Picture (1979)), he employs RKO's terrific sets to their maximum potential, bringing 19th century Scotland to life in all its murky glory. Lugosi always appears as one of MacFarlane's assistants, but his billing on the poster is slightly misleading given his slender screen-time. Karloff states that Newton helped resurrect his career and move him away from Universal type-casting, and, although it is still within the same genre, The Body Snatcher allows him to shake off the make-up and allow his natural screen presence to shine through. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Story and Casting","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" If you are looking for an eerie Gothic horror film with a brilliant story and excellent casting then I would highly recommend you to watch The Body Snatcher (1945).Karloff is Cabman John Gray - the body snatcher. He is a fearsome man who holds a powerful sway over Dr. Wolfe 'Toddy' MacFarlane (Henry Daniell), a man who's intentions are teach others his medical skills but has secrets he is hiding. Lugosi plays Joseph, a small but semi-important role.If you enjoyed Karloff and Lugosi together in films like The Black Cat or The Raven then you are sure to enjoy The Body Snatcher even though Lugosi's role small in this one.9.5/10 "}{"Title":"Mommy, it's the White Horse, I know it is!","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Boris Karloff Manages to Dominate the Powerful, Influential, and Creepy Val Lewton Style. That is Amazing and This is Considered One of the Best From Lewton and Karloff.Usually, the B-Movie Auteur Relies Little on Dialog and Acting and More on Lighting, or Lack Thereof and Visual Displays and Sound Stings Depicting its Suspense and Horror. This One is Dialog Heavy and Wonderfully Witty and Rich that Dialog. Karloff Proves a Master of Jolly Juxtaposition in This Atmospheric Film and is Helped by the Sharp Direction and a Good Supporting Cast of Henry Daniel and Bela Lugosi in a Small but Effective Part.The Movie May be the Best Production from the Val Lewton Series of Mini-Masterpieces and the One With the Best Acting Ensemble. But Ranking the Lewton Films is a Folly Because All of Them are Simply Superb.Some Seem to Not Care for the Sub-Plot Involving the Crippled Little Girl, but it Manages to be the Hopeful and Emotional Heart of the Movie. Don't Expect a Dry Eye in the Final Scene. There is Much to Recommend in This Stunning Film, Not the Least of Which is the Coach Ride of Terror. It's Tense and Gripping with its Use of the Electric Storm as Madness Ensues. Lewton, Karloff and Wise are in Top-Form and the Script is Uncommonly Literate for its Time and Genre. "},{"Title":"Outstanding performance by Karloff","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Noble young doctor-in-training Donald Fettes (Russell Wade) gets a dark lesson in the profession when he finds out instructor Dr. MacFarlane (Henry Daniell) is paying cabbie Mr. Gray (Boris Karloff) to procure fresh specimens for him from the local graveyard. Fettes is disturbed by the arrangement, but turns to Mr. Gray for a body when a little girl's surgery depends on it. What he doesn't expect is Gray opting to deliver even fresher specimens. Based on the short story by Robert Louis Stevenson, this has some solid drama balanced with some moody chills. This was Robert Wise's third feature film as director and he already shows a great handle of the craft (the abduction of the town singer is a great bit). By far the best thing about the film is the performance of Karloff in the title role. Man, he is just awesome. There is a great scene where he is confronted by an extortionist (played by Bela Lugosi) and Karloff's charm as the works in closer to kill the man is fantastic. "},{"Title":"A little flawed, but acceptable","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Body Snatcher is a fine, if unremarkable entry that falls just short of classic status.**SPOILERS**During a house-call, Dr. Wolfe MacFarlane, (Henry Daniell) is shocked to discover his best student Donald Fettes, (Russell Wade) is thinking about quitting medical school, and offers him his assistant position to keep him on. To conduct the needed operation, Cabman John Gray, (Boris Karloff) arrives to supply fresh corpses, which is an ongoing tradition, and he begins to feel uneasy again. Meeting with the mother, Mrs. Marsh, (Rita Corday) renews his interest, requiring more bodies brought in. As they receive more and more bodies for their class, they begin to wonder where they are coming from and how they are acquired. When it's finally known what his grave secret is, they race to expose and stop him once and for all.The Good News This wasn't all that terrible of a film. The film's greatest strength is it's impressive use of mood and scene to get some chilling moments. The scene where the first body is stolen is told with a nicely shocking economy, as we see an exaggerated shadow creeping along the graveyard wall. Hearing a dog waiting beside its dead master's grave whining, the shadow swings the spade with a clang and the dog's howl suddenly dies. Simple and effective without giving hardly anything away, and with the fog-enshrouded cemetery in the background for the entire sequence merely makes it stand-out more. A later scene where two characters fight each other in front of a roaring fireplace. That the only light source in the scene is from that makes it all the creepier, with the lights dancing across the faces and casting odd shadows around is a major bright spot. It also manages to delve into straight horror every now and then. One scene that stands long in the memory is the one where the camera sits watching an old, lovely-voiced street-singer as she disappears down a gloomy alley followed by the killer's cab. She vanishes off into the darkness singing and the cab follows after, there is a long moment and then the singing stops with a quiet yelp. When the sudden silence hits, it is crippling. It's the movie's single best scene, although it's creepy climax is a strong contender as well. From the howling rain, rapid-editing to the point of near hysteria and the mission to accomplish and the paranoia sinking in make this a classic. It ends on such a high note that it's almost enough to see it just based on that alone.The Bad News This isn't that bad of a film, but it's problems are pretty big ones. For the majority of the film, there isn't any action whatsoever and it mainly consists of long, dialog-driven scenes. While it may be fun to see the two main characters go at each other in this manner, and they do keep the film watchable, they're endless blather offers up nothing of interest in those who require more from their films. It's simply scene-after-scene and that doesn't do anything to help the film's cause among those who aren't that accustomed to it's style. The only other real lapse is the climax with the scene with the body under the sack returning to life. While quite shocking, it adds a quasi-supernatural element that jars with the rest of the film's carefully established mood. The rest of the film is so carefully based in realistic means that to suddenly throw up a big supernatural scare that shouldn't have happened in real life is slightly upsetting. It still could've been uber-creepy and not had the supernatural play into it at all. Otherwise, though, the endless talking will be the main cause hurting this one among most viewers.The Final Verdict While a little below a classic, this is still a watchable, enjoyable entry that can certainly be entertaining. Give it a shot if you're a classic horror fan or fan of the top-two billed, otherwise there are far better entries out there.Today's Rating-PG Mild Violence "},{"Title":"Awesome Near-Classic","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" If you're a fan of the old Universal horrors, you'll find this a breath of fresh air. Karloff is awesome, perfectly cast, and perfectly performs. Although, after Karloff's portrayal in Universal's Frankenstein, I really don't feel that he has much, if anything, to prove to the world, but if so, he comes through as a career grave robber who sells the cadavers for fun and profit.Bela also makes an appearance, and although his appearance is too brief, I still enjoyed him. If you generally enjoy retro-horrors, I would definitely advise you to check this one out. I found it a nice surprise.It rates an 8.4/10 on the Oldies scale from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"You may deny him, Toddy, but you'll not rid yourself of him by saying the devil's dead.","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Dr. Macfarlane (Henry Daniell) is a respected teacher of anatomy in the late 19th century, assisted by his student Donald Fettes (Russell Wade). But he has to buy bodies from the hansom cab driver Gray (Boris Karloff) and it seems that Gray doesn't always get those bodies from grave robbing. Plagued by Gray, Dr. Macfarlane confronts him, leading to an exciting climax.While The Body Snatcher is not anywhere close to my favorite of Karloff's films nor of films of this genre and time period, it does a have certain morbid charm, especially from Boris Karloff's admirable performance as the despicable cab driver Gray. He just reeks of a low life, opportunistic murderer in this film. Far less noticeable but also impressive is Bela Lugosi as Dr. Macfarlane's servant Joseph and Sharyn Moffett is adorable as the little girl, Georgina.The story is fairly simple and that works well here, and combined with some decent acting, a few interesting historical references (Greyfriar's Bobby, and Burke and Hare) and a good Gothic atmosphere, this is an entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent early work of psychological horror/thriller from Robert Wise, starring both Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi.","Date":"14 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is one excellent piece of psychological horror/thriller, from director Robert Wise.This movie has a great story, that is brilliantly acted out by its actors. The story is based on Robert Louis Stevenson novel, that is inspired by the true historical story of the grave robbers turned murderers Burke and Hare. The movie features lots of psychological thriller elements, which makes this movie also a rather special one for its time. This is not a horror movie necessarily but it nevertheless breaths the same atmosphere, which still makes it right to regard this a bit as an horror movie. It's a movie that not just relies on its atmosphere but also really its characters. The characters play the central role within this movie and the movie shows the slow and steady transformation from good till evil.When you have in your cast both Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi of course all other actors are going to be overshadowed by their presence. However not Henry Daniell, who was surprisingly great. He isn't that well known but did quite a few good movies back in the '30's and '40's. Boris Karloff always has been sort of underrated for his acting skills. In this movie he really plays one of his finest roles, perhaps even his very best. The Lugosi role is quite small within this movie actually but it's always something special to see Lugosi and Karloff together on screen. This movie marked their last screen teaming.The movie is greatly told and director by director Robert Wise. It was one of his earlier movies and showed a great premise of things yet to come. He always had the tendency of doing genre movies differently. This movie is very different from horror movies from the same decade, The Day the Earth Stood Still was a very different science-fiction movie from any of the other genre movies made during the same time period, just to name a couple of examples. It makes his movies always very original and unexpected ones and because of that also often great movies to watch.A truly recommendable movie.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"You will never get rid of me!","Date":"2 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Robert Wise always had an interest in fantasy and horror movies.The body snatcher and the curse of the cat people belong to his Early period;the haunting ,his best in the field and perhaps simply the best in the field is Middle.Audrey Rose is Late.The body snatcher adapted from a Stevenson's novel tackles a subject which is not unlike Doctor Jekyll and Mister Hyde. John Gray and the doctor are actually the same person.That's the meaning of this you'll never get rid of me ,cause you can never escape from yourself.Wise's directing rises up to the occasion and it already shows the sense of mystery that will make the haunting the masterpiece of the horror film.The horror scenes are already kept to the minimum,the psychological side prevails most of the time. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror films ever","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film deserves its high and mighty reputation as one of the best fright films of all time. First of all, it has an overwhelming performance from genre king Boris Karloff, arguably the best of his career. It has a story, centered around questions of medical ethics, that adds weight and relevance to the proceedings. And perhaps best of all, everything is done with good taste and class that you rarely see in any film, much less a low-budget fright-fest. Karloff and Daniels attack their dialog with an intensity and eloquence rarely seen outside of Shakespeare, making each of their scenes a movement in a series of deft psychological duels from which it eventually becomes apparent that neither can survive.Of course one shouldn't overlook the significant contributions of the supporting cast, which in this case includes fellow horror icon Bela Lugosi. But it's really Karloff's and Daniell's show, and I personally have never seen either actor give a more dignified or powerful performance. Daniell plays Dr. MacFarlane, a brilliant anatomist whose medical genius is only flawed in that he seems to have no understanding of the human or psychological aspect of healing -- a fact made apparent both through his arguments with cabbie/graverobber Gray (Karloff) as well as his failed experimental surgery on a little girl (Sharyn Moffet) whose mother (Rita Corday) has formed a bond with MacFarlane's handsome protégé, Dr. Fettes (Russell Wade). Lugosi plays manservant Joseph, a small role in which he attempts to blackmail Gray. Presumably Lugosi's reputation in horror films is the reason his name appears before Daniell's, because although his performance is solid it's not nearly as substantial. Sadly, over the years many horror fans have disparaged the film based on Lugosi's lack of screen time instead of judging the film on its own merits. I can only hope the Lugosi cultists can at least see that if you gave the role of MacFarlane to Lugosi, the film would be poorer for it.There are simply too many interesting aspects of this clean little film to discuss all of them here, nor could I pretend to have consciously penetrated this great film's depths. There's a whole level of class commentary, brought out by a surprising performance from Edith Atwater as MacFarlane's secret wife, and Karloff's unforgettable final speech in which he invokes his lowly status as justification for his sadistic treatment of the good doctor. The film begs the question of whether there is any real difference, morally speaking, between the predator and his prey in this case, particularly since god and man seem to have given every advantage to the doctor. Actually the metaphor of predator/prey is basically deconstructed by this film, as we eventually understand that Gray's crimes and his immorality are his own response to the cruelty and suffering he has endured in his life, some of which was caused by MacFarlane's cowardice, his excessive and often arrogant pride which will not allow him to take responsibility for his own actions. The final act of killing Gray thus does not set MacFarlane free as he wishes, but instead represents his ultimate inability to reconcile his arrogant concept of what a doctor should be with the ugly reality of what his job truly entails and what he's actually done to pursue his success.If this film has any weakness, it is simply in the fact that in the end the film-makers have established their cynical theme too well, so that the melodrama (and performances) surrounding the paralyzed child and Dr. Fettes can't support the moral or resolution that Hollywood's habitual apoligizing forces upon it. "},{"Title":"Val Lewton at His Best!","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Body Snatcher marked the final appearance together of horror icons Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi. This time they appeared under the RKO banner for producer Val Lewton. Lewton headed up his own B unit at RKO and had produced several low budget horror movies that had been very successful. With his shadows in the dark method, he was able to convey fear of the unknown more through suggestion rather than graphic violence.The film, adapted from a short story by Robert Louis Stevenson, is about a 19th century doctor, Doctor Wolfe MacFarlane (Henry Daniel) who operates a medical school and his dealings with the unsavory Cabman John Gray (Karloff). The story opens with a mother, Mrs. Marsh (Rita Corday) bringing her crippled daughter Georgina (Sharyn Moffett) to MacFarlane in the hope that he will operate on her and cure her paralysis. MacFarlane refuses citing the fact that his teaching is more important.A young medical student Donald Fettes (Russell Wade), who is MacFarlane's assistant, takes an interest in the case (and Mrs. Marsh). Meanwhile we learn how the good doctor obtains the bodies for his anatomy classes. It seems the unscrupulous Gray supplies the necessary bodies from fresh graves. When Gray can no longer obtain bodies in the usual way, he turns to murder. We also learn that MacFarlane and Gray share a past, which Gray holds over the doctor whom he taunts at every opportunity.Fettes convinces MacFarlane to operate on the little girl and though the procedure is successful, she is still unable to walk. MacFarlane becomes distraught. MacFarlane's servant Joseph (Lugosi) learns of how the doctor obtains his bodies and attempt to blackmail Gray with dire consequences. MacFarlane, having had enough of Gray and his dealings, confronts him and.............Director Robert Wise gives us some chilling moments. The demise of the young street singer (Donna Lee) is one where the actual deed is left to the imagination of the audience. The confrontation between Karloff and Lugosi is shot in a dimly lit room as Gray deals with the blackmailing Joseph. And the final sequence is not to be missed.This film was the first of Lewton's horror series in which he had the services of a major star. Boris Karloff gives one of his best performances as the title character, a man with no redeeming qualities. Henry Daniell, often under appreciated, matches Karloff's performance and practically steals the picture from him. Bela Lugosi in a small role nevertheless, delivers a memorable performance of his own.Watch for Mary Gordon in a brief heart wrenching performance as Mrs. McBride at the cemetery. Bill Williams (father of William Katt and husband of Barbara Hale) has a bit as one of the medical students.This was the first of three films Lewton made with Karloff. Isle of the Dead (1945) and Bedlam (1946) followed.A classic of the genre. "},{"Title":"Fantastically Done","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" While Karloff deserves lots of praise for his excellent portrayal of Cabman Gray, he's hardly the only one who deserves credit for making this an excellent film--there's also the superb direction of Robert Wise who continuously builds up the suspense here more and more until a most exciting conclusion. He uses sight and sound to help tell the story very well indeed. Plus there's cinematography of Robert De Grasse which is so very fitting(particularly effective and chilling is a scene where Cabman Gray forces Dr. MacFarland to look at himself in the mirror--the lighting and atmosphere here are achieved brilliantly). And there's also Henry Daniell who provides quite a performance as the Doctor as well. All of this combined with Val Lewton as producer--how can you possibly go wrong? Excellent! "}{"Title":"A fine performance that shows Karloff's true acting abilities","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie was inspired by Robert Louis Stevenson's short story of the same name. Both were inspired by Burke and Hare, two immigrant irish cabmen who moonlighted as resurrection men-a euphemism for grave robbers who didn't rob graves of valuables buried with the dead, but provided fresh cadavers to medical schools for anatomical instruction. When their craft became increasingly difficult due to the guarding of graveyards by an outraged public, they began offing derelicts to use instead, and became Scotland's most prolific mass-murderers to date. This occurred in Edinburgh in the 1820's. Karloff's character refers to these murders when, in the scene in which he murders the Lugosi character, he demonstrates to the thick-witted Lugosi character how the infamous pair Burked their victims. In Stevenson's short story, the tale is told from the viewpoint of Fettes, the one-time protégé of Dr. McFarland who has become a ruined man haunted by his complicity in McFarland's crimes. The occasion for the short story is a chance meeting between the two, years later, at a remote country inn. There is an element of class warfare between the two, which Karloff transfers to his Gray the cabman character. The dialogue between McFarland(portrayed pitch-perfect by veteran English character actor Henry Daniell)and Karloff's Gray is crisp and intelligent, although the Fettes character in the film is insipid, totally unlike the Fettes of the short story. Karloff's character is forced, by a rigid class system that undoubtedly existed in 1820's Edinburgh, to subsist as a hansom cab taxi driver, who moonlights as a resurrection man for McFarland. He realizes he has Toddy over a barrel, and defies convention by publicly embarrassing him. McFarland can do nothing for fear that Gray will spill the beans. In an interesting parallel subplot, Lugosi, as Toddy's thick-witted, immigrant servant Joseph(another excellent performance), tries to blackmail Gray, who lures him to his humble quarters on the pretext of paying him off, but instead murdering him, and getting paid by the unknowing Fettes for the corpse as just another anatomical specimen. Gray's goals are more subtle-he enjoys the power his complicity and knowledge give him over his better Toddy, and he gets revenge upon him and the entire social order through these manipulations. Gray's manipulative intelligence draws the audience into an uneasy empathy with the character, and reveals Karloff's acting genius. It's a shame the movie neglects certain high points of the short story, particularly McFarland's chilling lions and lambs speech to Fettes, but the movie provides psychological and intellectual insights of its own. If not for the sappy subplot about the little girl needing surgery-totally pedestrian-this might have been a great film. "},{"Title":"Extremely Good and Sardonic Lewton historic thriller, with Mr.Karloff","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Basic Plot Sadistic Cabman Gray works as a Body Snatcher to Doctor and Medical school teacher,who he once defended and likes to torture.When the bodys run out ,there is a whole squad of fresh blood......The praise Karloff is magnificent, in a complex and sardonic role, which any lesser actor would never be able to handle. Henry Daniell ,Edith Atwater and Russel Wade are also excellent.The subplot of the little girl Georgina who can't walk is done with no saccharinity and a lot of  impact.Captures the atmosphere of 19th century Edinburgh, with perfect, shadowy dark atmosphere always is with Lewton films.Many great scenes and so much great dialogue.End has simmering suspense and leads to a pulverizing climax.Neat little touches aplenty, such as a street singer,hooves clopping,Medical school skeletons and a dog who stands by his masters grave.The cat is a great performer as well and I'd like to see more of her or him.The flaws Bela is wasted in a tiny role, but he was the loose block in the movie anyway. "},{"Title":"Good can come from tragedy. Classic black & white.","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Producer Val Lewton and Director Robert Wise bring together horror fans two favorites. Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi appear for the final time together in this chilling story of grave robbing, illegal dissections and murder. Very chilling movie from the '40s that views well even today.Henry Daniell is the doctor/surgeon forced to deal with a blackmailing grave robber. The doctor's assistant is Russell Wade. The movie does have a couple of tender moments involving a little girl needing help. Classic fright from its era. "},{"Title":"Boris shines in Scotland","Date":"12 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film is a vast improvement over the previous Wise/Lewton collaboration CURSE OF THE CAT PEOPLE. There is plenty of atmosphere, moody lighting and camera work, and solid performances from the main characters, especially Boris Karloff. Here he does not play a monster, but just a monstrous low-life blackmailer who drives a cab, as well as the plot. The script holds together much better than the weak CURSE.Bela Lugosi is thrown away in his small part, and uses his same old accent even though he's supposed to be from Lisbon. Henry Daniell is also effective as the tortured Dr. MacFarlane, and he has a great closing scene. But why couldn't the casting directors tried to find real Scots to play the parts, especially the young lead (Russell Wade)? Hearing the mix of British, American, and phony Scots accents throughout the movie was an annoyance.Just for fun, I read the original R.L. Stevenson story just after watching the movie. There were many lines of dialog that appeared almost EXACTLY in the movie, but not always spoken by the proper character. The subplots involving the little girl, and MacFarlane's wife, are nowhere to be found in the RLS version. Also, Fettes and MacFarlane are students together under Dr. Knox, and both men survived the tale. I wonder if it was Lewton's idea to put in the melodramatic little girl plot (since he tried a similar ploy in CURSE). Speaking of dialog, did anyone catch the Bible reference when MacFarlane is trying to get the girl to leave her wheel chair? Mark 541 Damsel, I say unto thee, arise. "},{"Title":"Dark visuals, Karloff incredible.","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The few scenes of Lugosi and Karloff together were alone worth the viewing. Robert Wise must have had a great time lighting these two incredible faces. Years ago at a lecture Wise mentioned how sick Lugosi was and the special treatment that he needed to finish the film. The last two minutes of this film are truly eerie. Recently viewed by the Syracuse Cinefile Society. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Body Snatcher (1945) **** (out of 4) Classic film has Boris Karloff playing John Gray, a fiendish man who steals bodies so that a local doctor (Henry Daniell) can experiment in hopes of finding medical cures. Pretty soon a young doctor (Russell Wade) is being forced to deal with Gray and it becomes much more than body stealing.There's no doubt that THE BODY SNATCHER is the greatest of the Val Lewton films that were produced at RKO. I've always found these films, including BEDLAM and CAT PEOPLE, to have much more drama than horror but people are always going to look at them as horror films. THE BODY SNATCHER, be it horror or drama, is without question one of the best films of the genre and it continues to improve no matter how many times you've seen it.There's a lot of credit to go around but we can start with director Robert Wise who does a terrific job at building up a rather creepy atmosphere. When you watch the film you really do feel as if you're in this small town and you really can feel for the doctor who can't shake this guy off of him. There's excellent cinematography that perfectly captures the setting and the use of shadows is remarkably well-done.Another major plus is that we've got some terrific performances. Karloff turns in one of his greatest performances as the sinister man who usually has a creepy smile on his face even as he does evil stuff. There's no doubt that Karloff is having fun with the role and he delivers. Daniell and Wade are also extremely good in their roles as is Bela Lugosi. Poor Lugosi really didn't have much to do here but the final scene between him and Karloff is just pure magic.THE BODY SNATCHER is a film that continues to gain fans even after all these decades and I think it's safe to say that more and more people will learn its greatness. "},{"Title":"Karloff at his best","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Dr. MacFarlane needs bodies for his students to dissect at the university. Unfortunately for his sanity, he has to get his  old friend  Gray, who saved his rear end during the Burke and Hare trial, to dig up the graves. Now that a young girl is needing a operation to replace her spine, Gray has to kill a girl in order to get his fee for bringing in a corpse. MacFarlane tries then to get rid of Gray at any cost to be rid of him forever.... or will he be? Karloff gives a chilling performance ( how the heck he didn't get at least an Oscar nod.. ) as cabman Gray and Robert Wise sets the scene perfectly to set another Val Lawton flick. Lugosi, though is really wasted in this film, given a minor role and you can basically see his career begin to falter. Rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It's only the dead ones you know","Date":"12 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" One of characteristics of the Val Lewton horror films made at RKO in the 1940s was that they mostly shunned the traditional horror characters and players, in favour of contemporary stories and straight actors. The Body Snatchers bucks that trend, being the only Lewton horror to be adapted from pre-20th century literature, and a cast boasting classic horror stars Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi.The director here is Robert Wise, in one of his earliest pictures. Wise, who went on to be the most successful of the young directors to graduate from the Lewton unit, was previously an editor. While editors-turned-directors may not have had much experience on the set, they will have spent a great deal of time studying other people's footage and this generally shows in their style. In particular, the young Wise can be noted for his use of space, creating atmosphere by showing off the emptiness of Henry Daniell's house, contrasted with the tight squalor of Karloff's lodgings. As is typical of the Lewton horrors darkness is used both to add ambiguity to the horror scenes and to hide the cheapness of the set, although unfortunately cinematographer Robert De Grasse is not as adept at this as Nicholas Musuraca, who did the job on Cat People.The casting in The Body Snatcher seems to be aimed at bringing some tried-and-trusted creepiness to proceedings, as well as of course pulling in the crowds. Karloff does what is expected of him, playing the cabman Grey like a Dickensian villain. Although his hamming is kind of fun, his best moment is when the fall he took for MacFarlane is brought up, and he gets to do some real acting. As to the others &#150; perennial villain Henry Daniell is merely average here. Bela Lugosi just looks ill, and sadly adds little. Lead man Russell Wade (no, me neither) is simply bad, and is continually upstaged by supporting players, child star Sharyn Moffett, the coach horses, bits of furniture and so on. Mind you, the screenplay is not exactly brimming with great dialogue, so it's no wonder the performances are a little lacklustre.One of the reasons most of the Val Lewton horrors worked is because they tweaked familiar settings and brought horror situations a little closer to home. The idea of The Body Snatchers seems to have been to go instead for grisly Gothic atmosphere and yet still retain those other factors which made pictures like Cat People so effective, such as only hinting at a supernatural force rather than making it explicit. The trouble is, too much has been lost and not enough gained. With the exception of the final scene, which is classic Lewton, there is not enough of that suggestive horror. We lack the impact of the domestic settings of earlier Lewton horrors, and while Gothic horror can be very effective, The Body Snatchers is simply not rich enough &#150; it doesn't revel in the sinister mood that is needed to make Gothic horror work.This is strange because Robert Wise had previously handled the standout atmospheric scenes in Curse of the Cat People (such as the ones at the old lady's house). He would also much later direct The Haunting, which is like a masterclass in the use of space to induce fear. The Body Snatchers is one of his weaker efforts. Val Lewton would return once more to the period horror genre with Bedlam, which again stars Karloff, and this is a far more effective picture, partly because the macabre subject matter makes the Gothic setting work, and also because it's satisfying to see Karloff in a relatively straight villainous role. The Body Snatchers was clearly made with good intentions and does have its supporters among Karloff fans, but overall it's a mediocrity. "},{"Title":"Average pre 50's horror","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" (46%) A creaky old grave robbing era horror that has lost any power it once had to scare or remotely shock, but this is still a halfway decent watch. Forget about this being a Boris Karloff picture as Henry Daniell is the main focus of attention here, and to be fair Daniell was a good actor in his time, and he's fine here as a pioneering surgeon at the heart of the picture. Bela Lugosi is given a small shoe string role, but at least he plays a part in one of the better, more memorable scenes of the whole movie. This isn't a must watch by any means as it really lacks bite, but the performances are worthy and there are much worse chillers out there. "},{"Title":"Sinister goings on in Edinburgh","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Body Snatcher is one of the three Boris Karloff movies to be directed by Val Lewton.To carry out experiments, a mad doctor robs graves for the bodies and them dissects them. He also murders people for the same reason to keep the bodies coming in. His victims include a street singer and Joseph the hunchback assistant. He does manage to make a girl walk for the first time though and the mad doctor is killed at the end by one of his students but he haunts him after robbing another grave and gets an hallucination that the body is the mad doctor's...The Body Snatcher is rather creepy in parts, helped by the foggy atmospheres and a thunderstorm.Joing Boris in the cast is that other horror great of the time, Bela Lugosi. With Henry Daniell and Donna Lee as the street singer.This movie is a must for all old horror buffs out there. Excellent.Rating 3 and a half stars out of 5. "}{"Title":"Not much horror...","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Body Snatcher is set 'In Edinburgh, In 1831' where a young medical student named Donald Fettes (Russell Wade) tells his teacher Dr. Wolfe McFarlane (Henry Daniell) that he can no longer afford to continue his studies. McFarlane sees great potential in Fettes so makes him his assistant, gives him living quarters & a basic wage. However Fettes is disturbed when one of his duties is to take delivery of a corpse used for dissection from a sinister man named John Gray (Boris Karloff) who steals bodies from graveyards to supply McFarlane. Fettes is unhappy with McFarlane's ethics but carries on regardless, meanwhile a young girl named Georgina Marsh (Sharyn Moffett) who has a spinal injury that prevents her from walking is brought to the attention of McFarlane by her Mother (Rita Corday) who asks for his help as a surgeon. At first he refuses but is blackmailed by Gray to perform the operation, McFarlane needs more bodies to experiment on & Gray is happy to oblige...Directed by Robert Wise I thought The Body snatcher was OK at best & overall didn't do that much for me. The script by Philip MacDonald & legendary producer Val Lewton as Carlos Keith is based on a short story by Robert Louis Stevenson & is far more interested in characterisation, sub plots & psychological horror rather than monsters, blood, violence & more traditional horror themes. I personally felt the film was a little disjointed with various sub plots coming & going like the girl with a spinal injury who comes & goes, the fact that Gray murders someone for McFarlane is barely mentioned, a bit where someone tries to blackmail Gray lasts for about five minutes & then ignored & Gray's grave robbing activities are barely touched upon either. The script also lays on the moral messages with Gray almost turning into the good guy as he wants to cure the girl while McFarlane doesn't, Gray resorts to murder & blackmail to achieve this but we are asked to choose between the two, the person who we root for. Medical ethics are also explored as McFarlane complains about not having enough dead bodies to teach his students with & what he does will benefit mankind in the long run. The Body Snatcher spends a long time developing it's character's & does a fine job too, you get to know them quite well before the end. The film moves along at a nice pace & at under 80 minutes at least it's short. The climax indicates something supernatural may have happened which is strangely at odds with the rest of the film.Director Wise manages to create a fair amount of atmosphere with some nice period sets & production design, especially the medical school & it's gruesome usage. Forget about any blood or gore as that's not what The Body Snatcher is about.Technically The Body Snatcher is good, the black and white photography is fine as is the music, production values & as a whole it's a well made film throughout. The acting is good from everyone & Karloff does indeed play his role perfectly. Fellow horror star Bela Lugosi turns up briefly in a small role as Joseph the servant.A lot of people seem to like The Body Snatcher & to be honest I can't really see why, it's far from a bad film but ultimately it bored me a bit & the worst thing a film can do is bore me as all I ask for is to be entertained. If your a die hard horror or Karloff fan than The Body Snatcher is well worth a look but for everyone else I wouldn't be quite so quick to recommend it. "},{"Title":"Just OK","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Story takes place in 1831 Edinburgh. Dr. MacFarlane (Henry Daniell) is a medical teacher/doctor. He's hired unscrupulous John Gray (Boris Karloff) to dig up dead bodies so he can use them to teach his students. But Gray starts killing people to meet his quota...OK--this is literate and atmospheric and well-directed by Robert Wise. But, with the exception of two scenes, this just isn't scary. There are endless talky sequences which people droning on which are very dull (even at this short running time). There's also a gratuitous subplot involving a little girl who can't walk.Performances help a little. Daniell always played the evil villain well and this is no exception. Karloff however is exceptional. He obviously relishes the role and gives it his all--he's the main reason I kept watching. Poor Bela Lugosi just has a minor role. He's good but doesn't have much to do. Russell Wade is truly dreadful as MacFarlane's assistant. He's tall, handsome...and utterly bland.Still--as I said there ARE two stand-out sequences that work one where Karloff follows a street singer (Donna Lee) and the ending which is very gruesome and scary...but it's too little too late.This gets a 7 just for Karloff and Daniell. Otherwise it's pretty dull. "}]